id: 0806.0086
title: Long distance quantum key distribution without decoy state
authors: Shi-Hai Sun, Cheng-Zu Li
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to the inaccurate result
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0086
abstract: We present a method without decoy state to estimate faithfully and efficiently the yield and quantum bit error rate of single photon pulse for BB84 protocol. The numerical calculations show that key generation rate and maximal secure communication distance of our method are better than results of the decoy state method. As we know, it is the first time we present this method and the idea is very novel. Furthermore, our method can overcome the drawbacks of decoy state method. In our method, the maximal secure distance is insensitive to the deviation of dark count rate from exact value.

id: 0806.0096
title: More efficient Bell inequalities for Werner states
authors: T. V¨¦rtesi
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0096
abstract: In this paper we study the nonlocal properties of two-qubit Werner states parameterized by the visibility parameter 0<p<1. New family of Bell inequalities are constructed which prove the two-qubit Werner states to be nonlocal for the parameter range 0.7056<p<1. This is slightly wider than the range 0.7071<p<1, corresponding to the violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality. This answers a question posed by Gisin in the positive, i.e., there exist Bell inequalities which are more efficient than the CHSH inequality in the sense that they are violated by a wider range of two-qubit Werner states.

id: 0806.0115
title: Nonlocal entanglement concentration scheme for partially entangled multipartite systems with nonlinear optics
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Physical Review A 77, 062325 (2008)
journal: Physical Review A 77, 062325 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0115
abstract: We present a nonlocal entanglement concentration scheme for reconstructing some maximally entangled multipartite states from partially entangled ones by exploiting cross-Kerr nonlinearities to distinguish the parity of two polarization photons. Compared with the entanglement concentration schemes based on two-particle collective unitary evolution, this scheme does not require the parties to know accurately information about the partially entangled states--i.e., their coefficients. Moreover, it does not require the parties to possess sophisticated single-photon detectors, which makes this protocol feasible with present techniques. By iteration of entanglement concentration processes, this scheme has a higher efficiency and yield than those with linear optical elements. All these advantages make this scheme more efficient and more convenient than others in practical applications.

id: 0806.0120
title: Security Bounds for Quantum Cryptography with Finite Resources
authors: Valerio Scarani, Renato Renner
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of TQC2008, Lecture Notes in Computer Science 5106 (Springer Verlag, Berlin), pp. 83-95 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0120
abstract: A practical quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol necessarily runs in finite time and, hence, only a finite amount of communication is exchanged. This is in contrast to most of the standard results on the security of QKD, which only hold in the limit where the number of transmitted signals approaches infinity. Here, we analyze the security of QKD under the realistic assumption that the amount of communication is finite. At the level of the general formalism, we present new results that help simplifying the actual implementation of QKD protocols: in particular, we show that symmetrization steps, which are required by certain security proofs (e.g., proofs based on de Finetti's representation theorem), can be omitted in practical implementations. Also, we demonstrate how two-way reconciliation protocols can be taken into account in the security analysis. At the level of numerical estimates, we present the bounds with finite resources for ``device-independent security'' against collective attacks.

id: 0806.0154
title: Superlinear Amplitude Amplification
authors: Lov K. Grover
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0154
abstract: Quantum search/amplitude amplification algorithms are designed to be able to amplify the amplitude in the target state linearly with the number of operations. Since the probability is the square of the amplitude, this results in the success probability rising quadratically with the number of operations. This paper presents a new kind of quantum search algorithm in which the amplitude of the target state, itself increases quadratically with the number of operations. However, the domain of applications of this is much more limited than standard amplitude amplification.

id: 0806.0194
title: Perfect mirror transport protocol with higher dimensional quantum chains
authors: Gerardo A. Paz-Silva, Stojan Rebic, Jason Twamley, Tim Duty
comments: Published version; 4 pages, 4 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 020305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0194
abstract: A globally controlled scheme for quantum transport is proposed. The scheme works on a 1D chain of nearest neighbor coupled systems of qudits (finite dimension), or qunats (continuous variable), taking any arbitrary initial quantum state of the chain and producing a final quantum state which is perfectly spatially mirrored about the mid-point of the chain. As a particular novel application, the method can be used to transport continuous variable (CV) quantum states. A physical realization is proposed where it is shown how the quantum states of the microwave fields held in a chain of driven superconducting coplanar waveguides can experience quantum mirror transport when coupled by switchable Cooper Pair Boxes.

id: 0806.0212
title: Paired atom laser beams created via four-wave mixing
authors: R. G. Dall, L. J. Byron, A. G. Truscott, G. R. Dennis, M. T. Johnsson, J. J. Hope
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0212
abstract: A method to create paired atom laser beams from a metastable helium atom laser via four-wave mixing is demonstrated. Radio frequency outcoupling is used to extract atoms from a Bose Einstein condensate near the center of the condensate and initiate scattering between trapped and untrapped atoms. The unequal strengths of the interactions for different internal states allows an energy-momentum resonance which leads to the creation of pairs of atoms scattered from the zero-velocity condensate. The resulting scattered beams are well separated from the main atom laser in the 2-dimensional transverse atom laser profile. Numerical simulations of the system are in good agreement with the observed atom laser spatial profiles, and indicate that the scattered beams are generated by a four-wave mixing process, suggesting that the beams are correlated.

id: 0806.0270
title: The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox: from concepts to applications
authors: M. D. Reid, P. D. Drummond, E. G. Cavalcanti, W. P. Bowen, P. K. Lam, H. A. Bachor, U. L. Andersen, G. Leuchs
comments: Colloquium in press in Reviews of Modern Physics, accepted Dec 2008
journal: Rev.Mod. Phys. 81, 1727 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0270
abstract: This Colloquium examines the field of the EPR Gedankenexperiment, from the original paper of Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen, through to modern theoretical proposals of how to realize both the continuous-variable and discrete versions of the EPR paradox. We analyze the relationship with entanglement and Bell's theorem, and summarize the progress to date towards experimental confirmation of the EPR paradox, with a detailed treatment of the continuous-variable paradox in laser-based experiments. Practical techniques covered include continuous-wave parametric amplifier and optical fibre quantum soliton experiments. We discuss current proposals for extending EPR experiments to massive-particle systems, including spin-squeezing, atomic position entangle- ment, and quadrature entanglement in ultra-cold atoms. Finally, we examine applications of this technology to quantum key distribution, quantum teleportation and entanglement-swapping.

id: 0806.0272
title: Wigner tomography of two qubit states and quantum cryptography
authors: T. Durt, A. Lamas-Linares, A. Ling, C. Kurtsiefer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042338 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0272
abstract: Tomography of the two qubit density matrix shared by Alice and Bob is an essential ingredient for guaranteeing an acceptable margin of confidentiality during the establishment of a secure fresh key through the Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) scheme. We show how the Singapore protocol for key distribution is optimal from this point of view, due to the fact that it is based on so called SIC POVM qubit tomography which allows the most accurate full tomographic reconstruction of an unknown density matrix on the basis of a restricted set of experimental data. We illustrate with the help of experimental data the deep connections that exist between SIC POVM tomography and discrete Wigner representations. We also emphasise the special role played by Bell states in this approach and propose a new protocol for Quantum Key Distribution during which a third party is able to concede or to deny A POSTERIORI to the authorized users the ability to build a fresh cryptographic key.

id: 0806.0368
title: Approximate quantum cloaking and almost trapped states
authors: A. Greenleaf, Y. Kurylev, M. Lassas, G. Uhlmann
comments: Revised, with new figures. Single column format
journal: Physical Review Letters 101, no. 22, 220404 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0368
abstract: We describe families of potentials which act as approximate cloaks for matter waves, i.e., for solutions of the time-independent Schr\"odinger equation at energy $E$, with applications to the design of ion traps. These are derived from perfect cloaks for the conductivity and Helmholtz equations, by a procedure we refer to as isotropic transformation optics. If $W$ is a potential which is surrounded by a sequence $\{V_n^E\}_{n=1}^\infty$ of approximate cloaks, then for generic $E$, asymptotically in $n$ (i) $W$ is both undetectable and unaltered by matter waves originating externally to the cloak; and (ii) the combined potential $W+V_n^E$ does not perturb waves outside the cloak. On the other hand, for $E$ near a discrete set of energies, cloaking {\it per se} fails and the approximate cloaks support wave functions concentrated, or {\it almost trapped}, inside the cloaked region and negligible outside. Applications include ion traps, almost invisible to matter waves or customizable to support almost trapped states of arbitrary multiplicity. Possible uses include simulation of abstract quantum systems, magnetically tunable quantum beam switches, and illusions of singular magnetic fields.

id: 0806.0383
title: Fault-Tolerant Computing With Biased-Noise Superconducting Qubits
authors: Panos Aliferis, Frederico Brito, David P. DiVincenzo, John Preskill, Matthias Steffen, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 013061
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0383
abstract: We present a universal scheme of pulsed operations for the IBM oscillator-stabilized flux qubit comprising the CPHASE gate, single-qubit preparations and measurements. Based on numerical simulations, we argue that the error rates for these operations can be as low as about .5% and that noise is highly biased, with phase errors being stronger than all other types of errors by a factor of nearly 10^3. In contrast, the design of a CNOT gate for this system with an error rate of less than about 1.2% seems extremely challenging. We propose a special encoding which exploits the noise bias allowing us to implement a logical CNOT gate where phase errors and all other types of errors have nearly balanced rates of about .4%. Our results illustrate how the design of an encoding scheme can be adjusted and optimized according to the available physical operations and the particular noise characteristics of experimental devices.

id: 0806.0385
title: Adiabatic Quantum Computation with a 1D projector Hamiltonian
authors: Avatar Tulsi
comments: revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0385
abstract: Adiabatic quantum computation is based on the adiabatic evolution of quantum systems. We analyse a particular class of qauntum adiabatic evolutions where either the initial or final Hamiltonian is a one-dimensional projector Hamiltonian on the corresponding ground state. The minimum energy gap which governs the time required for a successful evolution is shown to be proportional to the overlap of the ground states of the initial and final Hamiltonians. We show that such evolutions exhibit a rapid crossover as the ground state changes abruptly near the transition point where the energy gap is minimum. Furthermore, a faster evolution can be obtained by performing a partial adiabatic evolution within a narrow interval around the transition point. These results generalize and quantify earlier works.

id: 0806.0391
title: Nonexistence of Mutually Unbiased Bases for Hilbert spaces with non-power-of-a-prime dimensions
authors: Reinaldo O. Vianna, Ming Yang, Aldo Delgado, Carlos Saavedra
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by Reinaldo O. Vianna
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0391
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by Reinaldo O. Vianna.

id: 0806.0445
title: Complete account of randomness in the EPR-Bohm-Bell experiment
authors: David Avis, Paul Fischer, Astrid Hilbert, Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0445
abstract: We show that paradoxical consequences of violations of Bell's inequality are induced by the use of an unsuitable probabilistic description for the EPR-Bohm-Bell experiment. The conventional description (due to Bell) is based on a combination of statistical data collected for different settings of polarization beam splitters (PBSs). In fact, such data consists of some conditional probabilities which only partially define a probability space. Ignoring this conditioning leads to apparent contradictions in the classical probabilistic model (due to Kolmogorov). We show how to make a completely consistent probabilistic model by taking into account the probabilities of selecting the settings of the PBSs. Our model matches both the experimental data and is consistent with classical probability theory.

id: 0806.0450
title: On Perfect Completeness for QMA
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 9 pages. To appear in Quantum Information & Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0450
abstract: Whether the class QMA (Quantum Merlin Arthur) is equal to QMA1, or QMA with one-sided error, has been an open problem for years. This note helps to explain why the problem is difficult, by using ideas from real analysis to give a "quantum oracle" relative to which they are different. As a byproduct, we find that there are facts about quantum complexity classes that are classically relativizing but not quantumly relativizing, among them such "trivial" containments as BQP in ZQEXP.

id: 0806.0457
title: Criteria for generalized macroscopic and mesoscopic quantum coherence
authors: E. G. Cavalcanti, M. D. Reid
comments: 15 pages, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062108 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0457
abstract: We consider macroscopic, mesoscopic and "S-scopic" quantum superpositions of eigenstates of an observable, and develop some signatures for their existence. We define the extent, or size $S$ of a superposition, with respect to an observable \hat{x}, as being the range of outcomes of \hat{x} predicted by that superposition. Such superpositions are referred to as generalized $S$-scopic superpositions to distinguish them from the extreme superpositions that superpose only the two states that have a difference $S$ in their prediction for the observable. We also consider generalized $S$-scopic superpositions of coherent states. We explore the constraints that are placed on the statistics if we suppose a system to be described by mixtures of superpositions that are restricted in size. In this way we arrive at experimental criteria that are sufficient to deduce the existence of a generalized $S$-scopic superposition. The signatures developed are useful where one is able to demonstrate a degree of squeezing. We also discuss how the signatures enable a new type of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen gedanken experiment.

id: 0806.0477
title: Optimal nonequilibrium entanglement of nanomechanical oscillators
authors: Fernando Galve, Eric Lutz
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032327 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0477
abstract: We investigate nonequilibrium entanglement generation in a chain of harmonic oscillators with time-dependent linear coupling. We use optimal control theory to determine the coupling modulation that leads to maximum logarithmic negativity for a pair of opposite oscillators and show that it corresponds to a synchronization of the eigenmodes of the chain. We further analytically relate the maximum attainable entanglement to the irreversible work done to produce it, thus bridging nonequilibrium entanglement production and nonequilibrium thermodynamics.

id: 0806.0506
title: High-Probability Quantum State Transfer in the Alternating Open Chains of 1/2 Spins with XY Hamiltonian
authors: E.I.Kuznetsova, A.I.Zenchuk
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A, V.372 (2008) 6134-6140
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0506
abstract: This paper concerns the problem of non-ideal state transfer along the alternating open chain of spins $s=1/2$ with XY Hamiltonian. It is found that the state transfer along the chain with even number of spins $N$ ($N=4,6,8$) may be realized with high probability. Privilege of even $N$ in comparison with odd $N$ is demonstrated.

id: 0806.0557
title: An efficient and provably secure arbitrated quantum signature scheme
authors: Qin Li, Chengqing Li, Chunhui Wu, Dongyang Long, Changji Wang
comments: some contents changed, 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0557
abstract: In this paper, an efficient arbitrated quantum signature scheme is proposed by combining quantum cryptographic techniques and some ideas in classical cryptography. In the presented scheme, the signatory and the receiver can share a long-term secret key with the arbitrator by utilizing the key together with a random number. While in previous quantum signature schemes, the key shared between the signatory and the arbitrator or between the receiver and the arbitrator could be used only once, and thus each time when a signatory needs to sign, the signatory and the receiver have to obtain a new key shared with the arbitrator through a quantum key distribution protocol. Detailed theoretical analysis shows that the proposed scheme is efficient and provably secure.

id: 0806.0631
title: Exact universality from any entangling gate without inverses
authors: Aram W. Harrow
comments: 4 pages
journal: Q. Inf. Comp. Vol.8, No.8&9, pp. 715--721, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0631
abstract: This note proves that arbitrary local gates together with any entangling bipartite gate V are universal. Previously this was known only when access to both V and V^{-1} was given, or when approximate universality was demanded.

id: 0806.0647
title: Reconsidering Mermin's "In praise of measurement"
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0647
abstract: We critically analyze a recent paper by D. Mermin and we compare his statements with Bell's position on the problems he is discussing.

id: 0806.0654
title: Efficient Toffoli Gates Using Qudits
authors: T.C.Ralph, K.J.Resch, A.Gilchrist
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A 75 022313 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0654
abstract: The simplest decomposition of a Toffoli gate acting on three qubits requires {\em five} 2-qubit gates. If we restrict ourselves to controlled-sign (or controlled-NOT) gates this number climbs to six. We show that the number of controlled-sign gates required to implement a Toffoli gate can be reduced to just {\em three} if one of the three quantum systems has a third state that is accessible during the computation, i.e. is actually a qutrit. Such a requirement is not unreasonable or even atypical since we often artificially enforce a qubit structure on multilevel quantums systems (eg. atoms, photonic polarization and spatial modes). We explore the implementation of these techniques in optical quantum processing and show that linear optical circuits could operate with much higher probabilities of success.

id: 0806.0677
title: Topological degeneracy and decoherence-protected qubits in circuit QED
authors: Gang Chen, Zheng-Yuan Xue, J.-Q. Liang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0677
abstract: We introduce an extended Dicke model with controllable long-range atom-atom interaction to simulate topologically ordered states and achieve decoherence-protected qubits. We illustrate our idea in an experimentally feasible circuit quantum electrodynamics scenario. Due to the intrinsic competition with the atom-field coupling strength, we first demonstrate that this atom-atom interaction can exhibit a novel topological quantum interference effect arising from the instanton and anti-instanton tunneling paths. As a consequence, this proposed model only with a few odd-number of atoms has a two-fold absolute degenerate ground-subspace with a large energy gap, which can become larger with the increasing of the system-size. It may also support the excitation of anyonic statistics, and thus can be regarded as a possible candidate for processing topological quantum memory.

id: 0806.0726
title: Discrete phase-space structure of $n$-qubit mutually unbiased bases
authors: A. B. Klimov, J. L. Romero, G. Bjork, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: Title changed. Improved version. Accepted for publication in Annals of Physics
journal: Ann. Phys. 324 (2009) 53
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0726
abstract: We work out the phase-space structure for a system of $n$ qubits. We replace the field of real numbers that label the axes of the continuous phase space by the finite field $\Gal{2^n}$ and investigate the geometrical structures compatible with the notion of unbiasedness. These consist of bundles of discrete curves intersecting only at the origin and satisfying certain additional properties. We provide a simple classification of such curves and study in detail the four- and eight-dimensional cases, analyzing also the effect of local transformations. In this way, we provide a comprehensive phase-space approach to the construction of mutually unbiased bases for $n$ qubits.

id: 0806.0739
title: Quantum Zeno Effect Explains Magnetic-Sensitive Radical-Ion-Pair Reactions
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 056115 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0739
abstract: Chemical reactions involving radical-ion pairs are ubiquitous in biology, since not only are they at the basis of the photosynthetic reaction chain, but are also assumed to underlie the biochemical magnetic compass used by avian species for navigation. Recent experiments with magnetic-sensitive radical-ion pair reactions provided strong evidence for the radical-ion-pair magnetoreception mechanism, verifying the expected magnetic sensitivities and chemical product yield changes. It is here shown that the theoretical description of radical-ion-pair reactions used since the 70's cannot explain the observed data, because it is based on phenomenological equations masking quantum coherence effects. The fundamental density matrix equation derived here from basic quantum measurement theory considerations naturally incorporates the quantum Zeno effect and readily explains recent experimental observations on low- and high-magnetic-field radical-ion-pair reactions.

id: 0806.0742
title: Vacuum effects in a vibrating cavity: time refraction, dynamical Casimir effect, and effective Unruh acceleration
authors: J.T. Mendonca, G. Brodin, M. Marklund
comments: 5 pages, version to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:5621-5624,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0742
abstract: Two different quantum processes are considered in a perturbed vacuum cavity: time refraction and dynamical Casimir effect. They are shown to be physically equivalent, and are predicted to be unstable, leading to an exponential growth in the number of photons created in the cavity. The concept of an effective Unruh acceleration for these processes is also introduced, in order to make a comparison in terms of radiation efficiency, with the Unruh radiation associated with an accelerated frame in unbounded vacuum.

id: 0806.0748
title: Generation of high-fidelity four-photon cluster state and quantum-domain demonstration of one-way quantum computing
authors: Yuuki Tokunaga, Shin Kuwashiro, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 210501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0748
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a simple scheme for generating a four-photon entangled cluster state with fidelity over 0.860 $\pm$ 0.015. We show that the fidelity is high enough to guarantee that the produced state is distinguished from Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger, W, and Dicke types of genuine four-qubit entanglement. We also demonstrate basic operations of one-way quantum computing using the produced state and show that the output state fidelities surpass classical bounds, which indicates that the entanglement in the produced state essentially contributes to the quantum operation.

id: 0806.0753
title: Quantum computation in decoherence-free subspace with superconducting devices
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, Shi-Liang Zhu, Z. D. Wang
comments: v2: thoroughly rewritten version with title and motivation changed; v3: published version with detail dirivations
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 55, 223 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0753
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement quantum computation in decoherence-free subspace with superconducting devices inside a cavity by unconventional geometric manipulation. Universal single-qubit gates in encoded qubit can be achieved with cavity assisted interaction. A measurement-based two-qubit Controlled-Not gate is produced with parity measurements assisted by an auxiliary superconducting device and followed by prescribed single-qubit gates. The measurement of currents on two parallel devices can realize a projective measurement, which is equivalent to the parity measurement on the involved devices.

id: 0806.0771
title: Feynman operator calculus and singular quantum oscillator
authors: V.S.Popov, M.A.Trusov
comments: 3 pages; RevTeX 4; submited to Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:5274-5275,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0771
abstract: New applications of Feynman disentangling method in quantum mechanics are studied and the time-dependent singular oscillator problem is solved in this approach. The important role of representation group theory is discussed in this context.

id: 0806.0779
title: Robustness of Highly Entangled Multi-Qubit States Under Decoherence
authors: A. Borras, A.P. Majtey, A.R. Plastino, M. Casas, A. Plastino
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures. Changes in Sec. 3
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022108 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0779
abstract: We investigate the decay of entanglement, due to decoherence, of multi-qubit systems that are initially prepared in highly (in some cases maximally) entangled states. We assume that during the decoherence processes each qubit of the system interacts with its own, independent environment. We determine, for systems with a small number of qubits and for various decoherence channels, the initial states exhibiting the most robust entanglement. We also consider a restricted version of this robustness optimization problem, only involving states equivalent under local unitary transformations to the |GHZ> state.

id: 0806.0801
title: Semi-classical scattering in two dimensions
authors: S. K. Adhikari, M. S. Hussein
comments: 6 pages
journal: Am. J. Phys. 76 (2008) 1108-1113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0801
abstract: The semi-classical limit of quantum-mechanical scattering in two dimensions (2D) is developed. We derive the Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin and Eikonal results for 2D scattering. No backward or forward glory scattering is present in 2D. Other phenomena, such as rainbow or orbiting do show up.

id: 0806.0821
title: Formation of deeply bound molecules via chainwise adiabatic passage
authors: Elena Kuznetsova, Philippe Pellegrini, Robin C?t¨¦, M.D. Lukin, S.F. Yelin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0821
abstract: We suggest and analyze a novel technique for efficient and robust creation of dense ultracold molecular ensembles in their ground rovibrational state. In our approach a molecule is brought to the ground state through a series of intermediate vibrational states via a {\em multistate chainwise Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage} (c-STIRAP) technique. We study the influence of the intermediate states decay on the transfer process and suggest an approach that minimizes the population of these states, resulting in a maximal transfer efficiency. As an example, we analyze the formation of $^{87}$Rb$_{2}$ starting from an initial Feshbach molecular state and taking into account major decay mechanisms due to inelastic atom-molecule and molecule-molecule collisions. Numerical analysis suggests a transfer efficiency $>$ 90%, even in the presence of strong collisional relaxation as are present in a high density atomic gas.

id: 0806.0854
title: Comment on "Arbitrated quantum-signature scheme"
authors: Marcos Curty, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 046301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0854
abstract: We investigate the quantum signature scheme proposed by Zeng and Keitel [Phys. Rev. A 65, 042312 (2002)]. It uses Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states and the availability of a trusted arbitrator. However, in our opinion the protocol is not clearly operationally defined and several steps are ambiguous. Moreover, we argue that the security statements claimed by the authors are incorrect.

id: 0806.0855
title: Iterations of nonlinear entanglement witnesses
authors: Tobias Moroder, Otfried G¨¹hne, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032326 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0855
abstract: We describe a generic way to improve a given linear entanglement witness by a quadratic, nonlinear term. This method can be iterated, leading to a whole sequence of nonlinear witnesses, which become stronger in each step of the iteration. We show how to optimize this iteration with respect to a given state, and prove that in the limit of the iteration the nonlinear witness detects all states that can be detected by the positive map corresponding to the original linear witness.

id: 0806.0858
title: Upper bounds on the performance of differential-phase-shift quantum key distribution
authors: Hipolito Gomez-Sousa, Marcos Curty
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: QIC Vol 9,p. 62-80 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0858
abstract: In this paper, we investigate limitations imposed by sequential attacks on the performance of a differential-phase-shift (DPS) quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol with weak coherent pulses. Specifically, we analyze a sequential attack based on optimal unambiguous discrimination of the relative phases between consecutive signal states emitted by the source. We show that this attack can provide tighter upper bounds for the security of a DPS QKD scheme than those derived from sequential attacks where the eavesdropper aims to identify the state of each signal emitted by the source unambiguously.

id: 0806.0875
title: Fault-tolerant holonomic quantum computation
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, Todd A. Brun, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 070502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0875
abstract: We explain how to combine holonomic quantum computation (HQC) with fault tolerant quantum error correction. This establishes the scalability of HQC, putting it on equal footing with other models of computation, while retaining the inherent robustness the method derives from its geometric nature.

id: 0806.0887
title: Partial K-way negativities and three tangle for three qubit states
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 07 pages, revtex, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012113 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0887
abstract: We obtain, analytically, the global negativity, partial $K-$way negativities (K=2, 3), Wooter's tangle and three tangle for the generic three qubit canonical state. It is found that the product of global negativity and partial three way negativity is equal to three tangle, while the partial two way negativity is related to tangle of qubit pairs. We also calculate similar quantities for the state canonical to a single parameter (0<q<1) pure state which is a linear combination of a GHZ state and a W state. In this case for q=0.62685, the state has zero three tangle and zero three-way negativity, having only W-like entanglement. The difference between the product of global and partial three way negativity and three tangle for a given state is a quantitative measure of two qubit coherences transformed by unitary transformations on canonical state into three qubit coherences. The global negativity and partial K-way negativities, obtained by selective partial transpositions on multi-qubit state operator, satisfy inequalities which for three qubits are equivalent to CKW (Coffman-Kundu-Wootter) inequality.

id: 0806.0907
title: Experimental demonstration of deterministic one-way quantum computing on a NMR quantum computer
authors: Chenyong Ju, Jing Zhu, Xinhua Peng, Bo Chong, Xianyi Zhou, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures. The 2nd version (v2) has been accepeted by Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0907
abstract: One-way quantum computing is an important and novel approach to quantum computation. By exploiting the existing particle-particle interactions, we report the first experimental realization of the complete process of deterministic one-way quantum Deutsch-Josza algorithm in NMR, including graph state preparation, single-qubit measurements and feed-forward corrections. The findings in our experiment may shed light on the future scalable one-way quantum computation.

id: 0806.0945
title: Space-QUEST: Experiments with quantum entanglement in space
authors: Rupert Ursin, Thomas Jennewein, Johannes Kofler, Josep M. Perdigues, Luigi Cacciapuoti, Clovis J. de Matos, Markus Aspelmeyer, Alejandra Valencia, Thomas Scheidl, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Antonio Acin, Cesare Barbieri, Giuseppe Bianco, Caslav Brukner, Jose Capmany, Sergio Cova, Dirk Giggenbach, Walter Leeb, Robert H. Hadfield, Raymond Laflamme, Norbert Lutkenhaus, Gerard Milburn, Momtchil Peev, Timothy Ralph, John Rarity, Renato Renner, Etienne Samain, Nikolaos Solomos, Wolfgang Tittel, Juan P. Torres, Morio Toyoshima, Arturo Ortigosa-Blanch, Valerio Pruneri, Paolo Villoresi, Ian Walmsley, Gregor Weihs, Harald Weinfurter, Marek Zukowski, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, accepted for the 59th International Astronautical Congress (IAC) 2008
journal: IAC Proceedings A2.1.3 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0945
abstract: The European Space Agency (ESA) has supported a range of studies in the field of quantum physics and quantum information science in space for several years, and consequently we have submitted the mission proposal Space-QUEST (Quantum Entanglement for Space Experiments) to the European Life and Physical Sciences in Space Program. We propose to perform space-to-ground quantum communication tests from the International Space Station (ISS). We present the proposed experiments in space as well as the design of a space based quantum communication payload.

id: 0806.0967
title: Gravitation of finite range and the accelerated expansion of the universe
authors: Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0967
abstract: In an earlier work we showed that the gravitational interaction could be reproduced as a retarded dispersion interaction (Casimir interaction) between particles composed of hypothetical particles having harmonic oscillator interactions. Here we derive the modification of the force when the vacuum modes have a small but finite temperature. The resulting interaction is of finite range. We give the result on analytical form.

id: 0806.0982
title: Generalized parity measurements
authors: Radu Ionicioiu, Anca E. Popescu, William J. Munro, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: 7 pages, 1 fig; updated to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052326 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0982
abstract: Measurements play an important role in quantum computing (QC), by either providing the nonlinearity required for two-qubit gates (linear optics QC), or by implementing a quantum algorithm using single-qubit measurements on a highly entangled initial state (cluster state QC). Parity measurements can be used as building blocks for preparing arbitrary stabilizer states, and, together with 1-qubit gates are universal for quantum computing. Here we generalize parity gates by using a higher dimensional (qudit) ancilla. This enables us to go beyond the stabilizer/graph state formalism and prepare other types of multi-particle entangled states. The generalized parity module introduced here can prepare in one-shot, heralded by the outcome of the ancilla, a large class of entangled states, including GHZ_n, W_n, Dicke states D_{n,k}, and, more generally, certain sums of Dicke states, like G_n states used in secret sharing. For W_n states it provides an exponential gain compared to linear optics based methods.

id: 0806.0987
title: Decoherence, Entanglement and Irreversibility in Quantum Dynamical Systems with Few Degrees of Freedom
authors: Ph. Jacquod, C. Petitjean
comments: Final version, to appear in Advances in Physics
journal: Advances in Physics 58, vol. 2, 67 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0987
abstract: This review summarizes and amplifies on recent investigations of coupled quantum dynamical systems in the short wavelength limit. We formulate and attempt to answer three fundamental questions: (i) What drives a dynamical quantum system to behave classically ? (ii) What determines the rate at which two coupled quantum--mechanical systems become entangled ? (iii) How does irreversibility occur in quantum systems with few degrees of freedom ? We embed these three questions in the broader context of the quantum--classical correspondence, which motivates the use of short--wavelength approximations to quantum mechanics such as the trajectory-based semiclassical methods and random matrix theory. Doing so, we propose a novel investigative procedure towards decoherence and the emergence of classicality out of quantumness in dynamical systems coupled to external degrees of freedom. We reproduce known results derived using master equation or Lindblad approaches but also generate novel ones. In particular we show how local exponential instability also affects the temporal evolution of quantum chaotic dynamical systems. We extensively rely on numerical experiments to illustrate our findings and briefly comment on possible extensions to more complex problems involving environments with $n \gg 1$ interacting dynamical systems, going beyond the uncoupled harmonic oscillator model of Caldeira and Leggett.

id: 0806.0992
title: Dissipative dynamics of a two - level system resonantly coupled to a harmonic mode
authors: Frederico Brito, Amir O. Caldeira
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures; V2: Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 115014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0992
abstract: We propose an approximation scheme to describe the dynamics of the spin-boson model when the spectral density of the environment shows a peak at a characteristic frequency $\Omega$ which can be very close (or even equal) to the spin Zeeman frequency $\Delta$. Mapping the problem onto a two-state system (TSS) coupled to a harmonic oscillator (HO) with frequency $\omega_0$ we show that the representation of displaced HO states provides an appropriate basis to truncate the Hilbert space of the TSS-HO system and therefore a better picture of the system dynamics. We derive an effective Hamiltonian for the TSS-HO system, and show it furnishes a very good approximation for the system dynamics even when its two subsystems are moderately coupled. Finally, assuming the regime of weak HO-bath coupling and low temperatures, we are able to analytically evaluate the dissipative TSS dynamics.

id: 0806.1048
title: Spin squeezing and entanglement
authors: Geza Toth, Christian Knapp, Otfried G¨¹hne, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 13 pages including 6 figures and 2 tables, revtex4; v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042334 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1048
abstract: What is the relation between spin squeezing and entanglement? To clarify this, we derive the full set of generalized spin squeezing inequalities for the detection of entanglement. These are inequalities for the mean values and variances of the collective angular momentum components J_k. They can be used for the experimental detection of entanglement in a system of spin-1/2 particles in which the spins cannot be individually addressed. We present various sets of inequalities that can detect all entangled states that can be detected based on the knowledge of: (i) the mean values and variances of J_k in three orthogonal directions, or (ii) the variances of J_k in three orthogonal directions, or (iii) the mean values of J_k^2 in three orthogonal directions or (iv) the mean values and variances of J_k in arbitrary directions. We compare our inequalities to known spin squeezing entanglement criteria and discuss to which extent spin squeezing is related to entanglement in the reduced two-qubit states. Finally, we apply our criteria for the detection of entanglement in spin models, showing that they can be used to detect bound entanglement in these systems.

id: 0806.1052
title: Entanglement of distant atoms by projective measurement: The role of detection efficiency
authors: Stefano Zippilli, Georgina A. Olivares-Renteria, Giovanna Morigi, Carsten Schuck, Felix Rohde, Juergen Eschner
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 103003 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1052
abstract: We assess proposals for entangling two distant atoms by measurement of emitted photons, analyzing how their performance depends on the photon detection efficiency. We consider schemes based on measurement of one or two photons and compare them in terms of the probability to obtain the detection event and of the conditional fidelity with which the desired entangled state is created. Based on an unravelling of the master equation, we quantify the parameter regimes in which one or the other scheme is more efficient, including the possible combination of the one-photon scheme with state purification. In general, protocols based on one-photon detection are more efficient in set-ups characterized by low photon detection efficiency, while at larger values two-photon protocols are preferable. We give numerical examples based on current experiments.

id: 0806.1076
title: Secure Quantum Passwords
authors: Masahiro Hotta, Masanao Ozawa
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1076
abstract: We propose a quantum authentication protocol that is robust against the theft of secret keys. In the protocol, disposable quantum passwords prevent impersonation attacks with stolen secret keys. The protocol also prevents the leakage of secret information of a certification agent.

id: 0806.1091
title: Universal approximation of multi-copy states and universal quantum lossless data compression
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics. Volume 293, Number 1, 171-183, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1091
abstract: We have proven that there exists a quantum state approximating any multi-copy state universally when we measure the error by means of the normalized relative entropy. While the qubit case was proven by Krattenthaler and Slater (IEEE Trans. IT, 46, 801-819 (2000); quant-ph/9612043), the general case has been open for more than ten years. For a deeper analysis, we have solved the mini-max problem concerning `approximation error' up to the second order. Furthermore, we have applied this result to quantum lossless data compression, and have constructed a universal quantum lossless data compression.

id: 0806.1102
title: Multiple Nash-equilibrium in Quantum Game
authors: Georgy Parfionov
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1102
abstract: Methods of exploring Nash equilibrium in quantum games are studied. Analytical conditions of the existence, the uniqueness or the multiplicity of the equilibria are found.

id: 0806.1150
title: Alternative fidelity measure for quantum states
authors: Paulo E. M. F. Mendonca, Reginaldo d. J. Napolitano, Marcelo A. Marchiolli, Christopher J. Foster, Yeong-Cherng Liang
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. v2 includes minor changes, new references and new numerical results (Sec. IV)
journal: Phys. Rev A, 78, 052330 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1150
abstract: We propose an alternative fidelity measure (namely, a measure of the degree of similarity) between quantum states and benchmark it against a number of properties of the standard Uhlmann-Jozsa fidelity. This measure is a simple function of the linear entropy and the Hilbert-Schmidt inner product between the given states and is thus, in comparison, not as computationally demanding. It also features several remarkable properties such as being jointly concave and satisfying all of "Jozsa's axioms". The trade-off, however, is that it is supermultiplicative and does not behave monotonically under quantum operations. In addition, new metrics for the space of density matrices are identified and the joint concavity of the Uhlmann-Jozsa fidelity for qubit states is established.

id: 0806.1153
title: Quantum Repeaters using Coherent-State Communication
authors: Peter van Loock, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus, W. J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062319 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1153
abstract: We investigate quantum repeater protocols based upon atomic qubit-entanglement distribution through optical coherent-state communication. Various measurement schemes for an optical mode entangled with two spatially separated atomic qubits are considered in order to nonlocally prepare conditional two-qubit entangled states. In particular, generalized measurements for unambiguous state discrimination enable one to completely eliminate spin-flip errors in the resulting qubit states, as they would occur in a homodyne-based scheme due to the finite overlap of the optical states in phase space. As a result, by using weaker coherent states, high initial fidelities can still be achieved for larger repeater spacing, at the expense of lower entanglement generation rates. In this regime, the coherent-state-based protocols start resembling single-photon-based repeater schemes.

id: 0806.1164
title: Overcoming non-Markovian dephasing in single photon sources through post-selection
authors: Ahsan Nazir, Sean D. Barrett
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, published version, title changed, references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 011804(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1164
abstract: We study the effects of realistic dephasing environments on a pair of solid-state single-photon sources in the context of the Hong-Ou-Mandel dip. By means of solutions for the Markovian or exact non-Markovian dephasing dynamics of the sources, we show that the resulting loss of visibility depends crucially on the timing of photon detection events. Our results demonstrate that the effective visibility can be improved via temporal post-selection, and also that time-resolved interference can be a useful probe of the interaction between the emitter and its host environment.

id: 0806.1172
title: Optimal quantum tomography for states, measurements, and transformations
authors: A. Bisio, G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, S. Facchini, P. Perinotti
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102 (2009) 010404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1172
abstract: We present the first complete optimization of quantum tomography, for states, POVMs, and various classes of transformations, for arbitrary prior ensemble and arbitrary representation, giving corresponding feasible experimental schemes.

id: 0806.1174
title: Bloch vectors for qudits
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Philipp Krammer
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure, new version of paper arXiv:0706.1743 [quant-ph] containing just the Bloch vector part but enlarged with an additional section on experimental application of entanglement witnesses in 3x3 dimensions
journal: J. Phys. A: Math.Theor. 41 (2008) 235303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1174
abstract: We present three different matrix bases that can be used to decompose density matrices of $d$--dimensional quantum systems, so-called qudits: the \emph{generalized Gell-Mann matrix basis}, the \emph{polarization operator basis}, and the \emph{Weyl operator basis}. Such a decomposition can be identified with a vector --the Bloch vector, i.e. a generalization of the well known qubit case-- and is a convenient expression for comparison with measurable quantities and for explicit calculations avoiding the handling of large matrices. We present a new method to decompose density matrices via so--called standard matrices, consider the important case of an isotropic two--qudit state and decompose it according to each basis. In case of qutrits we show a representation of an entanglement witness in terms of expectation values of spin 1 measurements, which is appropriate for an experimental realization.

id: 0806.1257
title: General framework for quantum search algorithms
authors: Avatar Tulsi
comments: revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1257
abstract: Grover's quantum search algorithm drives a quantum computer from a prepared initial state to a desired final state by using selective transformations of these states. Here, we analyze a framework when one of the selective trasformations is replaced by a more general unitary transformation. Our framework encapsulates several previous generalizations of the Grover's algorithm. We show that the general quantum search algorithm can be improved by controlling the transformations through an ancilla qubit. As a special case of this improvement, we get a faster quantum algorithm for the two-dimensional spatial search.

id: 0806.1314
title: Toward an understanding of entanglement for generalized n-qubit W-states
authors: Levon Tamaryan, Hungsoo Kim, Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, DaeKil Park, Sayatnova Tamaryan
comments: V1:10 pages, 3 figures V2: 14 pages, one more section is added for the computation of the maximal overlap probability for the two-parametric W-state in 4-qubit system V3: 17 pages, one more 3-dimensional figure is added. Geometric interpretation of the maximal overlap probability is more clearly discussed
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 475303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1314
abstract: We solve stationarity equations of the geometric measure of entanglement for multi-qubit W-type states. In this way we compute analytically the maximal overlap of one-parameter $n$-qubit and two-parameter four-qubit W-type states and their nearest product states. Possible extensions to arbitrary W-type states and geometrical interpretations of these results are discussed in detail.

id: 0806.1369
title: Berry phase and quantum criticality in Yang--Baxter systems
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Kang Xue, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 7 pages, no figures. Accepted for publication in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 323 (2008) 2614-2623
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1369
abstract: Spin interaction Hamiltonians are obtained from the unitary Yang--Baxter $\breve{R}$-matrix. Based on which, we study Berry phase and quantum criticality in the Yang--Baxter systems.

id: 0806.1448
title: Non-Markovian band-edge effect and entanglement generation of quantum dot excitons coupled to nanowire surface plasmons
authors: G. Y. Chen, Y. N. Chen, D. S. Chuu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1448
abstract: The radiative decay of quantum dot (QD) excitons into surface plasmons in a cylindrical nanowire is investigated theoretically. Maxwell's equations with appropriate boundary conditions are solved numerically to obtain the dispersion relations of surface plasmons. The radiative decay rate of QD excitons is found to be greatly enhanced at certain values of the exciton bandgap. Analogous to the decay of a two-level atom in the photonic crystal, we first point out that such an enhanced phenomenon allows one to examine the non-Markovian dynamics of the QD exciton. Besides, due to the one dimensional propagating feature of nanowire surface plasmons, remote entangled states can be generated via super-radiance and may be useful in future quantum information processing.

id: 0806.1474
title: Embedding quantum and random optics in a larger field theory
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1474
abstract: Introducing creation and annihilation operators for negative frequency components extends the algebra of smeared local observables of quantum optics to include an associated classical random field optics.

id: 0806.1512
title: Recoherence by Squeezed States in Electron Interferometry
authors: Jen-Tsung Hsiang, L. H. Ford
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:065012,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1512
abstract: Coherent electrons coupled to the quantized electromagnetic field undergo decoherence which can be viewed as due either to fluctuations of the Aharonov-Bohm phase or to photon emission. When the electromagnetic field is in a squeezed vacuum state, it is possible for this decoherence to be reduced, leading to the phenomenon of recoherence. This recoherence effect requires electrons which are emitted at selected times during the cycle of the excited mode of the electromagnetic field. We show that there are bounds on the degree of recoherence which are analogous to quantum inequality restriction on negative energy densities in quantum field theory. We make some estimates of the degree of recoherence, and show that although small, it may be observable.

id: 0806.1539
title: Quantum Search Algorithm for Set Operation
authors: Chao-Yang Pang, Cong-Bao Ding, Ben-Qiong Hu
comments: 15 page 2 Figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1539
abstract: The operations of data set, such as intersection, union and complement, are the fundamental calculation in mathematics. It's very significant that designing fast algorithm for set operation. In this paper, the quantum algorithm for intersection is presented. And its running time is sqrt(|A|*|B|*|C|) for set operation C = A intersection B, while classical computation needs O (|A| *|B|) steps of computation in general, where |.| denotes the size of set. The presented algorithm is the combination of Grover's algorithm, classical memory and classical iterative computation, and the combination method decrease the complexity of designing quantum algorithm.The method can be used to design other set operations also. Keywords: Set operation, General Grover iteration, Grover's algorithm

id: 0806.1544
title: An Alternative Quantization Protocol for the History Dependent Parrondo Game
authors: Faisal Shah Khan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1544
abstract: Earlier work on the quantization of the history dependent (HD) Parrondo game by Flitney, Ng, and Abbott led to the FNA protocol. We propose an alternative quantization protocol for this game which differs from the FNA protocol in various aspects.

id: 0806.1553
title: Amplification of Fluctuations in a Spinor Bose Einstein Condensate
authors: S. R. Leslie, J. Guzman, M. Vengalattore, J. D. Sau, M. L. Cohen, D. M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1553
abstract: Dynamical instabilities due to spin-mixing collisions in a $^{87}$Rb F=1 spinor Bose-Einstein condensate are used as an amplifier of quantum spin fluctuations. We demonstrate the spectrum of this amplifier to be tunable, in quantitative agreement with mean-field calculations. We quantify the microscopic spin fluctuations of the initially paramagnetic condensate by applying this amplifier and measuring the resulting macroscopic magnetization. The magnitude of these fluctuations is consistent with predictions of a beyond-mean-field theory. The spinor-condensate-based spin amplifier is thus shown to be nearly quantum-limited at a gain as high as 30 dB.

id: 0806.1554
title: Underbarrier interference and Euclidean resonance
authors: B. Ivlev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1554
abstract: Quantum tunneling from a thin wire or a thin film through a static potential barrier in a zero magnetic field is studied. The wire or the film should satisfy a condition of transverse quantization of levels and be inhomogeneous. Depending on a form of the inhomogeneity the tunneling scenario can dramatically differ from the conventional scheme of an exponential decay of a probability density inside the barrier. This happens due to interference of various underbarrier paths, which are collected at some points giving rise to a trans-barrier state of a large amplitude. As a result, the tunneling probability through an almost classical barrier can be not exponentially small. This is a phenomenon of Euclidean resonance studied earlier for tunneling across nonstationary barriers.

id: 0806.1593
title: Functional minimization method addressed to the vacuum finding for an arbitrary driven quantum oscillator
authors: S.V. Anischenko, S.L. Cherkas, V.L. Kalashnikov
comments: 9 pages
journal: Nonlinear Phenomena in Complex Systems v.12 p.16-26 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1593
abstract: The old problem exists for a driven (time-dependent) quantum oscillator: to differ the true vacuum state from the squeezed one. We suggest finding the true vacuum state by minimization of the functional containing the difference of the potential and kinetic energies of oscillator. Analytical and numerical examples confirming this offer are considered.

id: 0806.1606
title: Non-secret correlations can be used to distribute secrecy
authors: Joonwoo Bae, Toby Cubitt, Antonio Acin
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1606
abstract: A counter-intuitive result in entanglement theory was shown in [PRL 91 037902 (2003)], namely that entanglement can be distributed by sending a separable state through a quantum channel. In this work, following an analogy between the entanglement and secret key distillation scenarios, we derive its classical analog: secrecy can be distributed by sending non-secret correlations through a private channel. This strengthens the close relation between entanglement and secrecy.

id: 0806.1616
title: Steady state entanglement in the mechanical vibrations of two dielectric membranes
authors: Michael J. Hartmann, Martin B. Plenio
comments: example for higher environment temperatures added, further explanations added to the text
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 200503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1616
abstract: We consider two dielectric membranes suspended inside a Fabry-Perot-cavity, which are cooled to a steady state via a drive by suitable classical lasers. We show that the vibrations of the membranes can be entangled in this steady state. They thus form two mechanical, macroscopic degrees of freedom that share steady state entanglement.

id: 0806.1625
title: Computable bounds for the discrimination of Gaussian states
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Seth Lloyd
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012331 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1625
abstract: By combining the Minkowski inequality and the quantum Chernoff bound, we derive easy-to-compute upper bounds for the error probability affecting the optimal discrimination of Gaussian states. In particular, these bounds are useful when the Gaussian states are unitarily inequivalent, i.e., they differ in their symplectic invariants.

id: 0806.1643
title: Effect of feedback on the control of a two-level dissipative quantum system
authors: L. C. Wang, X. L. Huang, X. X. Yi
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: PRA 78,052112(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1643
abstract: We show that it is possible to modify the stationary state by a feedback control in a two-level dissipative quantum system. Based on the geometric control theory, we also analyze the effect of the feedback on the time-optimal control in the dissipative system governed by the Lindblad master equation. These effects are reflected in the function $\Delta_A(\vec{x})$ and $\Delta_B(\vec{x})$ that characterize the optimal trajectories, as well as the switching function $\Phi(t)$ and $\theta(t),$ which characterize the switching point in time for the time-optimal trajectory.

id: 0806.1660
title: Uncertainty relations in terms of Tsallis entropy
authors: Grzegorz Wilk, Zbigniew Wlodarczyk
comments: Final version accepted in Phys. Rev. A. One footnote added
journal: Phys. Rev. A79, 062108 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1660
abstract: Uncertainty relations emerging from the Tsallis entropy are derived and discussed. In particular we found a positively defined function that saturates the so called entropic inequalities for entropies characterizing the physical states under consideration.

id: 0806.1671
title: Experimental quantum key distribution with an untrusted source
authors: Xiang Peng, Hao Jiang, Bingjie Xu, Xiongfeng Ma, Hong Guo
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 33, Issue 18, pp. 2077-2079
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1671
abstract: The photon statistics of a quantum key distribution (QKD) source is crucial for security analysis. In this paper, we propose a practical method, with only a beam splitter and photodetector involved, to monitor the photon statistics of a QKD source. By implementing in a Plug&Play QKD system, we show that the method is highly practical. The final secure key rate is 52 bit/s, comparing to 78 bit/s when the source is treated as a trusted source.

id: 0806.1679
title: Is Teleportation a (quantum) mystery?
authors: Berry Groisman
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1679
abstract: Since its discovery quantum teleportation has often been seen as a manifestation, indeed the epitome, of the very paradoxical and mysterious nature of quantum theory itself. It is commonly regarded as genuinely quantum and essentially paradoxical. Although a common approach to teleportation amongst physicists nowadays is a somewhat operational one, some researchers are making an effort to deflate the above views. On the one hand, it was recently argued that the paradox of information transfer taking place in teleportation is dissolved (Timpson, 2006) by appealing the very notion of information. On the other hand, it was demonstrated that some classical versions of teleportation retain its important features, which hitherto were considered genuinely quantum (Cohen, 2003; Collins&Popescu, 2002; Hardy, 1999; Mor, 2006; Spekkens, 2007). I will present a special version of a quantum teleportation protocol which is in a sense split into classical and quantum steps. This description provides us with a unified picture of teleportation in both domains. It will be explicitly shown how classical teleportation is embedded in the quantum protocol. Moreover, the classical step can be successfully accomplished even if the state shared by the parties is completely disentangled [this is consistent with the result obtained in (Wang, 2005)]. Yet, all the (apparent) paradoxical features usually associated with quantum teleportation are clearly present in this step. In particular, this demonstrates that entanglement cannot be ultimately responsible and not necessary for the (paradoxical?) information transfer. Thus, even if one considers teleportation as mysterious, all its mysteries are shifted from quantum domain into purely classical one.

id: 0806.1691
title: Stimulated scattering and lasing of intersubband cavity polaritons
authors: Simone De Liberato, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 102 (2009) 136403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1691
abstract: We present a microscopic theory describing the stimulated scattering of intersubband polariton excitations in a microcavity-embedded two-dimensional electron gas. In particular, we consider the polariton scattering induced by the spontaneous emission of optical phonons. Our theory demonstrates the possibility of final-state stimulation for the scattering of such composite excitations, accounting for the deviations from perfect bosonicity occurring at high excitation densities. By using realistic parameters for a GaAs semiconductor system, we predict how to achieve a quantum degenerate regime, leading to ultralow threshold lasing without population inversion.

id: 0806.1746
title: Complexity of stoquastic frustration-free Hamiltonians
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Barbara Terhal
comments: 22 pages. The material related to stoquastic k-SAT is an extended and improved version of quant-ph/0611021
journal: SIAM J. Comput. Vol. 39, No 4, p. 1462 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1746
abstract: We study several problems related to properties of non-negative matrices that arise at the boundary between quantum and classical probabilistic computation. Our results are twofold. First, we identify a large class of quantum Hamiltonians describing systems of qubits for which the adiabatic evolution can be efficiently simulated on a classical probabilistic computer. These are stoquastic local Hamiltonians with a "frustration free" ground-state. A Hamiltonian belongs to this class iff it can be represented as $H=\sum_a H_a$ where (1) every term $H_a$ acts non-trivially on a constant number of qubits, (2) every term $H_a$ has real non-positive off-diagonal matrix elements in the standard basis, and (3) the ground-state of $H$ is a ground-state of every term $H_a$. Secondly, we generalize the Cook-Levin theorem proving NP-completeness of the satisfiability problem to the complexity class MA -- a probabilistic analogue of NP. Specifically, we construct a quantum version of the k-SAT problem which we call "stoquastic k-SAT" such that stoquastic k-SAT is contained in MA for any constant $k$, and any promise problem in MA is Karp-reducible to stoquastic 6-SAT. This result provides the first non-trivial example of a MA-complete promise problem.

id: 0806.1778
title: Proposal of an eavesdropping experiment for BB84 QKD protocol with 1-3 phase-covariant quantum cloner
authors: Yuta Okubo, Francesco Buscemi, Akihisa Tomita
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1778
abstract: We propose an eavesdropping experiment with linear optical 1-3 phase-covariant quantum cloner. In this paper, we have designed an optical circuit of the cloner and shown how the eavesdropper (Eve) utilizes her clones. We have also optimized the measurement scheme for Eve by numerical calculation. The optimized measurement is easy to implement with liner optics.

id: 0806.1859
title: Mathematical Foundation of Quantum Annealing
authors: Satoshi Morita, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 51pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1859
abstract: Quantum annealing is a generic name of quantum algorithms to use quantum-mechanical fluctuations to search for the solution of optimization problem. It shares the basic idea with quantum adiabatic evolution studied actively in quantum computation. The present paper reviews the mathematical and theoretical foundation of quantum annealing. In particular, theorems are presented for convergence conditions of quantum annealing to the target optimal state after an infinite-time evolution following the Schroedinger or stochastic (Monte Carlo) dynamics. It is proved that the same asymptotic behavior of the control parameter guarantees convergence both for the Schroedinger dynamics and the stochastic dynamics in spite of the essential difference of these two types of dynamics. Also described are the prescriptions to reduce errors in the final approximate solution obtained after a long but finite dynamical evolution of quantum annealing. It is shown there that we can reduce errors significantly by an ingenious choice of annealing schedule (time dependence of the control parameter) without compromising computational complexity qualitatively. A review is given on the derivation of the convergence condition for classical simulated annealing from the view point of quantum adiabaticity using a classical-quantum mapping.

id: 0806.1882
title: Experimental observation of an entire family of four-photon entangled states
authors: Witlef Wieczorek, Christian Schmid, Nikolai Kiesel, Reinhold Pohlner, Otfried G¨¹hne, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 010503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1882
abstract: A single linear optical set-up is used to observe an entire family of four-photon entangled states. This approach breaks with the inflexibility of present linear-optical set-ups usually designed for the observation of a particular multi-partite entangled state only. The family includes several prominent entangled states that are known to be highly relevant for quantum information applications.

id: 0806.1892
title: Quantum Chernoff bound as a measure of nonclassicality for one-mode Gaussian states
authors: Madalina Boca, Iulia Ghiu, Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: published version
journal: Physical Review A 79, 014302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1892
abstract: We evaluate a Gaussian distance-type degree of nonclassicality for a single-mode Gaussian state of the quantum radiation field by use of the recently discovered quantum Chernoff bound. The general properties of the quantum Chernoff overlap and its relation to the Uhlmann fidelity are interestingly illustrated by our approach.

id: 0806.1939
title: Excited-state spectroscopy using single-spin manipulation in diamond
authors: G. D. Fuchs, V. V. Dobrovitski, R. Hanson, A. Batra, C. D. Weis, T. Schenkel, D. D. Awschalom
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1939
abstract: We use single-spin resonant spectroscopy to study the spin structure in the orbital excited-state of a diamond nitrogen-vacancy center at room temperature. We find that the excited state spin levels have a zero-field splitting that is approximately half of the value of the ground state levels, a g-factor similar to the ground state value, and a hyperfine splitting ~20x larger than in the ground state. In addition, the width of the resonances reflects the electronic lifetime in the excited state. We also show that the spin-splitting can significantly differ between NV centers, likely due to the effects of local strain, which provides a pathway to control over the spin Hamiltonian and may be useful for quantum information processing.

id: 0806.1947
title: On a heuristic point of view related to quantum nonequilibrium statistical mechanics
authors: Norton G. de Almeida
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1947
abstract: In this paper I propose a new way for counting the microstates of a system out of equilibrium. As, according to quantum mechanics, things happen as if a given particle can be found in more than one state at once, I extend this concept to propose the coherent access by a particle to the available states of a system. By coherent access I mean the possibility for the particle to act as if it is populating more than one microstate at once. This hypothesis has experimental implications, since the thermodynamical probability and, as a consequence, the Bose-Einstein distribution as well as the argument of the Boltzmann factor is modified.

id: 0806.1961
title: Broadband frequency mode entanglement in waveguided PDC
authors: Andreas Eckstein, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures; added 3 references; shortened and clarified in places
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 33, Issue 16, 2008, pp. 1825-1827
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1961
abstract: We report the observation of beatings of the coincidence event rate in a Hong-Ou-Mandel interference (HOMI) between signal and idler photons from a parametric downconversion (PDC) process inside a multi-mode KTP waveguide. As explanation we introduce bi-photonic states entangled in their broadband frequency modes generated by waveguide mode triples and propose a suitable entanglement detection scheme.

id: 0806.1972
title: Universal computation by quantum walk
authors: Andrew M. Childs
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 180501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1972
abstract: In some of the earliest work on quantum mechanical computers, Feynman showed how to implement universal quantum computation by the dynamics of a time-independent Hamiltonian. I show that this remains possible even if the Hamiltonian is restricted to be a sparse matrix with all entries equal to 0 or 1, i.e., the adjacency matrix of a low-degree graph. Thus quantum walk can be regarded as a universal computational primitive, with any desired quantum computation encoded entirely in some underlying graph. The main idea of the construction is to implement quantum gates by scattering processes.

id: 0806.2000
title: Security proof of differential phase shift quantum key distribution in the noiseless case
authors: Yi-Bo Zhao, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Published version, 13 pages, 4 figures, minor changes, references added, acknowledgement added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042330 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2000
abstract: Differential phase shift quantum key distribution systems have a high potential for achieving high speed key generation. However, its unconditional security proof is still missing, even though it has been proposed for many years. Here, we prove its security against collective attacks with a weak coherent light source in the noiseless case (i.e. no bit error). The only assumptions are that quantum theory is correct, the devices are perfect and trusted and the key size is infinite. Our proof works on threshold detectors. We compute the lower bound of the secret key generation rate using the information-theoretical security proof method. Our final result shows that the lower bound of the secret key generation rate per pulse is linearly proportional to the channel transmission probability if Bob's detection counts obey the binomial distribution.

id: 0806.2017
title: Entanglement in a class of multiqubit mixed states without multipartite tangles
authors: Yan-Kui Bai, Ming-Yong Ye, Z. D. Wang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, version 2
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062325 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2017
abstract: Based on quantum complementary relations (QCRs) and a purification scenario, we analyze a class of N-qubit mixed states that are entangled but do not have two-, and genuine three-, four-, ..., N-qubit entanglements. It is shown that entanglement (one-tangle or negativity) in these mixed states is closely related to the QCR entanglement of their purified states. In particular, it is elaborated that when the mixed state does not have multipartite tangles (two- and higher tangles), its entanglement is actually a kind of genuine multipartite QCR entanglement between the system and its environment.

id: 0806.2019
title: Discrete PT-symmetric models of scattering
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 17 pp
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 292002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2019
abstract: One-dimensional scattering mediated by non-Hermitian Hamiltonians is studied. A schematic set of models is used which simulate two point interactions at a variable strength and distance. The feasibility of the exact construction of the amplitudes is achieved via the discretization of the coordinate. By direct construction it is shown that in all our models the probability is conserved. This feature is tentatively attributed to the space- and time-reflection symmetry (a.k.a. PT-symmetry) of our specific Hamiltonians.

id: 0806.2020
title: Extensions of the auxiliary field method to solve Schr?dinger equations
authors: Bernard Silvestre-Brac, Claude Semay, Fabien Buisseret
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 425301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2020
abstract: It has recently been shown that the auxiliary field method is an interesting tool to compute approximate analytical solutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. This technique can generate the spectrum associated with an arbitrary potential $V(r)$ starting from the analytically known spectrum of a particular potential $P(r)$. In the present work, general important properties of the auxiliary field method are proved, such as scaling laws and independence of the results on the choice of $P(r)$. The method is extended in order to find accurate analytical energy formulae for radial potentials of the form $a P(r)+V(r)$, and several explicit examples are studied. Connections existing between the perturbation theory and the auxiliary field method are also discussed.

id: 0806.2037
title: Leggett inequalities and the completeness of quantum mechanics
authors: Ramon Lapiedra, Miguel Socolovsky
comments: 12 pages, article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2037
abstract: We consider the so called Legget inequalities which are deduced from the assumption of general (local or non-local) realism plus the arrow of time preservation. Then, instead of assuming cryto-nonlocal hidden variables, we assume any (local or non-local) realism compatible with the joint and non-joint expected values dictated by quantum mwechaanics. Hence, we prove that this double assumption is not consistent, since the corresponding general Leggett inequalities are violated by quantum mechanics. Thus, realism plus arrow of time preservation and quntum mechanics are not compatible. In other words, quantum mechanics cannot be completed with any (local or non-local) hidden variables, provide we assume the common sense of the arrow of time. The result would deserve to be experimentally tested and we discuss why it is not invalidated by hidden variable theories as the one from Bohm.

id: 0806.2045
title: Robust entanglement of a micromechanical resonator with output optical fields
authors: C. Genes, A. Mari, P. Tombesi, D. Vitali
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032316 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2045
abstract: We perform an analysis of the optomechanical entanglement between the experimentally detectable output field of an optical cavity and a vibrating cavity end-mirror. We show that by a proper choice of the readout (mainly by a proper choice of detection bandwidth) one can not only detect the already predicted intracavity entanglement but also optimize and increase it. This entanglement is explained as being generated by a scattering process owing to which strong quantum correlations between the mirror and the optical Stokes sideband are created. All-optical entanglement between scattered sidebands is also predicted and it is shown that the mechanical resonator and the two sideband modes form a fully tripartite-entangled system capable of providing practicable and robust solutions for continuous variable quantum communication protocols.

id: 0806.2048
title: A Novel Non perturbative Self-consistent and General Approximation Method in Quantum Theory
authors: Nabaghan Santi
comments: Ph.D thesis submitted to Sambalpur University, September 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2048
abstract: A new method of approximation scheme with potential application to a general interacting quantum system is presented. The method is non-perturbative, self- consistent, systematically improvable and uniformly applicable for arbitrary strength of interaction. It thus overcomes the various limitations of the exsting methods such as the perturbation theory, the variational method, the WKBJ method and other approximation schemes. The current method has been successfully applied to a variety of interacting systems including the anharmonic/ double-well oscillators (with quartic-, sextic- and octic couplings) and the scalar field theory with quartic-coupling in the symmetric phase. The method yields important insight in to the structure and stability of the interacting-vacuum of the theory. The results are in good agreement with the exact predictions of supersymmetry where ever applicable. Possible further applications in the areas of quantum statistics, finite temperature field theory, condensed matter physics etc are also discussed.

id: 0806.2049
title: Vibrational spectroscopy of H2+: hyperfine structure of two-photon transitions
authors: Jean-Philippe Karr, Franck Bielsa, Albane Douillet, Jofre Pedregosa Gutierrez, Vladimir Korobov, Laurent Hilico
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 77, 6 (2008) 063410
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2049
abstract: We present the computation of two-photon transition spectra between ro-vibrational states of the H2+ molecular ion, including the effects of hyperfine structure and excitation polarization. The reduced two-photon matrix elements are obtained by means of a variational method. We discuss the implications of our results for high-resolution spectroscopy of H2+.

id: 0806.2052
title: Vibrational spectroscopy of H2+: precise evaluation of the Zeeman effect
authors: Jean-Philippe Karr, Vladimir Korobov, Laurent Hilico
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 77, 6 (2008) 062507
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2052
abstract: We present an accurate computation of the g-factors of the hyperfine states of the hydrogen molecular ion H2+. The results are in good agreement with previous experiments, and can be tested further by rf spectroscopy. Their implication for high-precision two-photon vibrational spectroscopy of H2+ is also discussed. It is found that the most intense hyperfine components of two-photon lines benefit from a very small Zeeman splitting.

id: 0806.2067
title: Casimir forces between nano-structured particles
authors: C E Rom¨¢n-Vel¨¢zquez, Bo E Sernelius
comments: 7 pages with 4 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2067
abstract: We develop a computational study of Casimir forces between three dimensional (3D) finite objects with an internal granular structure. The objects in the model consist of a finite arrangement of nanometer sized spherical particles having a dipolar interaction. In this model system one can both study the basic properties of the Casimir forces, and the effects from changing the parameters of the nano-structured materials that constitute the particles; this last type of study leads to a form of control of the Casimir force and an insight into possible technological applications. We present examples of both kinds of study.

id: 0806.2093
title: Detuning effects in the vertical cold-atom micromaser
authors: John Martin, Thierry Bastin
comments: 11 pages
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 48, 301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2093
abstract: The quantum theory of the cold atom micromaser including the effects of gravity is established in the general case where the cavity mode and the atomic transition frequencies are detuned. We show that atoms which classically would not reach the interaction region are able to emit a photon inside the cavity. The system turns out to be extremely sensitive to the detuning and in particular to its sign. A method to solve the equations of motion for non resonant atom-field interaction and arbitrary cavity modes is presented.

id: 0806.2101
title: Locally Decodable Quantum Codes
authors: Jop Bri?t, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 15 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2101
abstract: We study a quantum analogue of locally decodable error-correcting codes. A q-query locally decodable quantum code encodes n classical bits in an m-qubit state, in such a way that each of the encoded bits can be recovered with high probability by a measurement on at most q qubits of the quantum code, even if a constant fraction of its qubits have been corrupted adversarially. We show that such a quantum code can be transformed into a classical q-query locally decodable code of the same length that can be decoded well on average (albeit with smaller success probability and noise-tolerance). This shows, roughly speaking, that q-query quantum codes are not significantly better than q-query classical codes, at least for constant or small q.

id: 0806.2102
title: Combating entanglement sudden death with non-local quantum-error correction
authors: Isabel Sainz, Gunnar Bjork
comments: To be published in Int. J. Quantum Information. In the proceedings of Quantum 2008: IV workshop ad memoriam of Carlo Novero
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2102
abstract: We study the possibility of preventing finite-time disentanglement caused by dissipation by making use of "non-local quantum error correction. This is made in comparison of previous results, where was shown that "local" quantum error correction can delay disentanglement, but can also cause entanglement sudden death when is not originally present.

id: 0806.2105
title: A trajectory-based understanding of quantum interference
authors: A. S. Sanz, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 27 pages, 12 figures (shortened version)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 41, 435303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2105
abstract: Interference is one of the most fundamental features which characterizes quantum systems. Here we provide an exhaustive analysis of the interfere dynamics associated with wave-packet superpositions from both the standard quantum-mechanical perspective and the Bohmian one. From this analysis, clear and insightful pictures of the physics involved in this kind of processes are obtained, which are of general validity (i.e., regardless of the type of wave packets considered) in the understanding of more complex cases where interference is crucial (e.g., scattering problems, slit diffraction, quantum control scenarios or, even, multipartite interactions). In particular, we show how problems involving wave-packet interference can be mapped onto problems of wave packets scattered off potential barriers.

id: 0806.2160
title: The Stability of Quantum Concatenated Code Hamiltonians
authors: D. Bacon
comments: 18 pages, small corrections and clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2160
abstract: Protecting quantum information from the detrimental effects of decoherence and lack of precise quantum control is a central challenge that must be overcome if a large robust quantum computer is to be constructed. The traditional approach to achieving this is via active quantum error correction using fault-tolerant techniques. An alternative to this approach is to engineer strongly interacting many-body quantum systems that enact the quantum error correction via the natural dynamics of these systems. Here we present a method for achieving this based on the concept of concatenated quantum error correcting codes. We define a class of Hamiltonians whose ground states are concatenated quantum codes and whose energy landscape naturally causes quantum error correction. We analyze these Hamiltonians for robustness and suggest methods for implementing these highly unnatural Hamiltonians.

id: 0806.2169
title: General Solution of the Quantum Damped Harmonic Oscillator II : Some Examples
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: Latex ; 8 pages ; no figure
journal: Int. J. Geom. Meth. Mod. Phys. 6(2009) 225-231
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2169
abstract: In the preceding paper (arXiv : 0710.2724 [quant-ph]) we have constructed the general solution for the master equation of quantum damped harmonic oscillator, which is given by the complicated infinite series in the operator algebra level. In this paper we give the explicit and compact forms to solutions (density operators) for some initial values. In particular, the compact one for the initial value based on a coherent state is given, which has not been given as far as we know. Moreover, some related problems are presented.

id: 0806.2171
title: Quantavo: a Maple Toolbox for Linear Quantum Optics
authors: Alvaro Feito
comments: 38 pages, 4 figures, software for quantum optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2171
abstract: This manual describes the basic objectives, functionalities and uses of the toolbox for Maple (Maplesoft^TM) called Quantavo. It is intended to facilitate calculations both symbolically and numerically related to Quantum Optics. In particular the evolution, measurement and entanglement properties of quantum states in the Fock basis can be simulated with it. It is provided to the community as a free open source module.

id: 0806.2175
title: Quantum Lithography Based on Multiple Light Exposures for Arbitrary Sub-Diffraction-Limit Pattern Generation
authors: Hee Su Park, Sun Kyung Lee
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures; Added a figure and references, revised the Abstract and the text to better emphasize the major points
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2175
abstract: We propose a super-resolution quantum lithography scheme based on coherent population trapping in lambda-type atoms coupled to temporally-cascaded standing-wave driving fields. By realizing effective multiplication of optical intensity profiles on an atomic state density distribution, the scheme enables an arbitrarily high degree of resolution enhancement without modifying the atomic level structure of the photographic medium or the light source configuration. It is also shown that the visibility of the super-resolution patterns is preserved under a significant atomic state decoherence rate.

id: 0806.2188
title: Message passing in fault tolerant quantum error correction
authors: Z. W. E. Evans, A. M. Stephens
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: PRA 78, 062317 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2188
abstract: Inspired by Knill's scheme for message passing error detection, here we develop a scheme for message passing error correction for the nine-qubit Bacon-Shor code. We show that for two levels of concatenated error correction, where classical information obtained at the first level is used to help interpret the syndrome at the second level, our scheme will correct all cases with four physical errors. This results in a reduction of the logical failure rate relative to conventional error correction by a factor proportional to the reciprocal of the physical error rate.

id: 0806.2211
title: Macroscopic quantum electrodynamics and duality
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 4 pages, minor corrections
journal: Physical Review Letters 102 (14) 140404 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2211
abstract: We discuss under what conditions the duality between electric and magnetic fields is a valid symmetry of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics. It is shown that Maxwell's equations in the absence of free charges satisfy duality invariance on an operator level, whereas this is not true for Lorentz forces and atom--field couplings in general. We prove that derived quantities like Casimir forces, local-field corrected decay rates as well as van-der-Waals potentials are invariant with respect to a global exchange of electric and magnetic quantities. This exact symmetry can be used to deduce the physics of new configurations on the basis of already established ones.

id: 0806.2218
title: Schroedinger Cat: Entanglement test in a Micro-Macroscopic system
authors: Francesco De Martini, Fabio Sciarrino, Chiara Vitelli
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 253601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2218
abstract: A Macro-state consisting of N= 3.5 x 10^4 photons in a quantum superposition and entangled with a far apart single-photon state (Micro-state) is generated. Precisely, an entangled photon pair is created by a nonlinear optical process, then one photon of the pair is injected into an optical parametric amplifier (OPA) operating for any input polarization state, i.e. into a phase-covariant cloning machine. Such transformation establishes a connection between the single photon and the multi particle fields. We then demonstrate the non-separability of the bipartite system by adopting a local filtering technique within a positive operator valued measurement.

id: 0806.2244
title: Spin correlations in elastic $e^{+}e^{-}$ scattering in QED
authors: Nattapong Yongram
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 47, 71-74 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2244
abstract: Spin correlations are carefully investigated in elastic $e^{+}e^{-}$ scattering in QED, for initially \textit{polarized} as well as \textit{unpolarized} particles, with emphasis placed on energy or speed of the underlying particles involved in the process. An explicit expression is derived for the corresponding transition probabilities in closed form to the leading order. These expressions are unlike the ones obtained from simply combining spins of the relevant particles which are of kinematic nature. It is remarkable that these explicit results obtained from quantum field theory show a clear violation of Bell's inequality at \textit{all} energies in support of quantum theory in the relativistic regime. We hope that our explicit expression obtained will lead to experiments in the manner described in the bulk of this paper by monitoring speed.

id: 0806.2253
title: Quantum Chessboards in the Deuterium Molecular Ion
authors: C. R. Calvert, T. Birkeland, R. B. King, I. D. Williams, J. F. McCann
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2253
abstract: We present a new algorithm for vibrational control in deuterium molecules that is feasible with current experimental technology. A pump mechanism is used to create a coherent superposition of the D2+ vibrations. A short, intense infrared control pulse is applied after a chosen delay time to create selective interferences. A `chessboard' pattern of states can be realized in which a set of even- or odd-numbered vibrational states can be selectively annihilated or enhanced. A technique is proposed for experimental realization and observation of this effect using 5 fs pulses of 790 nm radiation, with intermediate intensity (5e13 W/cm2)

id: 0806.2443
title: Detrimental Decoherence
authors: Gil Kalai
comments: A revision and an extension of the formal part of quant-ph/0607021. The paper contains new conjectures on general quantum systems and elaborate on the connection with quantum error-correction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2443
abstract: We propose and discuss two conjectures on the nature of information leaks (decoherence) for quantum computers. These conjectures, if (or when) they hold, are damaging for quantum error-correction as required by fault-tolerant quantum computation. The first conjecture asserts that information leaks for a pair of substantially entangled qubits are themselves substantially positively correlated. The second conjecture asserts that in a noisy quantum computer with highly entangled qubits there will be a strong effect of error synchronization. We present more general conjectures for arbitrary noisy quantum systems.

id: 0806.2447
title: Measurements and confluence in quantum lambda calculi with explicit qubits
authors: Alejandro D¨ªaz-Caro, Pablo Arrighi, Manuel Gadella, Jonathan Grattage
comments: 15 pages. Minor changes: final proceedings version. To appear ENTCS: Proceedings of QPL V - DCV IV, Reykjavik, Iceland, 2008
journal: Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science, 270(1):59-74, 2011. Proceedings of the Joint 5th International Workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic and 4th Workshop on Developments in Computational Models (QPL/DCM 2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2447
abstract: This paper demonstrates how to add a measurement operator to quantum lambda-calculi. A proof of the consistency of the semantics is given through a proof of confluence presented in a sufficiently general way to allow this technique to be used for other languages. The method described here may be applied to probabilistic rewrite systems in general, and to add measurement to more complex languages such as QML or Lineal, which is the subject of further research.

id: 0806.2450
title: Four-wave mixing enhanced white-light cavity
authors: R. Fleischhaker, J. Evers
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys Rev. A 78, 051802(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2450
abstract: We discuss in-medium propagation dynamics in a white light cavity that leads to an enhancement of the cavity's bandwidth without reducing its maximum intensity buildup. We analyze the spatiotemporal dynamics of our system with a full simulation of the field propagation in a regime that leads to strong absorption of the control fields. We find that an additional coherent field is generated within the medium via four-wave mixing. This self-generated field leads to a backaction of the medium onto the probe field. Counter intuitively, this pronounced in-medium dynamics throughout the propagation leads to an additional enhancement of the cavity bandwidth.

id: 0806.2456
title: Entanglement and the Speed of Evolution in Mixed States
authors: Judy Kupferman, Benni Reznik
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042306 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2456
abstract: Entanglement speeds up evolution of a pure bipartite spin state, in line with the time energy uncertainty. However if the state is mixed this is not necessarily the case. We provide a counter example and point to other factors affecting evolution in mixed states, including classical correlations and entropy.

id: 0806.2476
title: Finite-Temperature Scaling of Magnetic Susceptibility and Geometric Phase in the XY Spin Chain
authors: H. T. Quan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, get accepted for publication by J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2476
abstract: We study the magnetic susceptibility of 1D quantum XY model, and show that when the temperature approaches zero, the magnetic susceptibility exhibits the finite-temperature scaling behavior. This scaling behavior of the magnetic susceptibility in 1D quantum XY model, due to the quantum-classical mapping, can be easily experimentally tested. Furthermore, the universality in the critical properties of the magnetic susceptibility in quantum XY model is verified. Our study also reveals the close relation between the magnetic susceptibility and the geometric phase in some spin systems, where the quantum phase transitions are driven by an external magnetic field.

id: 0806.2516
title: Dynamics of Bloch vectors and the channel capacity of a non identical charged qubit pair
authors: Nasser Metwally, Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 373, Issue 10, 2 March 2009, Pages 927-933
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2516
abstract: We have considered a system of two superconducting charge qubits capacitively coupled to a microwave resonator. The dynamics of the Bloch vectors are investigated for different regimes. By means of the Bloch vectors and cross dyadic we quantify the degree of entanglement contained in the generated entangled state. We consider different values of the system parameters to discuss the dynamics of the channel capacity between the qubits. We show that there is an important role played by initial state settings, coupling constant and the mean photon number on generating entangled state with high degree of entanglement and high capacity.

id: 0806.2537
title: Dynamical creation of entanglement versus disentanglement in a system of three - level atoms with vacuum - induced coherences
authors: L. Derkacz, L. Jakobczyk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2537
abstract: The dynamics of entanglement between three - level atoms coupled to the common vacuum is investigated. We show that the collective effects such as collective damping, dipole - dipole interaction and the cross coupling between orthogonal dipoles, play a crucial role in the process of creation of entanglement. In particular, the additional cross coupling enhances the production of entanglement. For the specific initial states we find that the effect of delayed sudden birth of entanglement, recently invented by Ficek and Tanas [Phys. Rev. A 77, o54301(2008)] in the case of two - level atoms, can also be observed in the system. When the initial state is entangled, the process of spontaneous emission causes destruction of correlation and its disentanglement. We show that the robustness of initial enatnglement against the noise can be changed by local operations performed on the state.

id: 0806.2544
title: Momentum-space analysis of multipartite entanglement at quantum phase transitions
authors: Alberto Anfossi, Paolo Giorda, Arianna Montorsi
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 144519 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2544
abstract: We investigate entanglement properties at quantum phase transitions of an integrable extended Hubbard model in the momentum space representation. Two elementary subsystems are recognized: the single mode of an electron, and the pair of modes (electrons coupled through the eta-pairing mechanism). We first detect the two/multi-partite nature of each quantum phase transition by a comparative study of the singularities of Von Neumann entropy and quantum mutual information. We establish the existing relations between the correlations in the momentum representation and those exhibited in the complementary picture: the direct lattice representation. The presence of multipartite entanglement is then investigated in detail through the Q-measure, namely a generalization of the Meyer-Wallach measure of entanglement. Such a measure becomes increasingly sensitive to correlations of a multipartite nature increasing the size of the reduced density matrix. In momentum space, we succeed in obtaining the latter for our system at arbitrary size and we relate its behaviour to the nature of the various QPTs.

id: 0806.2572
title: Testing single-photon wave packets by Hong-Ou-Mandel interference
authors: Piotr Kolenderski, Konrad Banaszek
comments: Submitted to IEEE conference proceedings: National Conference on Telecommunication Technologies and Malaysia Conference on Photonics 2008
journal: Proceedings of IEEE 2008 6th National Conference on Telecommunication Technologies and IEEE 2008 2nd Malaysia Conference on Photonics, NCTT-MCP 2008, art. no. 4814246, pp. 94-97
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2572
abstract: We discuss characterization of single-photon wave packets by measuring Hong-Ou-Mandel interference with a weak coherent pulse. A complete multimode calculation is presented and effects of multiphoton terms in the coherent field as well as the impact of source and detection imperfections are discussed.

id: 0806.2596
title: Theoretical method for the generation of a dark two-mode squeezed state of a trapped ion
authors: T. Werlang, C. J. Villas-Boas
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 065801 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2596
abstract: Here we show how to generate a dark two-mode squeezed state of a trapped ion, employing a three-level ion in a V configuration with a strong decay of the excited states. The degree of squeezing can be manipulated by choosing the intensity of the driving fields. Our scheme is robust against the usual dissipation mechanism and could be implemented with present-day technology. The validity of the approximations employed in this work was tested by numerical calculations, which agreed completely with the analytical solutions.

id: 0806.2598
title: Observable estimation of entanglement for arbitrary finite-dimensional mixed states
authors: Cheng-Jie Zhang, Yan-Xiao Gong, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042308 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2598
abstract: We present observable upper bounds of squared concurrence, which are the dual inequalities of the observable lower bounds introduced in [F. Mintert and A. Buchleitner, Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140505 (2007)] and [L. Aolita, A. Buchleitner and F. Mintert, Phys. Rev. A 78, 022308 (2008)]. These bounds can be used to estimate entanglement for arbitrary experimental unknown finite-dimensional states by few experimental measurements on a twofold copy $\rho\otimes\rho$ of the mixed states. Furthermore, the degree of mixing for a mixed state and some properties of the linear entropy also have certain relations with its upper and lower bounds of squared concurrence.

id: 0806.2600
title: Fast Excitation and Photon Emission of a Single-Atom-Cavity System
authors: J. Bochmann, M. Muecke, G. Langfahl-Klabes, C. Erbel, B. Weber, H. P. Specht, D. L. Moehring, G. Rempe
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 223601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2600
abstract: We report on the fast excitation of a single atom coupled to an optical cavity using laser pulses that are much shorter than all other relevant processes. The cavity frequency constitutes a control parameter that allows the creation of single photons in a superposition of two tunable frequencies. Each photon emitted from the cavity thus exhibits a pronounced amplitude modulation determined by the oscillatory energy exchange between the atom and the cavity. Our technique constitutes a versatile tool for future quantum networking experiments.

id: 0806.2620
title: Dispersion interaction between two atoms in electromagnetic fields
authors: Yury Sherkunov
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2620
abstract: We present a new theory of atom-atom dispersion interaction in the presence of electromagnetic fields. The theory takes into account the absorption and emission of virtual photons leading to the resonance contributions to the interaction potential in the case of non-equilibrium dynamics.

id: 0806.2637
title: Generation of decoherence-free displaced squeezed states of radiation fields and a squeezed reservoir for atoms in cavity QED
authors: T. Werlang, R. Guzman, F. O. Prado, C. J. Villas-Boas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2637
abstract: We present a way to engineer an effective anti-Jaynes-Cumming and a Jaynes-Cumming interaction between an atomic system and a single cavity mode and show how to employ it in reservoir engineering processes. To construct the effective Hamiltonian, we analyse considered the interaction of an atomic system in a \{Lambda} configuration, driven by classical fields, with a single cavity mode. With this interaction, we firstly show how to generate a decoherence-free displaced squeezed state for the cavity field. In our scheme, an atomic beam works as a reservoir for the radiation field trapped inside the cavity, as employed recently by S. Pielawa et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 240401 (2007)] to generate an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entangled radiation state in high-Q resonators. In our scheme, all the atoms have to be prepared in the ground state and, as in the cited article, neither atomic detection nor precise interaction times between the atoms and the cavity mode are required. From this same interaction, we can also generate an ideal squeezed reservoir for atomic systems. For this purpose we have to assume, besides the engineered atom-field interaction, a strong decay of the cavity field (i.e., the cavity decay must be much stronger than the effective atom-field coupling). With this scheme, some interesting effects in the dynamics of an atom in a squeezed reservoir could be tested.

id: 0806.2644
title: Second-order shaped pulses for solid-state quantum computation
authors: Leonid P. Pryadko, Pinaki Sengupta
comments: 16 pages, 29 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2644
abstract: We present the constructon and detailed analysis of highly-optimized self-refocusing pulse shapes for several rotation angles. We characterize the constructed pulses by the coefficients appearing in the Magnus expansion up to second order. This allows a semi-analytical analysis of the performance of the constructed shapes in sequences and composite pulses by computing the corresponding leading-order error operators. Higher orders can be analyzed with the numerical technique suggested by us previously. We illustrate the technique by analysing several composite pulses designed to protect against pulse amplitude errors, and on decoupling sequences for potentially long chains of qubits with on-site and nearest-neighbor couplings.

id: 0806.2651
title: Graphical description of Pauli measurements on stabilizer states
authors: Matthew B. Elliott, Bryan Eastin, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 025301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2651
abstract: We use a graphical representation of stabilizer states to describe, simply and efficiently, the effect of measurements of Pauli products on stabilizer states. This work complements our earlier work [Phys. Rev. A 77, 042307 (2008)], which described in graphical terms the action of Clifford operations on stabilizer states.

id: 0806.2656
title: Matched Slow Pulses Using Double Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: Andrew MacRae, Geoff Campbell, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 3 pages, 5 figures. To be published Optics Letters Version 2: Expanded on phase-locking of lasers at different frequencies. Addressed the potential for optical switching. Changed figure 2 to include frequencies. Removed extraneous states. Added intuitive explanation of the system's dynamics. Added references [5] and [10]
journal: Optics Letters 33, 2659 - 2661 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2656
abstract: We implement double electromagnetically-induced transparency (double EIT) in rubidium vapor, using a tripod-shaped energy level scheme consisting of hyperfine and magnetic sublevels of the 5S1/2 to 5P1/2 transition. We show experimentally that through the use of double EIT one can control the contrast of transparency windows as well as group velocities of the two signal fields. In particular, the group velocities can be equalized, which holds promise to greatly enhance nonlinear optical interaction between these fields.

id: 0806.2684
title: Unconditional Security of Single-Photon Differential Phase Shift Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Kai Wen, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; shorten the length, improve clarity, and correct typos; accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 170503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2684
abstract: In this Letter, we prove the unconditional security of single-photon differential phase shift quantum key distribution (DPS-QKD) protocol, based on the conversion to an equivalent entanglement-based protocol. We estimate the upper bound of the phase error rate from the bit error rate, and show that DPS-QKD can generate unconditionally secure key when the bit error rate is not greater than 4.12%. This proof is the first step to the unconditional security proof of coherent state DPS-QKD.

id: 0806.2691
title: Strategies for triple-donor devices fabricated by ion implantation
authors: Jessica A. Van Donkelaar, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg, David N. Jamieson
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2691
abstract: Triple donor devices have the potential to exhibit adiabatic tunneling via the CTAP (Coherent Tunneling Adiabatic Passage) protocol which is a candidate transport mechanism for scalable quantum computing. We examine theoretically the statistics of dopant placement using counted ion implantation by employing an analytical treatment of CTAP transport properties under hydrogenic assumptions. We determine theoretical device yields for proof of concept devices for different implant energies. In particular, we determine a significant theoretical device yield (~80%) for 14keV phosphorus in silicon with nominal 20nm spacing.

id: 0806.2699
title: Optimal positive-operator-valued measures for unambiguous state discrimination
authors: Boris F. Samsonov
comments: Thanks to the referee the paper is essentially enlarged and corrected. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042312 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2699
abstract: Optimization of the mean efficiency for unambiguous (or error free)discrimination among $N$ given linearly independent nonorthogonal states should be realized in a way to keep the probabilistic quantum mechanical interpretation. This imposes a condition on a certain matrix to be positive semidefinite. We reformulated this condition in such a way that the conditioned optimization problem for the mean efficiency was reduced to finding an unconditioned maximum of a function defined on a unit $N$-sphere for equiprobable states and on an $N$-ellipsoid if the states are given with different probabilities. We established that for equiprobable states a point on the sphere with equal values of Cartesian coordinates, which we call symmetric point, plays a special role. Sufficient conditions for a vector set are formulated for which the mean efficiency for equiprobable states takes its maximal value at the symmetric point. This set, in particular, includes previously studied symmetric states. A subset of symmetric states, for which the optimal measurement corresponds to a POVM requiring a one-dimensional ancilla space is constructed. We presented our constructions of a POVM suitable for the ancilla space dimension varying from 1 till $N$ and the Neumark's extension differing from the existing schemes by the property that it is straightforwardly applicable to the case when it is desirable to present the whole space system + ancilla as the tensor product of a two-dimensional ancilla space and the $N$-dimensional system space.

id: 0806.2735
title: An overview of QML with a concrete implementation in Haskell
authors: Jonathan Grattage
comments: 9 pages, final conference version (Quantum Physics and Logic 2008)
journal: ENTCS: Proceedings of QPL V - DCV IV, 157-165, Reykjavik, Iceland, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Programming Languages (cs.PL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2735
abstract: This paper gives an introduction to and overview of the functional quantum programming language QML. The syntax of this language is defined and explained, along with a new QML definition of the quantum teleport algorithm. The categorical operational semantics of QML is also briefly introduced, in the form of annotated quantum circuits. This definition leads to a denotational semantics, given in terms of superoperators. Finally, an implementation in Haskell of the semantics for QML is presented as a compiler. The compiler takes QML programs as input, which are parsed into a Haskell datatype. The output from the compiler is either a quantum circuit (operational), an isometry (pure denotational) or a superoperator (impure denotational). Orthogonality judgements and problems with coproducts in QML are also discussed.

id: 0806.2746
title: Selective phase rotation quantum gate entangler
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, Vol. 16, No. 4 (2009) 407-412
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2746
abstract: We construct a quantum gate entangler based on selective phase rotation transform. In particular, we established a relation between quantum integral transform and quantum gates entangler in terms of universal controlled gates for multi-qubit states. Our construction is also related to the geometrical structure of multipartite quantum systems.

id: 0806.2749
title: A Coherent View on Entropy
authors: Won-Young Hwang
comments: Published version, 4 pages
journal: Natural Science, 6, 540 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2749
abstract: Informational entropy is often identified as physical entropy. This is surprising because the two quantities are differently defined and furthermore the former is a subjective quantity while the latter is an objective one. We describe the problems and then present a possible view that reconciles the two entropies. Informational entropy of a system is interpreted as physical entropy of a whole composed of both the system and "memories" containing information about the system.

id: 0806.2769
title: Generalized Ardehali-Bell inequalities for graph states
authors: Otfried G¨¹hne, Adan Cabello
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77 (2008) 032108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2769
abstract: We derive Bell inequalities for graph states by generalizing the approach proposed by Ardehali [Phys. Rev. A 46, 5375 (1992)] for Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states. Using this method, we demonstrate that Bell inequalities with nonstabilizer observables are often superior to the optimal GHZ-Mermin-type (or stabilizer-type) Bell inequalities.

id: 0806.2820
title: Unital Quantum Channels - Convex Structure and Revivals of Birkhoff's Theorem
authors: Christian B. Mendl, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 31 pages
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 289, 1057-1096 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2820
abstract: The set of doubly-stochastic quantum channels and its subset of mixtures of unitaries are investigated. We provide a detailed analysis of their structure together with computable criteria for the separation of the two sets. When applied to O(d)-covariant channels this leads to a complete characterization and reveals a remarkable feature: instances of channels which are not in the convex hull of unitaries can return to it when either taking finitely many copies of them or supplementing with a completely depolarizing channel. In these scenarios this implies that a channel whose noise initially resists any environment-assisted attempt of correction can become perfectly correctable.

id: 0806.2842
title: A single-crystal source of path-polarization entangled photons at non-degenerate wavelengths
authors: S. Sauge, M. Swillo, M. Tengner, A. Karlsson
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, published in Optics Express (2008)
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 16 (2008) pp. 9701-9707
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2842
abstract: We demonstrate a bright, narrowband, compact, quasi-phase-matched single-crystal source generating path-polarization-entangled photon pairs at 810 nm and 1550 nm at a maximum rate of 3 Mcounts/(s THz mW) after coupling to single-mode fiber, and with two-photon interference visibility above 90%. While the source can already be used to implement quantum communication protocols such as quantum key distribution, this work is also instrumental for narrowband applications such as entanglement transfer from photonic to atomic qubits, or entanglement of photons from independent sources.

id: 0806.2870
title: On a possible quantum contribution to the red shift
authors: K. Urbanowski
comments: 13 pages, talk prepared for the Conference "Problems of Practical Cosmology"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2870
abstract: We consider an effect generated by the nonexponential behavior of the survival amplitude of an unstable state in the long time region: In 1957 Khalfin proved that this amplitude tends to zero as $t$ goes to the infinity more slowly than any exponential function of $t$. This effect can be described in terms of time-dependent decay rate $\gamma(t)$ and then the Khalfin result means that this $\gamma(t)$ is not a constant for long times but that it tends to zero as $t$ goes to the infinity. It appears that a similar conclusion can be drawn for the energy of the unstable state for a large class of models of unstable particles: This energy should be much smaller for suitably long times $t$ than the energy of this state for $t$ of the order of the lifetime of the considered state. Within a given model we show that the energy corrections in the long ($t \to \infty$) and relatively short (lifetime of the state) time regions, are different. It is shown that these corrections decrease to ${\cal E} = {\cal E}_{min} < {\cal E}_{\phi}$ as $t \to \infty$, where ${\cal E}_{\phi}$ is the energy of the system in the state $|\phi>$ measured at times $t \sim \tau_{\phi}= \frac{\hbar}{\gamma}$. This is a purely quantum mechanical effect. It is hypothesized that there is a possibility to detect this effect by analyzing the spectra of distant astrophysical objects. The above property of unstable states may influence the measured values of astrophysical and cosmological parameters.

id: 0806.2896
title: Robust photonic entanglement distribution via state-independent encoding onto decoherence-free subspace
authors: Takashi Yamamoto, Kodai Hayashi, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 2, 488 - 491 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2896
abstract: Efficient and faithful implementation of quantum information tasks, e.g., quantum computing, quantum communication and quantum metrology, requires robust and state-independent decoherence-suppressing measures to protect quantum information carriers. Here we present an experimental demonstration of a robust distribution scheme in which one photon of an entangled photon pair is successfully encoded into and decoded from a decoherence-free subspace (DFS) by a state-independent scheme. We achieved a high-fidelity distribution of the entangled state over fibre communication channel, and also demonstrated that the scheme is robust against fragility of the reference frame. The scheme, thanks to its state-independence, is also applicable to multipartite case where the photon to be distributed is entangled with many other photons. Such a universal scheme opens the possibility of robust distribution of quantum information among quantum communication and computing networks.

id: 0806.2913
title: Surface-induced heating of cold polar molecules
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, M. R. Tarbutt, Stefan Scheel, E. A. Hinds
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 78 (5), 052901 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2913
abstract: We study the rotational and vibrational heating of diatomic molecules placed near a surface at finite temperature on the basis of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics. The internal molecular evolution is governed by transition rates that depend on both temperature and position. Analytical and numerical methods are used to investigate the heating of several relevant molecules near various surfaces. We determine the critical distances at which the surface itself becomes the dominant source of heating and we investigate the transition between the long-range and short-range behaviour of the heating rates. A simple formula is presented that can be used to estimate the surface-induced heating rates of other molecules of interest. We also consider how the heating depends on the thickness and composition of the surface.

id: 0806.2927
title: Comment on "Casimir Force Acting on Magnetostatic Bodies Embedded in Media"
authors: Iver Brevik, Simen A. Ellingsen
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 79, 027801(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2927
abstract: In a recent paper [C. Raabe and D.-G. Welsch, Phys. Rev. A 71, 013814 (2005)] an electromagnetic energy-momentum tensor is suggested as an alternative to the Abraham-Minkowski tensor and is applied to calculations of Casimir forces in planar geometries. We argue that the universality of the suggested tensor is doubtful; application of the Raabe-Welsch theory to a simple example in classical electrodynamics shows that their proposed tensor is unable to describe the situation in a simple way. We also show that modified Casimir forces acting on the cavity medium as prescribed by these authors suffer from problems of definiteness and peculiar properties which call for experimental support before this theory can be regarded as acceptable.

id: 0806.2962
title: Entropic bounds for the quantum marginal problem
authors: Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2962
abstract: The quantum marginal problem asks, given a set of reduced quantum states of a multipartite system, whether there exists a joint quantum state consistent with these reduced states. The quantum marginal problem is known to be hard to solve in general as it is a variant of the N-representability problem. We provide entropic bounds on the number of orthogonal solutions to the quantum marginal problem.

id: 0806.2965
title: Generation of large-amplitude coherent-state superposition via ancilla-assisted photon-subtraction
authors: Hiroki Takahashi, Kentaro Wakui, Shigenari Suzuki, Masahiro Takeoka, Kazuhiro Hayasaka, Akira Furusawa, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; the revised version
journal: Physical Review Letters 101, 233605 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2965
abstract: We propose and demonstrate a novel method to generate a large-amplitude coherent-state superposition (CSS) via ancilla-assisted photon-subtraction. The ancillary mode induces quantum interference of indistinguishable processes, widening the controllability of quantum superposition at the conditional output. We demonstrate the concept in the time domain, by a simple time-separated two-photon subtraction from cw squeezed light. We observe the largest CSS ever reported without any corrections, which will enable various quantum information applications with CSS states.

id: 0806.2974
title: Incomplete Entanglement: consequences for the QZE
authors: R. Rossi Jr., A. R. Bosco de Magalhaes, M. C. Nemes
comments: 
journal: Physical Review. A, v. 78, p. 042111, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2974
abstract: We show that the Quantum Zeno Effect prevails even if the entanglement with the measuring probe is not complete. The dynamics towards the asymptotic regime as a function of $N$, the number of measurements, reveals surprising results: the transition probability, for some values of the coupling to the measuring probe, may decrease much faster than the normal QZE.

id: 0806.2982
title: Non-Hermitian PT-symmetric and Hermitian Hamiltonians' correspondence: Isospectrality and mass signature
authors: Omar Mustafa, S.Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2982
abstract: A transformation of the form x to iy; x,y in R, or an equivalent similarity transformation with a metric operator $\eta$ are shown to transform non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonians into Hermitian partner Hamiltonians in Hilbert space. Isospectrality and mass signature are discussed.

id: 0806.3044
title: Detection of transverse entanglement in phase space
authors: D. S. Tasca, S. P. Walborn, F. Toscano, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A Rapid Comm
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3044
abstract: Transverse entanglement between pairs of photons can be detected through intensity correlation measurements in the near and far fields. We show theoretically and experimentally that at intermediate zones, it is also possible to detect transverse entanglement performing only intensity correlation measurements. Our results are applicable to a number of physical systems.

id: 0806.3051
title: The Harmonic Oscillator in Quantum Mechanics: A Third Way
authors: F. Marsiglio
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, to be published in American Journal of Physics A lot of cosmetic changes were made to improve readability; 2 figures were omitted
journal: Am. J. Phys. 77, 253 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3051
abstract: Courses on undergraduate quantum mechanics usually focus on solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation for several simple one-dimensional examples. When the notion of a Hilbert space is introduced only academic examples are used, such as the matrix representation of Dirac's raising and lowering operators or the angular momentum operators. We introduce some of the same one-dimensional examples as matrix diagonalization problems, with a basis that consists of the infinite set of square well eigenfunctions. Undergraduate students are well equipped to handle such problems in familiar contexts. We pay special attention to the one-dimensional harmonic oscillator. This paper should equip students to obtain the low lying bound states of any one-dimensional short range potential.

id: 0806.3058
title: Random circuits by measurements on weighted graph states
authors: A. Douglas K. Plato, Oscar C. Dahlsten, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042332 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3058
abstract: Random quantum circuits take an input quantum state and randomize it. This is a task with a growing number of identified uses in quantum information processing. We suggest a scheme to implement random circuits in a weighted graph state. The input state is entangled with the weighted graph state and a random circuit is implemented when the experimenter performs local measurements in one fixed basis only. The scheme uses no classical random numbers and is a new and natural application of weighted graph states

id: 0806.3078
title: Can Bell's Prescription for Physical Reality Be Considered Complete?
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 4 pages; See also arXiv:0904.4259, arXiv:quant-ph/0703179, and arXiv:0707.1333
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3078
abstract: An experiment is proposed to test Bell's theorem in a purely macroscopic domain. If realized, it would determine whether Bell inequalities are satisfied for a manifestly local, classical system. It is stressed why the inequalities should not be presumed to hold for such a macroscopic system without actual experimental evidence. In particular, by providing a purely classical, topological explanation for the EPR-Bohm type spin correlations, it is demonstrated why Bell inequalities must be violated in the manifestly local, macroscopic domain, just as strongly as they are in the microscopic domain.

id: 0806.3085
title: Practical long-distance quantum key distribution system using decoy levels
authors: D. Rosenberg, C. G. Peterson, J. W. Harrington, P. R. Rice, N. Dallmann, K. T. Tyagi, K. P. McCabe, S. Nam, B. Baek, R. H. Hadfield, R. J. Hughes, J. E. Nordholt
comments: 9 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 045009 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3085
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) has the potential for widespread real-world applications. To date no secure long-distance experiment has demonstrated the truly practical operation needed to move QKD from the laboratory to the real world due largely to limitations in synchronization and poor detector performance. Here we report results obtained using a fully automated, robust QKD system based on the Bennett Brassard 1984 protocol (BB84) with low-noise superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors (SNSPDs) and decoy levels. Secret key is produced with unconditional security over a record 144.3 km of optical fibre, an increase of more than a factor of five compared to the previous record for unconditionally secure key generation in a practical QKD system.

id: 0806.3101
title: Pure-state quantum trajectories for general non-Markovian systems do not exist
authors: Howard M. Wiseman, J. M. Gambetta
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 140401 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3101
abstract: Since the first derivation of non-Markovian stochastic Schr\"odinger equations, their interpretation has been contentious. In a recent Letter [Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 080401 (2008)], Di\'osi claimed to prove that they generate "true single system trajectories [conditioned on] continuous measurement". In this Letter we show that his proof is fundamentally flawed: the solution to his non-Markovian stochastic Schr\"odinger equation at any particular time can be interpreted as a conditioned state, but joining up these solutions as a trajectory creates a fiction.

id: 0806.3107
title: The initial momentum dependence of the quantum resonance in the delta-kicked rotor
authors: J-A. Currivan, A. Ullah, M.D. Hoogerland
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3107
abstract: The influence of an initial momentum on the appearance of "quantum resonances" in the delta-kicked rotor system is explored experimentally. We show that for certain initial momenta, a resonance can be negated entirely, whereas at others a resonance can be made to appear. At a larger number of kicks, all resonances are shown to narrow. We show that as a consequence, the individual "diffraction peaks" may split. We compare our results to numerical simulations as well as analytical theory.

id: 0806.3120
title: Detection of continuous variable entanglement without coherent local oscillators
authors: A. J. Ferris, M. K. Olsen, E. G. Cavalcanti, M. J. Davis
comments: 7 Pages, 4 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 060104(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3120
abstract: We propose three criteria for identifying continuous variable entanglement between two many-particle systems with no restrictions on the quantum state of the local oscillators used in the measurements. Mistakenly asserting a coherent state for the local oscillator can lead to incorrectly identifying the presence of entanglement. We demonstrate this in simulations with 100 particles, and also find that large number fluctuations do not prevent the observation of entanglement. Our results are important for quantum information experiments with realistic Bose-Einstein condensates or in optics with arbitrary photon states.

id: 0806.3142
title: Casimir interaction of dielectric gratings
authors: Astrid Lambrecht, Valery N. Marachevsky
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3142
abstract: We derive an exact solution for the Casimir force between two arbitrary periodic dielectric gratings and illustrate our method by applying it to two nanostructured silicon gratings. We also reproduce the Casimir force gradient measured recently [1] between a silicon grating and a gold sphere taking into account the material dependence of the force. We find good agreement between our theoretical results and the measured values both in absolute force values and the ratios between the exact force and PFA predictions.

id: 0806.3145
title: Operator quantum error correction for continuous dynamics
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, Daniel A. Lidar, Todd A. Brun
comments: 11 pages, no figures, essentially the published version, includes a new section on correctability at only a particular moment of time
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022333 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3145
abstract: We study the conditions under which a subsystem code is correctable in the presence of noise that results from continuous dynamics. We consider the case of Markovian dynamics as well as the general case of Hamiltonian dynamics of the system and the environment, and derive necessary and sufficient conditions on the Lindbladian and system-environment Hamiltonian, respectively. For the case when the encoded information is correctable during an entire time interval, the conditions we obtain can be thought of as generalizations of the previously derived conditions for decoherence-free subsystems to the case where the subsystem is time dependent. As a special case, we consider conditions for unitary correctability. In the case of Hamiltonian evolution, the conditions for unitary correctability concern only the effect of the Hamiltonian on the system, whereas the conditions for general correctability concern the entire system-environment Hamiltonian. We also derive conditions on the Hamiltonian which depend on the initial state of the environment, as well as conditions for correctability at only a particular moment of time. We discuss possible implications of our results for approximate quantum error correction.

id: 0806.3146
title: Natural Numbers and Quantum States in Fock Space
authors: Francesco A. Raffa, Mario Rasetti
comments: 10 pages, no figures, submitted to Int. J. Quantum Inf
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 7 (2009) 221-228
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3146
abstract: We investigate the expression of natural numbers in any base from a quantum point of view. In particular, resorting to the one-to-one correspondence between natural numbers and Fock states, we construct a set of multiboson operators and a set of translation operators, whose action on the Fock states leads to the coefficients identifying a natural number in any base.

id: 0806.3164
title: Analysis of quantum semigroups with GKS--Lindblad generators II. General
authors: Bernhard Baumgartner, Heide Narnhofer
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures, ESI Report
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3164
abstract: Semigroups describing the time evolution of open quantum systems in finite-dimensional spaces have generators of a special form, known as Lindblad generators. These generators and the corresponding processes of time evolution are analyzed, characterized as Decay, Dissipation and Dephasing. In relation to these processes the Hilbert space of the system is equipped with a special structure, a decomposition into a sum of mutually orthogonal subspaces. The complete set of all the stationary states and the asymptotic behavior of the evolutions are presented in detail. Some unusual special facts about invariant operators and symmetries are studied, examples are demonstrated. Perturbation theory for the structure and for the stationary states is discussed and performed in case studies.

id: 0806.3182
title: Dynamics of Non Classically Reproducible Entanglement
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 78, 062309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3182
abstract: We investigate when the quantum correlations of a bipartite system, under the influence of environments with memory, are not reproducible with certainty by a classical local hidden variable model. To this purpose, we compare the dynamics of a Bell inequality with that of entanglement, as measured by concurrence. We find time regions when Bell inequality is not violated even in correspondence to high values of concurrence (up to $\approx 0.8$). We also suggest that these results may be observed by adopting a modification of a recent experimental optical setup. These findings indicate that even highly entangled systems cannot be exploited with certainty in contexts where the non classical reproducibility of quantum correlations is required.

id: 0806.3192
title: Semi-classical Analysis of Spin Systems near Critical Energies
authors: Pedro Ribeiro, Thierry Paul
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3192
abstract: The spectral properties of $su(2)$ Hamiltonians are studied for energies near the critical classical energy $\epsilon_c$ for which the corresponding classical dynamics presents hyperbolic points (HP). A general method leading to an algebraic relation for eigenvalues in the vicinity of $\epsilon_c$ is obtained in the thermodynamic limit, when the semi-classical parameter $n^{-1}=(2s)^{-1}$ goes to zero (where $s$ is the total spin of the system). Two applications of this method are given and compared with numerics. Matrix elements of observables, computed between states with energy near $\epsilon_c$, are also computed and shown to be in agreement with the numerical results.

id: 0806.3212
title: On a quantum model of a laser-interferometer measuring a weak classical force
authors: A. M. Sinev
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3212
abstract: We consider a solvable model of a laser-interferometer measuring a weak classical force. The model takes into account dissipation of the energy by transfer to the environment at zero temperature. The sensitivity (the signal-to-noise ratio) of the device is defined as the corresponding ratio between the mean value and the variance of a certain observable. We analyze the dependence of the sensitivity upon the duration of the measurement and the photon number. For parameters typical for the LIGO project, we discuss numerical estimates.

id: 0806.3240
title: Bohmian mechanics, the quantum-classical correspondence and the classical limit: the case of the square billiard
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: Figures downgraded to low resolution; To be published in Found. Phys. (2009).
journal: Found. Phys. 39, 903 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3240
abstract: Square billiards are quantum systems complying with the dynamical quantum-classical correspondence. Hence an initially localized wavefunction launched along a classical periodic orbit evolves along that orbit, the spreading of the quantum amplitude being controlled by the spread of the corresponding classical statistical distribution. We investigate wavepacket dynamics and compute the corresponding de Broglie-Bohm trajectories in the quantum square billiard. We also determine the trajectories and statistical distribution dynamics for the equivalent classical billiard. Individual Bohmian trajectories follow the streamlines of the probability flow and are generically non-classical. This can also hold even for short times, when the wavepacket is still localized along a classical trajectory. This generic feature of Bohmian trajectories is expected to hold in the classical limit. We further argue that in this context decoherence cannot constitute a viable solution in order to recover classicality.

id: 0806.3294
title: Two-Qubit Separabilities as Piecewise Continuous Functions of Maximal Concurrence
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, new abstract, revised for J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 No 50 (19 December 2008) 505303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3294
abstract: The generic real (b=1) and complex (b=2) two-qubit states are 9-dimensional and 15-dimensional in nature, respectively. The total volumes of the spaces they occupy with respect to the Hilbert-Schmidt and Bures metrics are obtainable as special cases of formulas of Zyczkowski and Sommers. We claim that if one could determine certain metric-independent 3-dimensional "eigenvalue-parameterized separability functions" (EPSFs), then these formulas could be readily modified so as to yield the Hilbert-Schmidt and Bures volumes occupied by only the separable two-qubit states (and hence associated separability probabilities). Motivated by analogous earlier analyses of "diagonal-entry-parameterized separability functions", we further explore the possibility that such 3-dimensional EPSFs might, in turn, be expressible as univariate functions of some special relevant variable--which we hypothesize to be the maximal concurrence (0 < C <1) over spectral orbits. Extensive numerical results we obtain are rather closely supportive of this hypothesis. Both the real and complex estimated EPSFs exhibit clearly pronounced jumps of magnitude roughly 50% at C=1/2, as well as a number of additional matching discontinuities.

id: 0806.3306
title: Decoherence of two qubits in a non-Markovian reservoir without rotating-wave approximation
authors: Fa-Qiang Wang, Zhi-Ming Zhang, Rui-Sheng Liang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3306
abstract: The decoherence of two initially entangled qubits in a non-Markovian reservoir has been investigated exactly without Born Markovian approximation and rotating-wave approximation(RWA). The non-perturbative quantum master equation is derived and its exact solution is obtained. The decoherence behaviors of two qubits, initially entangled in Bell states, has been investigated in three different cases of parameters. The results show that the counter-rotating wave terms have great influence on the decoherence behavior, and there are differences between the exact solution of the Hamiltonian with RWA and that of the exact Hamiltonian without RWA. It might be improper to take RWA when the atom is in a non-markovian reservoir.

id: 0806.3362
title: Quantum algorithms for shifted subset problems
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 15 pages; v3: simplified proof of main result
journal: Quantum Information & Computation vol. 9 no. 5&6, pp. 500-512, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3362
abstract: We consider a recently proposed generalisation of the abelian hidden subgroup problem: the shifted subset problem. The problem is to determine a subset S of some abelian group, given access to quantum states of the form |S+x>, for some unknown shift x. We give quantum algorithms to find Hamming spheres and other subsets of the boolean cube {0,1}^n. The algorithms have time complexity polynomial in n and give rise to exponential separations from classical computation.

id: 0806.3387
title: Dissipative dynamics of a biased qubit coupled to a harmonic oscillator: Analytical results beyond the rotating wave approximation
authors: Johannes Hausinger, Milena Grifoni
comments: 39 pages, 17 figures; published version
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 115015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3387
abstract: We study the dissipative dynamics of a biased two-level system (TLS) coupled to a harmonic oscillator (HO), the latter interacting with an Ohmic environment. Using Van-Vleck perturbation theory and going to second order in the coupling between TLS and HO, we show how the Hamiltonian of the TLS-HO system can be diagonalized analytically. Our model represents an improvement to the usually used Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian as an initial rotating wave approximation is avoided. By assuming a weak coupling to the thermal bath, analytical expressions for the time evolution of the populations of the TLS are found: the population is characterized by a multiplicity of damped oscillations together with a complex relaxation dynamics towards thermal equilibrium. The long time evolution is characterized by a single relaxation rate, which is largest at resonance and whose expression can be given in closed analytic form.

id: 0806.3408
title: The Attractor and the Quantum States
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 14 pages; based on invited talk at 4th Workshop ad memoriam of Carlo Novero "Advances in Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information with Atoms and Photons", Torino, May 2008; submitted to Int J Qu Info
journal: Int J Qu Info (IJQI) 7 (2009) 83-96
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3408
abstract: The dissipative dynamics anticipated in the proof of 't Hooft's existence theorem -- "For any quantum system there exists at least one deterministic model that reproduces all its dynamics after prequantization" -- is constructed here explicitly. We propose a generalization of Liouville's classical phase space equation, incorporating dissipation and diffusion, and demonstrate that it describes the emergence of quantum states and their dynamics in the Schroedinger picture. Asymptotically, there is a stable ground state and two decoupled sets of degrees of freedom, which transform into each other under the energy-parity symmetry of Kaplan and Sundrum. They recover the familiar Hilbert space and its dual. Expectations of observables are shown to agree with the Born rule, which is not imposed a priori. This attractor mechanism is applicable in the presence of interactions, to few-body or field theories in particular.

id: 0806.3431
title: Long spin coherence in silicon with an electrical spin trap readout
authors: G. W. Morley, D. R. McCamey, H. A. Seipel, L.-C. Brunel, J. van Tol, C. Boehme
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. References updated, figure removed to reduce length of paper
journal: Physical Review Letters 101, 207602 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3431
abstract: Pulsed electrically-detected magnetic resonance of phosphorous (31P) in bulk crystalline silicon at very high magnetic fields (B > 8.5 T) and low temperatures (T = 2.8 K) is presented. We find that the spin-dependent capture and reemission of highly polarized (>95%) conduction electrons by equally highly polarized 31P donor electrons introduces less decoherence than other mechanisms for spin-to-charge conversion. This allows the electrical detection of spin coherence times in excess of 100 microseconds: 50 times longer than the previous maximum for electrically-detected spin readout experiments.

id: 0806.3437
title: Quantum and Randomized Lower Bounds for Local Search on Vertex-Transitive Graphs
authors: Hang Dinh, Alexander Russell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3437
abstract: We study the problem of \emph{local search} on a graph. Given a real-valued black-box function f on the graph's vertices, this is the problem of determining a local minimum of f--a vertex v for which f(v) is no more than f evaluated at any of v's neighbors. In 1983, Aldous gave the first strong lower bounds for the problem, showing that any randomized algorithm requires $\Omega(2^{n/2 - o(1)})$ queries to determine a local minima on the n-dimensional hypercube. The next major step forward was not until 2004 when Aaronson, introducing a new method for query complexity bounds, both strengthened this lower bound to $\Omega(2^{n/2}/n^2)$ and gave an analogous lower bound on the quantum query complexity. While these bounds are very strong, they are known only for narrow families of graphs (hypercubes and grids). We show how to generalize Aaronson's techniques in order to give randomized (and quantum) lower bounds on the query complexity of local search for the family of vertex-transitive graphs. In particular, we show that for any vertex-transitive graph G of N vertices and diameter d, the randomized and quantum query complexities for local search on G are $\Omega(N^{1/2}/d\log N)$ and $\Omega(N^{1/4}/\sqrt{d\log N})$, respectively.

id: 0806.3448
title: Detecting entanglement in two mode squeezed states by particle counting
authors: Christine A. Muschik, Eugene S. Polzik, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3448
abstract: We present an entanglement criterion for two mode squeezed states which relies on particle counting only. The proposed inequality is optimal for the state under consideration and robust against particle losses up to 2/3. As it does not involve measurements of quadratures - which is typically very challenging for atomic modes - it renders the detection of atomic many-particle entanglement feasible in many different settings. Moreover it bridges the gap between entanglement verification for a qubit and criteria for continuous variables measured by homodyne detection. We illustrate its application in the context of superradiant light scattering from Bose Einstein condensates by considering the creation of entanglement between atoms and light as well as between two condensates in different momentum states. The latter scheme takes advantage of leaving the Gaussian realm and features probabilistic entanglement distillation.

id: 0806.3475
title: Rabi model beyond the rotating wave approximation: generation of photons from vacuum through decoherence
authors: T. Werlang, A. V. Dodonov, E. I. Duzzioni, C.J. Villas-Boas
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3475
abstract: We study numerically the dynamics of the Rabi Hamiltonian, describing the interaction of a single cavity mode and a two-level atom without the rotating wave approximation, subjected to damping and dephasing reservoirs included via usual Lindblad superoperators in the master equation. We show that the combination of the antirotating term and the atomic dephasing leads to linear asymptotic photons generation from vacuum. We reveal the origins of the phenomenon and estimate its importance in realistic situations.

id: 0806.3483
title: Cryptography in a Quantum World
authors: Stephanie Wehner
comments: PhD Thesis, University of Amsterdam, 27 February 2008. 279 pages, 32 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3483
abstract: Quantum computing had a profound impact on cryptography. Shor's discovery of an efficient quantum algorithm for factoring large integers implies that many existing classical systems based on computational assumptions can be broken, once a quantum computer is built. It is therefore imperative to find other means of implementing secure protocols. This thesis aims to contribute to the understanding of both the physical limitations, as well as the possibilities of cryptography in the quantum setting. In particular, we investigate several questions that are crucial to the security of quantum protocols: How can we find good uncertainty relations for a large number of measurement settings? How does the presence of entanglement affect classical protocols? And, what limitations does entanglement impose on implementing quantum protocols? Finally, can we circumvent some of those limitations using realistic assumptions?

id: 0806.3517
title: Spectral inversion of an indefinite Sturm-Liouville problem due to Richardson
authors: Paul E. Shanley
comments: 24 pages, 10 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3517
abstract: We study an indefinite Sturm-Liouville problem due to Richardson whose complicated eigenvalue dependence on a parameter has been a puzzle for decades. In atomic physics a process exists that inverts the usual Schrodinger situation of an energy eigenvalue depending on a coupling parameter into the so-called Sturmian problem where the coupling parameter becomes the eigenvalue which then depends on the energy. We observe that the Richardson equation is of the Sturmian type. This means that the Richardson and its related Schrodinger eigevalue functions are inverses of each other and that the Richardson spectrum is therefore no longer a puzzle.

id: 0806.3525
title: Secret Keys Assisted Private Classical Communication Capacity over Quantum Channels
authors: Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Zhicheng Luo, Todd Brun
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. Submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042306 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3525
abstract: We prove a regularized formula for the secret key-assisted capacity region of a quantum channel for transmitting private classical information. This result parallels the work of Devetak on entanglement assisted quantum communication capacity \cite{DHW05RI}. This formula provides a new family protocol, the private father protocol, under the resource inequality framework that includes private classical communication \it{without} secret key assistance as a child protocol.

id: 0806.3529
title: Geometric phases and quantum phase transitions in open systems
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, S. G. Ovchinnikov
comments: ReVTeX style, 6 figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E (Rapid Communication)
journal: Phys.Rev.E78:015202,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3529
abstract: The relationship between quantum phase transition and complex geometric phase for open quantum system governed by the non-Hermitian effective Hamiltonian with the accidental crossing of the eigenvalues is established. In particular, the geometric phase associated with the ground state of the one-dimensional dissipative Ising model in a transverse magnetic field is evaluated, and it is demonstrated that related quantum phase transition is of the first order.

id: 0806.3547
title: Uncollapsing of a quantum state in a superconducting phase qubit
authors: Nadav Katz, Matthew Neeley, M. Ansmann, Radoslaw C. Bialczak, M. Hofheinz, Erik Lucero, A. O'Connell, H. Wang, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 200401 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3547
abstract: We demonstrate in a superconducting qubit the conditional recovery ("uncollapsing") of a quantum state after a partial-collapse measurement. A weak measurement extracts information and results in a non-unitary transformation of the qubit state. However, by adding a rotation and a second partial measurement with the same strength, we erase the extracted information, effectively canceling the effect of both measurements. The fidelity of the state recovery is measured using quantum process tomography and found to be above 70% for partial-collapse strength less than 0.6.

id: 0806.3558
title: Failure of Local Realism Revealed by Extremely Coarse-Grained Measurements
authors: H. Jeong, M. Paternostro, T. C. Ralph
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 060403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3558
abstract: We show that failure of local realism can be revealed to observers for whom only extremely coarse-grained measurements are available. In our instances, Bell's inequality is violated even up to the maximum limit while both the local measurements and the initial local states under scrutiny approach the classical limit. Furthermore, we can observe failure of local realism when an inequality enforced by non-local realistic theories is satisfied. This suggests that locality alone may be violated while realism cannot be excluded for specific observables and states. Small-scale experimental demonstration of our examples may be possible in the foreseeable future.

id: 0806.3564
title: Quasiperiodic propagation in time of some classical/quantum systems: Nielsen's conserved quantity and Floquet properties
authors: Peter Kramer, Tobias Kramer, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physica Scripta vol 79, p. 055006 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3564
abstract: We consider classical and quantum propagators for two different time intervals. If these propagators follow one another in a Fibonacci sequence we get a discrete quasiperiodic system. A theorem due to Nielsen provides a novel conserved quantity for this system. The Nielsen quantity controls the transition between commutative and non-commutative propagation in time. The quasiperiodically kicked oscillator moreover is dominated by quasiperiodic analogues of the Floquet theorem.

id: 0806.3599
title: Photon-arrival detector with a controlled phase flip operation between a photon and a V-type atomic system
authors: Kunihiro Kojima, Akihisa Tomita
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3599
abstract: We propose a photon-arrival detector (PAD), which detects the arrival of a signal photon and simultaneously projects the signal input state to a single photon state, with an atom-cavity system. In this proposal, use of a V-type system as the intracavity atom is discussed for implementing the PAD, since V-type systems have been widely studied in the field of solid state, enabling us to miniaturize and integrate that implementation. The performance of the proposed PAD is evaluated for a specific method of the detection process. The proposed PAD is capable of repeating the procedure for detecting the arrival of input photons and it has improves the detection probability so that it has a higher quantum efficiency than those of conventional photodetectors.

id: 0806.3614
title: Quantum efficiency of binary-outcome detectors of solid-state qubits
authors: Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 174512 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3614
abstract: We discuss definitions of the quantum efficiency for binary-outcome qubit detectors with imperfect fidelity, focusing on the subclass of quantum non-demolition detectors. Quantum efficiency is analyzed for several models of detectors, including indirect projective measurement, linear detector in binary-outcome regime, detector of the superconducting phase qubit, and detector based on tunneling into continuum.

id: 0806.3644
title: Thermal robustness of multipartite entanglement of the 1-D spin 1/2 XY model
authors: Yoshifumi Nakata, Damian Markham, Mio Murao
comments: Revised, 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042313 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3644
abstract: We study the robustness of multipartite entanglement of the ground state of the one-dimensional spin 1/2 XY model with a transverse magnetic field in the presence of thermal excitations, by investigating a threshold temperature, below which the thermal state is guaranteed to be entangled. We obtain the threshold temperature based on the geometric measure of entanglement of the ground state. The threshold temperature reflects three characteristic lines in the phase diagram of the correlation function. Our approach reveals a region where multipartite entanglement at zero temperature is high but is thermally fragile, and another region where multipartite entanglement at zero temperature is low but is thermally robust.

id: 0806.3645
title: Multiboson Logical Operators, Laughlin States, and Virasoro Algebra
authors: Francesco A. Raffa, Mario Rasetti
comments: 25 pages, no figures, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3645
abstract: Leading idea of this manuscript is to discuss the structure and the deep correlations among different quantum physical systems, and to explore how such correlations bear on the capacity of the systems to encode and manipulate information. In particular, the role of logical operators constructed out of multi-boson (and possibly fractionary-boson) operators is analyzed in its relation on the one hand with the algebra of diffeomorphisms of the circle, on the other with the physical properties of the fractional quantum Hall effect (described in terms of Laughlin states) and of its many electron representation in terms of the Chern-Simons topological quantum field theory.

id: 0806.3661
title: Full quantum reconstruction of vortex states
authors: I. Rigas, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, A. B. Klimov, J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil
comments: Final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 060101 (2008) (Rapid Communication)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3661
abstract: We propose a complete tomographic reconstruction of any vortex state carrying orbital angular momentum. The scheme determines the angular probability distribution of the state at different times under free evolution. To represent the quantum state we introduce a bona fide Wigner function defined on the discrete cylinder, which is the natural phase space for the pair angle-angular momentum. The feasibility of the proposal is addressed.

id: 0806.3696
title: On the distances between entangled pseudoscalar mesons states
authors: Marco Genovese
comments: 
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C55:683-686,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3696
abstract: Entangled states of pseudoscalar mesons represent a very interesting tool for studying foundations of quantum mechanics, e.g. for testing Bell inequalities. Recently, they also emerged as a test bench for quantum information protocols. On the other hand, from a quantum information point of view, the characterization of the distance between two quantum states is a topic of the utmost importance. In this letter, with the purpose of providing a useful tool for further investigations, we address the problem of which distance allows a better discrimination between density matrices appearing in pseudoscalar phenomenology.

id: 0806.3720
title: Complex magnetic monopoles, geometric phases and quantum evolution in vicinity of diabolic and exceptional points
authors: Alexander I Nesterov, F. Aceves de la Cruz
comments: 29 pages, 21 figures
journal: J.Phys.A41:485304,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3720
abstract: We consider the geometric phase and quantum tunneling in vicinity of diabolic and exceptional points. We show that the geometric phase associated with the degeneracy points is defined by the flux of complex magnetic monopole. In weak-coupling limit the leading contribution to the real part of geometric phase is given by the flux of the Dirac monopole plus quadrupole term, and the expansion for its imaginary part starts with the dipolelike field. For a two-level system governed by the generic non-Hermitian Hamiltonian, we derive a formula to compute the non-adiabatic complex geometric phase by integral over the complex Bloch sphere. We apply our results to to study a two-level dissipative system driven by periodic electromagnetic field and show that in the vicinity of the exceptional point the complex geometric phase behaves as step-like function. Studying tunneling process near and at exceptional point, we find two different regimes: coherent and incoherent. The coherent regime is characterized by the Rabi oscillations and one-sheeted hyperbolic monopole emerges in this region of the parameters. In turn with the incoherent regime the two-sheeted hyperbolic monopole is associated. The exceptional point is the critical point of the system where the topological transition occurs and both of the regimes yield the quadratic dependence on time. We show that the dissipation brings into existence of pulses in the complex geometric phase and the pulses are disappeared when dissipation dies out. Such a strong coupling effect of the environment is beyond of the conventional adiabatic treatment of the Berry phase.

id: 0806.3750
title: Optical Interferometers with Reduced Sensitivity to Thermal Noise
authors: H. J. Kimble, Benjamin L. Lev, Jun Ye
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3750
abstract: A fundamental limit to the sensitivity of optical interferometry is thermal noise that drives fluctuations in the positions of the surfaces of the interferometer's mirrors, and thereby in the phase of the intracavity field. Schemes for reducing this thermally driven phase noise are presented in which phase shifts from concomitant strains at the surface and in the bulk of the substrate compensate the phase shift due to the displacement of the surface. Although the position of the physical surface fluctuates, the optical phase upon reflection can have reduced sensitivity to this motion.

id: 0806.3754
title: Quantum critical behavior in strongly interacting Rydberg gases
authors: Hendrik Weimer, Robert L?w, Tilman Pfau, Hans Peter B¨¹chler
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.101:250601,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3754
abstract: We study the appearance of correlated many-body phenomena in an ensemble of atoms driven resonantly into a strongly interacting Rydberg state. The ground state of the Hamiltonian describing the driven system exhibits a second order quantum phase transition. We derive the critical theory for the quantum phase transition and show that it describes the properties of the driven Rydberg system in the saturated regime. We find that the suppression of Rydberg excitations known as blockade phenomena exhibits an algebraic scaling law with a universal exponent.

id: 0806.3776
title: The quasiclassical realms of this quantum universe
authors: James B. Hartle
comments: 24 pages, revtex4, minor changes
journal: Found.Phys.41:982-1006,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3776
abstract: The most striking observable feature of our indeterministic quantum universe is the wide range of time, place, and scale on which the deterministic laws of classical physics hold to an excellent approximation. This essay describes how this domain of classical predictability of every day experience emerges from a quantum theory of the universe's state and dynamics.

id: 0806.3786
title: Non-Markovian dynamics and von Neumann entropy evolution of a qubit in a spin environment
authors: J. Rodr¨ªguez Garz¨®n, R. M. Guti¨¦rrez
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, revised interpretation, updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3786
abstract: The dynamics of a central spin-1/2 in presence of a local magnetic field and a bath of N spin-1/2 particles is studied in the thermodynamic limit. The interaction between the spins is Heisenberg XY type and the bath is considered to be a perfect thermal reservoir. In this case, the evolution of the populations of the reduced density matrix are obtained for different temperatures. A Born approximation is made but not a Markov approximation resulting a non-Markovian dynamics. The measure of the way that the system mixes is obtained by means of the von Neumann entropy. For low temperatures, results show that there are oscillations of populations and of the von Neumann entropy, indicating that the central spin becomes a pure state with characteristic time periods in which it is possible to extract or recuperate information. In the regime of high temperatures, the evolution shows a final maximum mixed state with entropy S=ln 2 as it is expected for a two level system.

id: 0806.3832
title: Simultaneous measurement of coordinate and momentum on a von Neumann lattice
authors: A Mann, M Revzen, J Zak
comments: Published in EPL 83 (2008) 10007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3832
abstract: It is shown that on a finite phase plane the $kq$-coordinates and the sites of a von Neumann lattice are conjugate to one another. This elementary result holds when the number $M$ defining the size of the phase plane can be expressed as a product, $M=M_{1}M_{2}$, with $M_{1}$ and $M_{2}$ being relatively prime. As a consequence of this result a hitherto unknown wave function is defined giving the probability of simultaneously measuring the momentum and coordinate on the von Neumann lattice.

id: 0806.3834
title: Representation of Quantum Circuits with Clifford and $¦Ð/8$ Gates
authors: Ken Matsumoto, Kazuyuki Amano
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3834
abstract: In this paper, we introduce the notion of a normal form of one qubit quantum circuits over the basis $\{H, P, T\}$, where $H$, $P$ and $T$ denote the Hadamard, Phase and $\pi/8$ gates, respectively. This basis is known as the {\it standard set} and its universality has been shown by Boykin et al. [FOCS '99]. Our normal form has several nice properties: (i) Every circuit over this basis can easily be transformed into a normal form, and (ii) Every two normal form circuits compute same unitary matrix if and only if both circuits are identical. We also show that the number of unitary operations that can be represented by a circuit over this basis that contains at most $n$ $T$-gates is exactly $192 \cdot (3 \cdot 2^n - 2)$.

id: 0806.3842
title: Quantum Ratchet Accelerator without a Bichromatic Lattice Potential
authors: Jiao Wang, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78, 036219 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3842
abstract: In a quantum ratchet accelerator system, a linearly increasing directed current can be dynamically generated without using a biased field. Generic quantum ratchet acceleration with full classical chaos [Gong and Brumer, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 240602 (2006)] constitutes a new element of quantum chaos and an interesting violation of a sum rule of classical ratchet transport. Here we propose a simple quantum ratchet accelerator model that can also generate linearly increasing quantum current with full classical chaos. This new model does not require a bichromatic lattice potential. It is based on a variant of an on-resonance kicked-rotor system, periodically kicked by two optical lattice potentials of the same lattice constant, but with unequal amplitudes and a fixed phase shift between them. The dependence of the ratchet current acceleration rate on the system parameters is studied in detail. The cold-atom version of our new quantum ratchet accelerator model should be realizable by introducing slight modifications to current cold-atom experiments.

id: 0806.3861
title: Decoherence-free quantum information in the presence of dynamical evolution
authors: Peter G. Brooke, James D. Cresser, Manas K. Patra
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062313 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3861
abstract: We analyze decoherence-free (DF) quantum information in the presence of an arbitrary non-nearest-neighbor bath-induced system Hamiltonian using a Markovian master equation. We show that the most appropriate encoding for N qubits is probably contained within the ~(2/9) N excitation subspace. We give a timescale over which one would expect to apply other methods to correct for the system Hamiltonian. In order to remain applicable to experiment, we then focus on small systems, and present examples of DF quantum information for three and four qubits. We give an encoding for four qubits that, while quantum information remains in the two-excitation subspace, protects against an arbitrary bath-induced system Hamiltonian. Although our results are general to any system of qubits that satisfies our assumptions, throughout the paper we use dipole-coupled qubits as an example physical system.

id: 0806.3866
title: Quantum quasiresonances in grazing incident angle atom-surface collisions
authors: Antonia Ruiz, Jose P. Palao, Eric J. Heller
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052901 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3866
abstract: The momentum transfer between the normal components to an index direction in the collision of an atom with a periodic surface is investigated. For fast atoms with grazing angle of incidence there is an interval of azimuthal angles around the index direction for which the energy transfer can be very efficient. This effect is reflected in quantum diffraction patterns with large non-specular peaks, associated with the parallel to the surface and normal to the index direction momentum component, and can be described in terms of quasiresonance. Although the classical dynamics does not reproduce the precise quantum diffraction probabilities, indicating the quantum nature of this effect, classical and quantum computations show that the span of the quasiresonance region coincides in both dynamics and can be classically estimated from the phase-space analysis.

id: 0806.3871
title: Centrifugal quantum states of neutrons
authors: V.V. Nesvizhevsky, A.K. Petukhov, K.V. Protasov, A.Yu. Voronin
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3871
abstract: We propose a method for observation of the quasi-stationary states of neutrons, localized near the curved mirror surface. The bounding effective well is formed by the centrifugal potential and the mirror Fermi-potential. This phenomenon is an example of an exactly solvable "quantum bouncer" problem that could be studied experimentally. It could provide a promising tool for studying fundamental neutron-matter interactions, as well as quantum neutron optics and surface physics effects. We develop formalism, which describes quantitatively the neutron motion near the mirror surface. The effects of mirror roughness are taken into account.

id: 0806.3884
title: Decoherence of two qubits coupled with one-mode cavity without rotating-wave approximation
authors: Fa-Qiang Wang, Wei-Ci Liu, Rui-Sheng Liang
comments: 7pages,6figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3884
abstract: The decoherence of two qubits, coupled with one-mode cavity separately, has been investigated exactly. The results show that, for the resonant case, the decoherence behavior of system is similar to Markovian case when the coupling strength is weak, while the concurrence vanishes in finite time and might recover fractional initial entanglement before it permanently vanishes when the coupling strength is strong. And for detuning case, the entanglement could periodically recover after a period of time from its disappearance. These results are quite different from that of system subjected to Jaynes-Cummings model.

id: 0806.3909
title: Blue-detuned evanescent field surface traps for neutral atoms based on mode interference in ultra-thin optical fibres
authors: G. Sague, A. Baade, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 16 pages, 14 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 113008 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3909
abstract: We present and analyze a novel concept for blue-detuned evanescent field surface traps for cold neutral atoms based on two-mode interference in ultra-thin optical fibres. When two or more transverse modes with the same frequency co-propagate in the fibre, their different phase velocities cause a stationary interference pattern to establish. Intensity minima of the evanescent field at any distance from the fibre surface can be created and an array of optical microtraps can thus be obtained in the evanescent field. We discuss three possible combinations of the lowest order modes, yielding traps at one to two hundred nanometres from the fibre surface which, using a few ten milliwatts of trapping laser power, have a depth on the order of 1 mK for caesium atoms and a trapping lifetime exceeding 100 seconds. The resulting trapping geometry is of particular interest because atoms in such microtrap arrays will be coupled to any additional field propagating in the fibre via the evanescent field, thereby realising ensembles of fibre-coupled atoms.

id: 0806.3918
title: Vacuum Rabi oscillation of an atom without rotating-wave approximation
authors: Fa-Qiang Wang, Wei-Ci Liu, Rui-Sheng Liang
comments: 4pages,6figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3918
abstract: We have investigated vacuum Rabi oscillation of an atom coupled with single-mode cavity field exactly, and compared the results with that of J-C model. The results show that, there is damping Rabi oscillation for an atom, even in strong coupling regime. For small detuning and weak coupling case, the probability for the atom in excited state oscillates against time with different frequency and amplitude from that of J-C model. It exhibits the counter-rotating wave interaction could significantly effect the dynamic behavior of the atom, even under the condition in which the RWA is considered to be justified. On the other hand, the results also reveal that the counter-rotating wave interaction could obviously modify the decay rate in strong coupling regime. And there is Rabi oscillation for initially unexcited atom, which is contrary to that of J-C model.

id: 0806.3949
title: Use of a Quantum Computer and the Quick Medical Reference To Give an Approximate Diagnosis
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: v1:14 pages (files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty, 5 .eps);v2:19 pages (files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty, 5 .eps)added stuff about likelihood weighting
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3949
abstract: The Quick Medical Reference (QMR) is a compendium of statistical knowledge connecting diseases to findings (symptoms). The information in QMR can be represented as a Bayesian network. The inference problem (or, in more medical language, giving a diagnosis) for the QMR is to, given some findings, find the probability of each disease. Rejection sampling and likelihood weighted sampling (a.k.a. likelihood weighting) are two simple algorithms for making approximate inferences from an arbitrary Bayesian net (and from the QMR Bayesian net in particular). Heretofore, the samples for these two algorithms have been obtained with a conventional "classical computer". In this paper, we will show that two analogous algorithms exist for the QMR Bayesian net, where the samples are obtained with a quantum computer. We expect that these two algorithms, implemented on a quantum computer, can also be used to make inferences (and predictions) with other Bayesian nets.

id: 0806.3954
title: Continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocols over noisy channels
authors: Raul Garcia-Patron, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: Minor modifications to match published manuscript
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 130501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3954
abstract: A continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocol based on squeezed states and heterodyne detection is introduced and shown to attain higher secret key rates over a noisy line than any other one-way Gaussian protocol. This increased resistance to channel noise can be understood as resulting from purposely adding noise to the signal that is converted into the secret key. This notion of noise-enhanced tolerance to noise also provides a better physical insight into the poorly understood discrepancies between the previously defined families of Gaussian protocols.

id: 0806.3970
title: Quantum interference interpreted classically through application of Berry's phase
authors: M. J. Rave
comments: 2 figures made from .eps files
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3970
abstract: We show that quantum interference can be classically interpreted in terms of a phase invariant quantity, not unlike the Berry's phase. Under this interpretation, closed loops in time become fundamental quantum entities, and all quantum states become periodic. Decoherence is then seen to occur naturally as a consequence. This formalism, although counterintuitive, provides a useful way of assigning ``classical'' meaning to quantum probabilities.

id: 0806.3982
title: Quantum Multi Prover Interactive Proofs with Communicating Provers
authors: Michael Ben-Or, Avinatan Hassidim, Haran Pilpel
comments: 
journal: FOCS 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3982
abstract: Multi Prover Interactive Proof systems (MIPs)were first presented in a cryptographic context, but ever since they were used in various fields. Understanding the power of MIPs in the quantum context raises many open problems, as there are several interesting models to consider. For example, one can study the question when the provers share entanglement or not, and the communication between the verifier and the provers is quantum or classical. While there are several partial results on the subject, so far no one presented an efficient scheme for recognizing NEXP (or NP with logarithmic communication), except for [KM03], in the case there is no entanglement (and of course no communication between the provers). We introduce another variant of Quantum MIP, where the provers do not share entanglement, the communication between the verifier and the provers is quantum, but the provers are unlimited in the classical communication between them. At first, this model may seem very weak, as provers who exchange information seem to be equivalent in power to a simple prover. This in fact is not the case - we show that any language in NEXP can be recognized in this model efficiently, with just two provers and two rounds of communication, with a constant completeness-soundness gap.

id: 0806.3984
title: Conjectured Strong Complementary Information Tradeoff
authors: Joseph M. Renes, Jean-Christian Boileau
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 020402 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3984
abstract: We conjecture a new entropic uncertainty principle governing the entropy of complementary observations made on a system given side information in the form of quantum states, generalizing the entropic uncertainty relation of Maassen and Uffink [Phys. Rev. Lett. 60, 1103 (1988)]. We prove a special case for certain conjugate observables by adapting a similar result found by Christandl and Winter pertaining to quantum channels [IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 51, 3159 (2005)], and discuss possible applications of this result to the decoupling of quantum systems and for security analysis in quantum cryptography.

id: 0806.3993
title: Observation of lasing without inversion in a hot rubidium vapor under electromagnetically-induced transparency conditions
authors: Haibin Wu, Min Xiao, J. Gea-Banacloche
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3993
abstract: We have observed CW lasing without inversion in a gas of hot rubidium atoms in an optical cavity under conditions of electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT). The medium is pumped coherently and resonantly by a single ``coupling'' beam which also produces EIT in the lasing transition. The steady-state intensity exhibits thresholds as a function of the atomic density and the strength of the coupling beam. A theoretical model for an effective three-level lambda system indicates that gain without inversion is possible in this system if the two ground states are coupled by depolarizing collisions, and if the decay branching ratios meet certain conditions.

id: 0806.3995
title: New method to evaluate divergent series via the Wigner function
authors: H¨¦ctor Moya-Cessa, Roberto de Jes¨²s Le¨®n-Montiel, Erwin A. Mart¨ª-Paname?o
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: App. Math. Inf. Sc. 5, No. 2, 301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3995
abstract: It is shown how a physical function, namely the Wigner function, that in principle may be measured, can be used to evaluate divergent series.

id: 0806.3997
title: Non-Markovian interaction of many fields
authors: R. Mar-Sarao, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3997
abstract: We study the interaction between several fields initially in coherent states. The solution allows us to explain why coherent states remain coherent states when subject to non-Markovian dissipation. We first study the interaction between two fields and show that this is the building block of the total interaction. We give a completely algebraic solution of this system.

id: 0806.4015
title: Constructive Quantum Shannon Decomposition from Cartan Involutions
authors: Byron Drury, Peter J. Love
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4015
abstract: The work presented here extends upon the best known universal quantum circuit, the Quantum Shannon Decomposition proposed in [Vivek V. Shende, Stephen S. Bullock and Igor Markov, Synthesis of Quantum Logic Circuits, IEEE Trans. Comput.-Aided Des. Integr. Circuits Syst. 25 (6): 1000-1010 (2006)]. We obtain the basis of the circuit's design in a pair of Cartan decompositions. This insight gives a simple constructive algorithm for obtaining the Quantum Shannon Decomposition of a given unitary matrix in terms of the corresponding Cartan involutions.

id: 0806.4035
title: Photon generation from vacuum in non-stationary circuit QED
authors: A. V. Dodonov, L. C. Celeri, F. Pascoal, M. D. Lukin, S. F. Yelin
comments: New results added. 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4035
abstract: We study theoretically the non-stationary circuit QED system in which the artificial atom transition frequency has a small periodic modulation in time, prescribed externally. We show that, in the dispersive regime, when the modulation periodicity meets the `resonances', the dynamics may be described by the dynamical Casimir effect, Jaynes-Cummings or Anti-Jaynes-Cummings effective Hamiltonians. In the resonant atom-cavity regime, under the modulation `resonance' the dynamics resembles the behavior of the dynamical Casimir effect in a vibrating cavity containing a resonant two-level atom, and entangled states with two photons can be created from vacuum. Thus, an analog of the dynamical Casimir effect may be simulated in circuit QED, and several photons, as well as entangled states, can be generated from vacuum due to the anti-rotating term in the Rabi Hamiltonian.

id: 0806.4050
title: On the Quantization Procedure in Classical Mechanics and Problem of Hidden Variables in Bohmian Mechanics
authors: V. D. Rusov, D. Vlasenko
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4050
abstract: Basing on the Chetaev's theorem on stable trajectories in dynamics in the presence of dissipative forces we obtain a generalized stability condition for Hamiltonian systems that has the form of the Schrodinger equation. We show that the energy of the dissipative forces generating generalized Chetaev's stability condition exactly coincides with Bohm's "quantum" potential. Using the principle of least action of perturbation we prove that the Bohmian quantum mechanics complemented with the Chetaev's generalized theorem does not have hidden variables.

id: 0806.4076
title: Three fermions with six single particle states can be entangled in two inequivalent ways
authors: P¨¦ter L¨¦vay, P¨¦ter Vrana
comments: 23 pages LATEX
journal: Physical Review A78, 022329 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4076
abstract: Using a generalization of Cayley's hyperdeterminant as a new measure of tripartite fermionic entanglement we obtain the SLOCC classification of three-fermion systems with six single particle states. A special subclass of such three-fermion systems is shown to have the same properties as the well-known three-qubit ones. Our results can be presented in a unified way using Freudenthal triple systems based on cubic Jordan algebras. For systems with an arbitrary number of fermions and single particle states we propose the Pl\"ucker relations as a sufficient and necessary condition of separability.

id: 0806.4090
title: Bright filter-free source of indistinguishable photon pairs
authors: F. Wolfgramm, X. Xing, A. Cer¨¨, A. Predojevi?, A. M. Steinberg, M. W. Mitchell
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Express 16, 18145-18151 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4090
abstract: We demonstrate a high-brightness source of pairs of indistinguishable photons based on a type-II phase-matched doubly-resonant optical parametric oscillator operated far below threshold. The cavity-enhanced down-conversion output of a PPKTP crystal is coupled into two single-mode fibers with a mode coupling efficiency of 58%. The high degree of indistinguishability between the photons of a pair is demonstrated by a Hong-Ou-Mandel interference visibility of higher than 90% without any filtering at an instantaneous coincidence rate of 450 000 pairs/s per mW of pump power per nm of down-conversion bandwidth. For the degenerate spectral mode with a linewidth of 7 MHz at 795 nm a rate of 70 pairs/(s mW MHz) is estimated, increasing the spectral brightness for indistinguishable photons by two orders of magnitude compared to similar previous sources.

id: 0806.4105
title: A discrete finite-dimensional phase space approach for Fe8 magnetic clusters: characterizing tunneling efects via Wigner and Husimi functions
authors: Evandro C. Silva, Diogenes Galetti
comments: 10 pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4105
abstract: Discrete quantum phase space formalism is used to discuss some basic aspects of the spin tunneling occurring in Fe8 magnetic cluster by means of Wigner functions as well as Husimi distributions. Those functions were obtained for sharp angle states and symmetric combinations of the lowest energy doublet with the application of an external magnetic field. The time evolution of those functions carried out numerically allows one to extract valuable information about the dynamics of the states under consideration, in particular, the coherent oscillations associated with the spin tunneling. It is also shown that an entropy functional constructed out of the discrete Husimi distribution function allows to characterize the spin tunneling.

id: 0806.4137
title: Ultrafast control of donor-bound electron spins with single detuned optical pulses
authors: Kai-Mei C. Fu, Susan M. Clark, Charles Santori, M.C. Holland, Colin R. Stanley, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, submitted 12/2008. Since the submission of this work we have become aware of related work: J. Berezovsky, M. H. Mikkelsen, N. G. Stoltz, L. A. Coldren, and D. D. Awschalom, Science 320: 349-352 (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4137
abstract: The ability to control spins in semiconductors is important in a variety of fields including spintronics and quantum information processing. Due to the potentially fast dephasing times of spins in the solid state [1-3], spin control operating on the picosecond or faster timescale may be necessary. Such speeds, which are not possible to attain with standard electron spin resonance (ESR) techniques based on microwave sources, can be attained with broadband optical pulses. One promising ultrafast technique utilizes single broadband pulses detuned from resonance in a three-level Lambda system [4]. This attractive technique is robust against optical pulse imperfections and does not require a fixed optical reference phase. Here we demonstrate the principle of coherent manipulation of spins theoretically and experimentally. Using this technique, donor-bound electron spin rotations with single-pulse areas exceeding pi/4 and two-pulses areas exceeding pi/2 are demonstrated. We believe the maximum pulse areas attained do not reflect a fundamental limit of the technique and larger pulse areas could be achieved in other material systems. This technique has applications from basic solid-state ESR spectroscopy to arbitrary single-qubit rotations [4, 5] and bang-bang control[6] for quantum computation.

id: 0806.4144
title: Simple Glass Models and their Quantum Annealing
authors: Thomas Jorg, Florent Krzakala, Jorge Kurchan, A. C. Maggs
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, minor typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 147204 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4144
abstract: We study first order quantum phase transitions in mean-field spin glasses. We solve the quantum Random Energy Model using elementary methods and show that at the transition the eigenstate suddenly projects onto the unperturbed ground state and that the gap between the lowest states is exponentially small in the system size. We argue that this is a generic feature of all `Random First Order' models, which includes benchmarks such as random satisfiability. We introduce a two-time instanton to calculate this gap in general, and discuss the consequences for quantum annealing.

id: 0806.4146
title: Solution of Master Equations for the anharmonic oscillator interacting with a heat bath and for parametric down conversion process
authors: L.M. Ar¨¦valo-Aguilar, R. Ju¨¢rez-Amaro, J.M. Vargas-Mart¨ªnez, O. Aguilar-Loreto, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 5 pages, 1 table, no figures
journal: Applied Mathematics & Information Sciences 2, 43, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4146
abstract: We solve analytically master equations that describe a cavity filled with a kerr medium, taking into account the dissipation induced by the environment, and parametric down conversion processes. We use superoperator techniques.

id: 0806.4162
title: Investigations of a coherently driven semiconductor optical cavity QED system
authors: Kartik Srinivasan, Christopher P. Michael, Raviv Perahia, Oskar Painter
comments: 18 pages, 17 figures
journal: Physical Review A, Vol 78, 033839, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4162
abstract: Chip-based cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) devices consisting of a self-assembled InAs quantum dot (QD) coupled to a high quality factor GaAs microdisk cavity are coherently probed through their optical channel using a fiber taper waveguide. We highlight one particularly important aspect of this all-fiber measurement setup, which is the accuracy to which the optical coupling level and optical losses are known relative to typical free-space excitation techniques. This allows for precise knowledge of the intracavity photon number and measurement of absolute transmitted and reflected signals. Resonant optical spectroscopy of the system under both weak and strong driving conditions are presented, which when compared with a quantum master equation model of the system allows for determination of the coherent coupling rate between QD exciton and optical cavity mode, the different levels of elastic and inelastic dephasing of the exciton state, and the position and orientation of the QD within the cavity. Pump-probe measurements are also performed in which a far off-resonant red-detuned control laser beam is introduced into the cavity. Rather than producing a measurable ac-Stark shift in the exciton line of the QD, we find that this control beam induces a saturation of the resonant system response. The broad photoluminescence spectrum resulting from the presence of the control beam in the cavity points to sub-bandgap absorption in the semiconductor, and the resulting free-carrier generation, as the likely source of system saturation.

id: 0806.4165
title: Detecting and Quantifying Entanglement via Bayesian Updating
authors: Pavel Lougovski, S. J. van Enk
comments: superseded by 0908.0265 and 0908.0267
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4165
abstract: We show how a straightforward Bayesian updating procedure allows one to detect and quantify entanglement from any finite set of measurement results. The measurements do not have to be tomographically complete, and may consist of POVMs rather than von Neumann measurements. One obtains a probability that one's state is entangled and an estimate of any desired entanglement measure, including their error bars. As an example we consider (tomographically incomplete) spin correlation measurements on both 2-qubit and 3-qubit states. As byproducts we obtain estimates of the volume of entangled states vs. states that violate a given Bell inequality for both pure and mixed states, and an inequality that relates the expectation value of the Bell operator to the negativity.

id: 0806.4167
title: Useful transformations: from ion-laser interactions to master equations
authors: R. Ju¨¢rez-Amaro, J.M. Vargas-Mart¨ªnez, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Laser Physics 18, 344 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4167
abstract: We show set of transformations which allow to obtain analytic solutions in several quantum-optical problems. We start with the ion-laser (time dependent) interaction, continue with the problem of a slow atom interacting with a quantized field to end with a master equation that describes losses. In all cases it is shown that one may find useful transformations that simplify the problems.

id: 0806.4170
title: Hamiltonian approach for the wave packet dynamics: Beyond Gaussian wave functions
authors: Andrey Pereverzev, Eric R. Bittner
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, 2215 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4170
abstract: It is well known that the Gaussian wave packet dynamics can be written in terms of Hamilton equations in the extended phase space that is twice as large as in the corresponding classical system. We construct several generalizations of this approach that include non-Gausssian wave packets. These generalizations lead to the further extension of the phase space while retaining the Hamilton structure of the equations of motion. We compare the Gaussian dynamics with these non-Gaussian extensions for a particle with the quartic potential.

id: 0806.4195
title: The Quantum Internet
authors: H. J. Kimble
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures Higher resolution versions of the figures can be downloaded from the following link: this http URL
journal: Editorially revised version published as Nature, vol. 453, pp. 1023-1030 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4195
abstract: Quantum networks offer a unifying set of opportunities and challenges across exciting intellectual and technical frontiers, including for quantum computation, communication, and metrology. The realization of quantum networks composed of many nodes and channels requires new scientific capabilities for the generation and characterization of quantum coherence and entanglement. Fundamental to this endeavor are quantum interconnects that convert quantum states from one physical system to those of another in a reversible fashion. Such quantum connectivity for networks can be achieved by optical interactions of single photons and atoms, thereby enabling entanglement distribution and quantum teleportation between nodes.

id: 0806.4207
title: Characterization of Collective Gaussian Attacks and Security of Coherent-State Quantum Cryptography
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Samuel L. Braunstein, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure + 1 Table, REVteX. More descriptive title
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 200504 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4207
abstract: We provide a simple description of the most general collective Gaussian attack in continuous-variable quantum cryptography. In the scenario of such general attacks, we analyze the asymptotic secret-key rates which are achievable with coherent states, joint measurements of the quadratures and one-way classical communication.

id: 0806.4211
title: Teleportation using squeezed single photons
authors: Agata M Branczyk, T. C. Ralph
comments: 9 pages, 12 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 78, 052304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4211
abstract: We present an analysis of squeezed single photon states as a resource for teleportation of coherent state qubits and propose proof-of-principle experiments for the demonstration of coherent state teleportation and entanglement swapping. We include an analysis of the squeezed vacuum as a simpler approximation to small-amplitude cat states. We also investigate the effects of imperfect sources and inefficient detection on the proposed experiments.

id: 0806.4214
title: Quantum Coding with Entanglement
authors: Mark M. Wilde
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, University of Southern California, 2008, 193 pages, 2 tables, 12 figures, 9 limericks; Available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4214
abstract: Quantum error-correcting codes will be the ultimate enabler of a future quantum computing or quantum communication device. This theory forms the cornerstone of practical quantum information theory. We provide several contributions to the theory of quantum error correction--mainly to the theory of "entanglement-assisted" quantum error correction where the sender and receiver share entanglement in the form of entangled bits (ebits) before quantum communication begins. Our first contribution is an algorithm for encoding and decoding an entanglement-assisted quantum block code. We then give several formulas that determine the optimal number of ebits for an entanglement-assisted code. The major contribution of this thesis is the development of the theory of entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional coding. A convolutional code is one that has memory and acts on an incoming stream of qubits. We explicitly show how to encode and decode a stream of information qubits with the help of ancilla qubits and ebits. Our entanglement-assisted convolutional codes include those with a Calderbank-Shor-Steane structure and those with a more general structure. We then formulate convolutional protocols that correct errors in noisy entanglement. Our final contribution is a unification of the theory of quantum error correction--these unified convolutional codes exploit all of the known resources for quantum redundancy.

id: 0806.4216
title: Universal entangler with photon pairs in arbitrary states
authors: Bing He, Yuhang Ren, Janos A. Bergou
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43, 025502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4216
abstract: We propose a setup that transforms a photon pair in arbitrary rank-four mixed state, which could also be unknown, to a Bell state. The setup involves two linear optical circuits processing the individual photons and a parity gate working with weak cross-Kerr nonlinearity. By the photon number resolving detection on one of the output quantum bus or communication beams, the setup will realize a near deterministic transformation to a Bell state for every entangling attempt. With the simple threshold detectors, on the other hand, the system can still reach a considerable success probability of 0.5 per try. The decoherence effect caused by photon absorption losses in the operation is also discussed.

id: 0806.4218
title: Electromagnetically-Induced-Transparency-Like Effect in the Degenerate Triple-Resonant Optical Parametric Amplifier
authors: Chenguang Ye, Jing Zhang
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, appear in Opt. Lett
journal: Opt. Lett. 33,1911 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4218
abstract: We investigate experimentally the absorptive and dispersive properties of triple-resonant optical parametric amplifier OPA for the degenerate subharmonic field. In the experiment, the subharmonic field is utilized as the probe field and the harmonic wave as the pump field. We demonstrate that EIT-like effect can be simulated in the triple-resonant OPA when the cavity line-width for the harmonic wave is narrower than that for the subharmonic field. However, this phenomenon can not be observed in a double-resonant OPA. The narrow transparency window appears in the reflected field. Especially, in the measured dispersive spectra of triple-resonant OPA, a very steep variation of the dispersive profile of the subharmonic field is observed, which can result in a slow light as that observed in atomic EIT medium.

id: 0806.4228
title: Evolution equation of entanglement for general bipartite systems
authors: Zong-Guo Li, S.M. Fei, Z. D. Wang, W. M. Liu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 79, 024303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4228
abstract: We explore how entanglement of a general bipartite system evolves when one subsystem undergoes the action of an arbitrary noisy channel. It is found that the dynamics of entanglement for general bipartite systems under the influence of such channel is determined by the channel's action on the maximally entangled state, which includes as a special case the results for two-qubit systems [Nature Physics 4, 99 (2008)]. In particular, for multi-qubit or qubit-qudit systems, we get a general factorization law for evolution equation of entanglement with one qubit being subject to a noisy channel. Our results can help the experimental characterization of entanglement dynamics.

id: 0806.4254
title: Observation of time correlation function of multimode two-photon pairs on a rubidium D$_2$ line
authors: Fu-Yuan Wang, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted for publication on 29 April 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4254
abstract: We report the generation of a type-I multimode two-photon state on a rubidium D$_2$ line (780 nm) using periodically poled KTiOPO$_4$ crystals. With a degenerate optical parametric oscillator far below threshold, we observe an oscillatory correlation function, the cross-correlation between two photons shows a cavity bandwidth of about 7.8 MHz. We also use a Fabry-P$\acute{\rm{e}}$rot etalon to filter its most longitudinal modes and observe its time correlation function. The experimental data are well fitted to theoretical curves. This system could be utilized for demonstrating storage and retrieval of narrowband photons in Rb atomic ensembles, which is important for long-distance quantum communication.

id: 0806.4258
title: Photon echoes generated by reversing magnetic field gradients in a rubidium vapour
authors: G. H¨¦tet, M. Hosseini, B.M. Sparkes, D. Oblak, P. K. Lam, B. C. Buchler
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 33, Issue 20, pp. 2323-2325 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4258
abstract: We propose a photon echo quantum memory scheme using detuned Raman coupling to long lived ground states. In contrast to previous 3-level schemes based on controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening that use sequences of $\pi$-pulses, the scheme does not require accurate control of the coupling dynamics to the ground states. We present a proof of principle experimental realization of our proposal using rubidium atoms in a warm vapour cell. The Raman resonance line is broadened using a magnetic field that varies linearly along the direction of light propagation. Inverting the magnetic field gradient rephases the atomic dipoles and re-emits the light pulse in the forward direction.

id: 0806.4260
title: Quantum interference of multimode two-photon pairs with a Michelson interferometer
authors: Fu-Yuan Wang, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4260
abstract: We experimentally observe the two-photon interference of multimode photon pairs produced by an optical parametric oscillator far below threshold via a michelson interferometer, which shows a multipeaked structure. We find that the correlation function when the interferometer is unbalanced is clearly dependent on the path difference and phase between two interfering beams, but the shape of correlation function in balanced case is independent on the small path difference and phase beside the height. All experimental results are well agreed with the theoretical prediction.

id: 0806.4289
title: Deterministic Dense Coding and Faithful Teleportation with Multipartite Graph States
authors: Ching-Yu Huang, I-Ching Yu, Feng-Li Lin, Li-Yi Hsu
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure;v2. discussions improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4289
abstract: We proposed novel schemes to perform the deterministic dense coding and faithful teleportation with multipartite graph states. We also find the sufficient and necessary condition of a viable graph state for the proposed scheme. That is, for the associated graph, the reduced adjacency matrix of the Tanner-type subgraph between senders and receivers should be invertible.

id: 0806.4324
title: Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage in Tm$^{3+}$:YAG
authors: A. L. Alexander, R. Lauro, A. Louchet, T. Chaneli¨¨re, J. L. Le Gou?t
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 144407 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4324
abstract: We report on the experimental demonstration of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) in a Tm$^{3+}$:YAG crystal. Tm$^{3+}$:YAG is a promising material for use in quantum information processing applications, but as yet there are few experimental investigations of coherent Raman processes in this material. We investigate the effect of inhomogeneous broadening and Rabi frequency on the transfer efficiency and the width of the two-photon spectrum. Simulations of the complete Tm$^{3+}$:YAG system are presented along with the corresponding experimental results.

id: 0806.4335
title: Schroedingers equation with gauge coupling derived from a continuity equation
authors: U. Klein
comments: 25 pages, no figures
journal: Found.Phys.,vol.39, 964-995 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4335
abstract: We consider a statistical ensemble of particles of mass m, which can be described by a probability density \rho and a probability current \vec{j} of the form \rho \nabla S/m. The continuity equation for \rho and \vec{j} implies a first differential equation for the basic variables \rho and S. We further assume that this system may be described by a linear differential equation for a complex state variable \chi. Using this assumptions and the simplest possible Ansatz \chi(\rho,S) Schroedingers equation for a particle of mass m in an external potential V(q,t) is deduced. All calculations are performed for a single spatial dimension (variable q) Using a second Ansatz \chi(\rho,S,q,t) which allows for an explict q,t-dependence of \chi, one obtains a generalized Schroedinger equation with an unusual external influence described by a time-dependent Planck constant. All other modifications of Schroeodingers equation obtained within this Ansatz may be eliminated by means of a gauge transformation. Thus, this second Ansatz may be considered as a generalized gauging procedure. Finally, making a third Ansatz, which allows for an non-unique external q,t-dependence of \chi, one obtains Schroedingers equation with electromagnetic potentials \vec{A}, \phi in the familiar gauge coupling form. A possible source of the non-uniqueness is pointed out.

id: 0806.4337
title: Low-density, one dimensional quantum gases in the presence of a localised attractive potential
authors: J. Goold, D. O Donoghue, Th. Busch
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4337
abstract: We investigate low-density, quantum-degenerate gases in the presence of a localised attractive potential in the centre of a one-dimensional harmonic trap.The attractive potential is modelled using a parameterised delta-function, allowing us to determine all single particle eigenfunctions analytically. From these we calculate the ground state many-body properties for a system of spin-polarised fermions and, using the Bose-Fermi mapping theorem, extend the results to strongly interacting bosonic systems. We discuss the single particle densities, the pair correlation functions, the reduced single particle density matrices and the momentum distributions as a function of particle number and strength of the attractive point potential. As an important experimental observable, we place special emphasis on spatial coherence properties of such samples.

id: 0806.4339
title: Non-demolishing measurement of a spin qubit state via Fano resonance
authors: V. Vyurkov, L. Gorelik, A. Orlikovsky
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4339
abstract: Fano resonances are proposed to perform a measurement of a spin state (whether it is up or down) of a single electron in a quantum dot via a spin-polarized current in an adjacent quantum wire. Rashba-like spin-orbit interaction in a quantum dot prohibits spin-flip events (Kondo-like phenomenon). That ensures the measurement to be non-demolishing.

id: 0806.4425
title: On the Geodesic Nature of Wegner's Flow
authors: Yuichi Itto, Sumiyoshi Abe
comments: 8 pages, no figures. The version published in Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics 42, 377 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4425
abstract: Wegner's method of flow equations offers a useful tool for diagonalizing a given Hamiltonian and is widely used in various branches of quantum physics. Here, generalizing this method, a condition is derived, under which the corresponding flow of a quantum state becomes geodesic in a submanifold of the projective Hilbert space, independently of specific initial conditions. This implies the geometric optimality of the present method as an algorithm of generating stationary states. The result is illustrated by analyzing some physical examples.

id: 0806.4429
title: Quantum Mechanics and Leggett's Inequalities
authors: Miguel Socolovsky
comments: 7 pages, no figures. A missing global sign in the r.h.s. of eq. (4.10) in section 4 of version 1 (v1) invalidates the conclusion of that particular section, which is then suppressed in the present version (v2)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4429
abstract: We show that when the proper description of the behaviour of individual photons or spin 1/2 particles in a spherically symmetric entangled pair is done through the use of the density matrix, the Leggett's inequality is not violated by quantum mechanics.

id: 0806.4437
title: Intrinsic properties of quantum systems
authors: P. Hajicek, J. Tolar
comments: 25 pages, no figure. Changes: More discussion on the relation of the paper to work of others + three references added
journal: Found. Phys.39:411-432, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4437
abstract: A new realist interpretation of quantum mechanics is introduced. Quantum systems are shown to have two kinds of properties: the usual ones described by values of quantum observables, which are called extrinsic, and those that can be attributed to individual quantum systems without violating standard quantum mechanics, which are called intrinsic. The intrinsic properties are classified into structural and conditional. A systematic and self-consistent account is given. Much more statements become meaningful than any version of Copenhagen interpretation would allow. A new approach to classical properties, quantum cosmology and measurement problem is suggested. A quantum definition of classical states is proposed.

id: 0806.4448
title: Network Synthesis of Linear Dynamical Quantum Stochastic Systems
authors: H. I. Nurdin, M. R. James, A. C. Doherty
comments: Revised and corrected version, published in SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 2009
journal: SIAM J. Control Optim., 48(4), pp. 2686-2718, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4448
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to develop a synthesis theory for linear dynamical quantum stochastic systems that are encountered in linear quantum optics and in phenomenological models of linear quantum circuits. In particular, such a theory will enable the systematic realization of coherent/fully quantum linear stochastic controllers for quantum control, amongst other potential applications. We show how general linear dynamical quantum stochastic systems can be constructed by assembling an appropriate interconnection of one degree of freedom open quantum harmonic oscillators and, in the quantum optics setting, discuss how such a network of oscillators can be approximately synthesized or implemented in a systematic way from some linear and non-linear quantum optical elements. An example is also provided to illustrate the theory.

id: 0806.4462
title: Diffusion Waves in Sub-Quantum Thermodynamics: Resolution of Einstein's 'Particle-in-a-box' Objection
authors: Gerhard Groessing
comments: 30 pages; several corrections, including nomenclature
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4462
abstract: Einstein's objection against both the completeness claim of the orthodox version and the Bohmian interpretation of quantum theory, using the example of a 'particle in a box', is reiterated and resolved. This is done by proving that the corresponding quantum mechanical states exactly match classical analogues. The latter are shown to result from the recently elaborated physics of diffusion waves.

id: 0806.4472
title: Properties of Classical and Quantum Jensen-Shannon Divergence
authors: Jop Bri?t, Peter Harremo?s
comments: 13 pages, LaTeX, expanded contents, added references and corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4472
abstract: Jensen-Shannon divergence (JD) is a symmetrized and smoothed version of the most important divergence measure of information theory, Kullback divergence. As opposed to Kullback divergence it determines in a very direct way a metric; indeed, it is the square of a metric. We consider a family of divergence measures (JD_alpha for alpha>0), the Jensen divergences of order alpha, which generalize JD as JD_1=JD. Using a result of Schoenberg, we prove that JD_alpha is the square of a metric for alpha lies in the interval (0,2], and that the resulting metric space of probability distributions can be isometrically embedded in a real Hilbert space. Quantum Jensen-Shannon divergence (QJD) is a symmetrized and smoothed version of quantum relative entropy and can be extended to a family of quantum Jensen divergences of order alpha (QJD_alpha). We strengthen results by Lamberti et al. by proving that for qubits and pure states, QJD_alpha^1/2 is a metric space which can be isometrically embedded in a real Hilbert space when alpha lies in the interval (0,2]. In analogy with Burbea and Rao's generalization of JD, we also define general QJD by associating a Jensen-type quantity to any weighted family of states. Appropriate interpretations of quantities introduced are discussed and bounds are derived in terms of the total variation and trace distance.

id: 0806.4476
title: Can We Make a Bohmian Electron Reach the Speed of Light, at Least for One Instant?
authors: Daniel V. Tausk, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 17 pages LaTeX, no figures; v4 minor additions and improvements
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 122306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4476
abstract: In Bohmian mechanics, a version of quantum mechanics that ascribes world lines to electrons, we can meaningfully ask about an electron's instantaneous speed relative to a given inertial frame. Interestingly, according to the relativistic version of Bohmian mechanics using the Dirac equation, a massive particle's speed is less than or equal to the speed of light, but not necessarily less. That is, there are situations in which the particle actually reaches the speed of light---a very non-classical behavior. That leads us to the question of whether such situations can be arranged experimentally. We prove a theorem, Theorem 5, implying that for generic initial wave functions the probability that the particle ever reaches the speed of light, even if at only one point in time, is zero. We conclude that the answer to the question is no. Since a trajectory reaches the speed of light whenever the quantum probability current psi-bar gamma^mu psi is a lightlike 4-vector, our analysis concerns the current vector field of a generic wave function and may thus be of interest also independently of Bohmian mechanics. The fact that the current is never spacelike has been used to argue against the possibility of faster-than-light tunnelling through a barrier, a somewhat similar question. Theorem 5, as well as a more general version provided by Theorem 6, are also interesting in their own right. They concern a certain property of a function psi: R^4 --> C^4 that is crucial to the question of reaching the speed of light, namely being transverse to a certain submanifold of C^4 along a given compact subset of space-time. While it follows from the known transversality theorem of differential topology that this property is generic among smooth functions psi: R^4 --> C^4, Theorem 5 asserts that it is also generic among smooth solutions of the Dirac equation.

id: 0806.4490
title: Pseudo supersymmetric partners for the generalized Swanson model
authors: A. Sinha, P. Roy
comments: 22 pages, to be published in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4490
abstract: New non Hermitian Hamiltonians are generated, as isospectral partners of the generalized Swanson model, viz., $ H_- = {\cal{A}}^{\dagger} {\cal{A}} + \alpha {\cal{A}} ^2 + \beta {\cal{A}}^{\dagger 2} $, where $ \alpha \beta $ are real constants, with $ \alpha \neq \beta $, and ${\cal{A}}^{\dagger}$ and ${\cal{A}}$ are generalized creation and annihilation operators. It is shown that the initial Hamiltonian $H_-$, and its partner $H_+$, are related by pseudo supersymmetry, and they share all the eigen energies except for the ground state. This pseudo supersymmetric extension enlarges the class of non Hermitian Hamiltonians $H_{\pm}$, related to their respective Hermitian counterparts $h_{\pm}$, through the same similarity transformation operator $\rho$ : $ H_{\pm} = \rho ^{-1} h_{\pm} \rho $. The formalism is applied to the entire class of shape-invariant models.

id: 0806.4517
title: Quantum chaotic system as a model of decohering environment
authors: Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Published version!
journal: EPL, Vol. 85, (2009) 50006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4517
abstract: As a model of decohering environment, we show that quantum chaotic system behave equivalently as many-body system. An approximate formula for the time evolution of the reduced density matrix of a system interacting with a quantum chaotic environment is derived. This theoretical formulation is substantiated by the numerical study of decoherence of two qubits interacting with a quantum chaotic environment modeled by a chaotic kicked top. Like the many-body model of environment, the quantum chaotic system is efficient decoherer, and it can generate entanglement between the two qubits which have no direct interaction.

id: 0806.4548
title: Efficient and robust adiabatic universal quantum computation using STIRAP on a qubit chain
authors: Toshio Ohshima
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4548
abstract: It is shown that efficient and robust universal quantum computation is possible using the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage with a qubit chain as a pointer register.

id: 0806.4552
title: Entanglement and intra-molecular cooling in biological systems? - A quantum thermodynamic perspective
authors: Hans J. Briegel, Sandu Popescu
comments: Section 2 expanded. A few references added. 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4552
abstract: We discuss the possibility of existence of entanglement in biological systems. Our arguments centre on the fact that biological systems are thermodynamic open driven systems far from equilibrium. In such systems error correction can occur which may maintain entanglement despite high levels of de-coherence. We also discuss the possibility of cooling (classical or quantum) at molecular level.

id: 0806.4568
title: Exploiting Quench Dynamics in Spin Chains for Distant Entanglement and Quantum Communication
authors: Hannu Wichterich, Sougato Bose
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 060302(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4568
abstract: We suggest a method of entangling significantly the distant ends of a spin chain using minimal control. This entanglement between distant individual spins is brought about solely by exploiting the dynamics of an initial mixed state with Neel order if the lattice features nearest-neighbor XXZ interaction. There is no need to control single spins or to have engineered couplings or to pulse globally. The method only requires an initial nonadiabatic switch (a quench) between two Hamiltonians followed by an evolution under the second Hamiltonian. The scheme is robust to randomness of the couplings as well as the finiteness of an appropriate quench and could potentially be implemented in various experimental setups, ranging from atoms in optical lattices to Josephson-junction arrays.

id: 0806.4577
title: A New Causal Interpretation of EPR-B Experiment
authors: Michel Gondran, Alexandre Gondran
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4577
abstract: In this paper we study a two-step version of EPR-B experiment, the Bohm version of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen experiment. Its theoretical resolution in space and time enables us to refute the classic "impossibility" to decompose a pair of entangled atoms into two distinct states, one for each atom. We propose a new causal interpretation of the EPR-B experiment where each atom has a position and a spin while the singlet wave function verifies the two-body Pauli equation. In conclusion we suggest a physical explanation of non-local influences, compatible with Einstein's point of view on relativity.

id: 0806.4624
title: Transverse spatial and frequency properties of two-photon states generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: A. G. da Costa Moura, W. A. T. Nogueira, S. P. Walborn, C. H. Monken
comments: 11 pages 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4624
abstract: We present a detailed account of the two-photon states generated by SPDC in both type I and type II phase matching, including the effects of anisotropy of the nonlinear medium and the frequency spread of the down-converted fields. Accurate as well as simplified expressions are derived for type I and type II phase matching in the context of Fourier Optics. The main results are compared with experimental data available in the literature, showing good agreement in all cases.

id: 0806.4633
title: Quantum Fidelity and Thermal Phase Transitions
authors: H. T. Quan, F. M. Cucchietti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 031101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4633
abstract: We study the quantum fidelity approach to characterize thermal phase transitions. Specifically, we focus on the mixed-state fidelity induced by a perturbation in temperature. We consider the behavior of fidelity in two types of second-order thermal phase transitions (based on the type of non-analiticity of free energy), and we find that usual fidelity criteria for identifying critical points is more applicable to the case of $\lambda$ transitions (divergent second derivatives of free energy). Our study also reveals limitations of the fidelity approach: sensitivity to high temperature thermal fluctuations that wash out information about the transition, and inability of fidelity to distinguish between crossovers and proper phase transitions. In spite of these limitations, however, we find that fidelity remains a good pre-criterion for testing thermal phase transitions, which we use to analyze the non-zero temperature phase diagram of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model.

id: 0806.4646
title: An optimum Hamiltonian for non-Hermitian quantum evolution and the complex Bloch sphere
authors: Alexander I Nesterov
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 373, 3629-3636 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4646
abstract: For a quantum system governed by a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian, we studied the problem of obtaining an optimum Hamiltonian that generates nonunitary transformations of a given initial state into a certain final state in the smallest time $\tau$. The analysis is based on the relationship between the states of the two-dimensional subspace of the Hilbert space spanned by the initial and final states and the points of the two-dimensional complex Bloch sphere.

id: 0806.4664
title: IKT approach for quantum hydrodynamic equations
authors: M. Tessarotto, M. Ellero, P. Nicolini
comments: Contributed paper at RGD26 (Kyoto, Japan, July 2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4664
abstract: A striking feature of standard quantum mechanics is its analogy with classical fluid dynamics. In particular it is well known the Schr\"{o}dinger equation can be viewed as describing a classical compressible and non-viscous fluid, described by two (quantum) fluid fields ${\rho ,% \mathbf{V}} $, to be identified with the quantum probability density and velocity field. This feature has suggested the construction of a phase-space hidden-variable description based on a suitable inverse kinetic theory (IKT; Tessarotto et al., 2007). The discovery of this approach has potentially important consequences since it permits to identify the classical dynamical system which advances in time the quantum fluid fields. This type of approach, however requires the identification of additional fluid fields. These can be generally identified with suitable directional fluid temperatures $T_{QM,i}$ (for $i=1,2,3$), to be related to the expectation values of momentum fluctuations appearing in the Heisenberg inequalities. Nevertheless the definition given previously for them (Tessarotto et al., 2007) is non-unique. In this paper we intend to propose a criterion, based on the validity of a constant H-theorem, which provides an unique definition for the quantum temperatures.

id: 0806.4701
title: Basics of Quantum Mechanics, Geometrization and some Applications to Quantum Information
authors: J. Clemente-Gallardo, G. Marmo
comments: AmsLaTeX, 37 pages, 8 figures. This paper is an expanded version of some lectures delivered by one of us (G. M.) at the ``Advanced Winter School on the Mathematical Foundation of Quantum Control and Quantum Information'' which took place at Castro Urdiales (Spain), February 11-15, 2008
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.5:989-1032,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4701
abstract: In this paper we present a survey of the use of differential geometric formalisms to describe Quantum Mechanics. We analyze Schr\"odinger framework from this perspective and provide a description of the Weyl-Wigner construction. Finally, after reviewing the basics of the geometric formulation of quantum mechanics, we apply the methods presented to the most interesting cases of finite dimensional Hilbert spaces: those of two, three and four level systems (one qubit, one qutrit and two qubit systems). As a more practical application, we discuss the advantages that the geometric formulation of quantum mechanics can provide us with in the study of situations as the functional independence of entanglement witnesses.

id: 0806.4725
title: Role of quantum coherence in chromophoric energy transport
authors: Patrick Rebentrost, Masoud Mohseni, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, included static disorder, correlated environment
journal: Journal of Physical Chemistry B 113, 9942 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4725
abstract: The role of quantum coherence and the environment in the dynamics of excitation energy transfer is not fully understood. In this work, we introduce the concept of dynamical contributions of various physical processes to the energy transfer efficiency. We develop two complementary approaches, based on a Green's function method and energy transfer susceptibilities, and quantify the importance of the Hamiltonian evolution, phonon-induced decoherence, and spatial relaxation pathways. We investigate the Fenna-Matthews-Olson protein complex, where we find a contribution of coherent dynamics of about 10% and of relaxation of 80%.

id: 0806.4752
title: An alternative calculation of the Casimir forces between birefringent plates
authors: T. G. Philbin, U. Leonhardt
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78 (2008) 042107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4752
abstract: Barash has calculated the Casimir forces between parallel birefringent plates with optical axes parallel to the plate boundaries [Izv. Vyssh. Uchebn.\ Zaved., Radiofiz., {\bf 12}, 1637 (1978)]. The interesting new feature of the solution compared to the case of isotropic plates is the existence of a Casimir torque which acts to line up the optical axes if they are not parallel or perpendicular. The forces were found from a calculation of the Helmholtz free energy of the electromagnetic field. Given the length of the calculations in this problem and hopes of an experimental measurement of the torque, it is important to check the results for the Casimir forces by a different method. We provide this check by calculating the electromagnetic stress tensor between the plates and showing that the resulting forces are in agreement with those found by Barash.

id: 0806.4754
title: Avoiding entanglement sudden-death via measurement feedback control in a quantum network
authors: Naoki Yamamoto, Hendra I. Nurdin, Matthew R. James, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 11 pages
journal: Physical Review A 78, 042339 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4754
abstract: In this paper, we consider a linear quantum network composed of two distantly separated cavities that are connected via a one-way optical field. When one of the cavity is damped and the other is undamped, the overall cavity state obtains a large amount of entanglement in its quadratures. This entanglement however immediately decays and vanishes in a finite time. That is, entanglement sudden-death occurs. We show that the direct measurement feedback method proposed by Wiseman can avoid this entanglement sudden-death, and further, enhance the entanglement. It is also shown that the entangled state under feedback control is robust against signal loss in a realistic detector, indicating the reliability of the proposed direct feedback method in practical situations.

id: 0806.4756
title: Practical schemes for the measurement of angular-momentum covariance matrices in quantum optics
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Alfredo Luis
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. References added and minor changes. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 043814 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4756
abstract: We develop practical schemes for the measurement of the covariance matrix for intrinsic angular-momentum variables in quantum optics. We particularize this approach to two-beam polarimetry and interferometry, as well as to ensembles of two-level atoms interacting with classical fields. We show the practical advantages of noisy simultaneous measurements.

id: 0806.4788
title: Generation of Narrow-Band Polarization-Entangled Photon Pairs for Atomic Quantum Memories
authors: Xiao-Hui Bao, Yong Qian, Jian Yang, Han Zhang, Zeng-Bing Chen, Tao Yang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4788
abstract: We report an experimental realization of a narrow-band polarization-entangled photon source with a linewidth of 9.6 MHz through cavity-enhanced spontaneous parametric down-conversion. This linewidth is comparable to the typical linewidth of atomic ensemble based quantum memories. Single-mode output is realized by setting a reasonable cavity length difference between different polarizations, using of temperature controlled etalons and actively stabilizing the cavity. The entangled property is characterized with quantum state tomography, giving a fidelity of 94% between our state and a maximally entangled state. The coherence length is directly measured to be 32 m through two-photon interference.

id: 0806.4827
title: 2-D color code quantum computation
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: 9 pages, 15 figures, shorter and simpler version achieving universality with the aid of state distillation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042310 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4827
abstract: We describe in detail how to perform universal fault-tolerant quantum computation on a 2-D color code, making use of only nearest neighbor interactions. Three defects (holes) in the code are used to represent logical qubits. Triple defect logical qubits are deformed into isolated triangular sections of color code to enable transversal implementation of all single logical qubit Clifford group gates. CNOT is implemented between pairs of triple defect logical qubits via braiding.

id: 0806.4840
title: Decoherence of coupled qubit system
authors: Toshifumi Itakura
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4840
abstract: In this study, we examine decoherence of qubits system coupled independently by using influence functional. We especially concentrated on the effect of qubit flip process. We examine the zero-dimensional qubit and one-dimensional qubits system coupled with multi-band one-dimensional system. The qubit flip process leads to oscillation and self-excitation. We also obtained the time evolution of von Neumann entropy.The pure dephasing channel indicates entropy. These results show quantum brown motion. We present the numerical calculation of the entropy for random telegraph noise. This indicates that the slower random telegraph noise leads to more mixed state.Thus for charge qubit, the background charge fluctuation is important.

id: 0806.4843
title: A quantum theory for a total system including a reference system
authors: Wen-ge Wang
comments: 17 pages and 1 figure. The manuscript has been completely written with substantial changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4843
abstract: The standard formalism of quantum mechanics is extended to describe a total system including the reference system (RS), with respect to which the total system is described. The RS is assumed to be able to act as a measuring apparatus, with measurement records given by the values of some reference properties of the RS. In order to describe the total system, we define a frame of reference (FR) as a set of states that can be used to express all other states of the total system. The theory is based on four basic postulates, which have, loosely speaking, the following contents. (i) A reference property of a RS has a definite value and is sufficiently stable in the FR directly related to the reference property. (ii) States of the total system are associated with vectors in the Hilbert space. (iii) Schr\"odinger equation is the dynamical law in each valid FR. (iv) Under certain condition a property of a system can be regarded as a reference property; vector descriptions of the total system given in different FRs of the same RS may have a probabilistic relationship like in Born's rule.

id: 0806.4852
title: Dissipation and entanglement dynamics for two interacting qubits coupled to independent reservoirs
authors: Matteo Scala, Rosanna Migliore, Antonino Messina
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4852
abstract: We derive the master equation of a system of two coupled qubits by taking into account their interaction with two independent bosonic baths. Important features of the dynamics are brought to light, such as the structure of the stationary state at general temperatures and the behaviour of the entanglement at zero temperature, showing the phenomena of sudden death and sudden birth as well as the presence of stationary entanglement for long times. The model here presented is quite versatile and can be of interest in the study of both Josephson junction architectures and cavity-QED.

id: 0806.4855
title: Scalable Ellipsoidal Classification for Bipartite Quantum States
authors: David A. Herrera-Mart¨ª
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables. Revised version, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4855
abstract: The Separability Problem is approached from the perspective of Ellipsoidal Classification. A Density Operator of dimension N can be represented as a vector in a real vector space of dimension $N^{2}- 1$, whose components are the projections of the matrix onto some selected basis. We suggest a method to test separability, based on successive optimization programs. First, we find the Minimum Volume Covering Ellipsoid that encloses a particular set of properly vectorized bipartite separable states, and then we compute the Euclidean distance of an arbitrary vectorized bipartite Density Operator to this ellipsoid. If the vectorized Density Operator falls inside the ellipsoid, it is regarded as separable, otherwise it will be taken as entangled. Our method is scalable and can be implemented straightforwardly in any desired dimension. Moreover, we show that it allows for detection of Bound Entangled States

id: 0806.4861
title: Total correlations and mutual information
authors: Zbigniew Walczak
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2009) 1818-1822
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4861
abstract: In quantum information theory it is generally accepted that quantum mutual information is an information-theoretic measure of total correlations of a bipartite quantum state. We argue that there exist quantum states for which quantum mutual information cannot be considered as a measure of total correlations. Moreover, for these states we propose a different way of quantifying total correlations.

id: 0806.4875
title: Why devil plays dice?
authors: Andrzej Dragan
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4875
abstract: Principle of Relativity involving all, not only subluminal, inertial frames leads to the disturbance of causal laws in a way known from the fundamental postulates of Quantum Theory. We show how quantum indeterminacy based on complex probability amplitudes with superposition principle emerges from Special Relativity.

id: 0806.4897
title: Suppression of non-adiabatic phases by a non-Markovian environment: easier observation of Berry phases
authors: Robert S. Whitney
comments: 14 pages - v4 Extended and improved presentation (complete change of method and results w.r.t. version 1)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032108 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4897
abstract: We consider a two-level system coupled to a highly non-Markovian environment when the coupling axis rotates with time. The environment may be quantum (for example a bosonic bath or a spin bath) or classical (such as classical noise). We show that an Anderson orthogonality catastrophe suppresses transitions, so that the system's instantaneous eigenstates (parallel and anti-parallel to the coupling axis) can adiabatically follow the rotation. These states thereby acquire Berry phases; geometric phases given by the area enclosed by the coupling axis. Unlike in earlier proposals for environment-induced Berry phases, here there is little decoherence, so one does not need a decoherence-free subspace. Indeed we show that this Berry phase should be much easier to observe than a conventional one, because it is not masked by either the dynamic phase or the leading non-adiabatic phase. The effects that we discuss should be observable in any qubit device where one can drive three parameters in the Hamiltonian with strong man-made noise.

id: 0806.4935
title: Generalization of the Born rule
authors: Bruno Galvan
comments: 29 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Physical Review A, a section added and some minor improvements
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042113 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4935
abstract: A new formulation of quantum mechanics is proposed based on a new principle that can be considered a generalization of the Born rule. The principle is composed of a mathematical expression and an associated interpretation, and establishes a correlation between the positions of a particle at two different times. Under reasonable conditions for the wave function, this correlation implies that the particles follow quasi-classical trajectories. It is also shown that the Born rule is equivalent to a particular case of the new principle. These features allow the principle to provide a unified explanation of the results of the statistical experiments and of the quasi-classical macroscopic evolution. There is a strong analogy between the new quantum principle and a probabilistic principle which is necessary to derive empirical predictions from the mathematical formalism of probability theory. This principle is referred to by some authors as Cournot's principle, while other authors use the equivalent notion of typicality. In this paper probability theory and quantum mechanics are formulated in such a way as to explicitly include the two principles and to emphasize the very similar conceptual structure of the two theories.

id: 0806.4954
title: Encoding Subsystem Codes
authors: Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli, Andreas Klappenecker
comments: 31 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4954
abstract: In this paper we investigate the encoding of operator quantum error correcting codes i.e. subsystem codes. We show that encoding of subsystem codes can be reduced to encoding of a related stabilizer code making it possible to use all the known results on encoding of stabilizer codes. Along the way we also show how Clifford codes can be encoded. We also show that gauge qubits can be exploited to reduce the encoding complexity.

id: 0806.0039
title: Ground state of low dimensional dipolar gases: linear and zigzag chains
authors: G. E. Astrakharchik, Giovanna Morigi, Gabriele De Chiara, J. Boronat
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 063622 (2008); Virtual Journal of Nanoscale Science & Technology, vol. 19, Issue 2 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0039
abstract: We study the ground state phase diagram of ultracold dipolar gases in highly anisotropic traps. Starting from a one-dimensional geometry, by ramping down the transverse confinement along one direction, the gas reaches various planar distributions of dipoles. At large linear densities, when the dipolar gas exhibits a crystal-like phase, critical values of the transverse frequency exist below which the configuration exhibits novel transverse patterns. These critical values are found by means of a classical theory, and are in full agreement with classical Monte Carlo simulations. The study of the quantum system is performed numerically with Monte Carlo techniques and shows that the quantum fluctuations smoothen the transition and make it completely disappear in a gas phase. These predictions could be experimentally tested and would allow one to reveal the effect of zero-point motion on self-organized mesoscopic structures of matter waves, such as the transverse pattern of the zigzag chain.

id: 0806.0098
title: Quantum many-body theory of qubit decoherence in a finite-size spin bath
authors: Wen Yang, Ren-bao Liu
comments: 13 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 085315 (2008) (Editors' suggestion)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0098
abstract: Decoherence of a center spin or qubit in a spin bath is essentially determined by the many-body bath evolution. We develop a cluster-correlation expansion (CCE) theory for the spin bath dynamics relevant to the qubit decoherence problem. A cluster correlation term is recursively defined as the evolution of a group of bath spins divided by the cluster correlations of all the subgroups. The so-defined correlation accounts for the authentic collective excitations within a given group. The bath propagator is the product of all possible cluster correlation terms. For a finite-time evolution as in the qubit decoherence problem, a convergent result can be obtained by truncating the expansion up to a certain cluster size. The two-spin cluster truncation of the CCE corresponds to the pair-correlation approximation [PRB 74,195301(2006)]. In terms of the standard linked cluster expansion, a cluster correlation term is the infinite summation of all the connected diagrams with all and only the spins in the group flip-flopped, and thus the expansion is exact whenever converges. When the individual contribution of each higher-order correlation term to the decoherence is small, as the usual case for relatively large baths where the decoherence could complete well within the bath spin flip-flop time, the CCE coincides with the cluster expansion [PRB 74,035322(2006)]. For small baths, however, the qubit decoherence may not complete within the bath spin flip-flop timescale and thus individual higher-order cluster correlations could grow significant. In such cases, only the CCE converges to the exact coherent dynamics of multi-spin clusters. We check the accuracy of the CCE in an exactly solvable spin-chain model.

id: 0806.0359
title: Inconsistencies of a purported probability current in the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory
authors: T.R. Cardoso, L.B. Castro, A.S. de Castro
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:5964-5967,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0359
abstract: The Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau (DKP) equation with a square step potential is used in a simple way with polymorphic purposes. It proves adequate to refuse a proposed new current that is currently interpreted as a probability current,to show that the Klein paradox does exist in the DKP theory and to revise other minor misconceptions diffused in the literature.

id: 0806.0402
title: Black hole entropy from entanglement: A review
authors: Saurya Das, S. Shankaranarayanan, Sourav Sur
comments: Invited Review. To appear in the edited book: Classical and Quantum Gravity Research Progress, Nova Publishers (2008)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0402
abstract: We review aspects of the thermodynamics of black holes and in particular take into account the fact that the quantum entanglement between the degrees of freedom of a scalar field, traced inside the event horizon, can be the origin of black hole entropy. The main reason behind such a plausibility is that the well-known Bekenstein-Hawking entropy-area proportionality -- the so-called `area law' of black hole physics -- holds for entanglement entropy as well, provided the scalar field is in its ground state, or in other minimum uncertainty states, such as a generic coherent state or squeezed state. However, when the field is either in an excited state or in a state which is a superposition of ground and excited states, a power-law correction to the area law is shown to exist. Such a correction term falls off with increasing area, so that eventually the area law is recovered for large enough horizon area. On ascertaining the location of the microscopic degrees of freedom that lead to the entanglement entropy of black holes, it is found that although the degrees of freedom close to the horizon contribute most to the total entropy, the contributions from those that are far from the horizon are more significant for excited/superposed states than for the ground state. Thus, the deviations from the area law for excited/superposed states may, in a way, be attributed to the far-away degrees of freedom. Finally, taking the scalar field (which is traced over) to be massive, we explore the changes on the area law due to the mass. Although most of our computations are done in flat space-time with a hypothetical spherical region, considered to be the analogue of the horizon, we show that our results hold as well in curved space-times representing static asymptotically flat spherical black holes with single horizon.

id: 0806.0414
title: Highly-reduced Fine-structure splitting in InAs/InP quantum dots offering efficient on-demand 1.55 $¦Ì$m entangled photon emitter
authors: Lixin He, Ming Gong, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo, Alex Zunger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0414
abstract: To generate entangled photon pairs via quantum dots (QDs), the exciton fine structure splitting (FSS) must be comparable to the exciton homogeneous line width. Yet in the (In,Ga)As/GaAs QD, the intrinsic FSS is about a few tens $\mu$eV. To achieve photon entanglement, it is necessary to Cherry-pick a sample with extremely small FSS from a large number of samples, or to apply strong in-plane magnetic field. Using theoretical modeling of the fundamental causes of FSS in QDs, we predict that the intrinsic FSS of InAs/InP QDs is an order of magnitude smaller than that of InAs/GaAs dots, and better yet, their excitonic gap matches the 1.55 $\mu$m fiber optic wavelength, therefore offer efficient on-demand entangled photon emitters for long distance quantum communication.

id: 0806.0441
title: The parabolic Sturmian-function basis representation of the six-dimensional Coulomb Green's function
authors: S. A. Zaytsev
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0441
abstract: The square integrable basis set representation of the resolvent of the asymptotic three-body Coulomb wave operator in parabolic coordinates is obtained. The resulting six-dimensional Green's function matrix is expressed as a convolution integral over separation constants.

id: 0806.0485
title: Complex and Unpredictable Cardano
authors: Artur Ekert
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, few anecdotes
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0485
abstract: This purely recreational paper is about one of the most colorful characters of the Italian Renaissance, Girolamo Cardano, and the discovery of two basic ingredients of quantum theory, probability and complex numbers. The paper is dedicated to Giuseppe Castagnoli on the occasion of his 65th birthday. Back in the early 1990s, Giuseppe instigated a series of meetings at Villa Gualino, in Torino, which brought together few scattered individuals interested in the physics of computation. By doing so he effectively created and consolidated a vibrant and friendly community of researchers devoted to quantum information science. Many thanks for that!

id: 0806.0707
title: Spin Hall Effect in Noncommutative Coordinates
authors: O. F. Dayi, M. Elbistan
comments: 15 pages. Ref. added. Published version
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:1314-1320,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0707
abstract: A semiclassical constrained Hamiltonian system which was established to study dynamical systems of matrix valued non-Abelian gauge fields is employed to formulate spin Hall effect in noncommuting coordinates at the first order in the constant noncommutativity parameter theta . The method is first illustrated by studying the Hall effect on the noncommutative plane in a gauge independent fashion. Then, the Drude model type and the Hall effect type formulations of spin Hall effect are considered in noncommuting coordinates and \theta deformed spin Hall conductivities which they provide are acquired. It is shown that by adjusting \theta different formulations of spin Hall conductivity are accomplished. Hence, the noncommutative theory can be envisaged as an effective theory which unifies different approaches to similar physical phenomena.

id: 0806.0942
title: Photon and polariton fluctuations in arrays of QED-cavities
authors: Davide Rossini, Rosario Fazio, Giuseppe Santoro
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 83, 47011 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.0942
abstract: We propose to detect the Mott insulator-superfluid quantum phase transition in an array of coupled cavities by studying the polariton and photon fluctuations in a block of linear dimension M (in units of the lattice constant of the array). We explicitly show this for a one-dimensional array; the analysis can be however extended to higher dimensions. In the Mott phase polariton fluctuations are independent of the block size. In the superfluid phase they grow logarithmically with M, the prefactor being related to the compressibility of the system. In the case of photon fluctuations, the critical behaviour is encoded in the subleading scaling with the block dimension, while the leading behaviour is linear in M and non-critical. Our results have been obtained by means of the density matrix renormalization group numerical algorithm.

id: 0806.1032
title: State Tomography of a Chain of Qubits Embedded in a Spin Field-Effect Transistor via Repeated Spin-Blockade Measurements on the Edge Qubit
authors: Kazuya Yuasa, Kosuke Okano, Hiromichi Nakazato, Saori Kashiwada, Kanji Yoh
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79 (2009) 075318
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1032
abstract: As a possible physical realization of a quantum information processor, a system with stacked self-assembled InAs quantum dots buried in GaAs in adjacent to the channel of a spin field-effect transistor has been proposed. In this system, only one of the stacked qubits, i.e. the edge qubit (the qubit closest to the channel), is measurable via "spin-blockade measurement." It is shown that the state tomography of the whole chain of the qubits is still possible even under such a restricted accessibility. The idea is to make use of the entangling dynamics of the qubits. A recipe for the two-qubit system is explicitly constructed and the effect of an imperfect fidelity of the measurement is clarified. A general scheme for multiple qubits based on repeated measurements is also presented.

id: 0806.1295
title: Giant formation rates of ultracold molecules via Feshbach Optimized Photoassociation
authors: Philippe Pellegrini, Marko Gacesa, Robin C?t¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1295
abstract: Ultracold molecules offer a broad variety of applications, ranging from metrology to quantum computing. However, forming "real" ultracold molecules, {\it i.e.} in deeply bound levels, is a very difficult proposition. Here, we show how photoassociation in the vicinity of a Feshbach resonance enhance molecular formation rates by several orders of magnitude. We illustrate this effect in heteronuclear systems, and find giant rate coefficients even in deeply bound levels. We also give a simple analytical expression for the photoassociation rates, and discuss future applications of the Feshbach Optimized Photoassociation, or FOPA, technique.

id: 0806.1431
title: A prediction of string theory testable at low energies
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 4 pages, few statements sharpened
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1431
abstract: Superstring theory involves a single unifying superstring current for bosons and fermions that in the low-energy limit generalizes the Klein-Gordon (not the Dirac) current. By adopting a relativistic-covariant probabilistic interpretation of the current, the low-energy limit implies electron interference patterns that, under certain conditions, differ from those predicted by the Dirac current.

id: 0806.1441
title: Current noise of a superconducting single electron transistor coupled to a resonator
authors: T. J. Harvey, D. A. Rodrigues, A. D. Armour
comments: Reduced quality figures for arXiv version; v2 minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 78, 024513 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1441
abstract: We analyze the current and zero-frequency current noise properties of a superconducting single electron resonator (SSET) coupled to a resonator, focusing on the regime where the SSET is operated in the vicinity of the Josephson quasiparticle resonance. We consider a range of coupling strengths and resonator frequencies to reflect the fact that in practice the system can be tuned to quite a high degree with the resonator formed either by a nanomechanical oscillator or a superconducting stripline fabricated in close proximity to the SSET. For very weak couplings the SSET acts on the resonator like an effective thermal bath. In this regime the current characteristics of the SSET are only weakly modified by the resonator. Using a mean field approach, we show that the current noise is nevertheless very sensitive to the correlations between the resonator and the SSET charge. For stronger couplings, the SSET can drive the resonator into limit cycle states where self-sustained oscillation occurs and we find that regions of well-defined bistability exist. Dynamical transitions into and out of the limit cycle state are marked by strong fluctuations in the resonator energy, but these fluctuations are suppressed within the limit cycle state. We find that the current noise of the SSET is strongly influenced by the fluctuations in the resonator energy and hence should provide a useful indicator of the resonator's dynamics.

id: 0806.1479
title: Exciton BCS or BEC state in a semiconductor bilayer system?
authors: E. H. Martins Ferreira, Tathiana Moreira, M. C. Nemes
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1479
abstract: We calculate the off-diagonal long range order (ODLRO) terms of the exciton--exciton correlation function of a semiconductor bilayer system with Coulomb interaction and a transverse magnetic field. We show that the formation of a BEC state is very sensitive to the width of the interaction in momentum space. This dependence is analytically derived and represents the key physical ingredient for the formation (or not) of an exciton condensate state.

id: 0806.1614
title: Finite-gap systems, tri-supersymmetry and self-isospectrality
authors: Francisco Correa, Vit Jakubsky, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 40 pages, published version
journal: J.Phys.A41:485303,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1614
abstract: We show that an n-gap periodic quantum system with parity-even smooth potential admits $2^n-1$ isospectral super-extensions. Each is described by a tri-supersymmetry that originates from a higher-order differential operator of the Lax pair and two-term nonsingular decompositions of it; its local part corresponds to a spontaneously partially broken centrally extended nonlinear N=4 supersymmetry. We conjecture that any finite-gap system having antiperiodic singlet states admits a self-isospectral tri-supersymmetric extension with the partner potential to be the original one translated for a half-period. Applying the theory to a broad class of finite-gap elliptic systems described by a two-parametric associated Lame equation, our conjecture is supported by the explicit construction of the self-isospectral tri-supersymmetric pairs. We find that the spontaneously broken tri-supersymmetry of the self-isospectral periodic system is recovered in the infinite period limit.

id: 0806.1627
title: Atom-atom correlations and relative number squeezing in dissociation of spatially inhomogeneous molecular condensates
authors: Magnus Ogren, K. V. Kheruntsyan
comments: Minor corrections, final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 011602(R) (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1627
abstract: We study atom-atom correlations and relative number squeezing in the dissociation of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) of molecular dimers made of either bosonic or fermionic atom pairs. Our treatment addresses the role of the spatial inhomogeneity of the molecular BEC on the strength of correlations in the short time limit. We obtain explicit analytic results for the density-density correlation functions in momentum space, and show that the correlation widths and the degree of relative number squeezing are determined merely by the shape of the molecular condensate.

id: 0806.1853
title: Scaling law for topologically ordered systems at finite temperature
authors: S. Iblisdir, D. Perez-Garcia, M. Aguado, J. Pachos
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 134303 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1853
abstract: Understanding the behaviour of topologically ordered lattice systems at finite temperature is a way of assessing their potential as fault-tolerant quantum memories. We compute the natural extension of the topological entanglement entropy for T > 0, namely the subleading correction $I_{\textrm{topo}}$ to the area law for mutual information. Its dependence on T can be written, for Abelian Kitaev models, in terms of information-theoretic functions and readily identifiable scaling behaviour, from which the interplay between volume, temperature, and topological order, can be read. These arguments are extended to non-Abelian quantum double models, and numerical results are given for the $D(S_3)$ model, showing qualitative agreement with the Abelian case.

id: 0806.1904
title: Effective mapping of spin-1 chains onto integrable fermionic models. A study of string and Neel correlation functions
authors: C. Degli Esposti Boschi, M. Di Dio, G. Morandi, M. Roncaglia
comments: 28 pages, plain LaTeX, 2 EPS figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 055002
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1904
abstract: We derive the dominant contribution to the large-distance decay of correlation functions for a spin chain model that exhibits both Haldane and Neel phases in its ground state phase diagram. The analytic results are obtained by means of an approximate mapping between a spin-1 anisotropic Hamiltonian onto a fermionic model of noninteracting Bogolioubov quasiparticles related in turn to the XY spin-1/2 chain in a transverse field. This approach allows us to express the spin-1 string operators in terms of fermionic operators so that the dominant contribution to the string correlators at large distances can be computed using the technique of Toeplitz determinants. As expected, we find long-range string order both in the longitudinal and in the transverse channel in the Haldane phase, while in the Neel phase only the longitudinal order survives. In this way, the long-range string order can be explicitly related to the components of the magnetization of the XY model. Moreover, apart from the critical line, where the decay is algebraic, we find that in the gapped phases the decay is governed by an exponential tail multiplied by algebraic factors. As regards the usual two points correlation functions, we show that the longitudinal one behaves in a 'dual' fashion with respect to the transverse string correlator, namely both the asymptotic values and the decay laws exchange when the transition line is crossed. For the transverse spin-spin correlator, we find a finite characteristic length which is an unexpected feature at the critical point. We also comment briefly the entanglement features of the original system versus those of the effective model. The goodness of the approximation and the analytical predictions are checked versus density-matrix renormalization group calculations.

id: 0806.1944
title: Fermionic vacuum polarization by a composite topological defect in higher-dimensional space-time
authors: E. R. Bezerra de Mello, A. A. Saharian
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:045021,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1944
abstract: We investigate the vacuum polarization effects associated with a charged massless spin-1/2 field in a higher-dimensional space-time, induced by a composite topological defect. The defect is constituted by a global monopole living on a three-brane and two-dimensional conical space transverse to the latter. In addition, we assume the presence of an extra magnetic flux along the core of the conical space. The heat kernel and the Feynman Green function are presented in the form of a sum of two terms. The first one corresponds to the contribution coming from the bulk with global monopole in the absence of conical structure of the orthogonal two-space, and the second one is induced by this structure and the magnetic flux. We explicitly evaluate the part in the vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor induced by the flux carrying conical structure. As in pure cosmic string geometries, only the fractional part of the ratio of the magnetic flux to flux quantum leads to non-trivial effects. The vacuum energy-momentum tensor is an even function of this parameter. We show that for strong gravitational fields corresponding to large values of the solid angle deficit, the effects induced by the conical structure and flux are exponentially suppressed.

id: 0806.1945
title: Complexity in atoms: an approach with a new analytical density
authors: Jaime Sanudo, Ricardo Lopez-Ruiz
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Information Theory (cs.IT); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1945
abstract: In this work, the calculation of complexity on atomic systems is considered. In order to unveil the increasing of this statistical magnitude with the atomic number due to the relativistic effects, recently reported in [A. Borgoo, F. De Proft, P. Geerlings, K.D. Sen, Chem. Phys. Lett., 444 (2007) 186], a new analytical density to describe neutral atoms is proposed. This density is inspired in the Tietz potential model. The parameters of this density are determined from the normalization condition and from a variational calculation of the energy, which is a functional of the density. The density is non-singular at the origin and its specific form is selected so as to fit the results coming from non-relativistic Hartree-Fock calculations. The main ingredients of the energy functional are the non-relativistic kinetic energy, the nuclear-electron attraction energy and the classical term of the electron repulsion. The relativistic correction to the kinetic energy and the Weizsacker term are also taken into account. The Dirac and the correlation terms are shown to be less important than the other terms and they have been discarded in this study. When the statistical measure of complexity is calculated in position space with the analytical density derived from this model, the increasing trend of this magnitude as the atomic number increases is also found.

id: 0806.2074
title: Periodic Graphs
authors: Chris Godsil
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure. Fixes errors and typos
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2074
abstract: Let $X$ be a graph on $n$ vertices with with adjacency matrix $A$ and let $H(t)$ denote the matrix-valued function $\exp(iAt)$. If $u$ and $v$ are distinct vertices in $X$, we say perfect state transfer}from $u$ to $v$ occurs if there is a time $\tau$ such that $|H(\tau)_{u,v}|=1$. If $u\in V(X)$ and there is a time $\sg$ such that $|H(\sg)_{u,u}|=1$, we say $X$ is periodic at $u$ with period $\sg$. We show that if perfect state transfer from $u$ to $v$ occurs at time $\tau$, then $X$ is periodic at both $u$ and $v$ with period $2\tau$. We extend previous work by showing that a regular graph with at least four distinct eigenvalues is periodic with respect to some vertex if and only if its eigenvalues are integers. We show that, for a class of graphs $X$ including all vertex-transitive graphs, if perfect state transfer occurs at time $\tau$, then $H(\tau)$ is a scalar multiple of a permutation matrix of order two with no fixed points. Using certain Hadamard matrices, we construct a new infinite family of graphs on which perfect state transfer occurs.

id: 0806.2145
title: Hidden entanglement at the Planck scale: loss of unitarity and the information paradox
authors: Michele Arzano, Alioscia Hamma, Simone Severini
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX, no figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A25:437-445,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2145
abstract: We discuss how relaxing the requirement of locality for quantum fields can equip the Hilbert space of the theory with a richer structure in its multi-particle sector. A physical consequence is the emergence of a "planckian" mode-entanglement, invisible to an observer that cannot probe the Planck scale. To the same observer, certain unitary processes would appear non-unitary. We show how entanglement transfer to the additional degrees of freedom can provide a potential way out of the black hole information paradox.

id: 0806.2236
title: Negative differential conductivity in far-from-equilibrium quantum spin chains
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati, Tomaz Prosen, Davide Rossini
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Published version
journal: Eurphys. Lett. 85, 37001 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2236
abstract: We show that, when a finite anisotropic Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain in the gapped regime is driven far from equilibrium, oppositely polarized ferromagnetic domains build up at the edges of the chain, thus suppressing quantum spin transport. As a consequence, a negative differential conductivity regime arises, where increasing the driving decreases the current. The above results are explained in terms of magnon localization and are shown to be structurally stable against breaking of integrability.

id: 0806.2378
title: Hidden order in bosonic gases confined in one dimensional optical lattices
authors: L. Amico, G. Mazzarella, S. Pasini, F.S. Cataliotti
comments: 5 pages; 1 eps figure. Revised version, to be published in New. J. Phys
journal: New J.Phys.12:013002,2010
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2378
abstract: We analyze the effective Hamiltonian arising from a suitable power series expansion of the overlap integrals of Wannier functions for confined bosonic atoms in a 1d optical lattice. For certain constraints between the coupling constants, we construct an explicit relation between such an effective bosonic Hamiltonian and the integrable spin-$S$ anisotropic Heisenberg model. Therefore the former results to be integrable by construction. The field theory is governed by an anisotropic non linear $\sigma$-model with singlet and triplet massive excitations; such a result holds also in the generic non-integrable cases. The criticality of the bosonic system is investigated. The schematic phase diagram is drawn. Our study is shedding light on the hidden symmetry of the Haldane type for one dimensional bosons.

id: 0806.2427
title: Magnetic interactions of cold atoms with anisotropic conductors
authors: T. David, Y. Japha, V. Dikovsky, R. Salem, C. Henkel, R. Folman
comments: Selected as a Highlight paper in the European Physical Journal D
journal: Euro. Phys. J. D. 48, 321-332 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2427
abstract: We analyze atom-surface magnetic interactions on atom chips where the magnetic trapping potentials are produced by current carrying wires made of electrically anisotropic materials. We discuss a theory for time dependent fluctuations of the magnetic potential, arising from thermal noise originating from the surface. It is shown that using materials with a large electrical anisotropy results in a considerable reduction of heating and decoherence rates of ultra-cold atoms trapped near the surface, of up to several orders of magnitude. The trap loss rate due to spin flips is expected to be significantly reduced upon cooling the surface to low temperatures. In addition, the electrical anisotropy significantly suppresses the amplitude of static spatial potential corrugations due to current scattering within imperfect wires. Also the shape of the corrugation pattern depends on the electrical anisotropy: the preferred angle of the scattered current wave fronts can be varied over a wide range. Materials, fabrication, and experimental issues are discussed, and specific candidate materials are suggested.

id: 0806.2468
title: Vacuum Stress and Closed Paths in Rectangles, Pistons, and Pistols
authors: S. A. Fulling, L. Kaplan, K. Kirsten, Z. H. Liu, K. A. Milton
comments: 45 pages, 12 figures. V.2 has minor clarifications, additions, and corrections; v.3 has still more reformulations of conclusions, and updated references
journal: J.Phys.A42:155402,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2468
abstract: Rectangular cavities are solvable models that nevertheless touch on many of the controversial or mysterious aspects of the vacuum energy of quantum fields. This paper is a thorough study of the two-dimensional scalar field in a rectangle by the method of images, or closed classical (or optical) paths, which is exact in this case. For each point r and each specularly reflecting path beginning and ending at r, we provide formulas for all components of the stress tensor T_{\mu\nu}(r), for all values of the curvature coupling constant \xi and all values of an ultraviolet cutoff parameter. Arbitrary combinations of Dirichlet and Neumann conditions on the four sides can be treated. The total energy is also investigated, path by path. These results are used in an attempt to clarify the physical reality of the repulsive (outward) force on the sides of the box predicted by calculations that neglect both boundary divergences and the exterior of the box. Previous authors have studied "piston" geometries that avoid these problems and have found the force to be attractive. We consider a "pistol" geometry that comes closer to the original problem of a box with a movable lid. We find again an attractive force, although its origin and detailed behavior are somewhat different from the piston case. However, the pistol (and the piston) model can be criticized for extending idealized boundary conditions into short distances where they are physically implausible. Therefore, it is of interest to see whether leaving the ultraviolet cutoff finite yields results that are more plausible. We then find that the force depends strongly on a geometrical parameter; it can be made repulsive, but only by forcing that parameter into the regime where the model is least convincing physically.

id: 0806.2524
title: How Do Schr?dinger's Cats Die?
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 4 figures, 12 pages
journal: J. Low Temp. Phys. 146, 263 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2524
abstract: Recent experiments with superconducting qubits are motivated by the goal of fabricating a quantum computer, but at the same time they illuminate the more fundamental aspects of quantum mechanics. In this paper we analyze the physics of switching current measurements from the point of view of macroscopic quantum mechanics.

id: 0806.2541
title: Quantum decoherence and gravitational waves
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Brahim Lamine, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud, Paulo Maia Neto
comments: 7 pages
journal: in Beyond the Quantum, Proceedings Leiden 2006, Eds. Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen, V. Spicka, B. Mehmani, M.J. Aghdami, A.Yu. Khrennikov, World Scientific, Singapore (2007) 125-134
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2541
abstract: The quite different behaviors exhibited by microscopic and macroscopic systems with respect to quantum interferences suggest the existence of a borderline beyond which quantum systems loose their coherences and can be described classically. Gravitational waves, generated within our galaxy or during the cosmic expansion, constitute a universal environment susceptible to lead to such a quantum decoherence mechanism. We assess this idea by studying the quantum decoherence due to gravitational waves on typical microscopic and macoscopic systems, namely an atom interferometer (HYPER) and the Earth-Moon system. We show that quantum interferences remain unaffected in the former case and that they disappear extremely rapidly in the latter case. We obtain the relevant parameters which, besides the ratio of the system's mass to Planck mass, characterize the loss of quantum coherences.

id: 0806.2564
title: Non-Hermitian quantum mechanics in non-commutative space
authors: Pulak Ranjan Giri, P Roy
comments: 5 pages, revised version
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C60:157-161,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2564
abstract: We study non Hermitian quantum systems in noncommutative space as well as a \cal{PT}-symmetric deformation of this space. Specifically, a \mathcal{PT}-symmetric harmonic oscillator together with iC(x_1+x_2) interaction is discussed in this space and solutions are obtained. It is shown that in the \cal{PT} deformed noncommutative space the Hamiltonian may or may not possess real eigenvalues depending on the choice of the noncommutative parameters. However, it is shown that in standard noncommutative space, the iC(x_1+x_2) interaction generates only real eigenvalues despite the fact that the Hamiltonian is not \mathcal{PT}-symmetric. A complex interacting anisotropic oscillator system has also been discussed.

id: 0806.2611
title: Conformal symmetry and quantum localization in space-time
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Serge Reynaud
comments: 9 pages
journal: in XXVI Workshop on Geometrical Methods in Physics, Bialowieza 2007, AIP Conference Proceedings, Eds P. Kielanowski,A. Odzijewicz, M. Schlichenmaier, T. Voronov, New York (2007) 61-72
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2611
abstract: The classical procedures which define the relativistic notion of space-time can be implemented in the framework of Quantum Field Theory. Only relying on the conformal symmetries of field propagation, time-frequency transfer and localization lead to the definition of time-frequency references and positions in space-time as quantum observables. Quantum positions have a non vanishing commutator identifying with spin, both observables characterizing quantum localization in space-time. Frame transformations to accelerated frames differ from their classical counterparts. Conformal symmetry nevertheless allows to extend the covariance rules underlying the formalism of general relativity under an algebraic form suiting the quantum framework.

id: 0806.2661
title: Entanglement entropy of two dimensional systems and holography
authors: Georgios Michalogiorgakis
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure: v2 typos fixed, references and comments added
journal: JHEP 0812:068,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2661
abstract: In this note a new method for computing the entanglement entropy of a CFT holographically is explored. It consists of finding a bulk background with a boundary metric that has the conical singularities needed to compute the entanglement entropy in the usual QFT definition. An explicit calculation is presented for d=2.

id: 0806.2786
title: Time-Resolved Measurement of a Charge Qubit
authors: Georg M. Reuther, David Zueco, Peter H?nggi, Sigmund Kohler
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 033602 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2786
abstract: We propose a scheme for monitoring coherent quantum dynamics with good time-resolution and low backaction, which relies on the response of the considered quantum system to high-frequency ac driving. An approximate analytical solution of the corresponding quantum master equation reveals that the phase of an outgoing signal, which can directly be measured in an experiment with lock-in technique, is proportional to the expectation value of a particular system observable. This result is corroborated by the numerical solution of the master equation for a charge qubit realized with a Cooper-pair box, where we focus on monitoring coherent oscillations.

id: 0806.2862
title: Microscopic diagonal entropy and its connection to basic thermodynamic relations
authors: Anatoli Polkovnikov
comments: revised and expanded as published, clarified common misconceptions about additivity of the entropy
journal: Annals Phys.326:486-499,2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2862
abstract: We define a diagonal entropy (d-entropy) for an arbitrary Hamiltonian system as $S_d=-\sum_n \rho_{nn}\ln \rho_{nn}$ with the sum taken over the basis of instantaneous energy states. In equilibrium this entropy coincides with the conventional von Neumann entropy $S_n=-{\rm Tr}\, \rho\ln\rho$. However, in contrast to $S_n$, the d-entropy is not conserved in time in closed Hamiltonian systems. If the system is initially in stationary state then in accord with the second law of thermodynamics the d-entropy can only increase or stay the same. We also show that the d-entropy can be expressed through the energy distribution function and thus it is measurable, at least in principle. Under very generic assumptions of the locality of the Hamiltonian and non-integrability the d-entropy becomes a unique function of the average energy in large systems and automatically satisfies the fundamental thermodynamic relation. This relation reduces to the first law of thermodynamics for quasi-static processes. The d-entropy is also automatically conserved for adiabatic processes. We illustrate our results with explicit examples and show that $S_d$ behaves consistently with expectations from thermodynamics.

id: 0806.2865
title: Boson Hubbard model with weakly coupled Fermions
authors: R. M. Lutchyn, S. Tewari, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; final version as published in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 220504(R) (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2865
abstract: Using an imaginary-time path integral approach, we develop the perturbation theory suited to the boson Hubbard model, and apply it to calculate the effects of a dilute gas of spin-polarized fermions weakly interacting with the bosons. The full theory captures both the static and the dynamic effects of the fermions on the generic superfluid-insulator phase diagram. We find that, in a homogenous system described by a single-band boson Hubbard Hamiltonian, the intrinsic perturbative effect of the fermions is to generically suppress the insulating lobes and to enhance the superfluid phase.

id: 0806.2880
title: Exact results for Casimir interactions between dielectric bodies: The weak-coupling or van der Waals Limit
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Prachi Parashar, Jef Wagner
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.101:160402,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2880
abstract: In earlier papers we have applied multiple scattering techniques to calculate Casimir forces due to scalar fields between different bodies described by delta function potentials. When the coupling to the potentials became weak, closed-form results were obtained. We simplify this weak-coupling technique and apply it to the case of tenuous dielectric bodies, in which case the method involves the summation of van der Waals (Casimir-Polder) interactions. Once again exact results for finite bodies can be obtained. We present closed formulas describing the interaction between spheres and between cylinders, and between an infinite plate and a retangular slab of finite size. For such a slab, we consider the torque acting on it, and find non-trivial equilibrium points can occur.

id: 0806.3042
title: Nonlinear random gravity. I. Stochastic gravitational waves and spontaneous conformal fluctuations due to the quantum vacuum
authors: Charles H.-T. Wang, Paolo M. Bonifacio, Robert Bingham, J. Tito Mendonca
comments: 19 pages, two-column revtex4 format
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3042
abstract: We investigate the problem of metric fluctuations in the presence of the vacuum fluctuations of matter fields and critically assess the usual assertion that vacuum energy implies a Planckian cosmological constant. A new stochastic classical approach to the quantum fluctuations of spacetime is developed. The work extends conceptually Boyer's random electrodynamics to a theory of random gravity but has a considerably richer structure for inheriting nonlinearity from general relativity. Attention is drawn to subtleties in choosing boundary conditions for metric fluctuations in relation to their dynamical consequences. Those compatible with the observed Lorentz invariance must allow for spontaneous conformal fluctuations, in addition to stochastic gravitational waves due to zero point gravitons. This is implemented through an effective metric defined in terms of the random spacetime metric modulo a fluctuating conformal factor. It satisfies an effective Einstein equation coupled to an effective stress-energy tensor incorporating gravitational self energy of metric fluctuations as well as matter fields. The effective Einstein equation is expanded up to second order nonlinearity. A UV-cutoff is introduced whose specific value, however, does not enter into the resulting description of random gravity. The averaged effective metric satisfies the empty space Einstein equation with an effective cosmological constant. This vanishes when only the massless matter fields are included. More generally, a finite effective cosmological constant compatible with the observational constraints can be obtained as long as the bare masses of the massive matter fields are nearly zero, or the conformal invariance of matter is restored at some high energy scale.

id: 0806.3059
title: Entanglement spectrum in one-dimensional systems
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, Alexandre Lefevre
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, typos corrected, Refs added
journal: Phys. Rev A 78, 032329 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3059
abstract: We derive the distribution of eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix of a block of length l in a one-dimensional system in the scaling regime. The resulting "entanglement spectrum" is described by a universal scaling function depending only on the central charge of the underlying conformal field theory. This prediction is checked against exact results for the XX chain. We also show how the entanglement gap closes when l is large.

id: 0806.3143
title: Evolution of fragmented states
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 4 pages
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 150, 032079 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3143
abstract: We consider the problem of evolution of the many-body state of a weakly interacting system of bosons in an initially fragmented (Fock) state. We show that the state at any time can be expressed as a continuous superposition of an infinite number of Gross-Pitaevskii states.

id: 0806.3148
title: Measurement-induced entanglement of two superconducting qubits
authors: Jian Li, K. Chalapat, G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 150, 022051 (2009).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3148
abstract: We study the problem of two superconducting quantum qubits coupled via a resonator. If only one quanta is present in the system and the number of photons in the resonator is measured with a null result, the qubits end up in an entangled Bell state. Here we look at one source of errors in this quantum nondemolition scheme due to the presence of more than one quanta in the resonator, previous to the measurement. By analyzing the structure of the conditional Hamiltonian with arbitrary number of quanta, we show that the scheme is remarkably robust against these type of errors.

id: 0806.3153
title: Vectors, Cyclic Submodules and Projective Spaces Linked with Ternions
authors: Hans Havlicek, Metod Saniga
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Geometry 92 (2009) 79-90
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3153
abstract: Given a ring of ternions $R$, i. e., a ring isomorphic to that of upper triangular $2\times 2$ matrices with entries from an arbitrary commutative field $F$, a complete classification is performed of the vectors from the free left $R$-module $R^{n+1}$, $n \geq 1$, and of the cyclic submodules generated by these vectors. The vectors fall into $5 + |F|$ and the submodules into 6 distinct orbits under the action of the general linear group $\GL_{n+1}(R)$. Particular attention is paid to {\it free} cyclic submodules generated by \emph{non}-unimodular vectors, as these are linked with the lines of $\PG(n,F)$, the $n$-dimensional projective space over $F$. In the finite case, $F$ = $\GF(q)$, explicit formulas are derived for both the total number of non-unimodular free cyclic submodules and the number of such submodules passing through a given vector. These formulas yield a combinatorial approach to the lines and points of $\PG(n,q)$, $n\geq 2$, in terms of vectors and non-unimodular free cyclic submodules of $R^{n+1}$.

id: 0806.3186
title: Enhancement of sudden death of entanglement for driven qubits
authors: Jian Li, K. Chalapat, G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Low Temp. Phys. 153, 294 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3186
abstract: We study the recently discovered phenomena of sudden death of entanglement for a system of two qubits, each of them independently longitudinally damped by a reservoir and subjected to a continuous driving. We show that driving produces, in the interaction picture, an effective bath that has elements amounting to various extra sources of noise (transverse, thermal squeezed, thermal longitudinal). As a result, the time of sudden death decreases due to driving, which we verify as well by direct numerical calculation. We suggest that this phenomenon can be studied systematically using superconducting qubits driven by microwave fields.

id: 0806.3217
title: Path Integrals for Potential Scattering
authors: R. Rosenfelder
comments: 31 pages, 3 figures, Latex;v2: typo in eq. (4.6) corrected, references updated;v3: misprints corrected, small changes in text following referee comments and PR style conventions (except some idiosyncrasies), matches published version + typo correction in eq. (88)
journal: Phys.Rev.A79:012701,2009
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3217
abstract: Two path integral representations for the $T$-matrix in nonrelativistic potential scattering are derived and proved to produce the complete Born series when expanded to all orders. They are obtained with the help of "phantom" degrees of freedom which take away explicit phases that diverge for asymptotic times. In addition, energy conservation is enforced by imposing a Faddeev-Popov-like constraint in the velocity path integral. These expressions may be useful for attempts to evaluate the path integral in real time and for alternative multiple scattering expansions. Standard and novel eikonal-type high-energy approximations and systematic expansions immediately follow.

id: 0806.3232
title: Understanding Kinetic Energy paradox in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Yuri Kornyushin
comments: A concept of Kinetic Energy in Quantum Mechanics yields non-zero values in cases where there are no flux and motion; this paradox can be explained, using expansion into virtual plane waves
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3232
abstract: A concept of Kinetic Energy in Quantum Mechanics is analyzed. Kinetic Energy is not zero in many cases where there are no motion and flux. This paradox can be understood, using expansion of the wave function in Fourier integral, that is on the basis of virtual plane waves.

id: 0806.3490
title: Controlled quantum stirring of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Moritz Hiller, Tsampikos Kottos, Doron Cohen
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 013602 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3490
abstract: By cyclic adiabatic change of two control parameters of an optical trap one can induce a circulating current of condensed bosons. The amount of particles that are transported per period depends on the "radius" of the cycle, and this dependence can be utilized in order to probe the interatomic interactions. For strong repulsive interaction the current can be regarded as arising from a sequence of Landau-Zener crossings. For weaker interaction one observes either gradual or coherent mega crossings, while for attractive interaction the particles are glued together and behave like a classical ball. For the analysis we use the Kubo approach to quantum pumping with the associated Dirac monopoles picture of parameter space.

id: 0806.3509
title: Tensor-entanglement renormalization group approach to 2D quantum systems
authors: Zheng-Cheng Gu, Michael Levin, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 205116 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3509
abstract: Traditional mean-field theory is a simple generic approach for understanding various phases. But that approach only applies to symmetry breaking states with short-range entanglement. In this paper, we describe a generic approach for studying 2D quantum phases with long-range entanglement (such as topological phases). Our approach is a variational method that uses tensor product states (also known as projected entangled pair states) as trial wave functions. We use a 2D real space RG algorithm to evaluate expectation values in these wave functions. We demonstrate our algorithm by studying several simple 2D quantum spin models.

id: 0806.3510
title: Automatic regularization by quantization in reducible representations of CCR: Point-form quantum optics with classical sources
authors: Marek Czachor, Klaudia Wrzask
comments: 2 eps figures; in v2 notation in Eq. (39) and above Eq. (38) is corrected
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.48:2511-2549,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3510
abstract: Electromagnetic fields are quantized in manifestly covariant way by means of a class of reducible representations of CCR. $A_a(x)$ transforms as a Hermitian four-vector field in Minkowski four-position space (no change of gauge), but in momentum space it splits into spin-1 massless photons (optics) and two massless scalars (similar to dark matter). Unitary dynamics is given by point-form interaction picture, with minimal-coupling Hamiltonian constructed from fields that are free on the null-cone boundary of the Milne universe. SL(2,C) transformations and dynamics are represented unitarily in positive-norm Hilbert space describing $N$ four-dimensional oscillators. Vacuum is a Bose-Einstein condensate of the $N$-oscillator gas. Both the form of $A_a(x)$ and its transformation properties are determined by an analogue of the twistor equation. The same equation guarantees that the subspace of vacuum states is, as a whole, Poincar\'e invariant. The formalism is tested on quantum fields produced by pointlike classical sources. Photon statistics is well defined even for pointlike charges, with UV/IR regularizations occurring automatically as a consequence of the formalism. The probabilities are not Poissonian but of a R\'enyi type with $\alpha=1-1/N$. The average number of photons occurring in Bremsstrahlung splits into two parts: The one due to acceleration, and the one that remains nonzero even if motion is inertial. Classical Maxwell electrodynamics is reconstructed from coherent-state averaged solutions of Heisenberg equations. Static pointlike charges polarize vacuum and produce effective charge densities and fields whose form is sensitive to both the choice of representation of CCR and the corresponding vacuum state.

id: 0806.3602
title: Understanding Hawking radiation in the framework of open quantum systems
authors: Hongwei Yu, Jianlin Zhang
comments: 15 pages, no figures, Revtex4
journal: Phys.Rev.D77:024031,2008; Erratum-ibid.D77:029904,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3602
abstract: We study the Hawking radiation in the framework of open quantum systems by examining the time evolution of a detector (modelled by a two-level atom) interacting with vacuum massless scalar fields. The dynamics of the detector is governed by a master equation obtained by tracing over the field degrees of freedom from the complete system. The nonunitary effects are studied by analyzing the time behavior of a particular observable of the detector, i.e., its admissible state, in the Unruh, Hartle-Hawking, as well as Boulware vacua outside a Schwarzschild black hole. We find that the detector in both the Unruh and Hartle-Hawking vacua would spontaneously excite with a nonvanishing probability the same as what one would obtain if there is thermal radiation at the Hawking temperature from the black hole, thus reproducing the basic results concerning the Hawking effect in the framework of open quantum systems.

id: 0806.3606
title: Strong magnetic coupling between an electronic spin qubit and a mechanical resonator
authors: P. Rabl, P. Cappellaro, M. V. Gurudev Dutt, L. Jiang, J. R. Maze, M. D. Lukin
comments: 
journal: PRB 79, 041302 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3606
abstract: We describe a technique that enables a strong, coherent coupling between a single electronic spin qubit associated with a nitrogen-vacancy impurity in diamond and the quantized motion of a magnetized nano-mechanical resonator tip. This coupling is achieved via careful preparation of dressed spin states which are highly sensitive to the motion of the resonator but insensitive to perturbations from the nuclear spin bath. In combination with optical pumping techniques, the coherent exchange between spin and motional excitations enables ground state cooling and the controlled generation of arbitrary quantum superpositions of resonator states. Optical spin readout techniques provide a general measurement toolbox for the resonator with quantum limited precision.

id: 0806.3707
title: Spin-resolved quantum-dot resonance fluorescence
authors: A. Nick Vamivakas, Yong Zhao, Chao-Yang Lu, Mete Atature
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 5, 198 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3707
abstract: In the quest for physically realizable quantum information science (QIS) primitives, self-assembled quantum dots (QDs) serve a dual role as sources of photonic (flying) qubits and traps for electron spin; the prototypical stationary qubit. Here we demonstrate the first observation of spin-selective, near background-free and transform-limited photon emission from a resonantly driven QD transition. The hallmark of resonance fluorescence, i.e. the Mollow triplet in the scattered photon spectrum when an optical transition is driven resonantly, is presented as a natural way to spectrally isolate the photons of interest from the original driving field. We go on to demonstrate that the relative frequencies of the two spin-tagged photon states are tuned independent of an applied magnetic field via the spin-selective dynamic Stark effect induced by the very same driving laser. This demonstration enables the realization of challenging QIS proposals such as heralded single photon generation for linear optics quantum computing, spin-photon entanglement, and dipolar interaction mediated quantum logic gates. From a spectroscopy perspective, the spin-selective dynamic Stark effect tunes the QD spin-state splitting in the ground and excited states independently, thus enabling previously inaccessible regimes for controlled probing of mesoscopic spin systems.

id: 0806.3719
title: Accurate determination of tensor network state of quantum lattice models in two dimensions
authors: H. C. Jiang, Z. Y. Weng, T. Xiang
comments: 4 pages 5 figures 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 090603 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3719
abstract: We have proposed a novel numerical method to calculate accurately the physical quantities of the ground state with the tensor-network wave function in two dimensions. We determine the tensor network wavefunction by a projection approach which applies iteratively the Trotter-Suzuki decomposition of the projection operator and the singular value decomposition of matrix. The norm of the wavefunction and the expectation value of a physical observable are evaluated by a coarse grain renormalization group approach. Our method allows a tensor-network wavefunction with a high bond degree of freedom (such as D=8) to be handled accurately and efficiently in the thermodynamic limit. For the Heisenberg model on a honeycomb lattice, our results for the ground state energy and the staggered magnetization agree well with those obtained by the quantum Monte Carlo and other approaches.

id: 0806.3806
title: Chaotic shock waves of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Wenhua Hai, Qianquan Zhu, Shiguang Rong
comments: 5 pages, 1 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 023603 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3806
abstract: It is demonstrated that the well-known Smale-horseshoe chaos exists in the time evolution of the one-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) driven by the time-periodic harmonic or inverted-harmonic potential. A formally exact solution of the time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii equation is constructed, which describes the matter shock waves with chaotic or periodic amplitudes and phases. When the periodic driving is switched off and the number of condensed atoms is conserved, we obtained the exact stationary states and non-stationary states. The former contains the stable non-propagated shock wave, and in the latter the shock wave alternately collapses and grows for the harmonic trapping or propagates with exponentially increased shock-front speed for the antitrapping. It is revealed that existence of chaos play a role for suppressing the blast of matter wave. The results suggest a method for preparing the exponentially accelerated BEC shock waves or the stable stationary states.

id: 0806.3828
title: Kinetic and electrostatic energies in quantum mechanics
authors: Yuri Kornyushin
comments: This paper can help to understand better the topic of kinetic energy and self-action in non-relativistic Quantum Mechanics; Russian version included
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3828
abstract: A concept of kinetic energy in quantum mechanics is analyzed. Kinetic energy is a non-zero positive value in many cases of bound states, when a wave function is a real-valued one and there are no visible motion and flux. This can be understood, using expansion of the wave function into Fourier integral, that is, on the basis of virtual plane waves. The ground state energy of a hydrogen atom is calculated in a special way, regarding explicitly all the terms of electrostatic and kinetic energies. The correct values of the ground state energy and the radius of decay are achieved only when the electrostatic energies of the electron and the proton (self-energies) are not taken into account. This proves again that self-action should be excluded in quantum mechanics. A model of a spherical ball with uniformly distributed charge of particles is considered. It is shown that for a neutral ball (with compensated electric charge) the electrostatic energy is a non-zero negative value in this model. This occurs because the self-energy of the constituting particles should be subtracted. So it shown that the energy of the electric field does not have to be of a positive value in any imaginable problem.

id: 0806.3883
title: Braiding and entanglement in spin networks: a combinatorial approach to topological phases
authors: Zoltan Kadar, Annalisa Marzuoli, Mario Rasetti
comments: Contributed to Quantum 2008: IV workshop ad memoriam of Carlo Novero 19-23 May 2008 - Turin, Italy
journal: Int.J.Quant.Inf. 7, Issue 1 supp. (January 2009) 195-203
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3883
abstract: The spin network quantum simulator relies on the su(2) representation ring (or its q-deformed counterpart at q= root of unity) and its basic features naturally include (multipartite) entanglement and braiding. In particular, q-deformed spin network automata are able to perform efficiently approximate calculations of topological invarians of knots and 3-manifolds. The same algebraic background is shared by 2D lattice models supporting topological phases of matter that have recently gained much interest in condensed matter physics. These developments are motivated by the possibility to store quantum information fault-tolerantly in a physical system supporting fractional statistics since a part of the associated Hilbert space is insensitive to local perturbations. Most of currently addressed approaches are framed within a 'double' quantum Chern-Simons field theory, whose quantum amplitudes represent evolution histories of local lattice degrees of freedom. We propose here a novel combinatorial approach based on `state sum' models of the Turaev-Viro type associated with SU(2)_q-colored triangulations of the ambient 3-manifolds. We argue that boundary 2D lattice models (as well as observables in the form of colored graphs satisfying braiding relations) could be consistently addressed. This is supported by the proof that the Hamiltonian of the Levin-Wen condensed string net model in a surface Sigma coincides with the corresponding Turaev-Viro amplitude on Sigma x [0,1] presented in the last section.

id: 0806.4171
title: Quantum analysis of a nonlinear microwave cavity-embedded dc SQUID displacement detector
authors: P.D. Nation, M.P. Blencowe, E. Buks
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 104516 (2008)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4171
abstract: We carry out a quantum analysis of a dc SQUID mechanical displacement detector, comprising a SQUID with mechanically compliant loop segment, which is embedded in a microwave transmission line resonator. The SQUID is approximated as a nonlinear, current dependent inductance, inducing an external flux tunable, nonlinear Duffing self-interaction term in the microwave resonator mode equation. Motion of the compliant SQUID loop segment is transduced inductively through changes in the external flux threading SQUID loop, giving a ponderomotive, radiation pressure type coupling between the microwave and mechanical resonator modes. Expressions are derived for the detector signal response and noise, and it is found that a soft-spring Duffing self-interaction enables a closer approach to the displacement detection standard quantum limit, as well as cooling closer to the ground state.

id: 0806.4217
title: Resonant Analytic Fields Applied to Generic Multi-state Systems
authors: Toshiya Takami, Hiroshi Fujisaki
comments: 9 pages, 12 figure files, a revised version will appear in J. Mod. Opt
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 56, 822-830 (2009)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4217
abstract: Rotating-wave approximation and its validity in multi-state quantum systems are studied through analytic approach. Their applicability is also verified from the viewpoint of generic states by the use of direct numerical integrations of the Schroedinger equation. First, we introduce an extension of the rotating-wave approximation for multi-state systems. Under an assumption that a smooth transition is induced by the optimal field, we obtain three types of analytic control fields and demonstrate their validity and deficiency for generic systems represented by random matrices. Through the comparison, we conclude that the analytic field based on our coarse-grained approach outperforms the other ones for generic quantum systems with a large number of states. Finally, the further extension of the analytic field is introduced for realistic chaotic systems and its validity is shown in banded random matrix systems.

id: 0806.4455
title: Adiabatic quantum dynamics of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model
authors: Tommaso Caneva, Rosario Fazio, Giuseppe E. Santoro
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures. (v2) minor revisions, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 104426 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4455
abstract: The adiabatic quantum evolution of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model across its quantum critical point is studied. The dynamics is realized by linearly switching the transverse field from an initial large value towards zero and considering different transition rates. We concentrate our attention on the residual energy after the quench in order to estimate the level of diabaticity of the evolution. We discuss a Landau-Zener approximation of the finite size LMG model, that is successful in reproducing the behavior of the residual energy as function of the transition rate in the most part of the regimes considered. We also support our description through the analysis of the entanglement entropy of the evolved state. The system proposed is a paradigm of infinite-range interaction or high-dimensional models.

id: 0806.4583
title: Exact entanglement renormalization for string-net models
authors: Robert Koenig, Ben W. Reichardt, Guifre Vidal
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, v2: updated to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 195123 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4583
abstract: We construct an explicit renormalization group (RG) transformation for Levin and Wen's string-net models on a hexagonal lattice. The transformation leaves invariant the ground-state "fixed-point" wave function of the string-net condensed phase. Our construction also produces an exact representation of the wave function in terms of the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA). This sets the stage for efficient numerical simulations of string-net models using MERA algorithms. It also provides an explicit quantum circuit to prepare the string-net ground-state wave function using a quantum computer.

id: 0806.4590
title: A periodic orbit basis for the Quantum Baker Map
authors: Leormardo Ermann, Marcos Saraceno
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures. v2 has minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78, 036221 (2008)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4590
abstract: A set of quantum states, dynamically related to the classical periodic orbits of a chaotic map, is used as a basis in which the description of the eigenstates of its quantum version is greatly simplified. This set can be improved with the inclusion of short time propagation along the stable and unstable manifolds of the periodic orbits resulting in a construction similar to the scar functions of Vergini (Jour. Phys. A \textbf{33}, (2000) 4709). The average participation ratio is used to quantify the quality of the basis.

id: 0806.4809
title: Counting paths in Bratteli diagrams for SU(2)_k
authors: Toufik Mansour, Simone Severini
comments: 5 pages, 3 LaTeX figures
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4809
abstract: It is known that the Hilbert space dimensionality for quasiparticles in an SU(2)_k Chern-Simons-Witten theory is given by the number of directed paths in certain Bratteli diagrams. We present an explicit formula for these numbers for arbitrary k. This is on the basis of a relation with Dyck paths and Chebyshev polynomials.

id: 0806.4812
title: Diffusion on an Ising chain with kinks
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Toufik Mansour, Simone Severini
comments: 9 pages, 2 LaTeX figures, macro packages qtree.sty and pict2e.sty
journal: Physics Letters A Volume 373, Issue 31, 20 July 2009, Pages 2622-2628
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4812
abstract: We count the number of histories between the two degenerate minimum energy configurations of the Ising model on a chain, as a function of the length n and the number d of kinks that appear above the critical temperature. This is equivalent to count permutations of length n avoiding certain subsequences depending on d. We give explicit generating functions and compute the asymptotics. The setting considered has a role when describing dynamics induced by quantum Hamiltonians with deconfined quasi-particles.

id: 0806.4932
title: Splitting the wavefunctions of two particles in two boxes
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: The following article has been submitted to the American Journal of Physics. After it is published, it will be found at this http URL
journal: American Journal of Physics 77, pp. 140-143 (2009)
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4932
abstract: I consider two identical quantum particles in two boxes. We can split each box, and thereby the wavefunction of each particle, into two parts. When two half boxes are interchanged and combined with the other halves, where do the two particles end up? I solve this problem for two identical bosons and for two identical fermions. The solution can be used to define a measurement that yields some information about the relative phase between the two parts of a split wavefunction.

id: 0806.4955
title: Hot-electron noise suppression in n-Si via the Hall effect
authors: F. Ciccarello, S. Zammito, M. Zarcone
comments: 
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P1042 (2009)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.4955
abstract: We investigate how hot-electron fluctuations in n-type Si are affected by the presence of an intense (static) magnetic field in a Hall geometry. By using the Monte Carlo method, we find that the known Hall-effect-induced redistribution of electrons among valleys can suppress electron fluctuations with a simultaneous enhancement of the drift velocity.

id: 0806.3839
title: N-body Efimov states of trapped bosons
authors: M. Th?gersen, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett., 83 (2008) 30012
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3839
abstract: We demonstrate the possibility of existence of meta-stable N-body Efimov states in trapped Bose systems with large scattering length. We calculate spectra of trapped systems of N=3,4,5,6, and 7 bosons using a stochastic variational method with a restricted correlated Gaussian basis. For each system the calculations reveal a series of Efimov states where the energy and the r.m.s. radius exhibit the characteristic exponential dependence upon the state number. We also estimate the contribution of these states to the recombination rate of Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 0806.2635
title: Atom as a "Dressed" Nucleus
authors: Vladimir Kalitvianski
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, original study results, corrected typos, improved text, revised chapter on electronium, minor improvements
journal: Central European Journal of Physics, V. 7, N. 1, pp. 1-11 (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2635
abstract: It is shown that the electrostatic potential of atomic nucleus "seen" by a fast charged projectile at short distances is smeared quantum mechanically due to nucleus motion around the atomic center of inertia. For example, the "positive charge cloud" size in the Hydrogen ground state is much larger than the proper proton size. It is even bigger for the target atoms in excited initial states. The elastic scattering at large angles is generally weaker than the Rutherford one since the effective potential at short distances is softer than the Colombian one due to a natural "cutoff". In addition, the large angle scattering leads to the target atom excitations due to pushing the nucleus (=> inelastic processes). The Rutherford cross section is in fact the inclusive rather than the elastic one. These results are analogous to the QED ones. The difference and the value of presented below non relativistic atomic calculations is in non perturbatively (exact) nucleus "dressing" that immediately leads to correct physical results and to significant technical simplifications. In these respects the nucleus bound in an atom is a simple but a rather realistic model of a "dressed" charge in the QFT. This idea is briefly demonstrated on the real electron model (electronium) that is made free from infinities.

id: 0806.1568
title: Pseudo spin-orbit coupling of Dirac particles in graphene spintronics
authors: S. G. Tan, M. B. A. Jalil, Dax Enshan Koh, Hwee Kuan Lee, Y. H. Wu
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Magn. Magn. Mater., 322, 2390 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.1568
abstract: We study the pseudo spin-orbital (SO) effects experienced by massive Dirac particles in graphene, which can potentially be of a larger magnitude compared to the conventional Rashba SO effects experienced by particles in a 2DEG semiconductor heterostructure. In order to generate a uniform vertical pseudo SO field, we propose an artificial atomic structure, consisting of a graphene ring and a charged nanodot at the center which produces a large radial electric field. In this structure, a large pseudo SO coupling strength can be achieved by accelerating the Dirac particles around the ring, due to the small energy gap in graphene and the large radial electric field emanating from the charged nanodot. We discuss the theoretical possibility of harnessing the pseudo SO effects in mesoscopic applications, e.g. pseudo spin relaxation and switching.

id: 0806.2449
title: Canonical Group Quantization, Rotation Generators and Quantum Indistinguishability
authors: C. Benavides, A.F. Reyes-Lega
comments: 19 pages
journal: Geometric and Topological Methods for Quantum Field Theory. H. Ocampo, E. Pariguan and S. Paycha (Eds.), pp. 344-367, Cambridge, 2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2449
abstract: Using the method of canonical group quantization, we construct the angular momentum operators associated to configuration spaces with the topology of (i) a sphere and (ii) a projective plane. In the first case, the obtained angular momentum operators are the quantum version of Poincare's vector, i.e., the physically correct angular momentum operators for an electron coupled to the field of a magnetic monopole. In the second case, the obtained operators represent the angular momentum operators of a system of two indistinguishable spin zero quantum particles in three spatial dimensions. We explicitly show how our formalism relates to the one developed by Berry and Robbins. The relevance of the proposed formalism for an advance in our understanding of the spin-statistics connection in non-relativistic quantum mechanics is discussed.

id: 0806.3844
title: On the universality of the Carter and McLenaghan formula
authors: Ion I Cotaescu
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Europhys.Lett.86:20003,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.3844
abstract: It is shown that the formula of the isometry generators of the spinor representation given by Carter and McLenaghan is universal in the sense that this holds for any representation either in local frames or even in natural ones. The point-dependent spin matrices in natural frames are introduced for any tensor representation deriving the covariant form of the isometry generators in these frames.

