id: 0807.0025
title: The Schrodinger equation and negative energies
authors: S. Bruce
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0025
abstract: We present a nonrelativistic wave equation for the electron in (3+1)-dimensions which includes negative-energy eigenstates. We solve this equation for three well-known instances, reobtaining the corresponding Pauli equation (but including negative-energy eigenstates) in each case.

id: 0807.0036
title: Qubit-qunit decomposition of quantum channel
authors: Constantin V. Usenko
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0036
abstract: Problem of classification of parallel quantum channels for information transfer is studied by method of ladder operators. Detailed compared to this http URL presentation of method of ladder operators is given. Examples of paired channel and qubit-qunit pair are added. Relations between eigenvalues of density matrices of composite channel and its subchannels determining presence/absence of entanglement of arbitrary mixed state of channel are obtained.

id: 0807.0037
title: On the quantum polarization and entanglement of superposition of two two-mode coherent states
authors: Joao Batista Rosa Silva, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0037
abstract: This work discuss the entanglement and quantum polarization of superpositions of two-mode coherent states. We use the concurrence to measure their entanglements and the quantum Stokes parameters and the Q function in order to analyze their polarization and degree of polarization.

id: 0807.0046
title: Verification of quantum-domain process using two non-orthogonal states
authors: Ryo Namiki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032333 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0046
abstract: If a quantum channel or process cannot be described by any measure-and-prepare scheme, we may say the channel is in \textit{quantum domain} (QD) since it can transmit quantum correlations. The concept of QD clarifies the role of quantum channel in quantum information theory based on the local-operation-and-classical-communication (LOCC) paradigm: The quantum channel is only useful if it cannot be simulated by LOCC. We construct a simple scheme to verify that a given physical process or channel is in QD by using two non-orthogonal states. We also consider the application for the experiments such as the transmission or storage of quantum optical coherent states, single-photon polarization states, and squeezed vacuum states.

id: 0807.0064
title: Optimal reference states for maximum accessible entanglement under the local particle number superselection rule
authors: G. A. White, J. A. Vaccaro, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, clarified a key result but otherwise mostly minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032109 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0064
abstract: Global conservation laws imply superselection rules (SSR) which restrict the operations that are possible on any given state. Imposing the additional constraint of local operations and classical communication (LOCC) forbids the transfer of quantum systems between spatially separated sites. In the case of particle conservation this imposes a SSR for local particle number. That is, the coherences between subspaces of fixed particle number at each site are not accessible and any state is therefore equivalent to its projection onto these subspaces. The accessible entanglement under the SSR is less than (or equal to) that available in the absence of the SSR. An ancilla can be used as a reference system to increase the amount of accessible entanglement. We examine the relationship between local particle number uncertainty and the accessible entanglement and consider the optimal reference states for recovering entanglement from certain systems. In particular we derive the optimal ancilla state for extracting entanglement for a single shared particle and make steps towards the optimum for general systems.

id: 0807.0065
title: An EPR local theory with a local correlation
authors: W LiMing, Zhilie Tang
comments: 4 pages 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0065
abstract: A local theory with a local correlation is proposed to give an explanation for the contractions in the GHZ-like proofs for Bell's theorem and the violation to Bell's inequality. It agrees with the experimental predictions for the GHZ state of three entangled spins, the Bell state of two entangled spins and one spin state. It is found that the contradiction in the GHZ-like proofs and the violation to Bell's inequality can be attributed to the local correlation.

id: 0807.0067
title: Analytic treatment of CRIB Quantum Memories for Light using Two-level Atoms
authors: J. J. Longdell, G. H¨¦tet, M. J. Sellars, P. K. Lam
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0067
abstract: It has recently been discovered that the optical analogue of a gradient echo in an optically thick material could form the basis of a optical memory that is both completely efficient and noise free. Here we present analytical calculation showing this is the case. There is close analogy between the operation of the memory and an optical system with two beam splitters. We can use this analogy to calculate efficiencies as a function of optical depth for a number of quantum memory schemes based on controlled inhomogeneous broadening. In particular we show that multiple switching leads to a net 100% retrieval efficiency for the optical gradient echo even in the optically thin case.

id: 0807.0104
title: Universal sub-leading terms in ground state fidelity
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Hubert Saleur, Paolo Zanardi
comments: revtex4, 2 pdf figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 092405 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0104
abstract: The study of the (logarithm of the) {\em fidelity} i.e., of the overlap amplitude, between ground states of Hamiltonians corresponding to different coupling constants, provides a valuable insight on critical phenomena. When the parameters are infinitesimally close, it is known that the leading term behaves as $O(L^\alpha)$ ($L$ system size) where $\alpha$ is equal to the spatial dimension $d$ for gapped systems, and otherwise depends on the critical exponents. Here we show that when parameters are changed along a critical manifold, a sub-leading O(1) term can appear. This term, somewhat similar to the topological entanglement entropy, depends only on the system's universality class and encodes non-trivial information about the topology of the system. We relate it to universal $g$ factors and partition functions of (boundary) conformal field theory in $d=1$ and $d=2$ dimensions. Numerical checks are presented on the simple example of the XXZ chain.

id: 0807.0109
title: Single particle nonlocality with completely independent reference states
authors: J. J. Cooper, J. A. Dunningham
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0109
abstract: We describe a scheme to demonstrate the nonlocal properties of a single particle by showing a violation of Bell's inequality. The scheme is experimentally achievable as the only inputs are number states and mixed states, which serve as references to `keep track of the experiment'. These reference states are created completely independently of one another and correlated only after all the measurement results have been recorded. This means that any observed nonlocality must solely be due to the single particle state. All the techniques used are equally applicable to massive particles as to photons and as such this scheme could be used to show the nonlocality of atoms.

id: 0807.0114
title: Noisy quadrature of squeezed light and laser cooling
authors: G.M. Saxena, A. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: Optics communications,267,124-127,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0114
abstract: The laser cooling of atoms is a result of the combined effect of doppler shift, light shift and polarization gradient. These are basically undesirable phenomena. However, they combine gainfully in realizing laser cooling and trapping of the atoms. In this paper we discuss the laser cooling of atoms in the presence of the squeezed light with the decay of atomic dipole moment into noisy quadrature. We show that the higher decay rate of the atomic dipole moment into the noisy quadrature, which is also an undesirable effect, may contribute in realizing larger cooling force vis-a-vis normal laser light.

id: 0807.0121
title: Extreme-value statistics of dimensions determining an observer's branch of the world?
authors: Lutz Polley
comments: v1: 4 pages, no figures; v2: 7 pages, 1 figure, title changed, networks deemphasised, "final draw" elaborated; v3: 9 pages, no figures, title changed again, added references, "final draw" further elaborated; v4: cleared one of listed potential problems (section 6)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0121
abstract: In a many-worlds framework, combining decoherent histories and extreme-value statistics, it is conjectured that the (matrix) dimension of the Hamiltonian processing records and memories near the end of an observer's history is almost entirely located in a single branch of his/her wavefunction.

id: 0807.0126
title: Robustness of noise-present Bell's inequality violation by entangled state
authors: Ivan S. Dotsenko, Volodymyr G. Voronov
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0126
abstract: The robustness of Bell's inequality (in CHSH form) violation by entangled state in the simultaneous presence of colored and white noise in the system is considered. A twophoton polarization state is modeled by twoparameter density matrix. Setting parameter values one can vary the relative fraction of pure entangled Bell's state as well as white and colored noise fractions. Bell's operator-parameter dependence analysis is made. Computational results are compared with experimental data [quant-ph/0511265] and with results computed using a oneparameter density matrix [doi: 10.1103/PhysRevA.72.052112], which one can get as a special case of the model considered in this work.

id: 0807.0130
title: Entanglement of the orbital angular momentum states of the photons generated in a hot atomic ensemble
authors: Qun-Feng Chen, Bao-Sen Shi, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0130
abstract: Quantum protocols will be more efficient with high-dimensional entangled states. Photons carrying orbital angular momenta can be used to create a high-dimensional entangled state. In this paper we experimentally demonstrate the entanglement of the orbital angular momentum between the Stokes and anti-Stokes photons generated in a hot atomic ensemble using spontaneous four-wave-mixing. This experiment also suggests the existence of the entanglement concerned with spatial degrees of freedom between the hot atomic ensemble and the Stokes photon.

id: 0807.0139
title: Control of light speed: From slow light to superluminal light
authors: Qun-Feng Chen, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0139
abstract: A scheme for controlling light speed from slower-than-c to faster-than-c in an atomic system is presented in this paper. The scheme is based on far detuning Raman effect. Two far detuning coupling fields with small frequency difference will produce two absorptive peaks for the probe field in a $\Lambda$ structure, and an optical pump between the two ground states can change the absorptive peaks into enhanced peaks, which makes the normal dispersion between the two peaks change into anomalous dispersion, so the probe field can change from slow light to superluminal propagation.

id: 0807.0177
title: Cavity Enhanced Spin Measurement of an NV Centre in Diamond
authors: A. Young, C.Y. Hu, L. Marseglia, J.P. Harrison, J.L. O'Brien, J.G. Rarity
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0177
abstract: We propose a high efficiency high fidelity measurement of the ground state spin of a single NV center in diamond, using the effects of cavity quantum electrodynamics. The scheme we propose is based in the one dimensional atom or Purcell regime, removing the need for high Q cavities that are challenging to fabricate. The ground state of the NV center consists of three spin levels $^{3}A_{(m=0)}$ and $^{3}A_{(m=\pm1)}$ (the $\pm1$ states are near degenerate in zero field). These two states can undergo transitions to the excited ($^{3}E$) state, with an energy difference of $\approx7-10$ $\mu$eV between the two. By choosing the correct Q factor, this small detuning between the two transitions results in a dramatic change in the intensity of reflected light. We show the change in reflected intensity can allow us to read out the ground state spin using a low intensity laser with an error rate of $\approx5.5\times10^{-3}$, when realistic cavity and experimental parameters are considered. Since very low levels of light are used to probe the state of the spin we limit the number of florescence cycles, thereby limiting the non spin preserving transitions through the intermediate singlet state $^{1}A$.

id: 0807.0193
title: Dimension minimization of a quantum automaton
authors: A. M. Martins
comments: 26 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062326 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0193
abstract: A new model of a Quantum Automaton (QA), working with qubits is proposed. The quantum states of the automaton can be pure or mixed and are represented by density operators. This is the appropriated approach to deal with measurements and dechorence. The linearity of a QA and of the partial trace super-operator, combined with the properties of invariant subspaces under unitary transformations, are used to minimize the dimension of the automaton and, consequently, the number of its working qubits. The results here developed are valid wether the state set of the QA is finite or not. There are two main results in this paper: 1) We show that the dimension reduction is possible whenever the unitary transformations, associated to each letter of the input alphabet, obey a set of conditions. 2) We develop an algorithm to find out the equivalent minimal QA and prove that its complexity is polynomial in its dimension and in the size of the input alphabet.

id: 0807.0208
title: One-shot entanglement generation over long distances in noisy quantum networks
authors: S. Perseguers, L. Jiang, N. Schuch, F. Verstraete, M.D. Lukin, J.I. Cirac, K.G.H. Vollbrecht
comments: revtex4, 6 pages, 5 figures (.eps)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062324 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0208
abstract: We consider the problem of creating a long-distance entangled state between two stations of a network, where neighboring nodes are connected by noisy quantum channels. We show that any two stations can share an entangled pair if the effective probability for the quantum errors is below a certain threshold, which is achieved by using local redundant encoding to preserve the global phase and network-based correction for the bit-flip errors. In contrast to the convensional quantum repeater schemes we are not limited by the memory coherence time, because all quantum operations only use one-way classical communication and can be done in one shot. Meanwhile, the overhead of local resources only increases logarithmically with the size of the network, making our proposal favorable to practical applications of long-distance quantum communication.

id: 0807.0209
title: Monte Carlo Generation of Bohmian Trajectories
authors: T. M. Coffey, R. E. Wyatt, W. C. Schieve
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 335304.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0209
abstract: We report on a Monte Carlo method that generates one-dimensional trajectories for Bohm's formulation of quantum mechanics that doesn't involve differentiation or integration of any equations of motion. At each time, t=n\delta t (n=1,2,3,...), N particle positions are randomly sampled from the quantum probability density. Trajectories are built from the sorted N sampled positions at each time. These trajectories become the exact Bohm solutions in the limits N->\infty and \delta t -> 0. Higher dimensional problems can be solved by this method for separable wave functions. Several examples are given, including the two-slit experiment.

id: 0807.0212
title: Entanglement and the geometry of two qubits
authors: J. E. Avron, O. Kenneth
comments: Added one figure and one reference. Added a key idenity for teleportation
journal: Annals of Physics 324.2 (2009): 470-496
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0212
abstract: Two qubits is the simplest system where the notions of separable and entangled states and entanglement witnesses first appear. We give a three dimensional geometric description of these notions. This description however carries no quantitative information on the measure of entanglement. A four dimensional description captures also the entanglement measure. We give a neat formula for the Bell states which leads to a slick proof of the fundamental teleportation identity. We describe optimal distillation of two qubits geometrically and present a simple geometric proof of the Peres-Horodecki separability criterion.

id: 0807.0254
title: Echo Spectroscopy of Atomic Dynamics in a Gaussian Trap via Phase Imprints
authors: Daniel Oblak, Juergen Appel, Patrick Windpassinger, Ulrich Busk Hoff, Niels Kjaergaard, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 50, 67 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0254
abstract: We report on the collapse and revival of Ramsey fringe visibility when a spatially dependent phase is imprinted in the coherences of a trapped ensemble of two-level atoms. The phase is imprinted via the light shift from a Gaussian laser beam which couples the dynamics of internal and external degrees of freedom for the atoms in an echo spectroscopy sequence. The observed revivals are directly linked to the oscillatory motion of atoms in the trap. An understanding of the effect is important for quantum state engineering of trapped atoms.

id: 0807.0287
title: The Non-Equilibrium Reliability of Quantum Memories
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 4 pages. v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 102, 070503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0287
abstract: The ability to store quantum information without recourse to constant feedback processes would yield a significant advantage for future implementations of quantum information processing. In this paper, limitations of the prototypical model, the Toric code in two dimensions, are elucidated along with a sufficient condition for overcoming these limitations. Specifically, the interplay between Hamiltonian perturbations and dynamically occurring noise is considered as a system in its ground state is brought into contact with a thermal reservoir. This proves that when utilizing the Toric code on N^2 qubits in a 2D lattice as a quantum memory, the information cannot be stored for a time O(N). In contrast, the 2D Ising model protects classical information against the described noise model for exponentially long times. The results also have implications for the robustness of braiding operations in topological quantum computation.

id: 0807.0329
title: Semigroup of positive maps for qudit states and entanglement in tomographic probability representation
authors: V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, A. Simoni, F. Ventriglia
comments: 
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:6490-6497,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0329
abstract: Stochastic and bistochastic matrices providing positive maps for spin states (for qudits) are shown to form semigroups with dense intersection with the Lie groups $IGL(n, \mathbb{R})$ and $GL(n, \mathbb{R})$ respectively. The density matrix of a qudit state is shown to be described by a spin tomogram determined by an orbit of the bistochastic semigroup acting on a simplex. A class of positive maps acting transitively on quantum states is introduced by relating stochastic and quantum stochastic maps in the tomographic setting. Finally, the entangled states of two qubits and Bell inequalities are given in the framework of the tomographic probability representation using the stochastic semigroup properties.

id: 0807.0330
title: An avalanche-photodiode-based photon-number-resolving detector
authors: B. E. Kardynal, Z. L. Yuan, A. J. Shields
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 2, 425-428 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0330
abstract: Avalanche photodiodes are widely used as practical detectors of single photons.1 Although conventional devices respond to one or more photons, they cannot resolve the number in the incident pulse or short time interval. However, such photon number resolving detectors are urgently needed for applications in quantum computing,2-4 communications5 and interferometry,6 as well as for extending the applicability of quantum detection generally. Here we show that, contrary to current belief,3,4 avalanche photodiodes are capable of detecting photon number, using a technique to measure very weak avalanches at the early stage of their development. Under such conditions the output signal from the avalanche photodiode is proportional to the number of photons in the incident pulse. As a compact, mass-manufactured device, operating without cryogens and at telecom wavelengths, it offers a practical solution for photon number detection.

id: 0807.0354
title: A study of heuristic guesses for adiabatic quantum computation
authors: Alejandro Perdomo, Salvador E. Venegas-Andraca, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. Quantum Information Processing. In Press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0354
abstract: Adiabatic quantum computation (AQC) is a universal model for quantum computation which seeks to transform the initial ground state of a quantum system into a final ground state encoding the answer to a computational problem. AQC initial Hamiltonians conventionally have a uniform superposition as ground state. We diverge from this practice by introducing a simple form of heuristics: the ability to start the quantum evolution with a state which is a guess to the solution of the problem. With this goal in mind, we explain the viability of this approach and the needed modifications to the conventional AQC (CAQC) algorithm. By performing a numerical study on hard-to-satisfy 6 and 7 bit random instances of the satisfiability problem (3-SAT), we show how this heuristic approach is possible and we identify that the performance of the particular algorithm proposed is largely determined by the Hamming distance of the chosen initial guess state with respect to the solution. Besides the possibility of introducing educated guesses as initial states, the new strategy allows for the possibility of restarting a failed adiabatic process from the measured excited state as opposed to restarting from the full superposition of states as in CAQC. The outcome of the measurement can be used as a more refined guess state to restart the adiabatic evolution. This concatenated restart process is another heuristic that the CAQC strategy cannot capture.

id: 0807.0374
title: Reversible quantum optical data storage based on resonant Raman optical field excited spin coherence
authors: B.S. Ham
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0374
abstract: A method of reversible quantum optical data storage is presented using resonant Raman field excited spin coherence, where the spin coherence is stored in an inhomogeneously broadened spin ensemble. Unlike the photon echo method, present technique uses a 2 pi Raman optical rephasing pulse, and multimode (parallel) optical channels can be utilized, where the multimode access gives a great benefit to both all-optical and quantum information processing.

id: 0807.0379
title: Dynamics of nonequilibrium thermal entanglement
authors: Ilya Sinaysky, Francesco Petruccione, Daniel Burgarth
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0379
abstract: The dynamics of a simple spin chain (2 spins) coupled to bosonic baths at different temperatures is studied. The analytical solution for the reduced density matrix of the system is found. The dynamics and temperature dependence of spin-spin entanglement is analyzed. It is shown that the system converges to a steady-state. If the energy levels of the two spins are different, the steady-state concurrence assumes its maximum at unequal bath temperatures. It is found that a difference in local energy levels can make the steady-state entanglement more stable against high temperatures.

id: 0807.0493
title: Resonant sequential scattering in two-frequency-pumping superradiance from a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Fan Yang, Xiaoji Zhou, Juntao Li, Yuankai Chen, Lin Xia, Xuzong Chen
comments: Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0493
abstract: We study sequential scattering in superradiance from a Bose-Einstein condensate pumped by a two-frequency laser beam. We find that the distribution of atomic side modes presents highly different patterns for various frequency difference between the two pump components. A novel distribution is observed, with a frequency difference of eight times the recoil frequency. These observations reveal that the frequency overlap between the end-fire modes related to different side modes plays an essential role in the dynamics of sequential superradiant scattering. The numerical results from a semiclassical model qualitatively agree with our observations.

id: 0807.0507
title: Gate complexity using Dynamic Programming
authors: Srinivas Sridharan, Mile Gu, Matthew R. James
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052327 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0507
abstract: The relationship between efficient quantum gate synthesis and control theory has been a topic of interest in the quantum control literature. Motivated by this work, we describe in the present article how the dynamic programming technique from optimal control may be used for the optimal synthesis of quantum circuits. We demonstrate simulation results on an example system on SU(2), to obtain plots related to the gate complexity and sample paths for different logic gates.

id: 0807.0536
title: Dependence of the decoherence of polarization states in phase-damping channels on the frequency spectrum envelope of photons
authors: Yan-Xiao Gong, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Yu-Li Dong, Xiao-Ling Niu, Yun-Feng Huang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, new results added, replaced by accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0536
abstract: We consider the decoherence of photons suffering in phase-damping channels. By exploring the evolutions of single-photon polarization states and two-photon polarization-entangled states, we find that different frequency spectrum envelopes of photons induce different decoherence processes. A white frequency spectrum can lead the decoherence to an ideal Markovian process. Some color frequency spectrums can induce asymptotical decoherence, while, some other color frequency spectrums can make coherence vanish periodically with variable revival amplitudes. These behaviors result from the non-Markovian effects on the decoherence process, which may give rise to a revival of coherence after complete decoherence.

id: 0807.0541
title: Mixing and Decoherence to Nearest Separable States
authors: Avijit Lahiri, Gautam Ghosh, Sankhasubhra Nag
comments: RevTeX4 document, 20 pages, 7 eps figure files
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0541
abstract: We consider a class of entangled states of a quantum system (S) and a second system (A) where pure states of the former are correlated with mixed states of the latter, and work out the entanglement measure with reference to the nearest separable state. Such `pure-mixed' entanglement is expected when the system S interacts with a macroscopic measuring apparatus in a quantum measurement, where the quantum correlation is destroyed in the process of environment-induced decoherence whereafter only the classical correlation between S and A remains, the latter being large compared to the former. We present numerical evidence that the entangled S-A state drifts towards the nearest separable state through decoherence, with an additional tendency of equimixing among relevant groups of apparatus states.

id: 0807.0583
title: Natural Metric for Quantum Information Theory
authors: P.W. Lamberti, M. Portesi, J. Sparacino
comments: v2: enlarged; presented at ISIT 2008 (Toronto)
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 7 (2009) 1009-1019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0583
abstract: We study in detail a very natural metric for quantum states. This new proposal has two basic ingredients: entropy and purification. The metric for two mixed states is defined as the square root of the entropy of the average of representative purifications of those states. Some basic properties are analyzed and its relation with other distances is investigated. As an illustrative application, the proposed metric is evaluated for 1-qubit mixed states.

id: 0807.0630
title: Discrete Accidental Symmetry for a Particle in a Constant Magnetic Field on a Torus
authors: M. H. Al-Hashimi, U.-J. Wiese
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures
journal: Annals Phys.324:343-360,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0630
abstract: A classical particle in a constant magnetic field undergoes cyclotron motion on a circular orbit. At the quantum level, the fact that all classical orbits are closed gives rise to degeneracies in the spectrum. It is well-known that the spectrum of a charged particle in a constant magnetic field consists of infinitely degenerate Landau levels. Just as for the $1/r$ and $r^2$ potentials, one thus expects some hidden accidental symmetry, in this case with infinite-dimensional representations. Indeed, the position of the center of the cyclotron circle plays the role of a Runge-Lenz vector. After identifying the corresponding accidental symmetry algebra, we re-analyze the system in a finite periodic volume. Interestingly, similar to the quantum mechanical breaking of CP invariance due to the $\theta$-vacuum angle in non-Abelian gauge theories, quantum effects due to two self-adjoint extension parameters $\theta_x$ and $\theta_y$ explicitly break the continuous translation invariance of the classical theory. This reduces the symmetry to a discrete magnetic translation group and leads to finite degeneracy. Similar to a particle moving on a cone, a particle in a constant magnetic field shows a very peculiar realization of accidental symmetry in quantum mechanics.

id: 0807.0639
title: Virtual Processes and Superradiance in Spin-Boson Models
authors: M. Aparicio Alcalde, R. Kullock, N. F. Svaiter
comments: 
journal: J.Math.Phys.50:013511,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0639
abstract: We consider spin-boson models composed by a single bosonic mode and an ensemble of $N$ identical two-level atoms. The situation where the coupling between the bosonic mode and the atoms generates real and virtual processes is studied, where the whole system is in thermal equilibrium with a reservoir at temperature $\beta^{-1}$. Phase transitions from ordinary fluorescence to superradiant phase in three different models is investigated. First a model where the coupling between the bosonic mode and the $j-th$ atom is via the pseudo-spin operator $\sigma^{,z}_{(j)}$ is studied. Second, we investigate the generalized Dicke model, introducing different coupling constants between the single mode bosonic field and the environment, $g_{1}$ and $g_{2}$ for rotating and counter-rotating terms, respectively. Finally it is considered a modified version of the generalized Dicke model with intensity-dependent coupling in the rotating terms. In the first model the zero mode contributes to render the canonical entropy a negative quantity for low temperatures. The last two models presents phase transitions, even when only Hamiltonian terms which generates virtual processes are considered.

id: 0807.0668
title: Experimental quantum computing without entanglement
authors: B. P. Lanyon, M. Barbieri, M. P. Almeida, A. G. White
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 101, 200501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0668
abstract: Entanglement is widely believed to lie at the heart of the advantages offered by a quantum computer. This belief is supported by the discovery that a noiseless (pure) state quantum computer must generate a large amount of entanglement in order to offer any speed up over a classical computer. However, deterministic quantum computation with one pure qubit (DQC1), which employs noisy (mixed) states, is an efficient model that generates at most a marginal amount of entanglement. Although this model cannot implement any arbitrary algorithm it can efficiently solve a range of problems of significant importance to the scientific community. Here we experimentally implement a first-order case of a key DQC1 algorithm and explicitly characterise the non-classical correlations generated. Our results show that while there is no entanglement the algorithm does give rise to other non-classical correlations, which we quantify using the quantum discord - a stronger measure of non-classical correlations that includes entanglement as a subset. Our results suggest that discord could replace entanglement as a necessary resource for a quantum computational speed-up. Furthermore, DQC1 is far less resource intensive than universal quantum computing and our implementation in a scalable architecture highlights the model as a practical short-term goal.

id: 0807.0695
title: Quantum fidelity for Gaussian states describing the evolution of open systems
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures; talk at the 14th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (CEWQO 2007), Palermo, Italy (2007)
journal: Eur. Phys. J. - Special Topics, vol. 160, 225-234 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0695
abstract: Using the expression of the fidelity for the most general Gaussian quantum states, the quantum fidelity is studied for the states of a harmonic oscillator interacting with an environment, in particular with a thermal bath. The time evolution of the considered system is described in the framework of the theory of open systems based on quantum dynamical semigroups. By taking a correlated squeezed Gaussian state as initial state, we calculate the quantum fidelity for both undisplaced and displaced states. The time evolution of the quantum fidelity is analyzed depending on the squeezing and correlation parameters characterizing the initial Gaussian state and on the dissipation constant and temperature of the thermal bath.

id: 0807.0703
title: Dynamical properties across a quantum phase transition in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model
authors: Paolo Solinas, Pedro Ribeiro, R¨¦my Mosseri
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures; corrected references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0703
abstract: It is of high interest, in the context of Adiabatic Quantum Computation, to better understand the complex dynamics of a quantum system subject to a time-dependent Hamiltonian, when driven across a quantum phase transition. We present here such a study in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model with one variable parameter. We first display numerical results on the dynamical evolution across the LMG quantum phase transition, which clearly shows a pronounced effect of the spectral avoided level crossings. We then derive a phenomenological (classical) transition model, which already shows some closeness to the numerical results. Finally, we show how a simplified quantum transition model can be built which strongly improve the classical approach, and shed light on the physical processes involved in the whole LMG quantum evolution. From our results, we argue that the commonly used description in term of Landau-Zener transitions is not appropriate for our model.

id: 0807.0723
title: Analysis of Quantum Correlation in Successive Spin Measurements, Classical Communication of Spin $S$ Singlet States and Quantum Nonlocality of two Qubit Entangled States
authors: Ali Ahanj
comments: 126, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0723
abstract: In this thesis, we study about three subjects 1- Classical simulation of two spin-$s$ singlet correlations for all $s$ involving spin measurements, 2- Quantum correlations in successive single spin measurements, 3- Non locality without inequality for almost all two-qubit entangled states based on Cabello's non locality argument.

id: 0807.0751
title: Quantum fluctuations in the image of a Bose gas
authors: Antonio Negretti, Carsten Henkel, Klaus Molmer
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, Author list of Ref.[11] has been changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 023630 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0751
abstract: We analyze the information content of density profiles for an ultracold Bose gas of atoms and extract resolution limits for observables contained in these images. Our starting point is density correlations that we compute within the Bogoliubov approximation, taking into account quantum and thermal fluctuations beyond mean-field theory. This provides an approximate way to construct the joint counting statistics of atoms in an array of pixels covering the gas. We derive the Fisher information of an image and the associated Cramer-Rao sensitivity bound for measuring observables contained in the image. We elaborate on our recent study on position measurements of a dark soliton [Negretti et al., Phys. Rev. A 77, 043606 (2008)] where a sensitivity scaling with the atomic density as n^{-3/4} was found. We discuss here a wider class of soliton solutions and present a detailed analysis of the Bogoliubov excitations and the gapless (Goldstone) excitation modes. These fluctuations around the mean field contribute to the noise in the image, and we show how they can actually improve the ability to locate the position of the soliton.

id: 0807.0761
title: Polarization-Mixing in Optical Lattices with Uniaxial Anisotropy
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 10 pages, 19 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B 42, 015501 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0761
abstract: We study optical excitations of an ultracold gas in an optical lattice in the Mott insulator case and with anisotropic properties. The anisotropy is induced by an oriented transition dipole generated by optical pumping and external static fields, and is of the type of uniaxial crystals. Within a cavity, the electronic excitations and the cavity photons of both TE and TM polarizations are coherently mixed to form two polariton branches. Also a photonic branch appears which decouples from the electronic transitions. The photon polarization mixing can be observed by linear optical spectra. For example, for an incident field of TE polarization we obtain TE and TM transmitted and reflected fields. Also we calculate the phase shift in the TE and TM transmitted and reflected fields relative to the incident field phase, which lead to polarization rotations.

id: 0807.0766
title: Quantum Jumps between Macroscopic Quantum States of a Superconducting Qubit Coupled to a Microscopic Two-Level System
authors: Yang Yu, Shi-Liang Zhu, Guozhu Sun, Xueda Wen, Ning Dong, Jian Chen, Peiheng Wu, Siyuan Han
comments: title changed; updated by the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 101, 157001 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0766
abstract: We report the observation of quantum jumps between macroscopic quantum states in a superconducting phase qubit coupled to the two-level systems in the Josephson tunnel junction, and all key features of quantum jumps are confirmed in the experiments. Moreover, quantum jumps can be used to calibrate such two-level systems, which are believed to be one of the main decoherence sources in Josephson devices.

id: 0807.0767
title: Security of quantum key distribution with bit and basis dependent detector flaws
authors: L. Lydersen, J. Skaar
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; v4: rewritten for clarity
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 10, 0060 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0767
abstract: We consider the security of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) protocol for Quantum Key Distribution (QKD), in the presence of bit and basis dependent detector flaws. We suggest a powerful attack that can be used in systems with detector efficiency mismatch, even if the detector assignments are chosen randomly by Bob. A security proof is provided, valid for any basis dependent, possibly lossy, linear optical imperfections in the channel/receiver/detectors. The proof does not assume the so-called squashing detector model.

id: 0807.0775
title: Efficiency of Producing Random Unitary Matrices with Quantum Circuits
authors: Ludovic Arnaud, Daniel Braun
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062329 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0775
abstract: We study the scaling of the convergence of several statistical properties of a recently introduced random unitary circuit ensemble towards their limits given by the circular unitary ensemble (CUE). Our study includes the full distribution of the absolute square of a matrix element, moments of that distribution up to order eight, as well as correlators containing up to 16 matrix elements in a given column of the unitary matrices. Our numerical scaling analysis shows that all of these quantities can be reproduced efficiently, with a number of random gates which scales at most as $n_q\log (n_q/\epsilon)$ with the number of qubits $n_q$ for a given fixed precision $\epsilon$. This suggests that quantities which require an exponentially large number of gates are of more complex nature.

id: 0807.0850
title: Quantum information with single fermions: teleportation and fermion-boson entanglement conversion
authors: O. Morgenshtern, B. Reznik, I. Zalzberg
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0850
abstract: While single boson entanglement is known to be equivalent to standard non-identical particle entanglement, the use of fermionic entanglement is constrained by a parity superselection rule. Nevertheless we show that within the framework of second quantization, where local modes play the role of qubits, the analogy with ordinary entanglement holds: two entangled spinless fermion modes can be used to teleport a single local fermion mode and to perform standard dense coding. Entanglement concentration and dilution are possible for fermions. We clarify the meaning of our results by discussing the connection with quantum reference frames and conversion between spinless fermion entanglement and spinless boson entanglement.

id: 0807.0852
title: Production of ultracold heteronuclear YbRb* molecules by photoassociation
authors: N. Nemitz, F. Baumer, F. M¨¹nchow, S. Tassy, A. G?rlitz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0852
abstract: We have produced ultracold heteronuclear YbRb$^*$ molecules in a combined magneto-optical trap by photoassociation. The formation of electronically excited molecules close to the dissociation limit was observed by trap loss spectroscopy in mixtures of $^{87}$Rb with $^{174}$Yb and $^{176}$Yb. The molecules could be prepared in a series of vibrational levels with resolved rotational structure, allowing for an experimental determination of the long-range potential in the electronically excited state.

id: 0807.0878
title: Creation of perfect long-distance quantum communication channel
authors: Bing He, Yuhang Ren, Janos A. Bergou
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0878
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors, due a oversimplified decoherence model. It will be substituted by a new work.

id: 0807.0907
title: Generation of entangled channels for perfect teleportation channels using multi-electron quantum dots
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, Sayantan Ghosh, Prasanta K Panigrahi
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042328 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0907
abstract: In this work we have proposed a scheme for generating $N$ qubit entangled states which can teleport an unknown state perfectly. By switching on the exchange interaction ($J$) between the qubits one can get the desired states periodically. A multi electron quantum dot can be a possible realization for generating such $N$ qubit states with high fidelity. In the limit of $N \to \infty$, there exists a unique time $t=\frac{1}{J}\cos^{-1}(-1/8)$ where the Hamiltonian dynamics gives the $N$ qubit state that can assist perfect teleportation. We have also discussed the effect of the nuclear spin environment on the fidelity of teleportation for a general $N$ qubit entangled channel.

id: 0807.0929
title: Environment-Assisted Quantum Transport
authors: Patrick Rebentrost, Masoud Mohseni, Ivan Kassal, Seth Lloyd, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, improved presentation, to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 033003 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0929
abstract: Transport phenomena at the nanoscale are of interest due to the presence of both quantum and classical behavior. In this work, we demonstrate that quantum transport efficiency can be enhanced by a dynamical interplay of the system Hamiltonian with pure dephasing induced by a fluctuating environment. This is in contrast to fully coherent hopping that leads to localization in disordered systems, and to highly incoherent transfer that is eventually suppressed by the quantum Zeno effect. We study these phenomena in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson protein complex as a prototype for larger photosynthetic energy transfer systems. We also show that disordered binary tree structures exhibit enhanced transport in the presence of dephasing.

id: 0807.0931
title: Theory of Raman transitions in cavity QED
authors: A. D. Boozer
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0931
abstract: We present two schemes for driving Raman transitions between the ground state hyperfine manifolds of a single atom trapped within a high-finesse optical cavity. In both schemes, the Raman coupling is generated by standing-wave fields inside the cavity, thus circumventing the optical access limitations that free-space Raman schemes must face in a cavity system. These cavity-based Raman schemes can be used to coherently manipulate both the internal and the motional degrees of freedom of the atom, and thus provide powerful tools for studying cavity quantum electrodynamics. We give a detailed theoretical analysis of each scheme, both for a three-level atom and for a multi-level cesium atom. In addition, we show how these Raman schemes can be used to cool the axial motion of the atom to the quantum ground state, and we perform computer simulations of the cooling process.

id: 0807.0965
title: Using squeezed field to preserve two-atom entanglement against spontaneous emissions
authors: Jing Zhang, Re-Bing Wu, Chun-Wen Li, Tzyh-Jong Tarn
comments: 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., 42: 035304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0965
abstract: Tunable interaction between two atoms in a cavity is realized by interacting the two atoms with an extra controllable single-mode squeezed field. Such a controllable interaction can be further used to control entanglement between the two atoms against amplitude damping decoherence caused by spontaneous emissions. For the independent amplitude damping decoherence channel, entanglement will be lost completely without controls, while it can be partially preserved by the proposed strategy. For the collective amplitude damping decoherence channel, our strategy can enhance the entanglement compared with the uncontrolled case when the entanglement of the uncontrolled stationary state is not too large.

id: 0807.0991
title: Accuracy of minimal and optimal qubit tomography for finite-length experiments
authors: Alex Ling, Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0991
abstract: Practical quantum state tomography is usually performed by carrying out repeated measurements on many copies of a given state. The accuracy of the reconstruction depends strongly on the dimensionality of the system and the number of copies used for the measurements. We investigate the accuracy of an experimental implementation of a minimal and optimal tomography scheme for one- and two-qubit states encoded in the polarization of photons. A suitable statistical model for the attainable accuracy is introduced.

id: 0807.1028
title: Density matrix of the superposition of excitation on coherent states with thermal light and its statistical properties
authors: Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1028
abstract: A beam's density matrix that is described by the superposition of excitation on coherent states with thermal noise (SECST) is presented, and its matrix elements in Fock space are calculated. The maximum information transmitted by the SECST beam is derived. It is more than that by coherent light beam and increases as the excitation photon number increases. In addition, the nonclassicality of density matrix is demonstrated by calculating its Wigner function.

id: 0807.1118
title: Enhancement of Entanglement Percolation in Quantum Networks via Lattice Transformations
authors: G. John Lapeyre Jr, Jan Wehr, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 12 pages, 17 figures, revtex4. changes from v3: minor stylistic changes for journal reviewer, minor changes to figures for journal editor
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1118
abstract: We study strategies for establishing long-distance entanglement in quantum networks. Specifically, we consider networks consisting of regular lattices of nodes, in which the nearest neighbors share a pure, but non-maximally entangled pair of qubits. We look for strategies that use local operations and classical communication. We compare the classical entanglement percolation protocol, in which every network connection is converted with a certain probability to a singlet, with protocols in which classical entanglement percolation is preceded by measurements designed to transform the lattice structure in a way that enhances entanglement percolation. We analyze five examples of such comparisons between protocols and point out certain rules and regularities in their performance as a function of degree of entanglement and choice of operations.

id: 0807.1127
title: Specificity of Phase Transition of Quasi-Spin System in Two-Quantum Exchange with Thermostat
authors: Nicolae Enaki, Vitalie Eremeev
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 357 (2006), 104-107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1127
abstract: The quantum phase transition of the system of N radiators in case of two-photon exchange interaction with cavity electromagnetic field is considered. It is shown that for this system the atom-field exchange integral increases with the increase of temperature. This effect generates peculiarities in phase transition picture. The process of nonlinear exchange between the quasi-spins leads to the increase of critical temperature as compared to traditional second order phase transition of quasi-spin system.

id: 0807.1144
title: Controlling entanglement by direct quantum feedback
authors: A. R. R. Carvalho, A. J. S. Reid, J. J. Hope
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures. To appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1144
abstract: We discuss the generation of entanglement between electronic states of two atoms in a cavity using direct quantum feedback schemes. We compare the effects of different control Hamiltonians and detection processes in the performance of entanglement production and show that the quantum-jump-based feedback proposed by us in Phys. Rev. A {\bf 76} 010301(R) (2007) can protect highly entangled states against decoherence. We provide analytical results that explain the robustness of jump feedback, and also analyse the perspectives of experimental implementation by scrutinising the effects of imperfections and approximations in our model.

id: 0807.1250
title: Multimode Memories in Atomic Ensembles
authors: J. Nunn, K. Reim, K. C. Lee, V. O. Lorenz, B. Sussman, I. A. Walmsley, D. Jaksch
comments: Published version. Many thanks are due to Christoph Simon for his help and suggestions. (This acknowledgement is missing from the final draft: apologies!)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 260502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1250
abstract: The ability to store multiple optical modes in a quantum memory allows for increased efficiency of quantum communication and computation. Here we compute the multimode capacity of a variety of quantum memory protocols based on light storage in ensembles of atoms. We find that adding a controlled inhomogeneous broadening improves this capacity significantly.

id: 0807.1278
title: Modal-type orthomodular logic
authors: G. Domenech, H. Freytes, C. de Ronde
comments: submitted to the Mathematical Logic Quarterly
journal: Math. Log. Quart. 55 (2009) 307-319
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1278
abstract: In this paper we enrich the orthomodular structure by adding a modal operator, following a physical motivation. A logical system is developed, obtaining algebraic completeness and completeness with respect to a Kripke-style semantic founded on Baer *-semigroups as in [20].

id: 0807.1322
title: Photon-number entangled states generation model with stimulated parametric down conversion
authors: Oleksandr O. Gurin, Vladyslav C. Usenko, Constantin V. Usenko
comments: 6 pages, work defended by O. Gurin as BS Thesis, submitted to Ukr. J. Phys
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics 2009, Vol.54, N 5, p.523-526
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1322
abstract: We address the process of generation of the photon-number entangled states of light in the stimulated nonlinear parametric down conversion process and build the simple model describing the generation, not involving the traditional parametric approximation. The motion equations for the system of pumping and two-mode outgoing field are solved for the case of the strong correlation between two modes, the evolution of the state parameters of the generated modes is obtained. The solution is briefly analyzed for particular types of photon-number entangled states.

id: 0807.1333
title: Robust Cryptography in the Noisy-Quantum-Storage Model
authors: Christian Schaffner, Barbara Terhal, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 34 pages, 2 figures. v2: clarified novelty of results, improved security analysis using fidelity-based smooth min-entropy, v3: typos and additivity proof in appendix corrected
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, vol 9, nb 11&12, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1333
abstract: It was shown in [WST08] that cryptographic primitives can be implemented based on the assumption that quantum storage of qubits is noisy. In this work we analyze a protocol for the universal task of oblivious transfer that can be implemented using quantum-key-distribution (QKD) hardware in the practical setting where honest participants are unable to perform noise-free operations. We derive trade-offs between the amount of storage noise, the amount of noise in the operations performed by the honest participants and the security of oblivious transfer which are greatly improved compared to the results in [WST08]. As an example, we show that for the case of depolarizing noise in storage we can obtain secure oblivious transfer as long as the quantum bit-error rate of the channel does not exceed 11% and the noise on the channel is strictly less than the quantum storage noise. This is optimal for the protocol considered. Finally, we show that our analysis easily carries over to quantum protocols for secure identification.

id: 0807.1338
title: The operational meaning of min- and max-entropy
authors: Robert Koenig, Renato Renner, Christian Schaffner
comments: 11 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th., vol. 55, no. 9 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1338
abstract: We show that the conditional min-entropy Hmin(A|B) of a bipartite state rho_AB is directly related to the maximum achievable overlap with a maximally entangled state if only local actions on the B-part of rho_AB are allowed. In the special case where A is classical, this overlap corresponds to the probability of guessing A given B. In a similar vein, we connect the conditional max-entropy Hmax(A|B) to the maximum fidelity of rho_AB with a product state that is completely mixed on A. In the case where A is classical, this corresponds to the security of A when used as a secret key in the presence of an adversary holding B. Because min- and max-entropies are known to characterize information-processing tasks such as randomness extraction and state merging, our results establish a direct connection between these tasks and basic operational problems. For example, they imply that the (logarithm of the) probability of guessing A given B is a lower bound on the number of uniform secret bits that can be extracted from A relative to an adversary holding B.

id: 0807.1357
title: Time-Dependent Quantum Weak Values: Decay Law for Post-Selected States
authors: P.C.W. Davies
comments: 7 pages, research paper, revised to incorporate some introductory background on the subject
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1357
abstract: Weak measurements offer new insights into the behavior of quantum systems. Combined with post-selection, quantum mechanics predicts a range of new experimentally testable phenomena. In this paper I consider weak measurements performed on time-dependent pre- and post-selected ensembles, with emphasis on the decay of excited states. The results show that the standard exponential decay law is a limiting case of a more general law that depends on both the time of post-selection and the choice of final state. The generalized law is illustrated for two interesting choices of post-selection.

id: 0807.1362
title: Complete State Reconstruction of a Two-Mode Gaussian State via Local Operations and Classical Communication
authors: Gustavo Rigolin, Marcos C. de Oliveira
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, double column RevTex4; v2: presentation improved, references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 030302(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1362
abstract: We propose a strictly local quantum tomography protocol for a bipartite system. We show that the joint density matrix of an arbitrary two-mode Gaussian state, entangled or not, is obtained via local operations and classical communication only. In contrast to previous proposals, simultaneous homodyne measurements (HM) on both modes are replaced by local homodyne detections and a set of local projective measurements.

id: 0807.1363
title: Beyond the Quantum Adiabatic Approximation: Adiabatic Perturbation Theory
authors: Gustavo Rigolin, Gerardo Ortiz, Victor Hugo Ponce
comments: 27 pages, double columns, 5 figures, RevTex 4; v2: published version
journal: Phys, Rev. A 78, 052508 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1363
abstract: We introduce a perturbative approach to solving the time dependent Schroedinger equation, named adiabatic perturbation theory (APT), whose zeroth order term is the quantum adiabatic approximation. The small parameter in the power series expansion of the time-dependent wave function is the inverse of the time it takes to drive the system's Hamiltonian from the initial to its final form. We review other standard perturbative and non-perturbative ways of going beyond the adiabatic approximation, extending and finding exact relations among them, and also compare the efficiency of those methods against the APT. Most importantly, we determine APT corrections to the Berry phase by use of the Aharonov-Anandan geometric phase. We then solve several time dependent problems allowing us to illustrate that the APT is the only perturbative method that gives the right corrections to the adiabatic approximation. Finally, we propose an experiment to measure the APT corrections to the Berry phase and show, for a particular spin-1/2 problem, that to first order in APT the geometric phase should be two and a half times the (adiabatic) Berry phase.

id: 0807.1364
title: Locality and nonlocality in quantum pure-state identification problems
authors: Y. Ishida, T. Hashimoto, M. Horibe, A. Hayashi
comments: 11 pages, amalgamation of arXiv:0712.2906 and arXiv:0801.0128
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1364
abstract: Suppose we want to identify an input state with one of two unknown reference states, where the input state is guaranteed to be equal to one of the reference states. We assume that no classical knowledge of the reference states is given, but a certain number of copies of them are available instead. Two reference states are independently and randomly chosen from the state space in a unitary invariant way. This is called the quantum state identification problem, and the task is to optimize the mean identification success probability. In this paper, we consider the case where each reference state is pure and bipartite, and generally entangled. The question is whether the maximum mean identification success probability can be attained by means of a local operations and classical communication (LOCC) measurement scheme. Two types of identification problems are considered when a single copy of each reference state is available. We show that a LOCC scheme attains the globally achievable identification probability in the minimum-error identification problem. In the unambiguous identification problem, however, the maximal success probability by means of LOCC is shown to be less than the globally achievable identification probability.

id: 0807.1370
title: Operator fidelity susceptibility, decoherence and quantum criticality
authors: Xiao-Ming Lu, Zhe Sun, Xiaoguang Wang, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1370
abstract: The extension of the notion of quantum fidelity from the state-space level to the operator one can be used to study environment-induced decoherence. state-dependent operator fidelity sucepti- bility (OFS), the leading order term for slightly different operator parameters, is shown to have a nontrivial behavior when the environment is at critical points. Two different contributions to OFS are identified which have distinct physical origins and temporal dependence. Exact results for the finite-temperature decoherence caused by a bath described by the Ising model in transverse field are obtained.

id: 0807.1383
title: Interaction with a field: a simple integrable model with backreaction
authors: Amaury Mouchet
comments: 
journal: European Journal of Physics 29 (2008) 1033-1050
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1383
abstract: The classical model of an oscillator linearly coupled to a string captures, for a low price in technique, many general features of more realistic models for describing a particle interacting with a field or an atom in a electromagnetic cavity. The scattering matrix and the asymptotic in and out waves on the string can be computed exactly and the phenomenon of resonant scattering can be introduced in the simplest way. The dissipation induced by the coupling of the oscillator to the string can be studied completely. In the case of a d'Alembert string, the backreaction leads to an Abraham-Lorentz-Dirac-like equation. In the case of a Klein-Gordon string, one can see explicitely how radiation governs the (meta)stability of the (quasi)bounded mode.

id: 0807.1384
title: Indirect control of quantum system via accessor: pure coherent control without system excitation
authors: H. C. Fu, Hui Dong, X. F. Liu, C. P. Sun
comments: 12 pages, no figure. J.Phys.A. 41(2008) in press
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 045303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1384
abstract: A pure indirect control of quantum systems via quantum accessor is investigated. In this control scheme, we do not apply any external classical excitation fields on the controlled system and we control a quantum system via a quantum accessor and classical control fields control the accessor only. Complete controllability is investigated for arbitrary finite dimensional quantum systems and exemplified by 2 and 3 dimensional systems. The scheme exhibits some advantages; it uses less qubits in accessor and does not depend on the energy-level structure of the controlled system.

id: 0807.1409
title: Conditional preparation of single photons using parametric downconversion: A recipe for purity
authors: Peter J Mosley, Jeff S Lundeen, Brian J Smith, Ian A Walmsley
comments: 27 pages, 14 figures, submitted to NJP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1409
abstract: In an experiment reported recently [Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 133601 (2008)], we demonstrated that, through group velocity matched parametric downconversion, heralded single photons can be generated in pure quantum states without spectral filtering. The technique relies on factorable photon pair production, initially developed theoretically in the strict collinear regime; focusing - required in any experimental implementation - can ruin this factorability. Here we present the numerical model used to design our single photon sources and minimize spectral correlations in the light of such experimental considerations. Furthermore, we show that the results of our model are in good agreement with measurements made on the photon pairs and give a detailed description of the exact requirements for constructing this type of source.

id: 0807.1446
title: Electronic noise-free measurements of squeezed light
authors: Leonid A. Krivitsky, Ulrik L. Andersen, Ruifang Dong, Alexander Huck, Christoffer Wittmann, Gerd Leuchs
comments: submitted for publication
journal: Optics Letters Vol. 33, Iss. 20, pp. 2395--2397 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1446
abstract: We study the implementation of a correlation measurement technique for the characterization of squeezed light. We show that the sign of the covariance coefficient revealed from the time resolved correlation data allow us to distinguish between squeezed, coherent and thermal states. In contrast to the traditional method of characterizing squeezed light, involving measurement of the variation of the difference photocurrent, the correlation measurement method allows to eliminate the contribution of the electronic noise, which becomes a crucial issue in experiments with dim sources of squeezed light.

id: 0807.1448
title: Bell test for the free motion of material particles
authors: Clemens Gneiting, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 260503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1448
abstract: We present a scheme to establish non-classical correlations in the motion of two macroscopically separated massive particles without resorting to entanglement in their internal degrees of freedom. It is based on the dissociation of a diatomic molecule with two temporally separated Feshbach pulses generating a motional state of two counter-propagating atoms that is capable of violating a Bell inequality by means of correlated single particle interferometry. We evaluate the influence of dispersion on the Bell correlation, showing it to be important but manageable in a proposed experimental setup. The latter employs a molecular BEC of fermionic Lithium atoms, uses laser-guided atom interferometry, and seems to be within the reach of present-day technology.

id: 0807.1457
title: Effect of different Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interactions on entanglement in the Heisenberg XYZ chain
authors: Da-Chuang Li, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 7, 547 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1457
abstract: In this paper, we study the thermal entanglement in a two-qubit Heisenberg XYZ system with different Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) couplings. We show that different DM coupling parameters have different influences on the entanglement and the critical temperature. In addition, we find that when $J_{i}$ ($i$-component spin coupling interaction) is the largest spin coupling coefficient, $D_{i}$ ($i$-component DM interaction) is the most efficient DM control parameter, which can be obtained by adjusting the direction of DM interaction.

id: 0807.1520
title: Coping with the Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator's ghosts in a canonical approach
authors: Aldo D¨¦ctor, Hugo A. Morales-T¨¦cotl, Luis F. Urrutia, J. David Vergara
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1520
abstract: A {\em complex} canonical transformation is found that takes the fourth order derivative Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator into two independent harmonic oscillators thus showing that this model has energy bounded from below, unitary time-evolution and no negative norm states, or ghosts. Such transformation yields a positive definite inner product consistent with reality conditions in the Hilbert space. The method is illustrated by eliminating the negative norm states in a complex oscillator. Extensions to other higher order mechanical models and field theory are discussed.

id: 0807.1566
title: Self-Spin-Controlled Rotation of Spatial States of a Dirac Electron in a Cylindrical Potential via Spin-Orbit Interaction
authors: C.C. Leary, D. Reeb, M.G. Raymer
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, 2 appendices, final version
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 103022 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1566
abstract: Solution of the Dirac equation predicts that when an electron with non-zero orbital angular momentum propagates in a cylindrically symmetric potential, its spin and orbital degrees of freedom interact, causing the electron's phase velocity to depend on whether its spin and orbital angular momenta vectors are oriented parallel or anti-parallel with respect to each other. This spin-orbit splitting of the electronic dispersion curves can result in a rotation of the electron's spatial state in a manner controlled by the electron's own spin z-component value. These effects persist at non-relativistic velocities. To clarify the physical origin of this effect, we compare solutions of the Dirac equation to perturbative predictions of the Schrodinger-Pauli equation with a spin-orbit term, using the standard Foldy-Wouthuysen Hamiltonian. This clearly shows that the origin of the effect is the familiar relativistic spin-orbit interaction.

id: 0807.1568
title: Heralded quantum memory for single-photon polarization qubits
authors: G. W. Lin, X. B. Zou, X. M. Lin, G. C. Guo
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 86 30006 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1568
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement a heralded quantum memory for single-photon polarization qubits with a single atom trapped in an optical cavity. In this scheme, an injected photon only exchanges quantum state with the atom, so that the heralded storage can be achieved by detecting the output photon. We also demonstrate that the scheme can be used for realizing the heralded quantum state transfer, exchange and entanglement distribution between distant nodes. The ability to detect whether the operation has succeeded or not is crucial for practical application.

id: 0807.1572
title: Decoherence of two qubits in a non-Markovian squeezed reservoir
authors: Fa-Qiang Wang, Zhi-Ming Zhang, Rui-Sheng Liang
comments: 7pages, 11figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1572
abstract: The decoherence of two initially entangled qubits in a squeezed vacuum cavity has been investigated exactly. The results show that, first, in principle, the disentanglement time decreases with the increasing of squeeze parameter r, due to the augmenting of average photon number of every mode in squeezed vacuum cavity. Second, there are entanglement revivals after complete disentanglement for the case of even parity initial Bell state, while there are entanglement decrease and revival before complete disentanglement for the case of odd parity initial Bell state. The results are quite different from that of the case for qubits in a vacuum cavity.

id: 0807.1573
title: Joint Temporal Density Measurements for Two-Photon State Characterization
authors: Onur Kuzucu, Franco N. C. Wong, Sunao Kurimura, Sergey Tovstonog
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1573
abstract: We demonstrate a new technique for characterizing two-photon quantum states based on joint temporal correlation measurements using time resolved single photon detection by femtosecond upconversion. We measure for the first time the joint temporal density of a two-photon entangled state, showing clearly the time anti-correlation of the coincident-frequency entangled photon pair generated by ultrafast spontaneous parametric down-conversion under extended phase-matching conditions. The new technique enables us to manipulate the frequency entanglement by varying the down-conversion pump bandwidth to produce a nearly unentangled two-photon state that is expected to yield a heralded single-photon state with a purity of 0.88. The time-domain correlation technique complements existing frequency-domain measurement methods for a more complete characterization of photonic entanglement in quantum information processing.

id: 0807.1580
title: Spin squeezing in a bimodal condensate: spatial dynamics and particle losses
authors: Yun Li, Philipp Treutlein, Jakob Reichel, Alice Sinatra
comments: 18 pages, 13 figures. Accepted for publication in European Physical Journal B
journal: European Physical Journal B 68 (2009) 365
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1580
abstract: We propose an analytical method to study the entangled spatial and spin dynamics of interacting bimodal Bose-Einstein condensates. We show that at particular times during the evolution spatial and spin dynamics disentangle and the spin squeezing can be predicted by a simple two-mode model. We calculate the maximum spin squeezing achievable in experimentally relevant situations with Sodium or Rubidium bimodal condensates, including the effect of the dynamics and of one, two and three-body losses.

id: 0807.1602
title: Quantum instability and edge entanglement in a quasi-long-range order
authors: Wonmin Son, Luigi Amico, Francesco Plastina, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 5pages and 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1602
abstract: We investigate the build-up of quasi-long-range order in the XX chain with transverse magnetic field at finite size. As the field is varied, the ground state of the system displays multiple level crossings producing a sequence of entanglement jumps. Using the partial fidelity and susceptibility, we study the transition to the thermodynamic limit and argue that the topological order can be described in terms of kink-antikink pairs and marked by edge spin entanglement.

id: 0807.1608
title: NMR implementations of Gauss sums
authors: Jonathan A. Jones
comments: Physics Letters A in press. 4 pages elsart, no figures. Follow up to e-print arXiv:0704.2065
journal: Phys Lett A 372 5758-5759 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1608
abstract: I describe the use of NMR experiments which implement Gauss sums as a method for factoring numbers and discuss whether this approach can be computationally useful.

id: 0807.1626
title: Beyond the simple Proximity Force Approximation: geometrical effects on the non-retarded Casimir interaction
authors: Bo E. Sernelius, C. E. Rom¨¢n-Vel¨¢zquez
comments: 18 pages, 19 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032111 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1626
abstract: We study the geometrical corrections to the simple Proximity Force Approximation for the non-retarded Casimir force. We present analytical results for the force between objects of various shapes and substrates, and between pairs of objects. We compare the results to those from more exact numerical calculations. We treat spheres, spheroids, cylinders, cubes, cones, and wings; the analytical PFA results together with the geometrical correction factors are summarized in a table.

id: 0807.1637
title: Entangling neutrons via successive scattering from a substrate
authors: M. Avellino, S. Bose, A. J. Fisher
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Corrected concurrence and \phi. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1637
abstract: This letter details a simple scheme to entangle two neutrons by successive scattering from a macroscopic sample. In zero magnetic field the entanglement falls as the sample size increases. However, by applying a field and tuning the momentum of the neutrons, one can achieve a substantial degree of entanglement irrespective of the size of the sample.

id: 0807.1643
title: Brief review related to the foundations of time-dependent density functional theory
authors: Thomas A. Niehaus, Norman H. March
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1643
abstract: The electron density $n(\rb,t)$, which is the central tool of time-dependent density functional theory, is presently considered to be derivable from a one-body time-dependent potential $V(\rb,t)$, via one-electron wave functions satisfying a time- dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation. This is here related via a generalized equation of motion to a Dirac density matrix now involving $t$. Linear response theory is then surveyed, with a special emphasis on the question of causality with respect to the density dependence of the potential. Extraction of $V(\rb,t)$ for solvable models is also proposed.

id: 0807.1657
title: Quantum Cloning without Interference
authors: Benoit Roubert, Daniel Braun
comments: 14 pages revtex, 1 eps figure
journal: Phys. Rev. 78, 042311 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1657
abstract: We study the role of interference in the process of quantum cloning. We show that in order to achieve better than classical cloning of a qubit no interference is needed. In particular, a large class of symmetric universal 1$\to$ 2 qubit cloners exists which achieve the optimal average fidelity 5/6 for such machines, without using any interference. We also obtain optimal average fidelities for interference--free cloning in asymmetric situations, and discuss the relation of the quantum cloners found to the Bu\v{z}ek--Hillery quantum cloner.

id: 0807.1672
title: Distinctive subdynamic features of bipartite systems
authors: A. K. Rajagopal, A. R. Usha Devi, R. W. Rendell, Michael Steiner
comments: 6 pages, Revtex, 1 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1672
abstract: There are several important bipartite systems of great interest in condensed matter physics and in quantum information science. In condensed matter systems, the subsystems are examined traditionally by using the Green function and mean-field-like methods based on the Heisenberg representation. In quantum information science, the subsystems are handled by composite density matrix, its marginals describing the subsystems, and the Kraus representation to elucidate the subsystem properties. In this work, a relationship is first established between the two techniques which appear to be distinct at first sight. This will be illustrated in detail by presenting the two methods in the case of the celebrated exactly soluable Jaynes - Cummings model (1963) of a two-state atom interacting with a one-mode quantized electromagnetic field. The dynamics of this system was treated in the Heisenberg representation by Ackerhalt and Rzazewski (1975). We present here the corresponding subdynamics using Kraus representation. A relationship between the two approaches is established and the relative merits of the two techniques are discussed in elucidating the distinctive features of the subdynamics. The striking effects of interaction and entanglement are made transparent in two illustrative examples: the transformations that manifest in non-interacting number and spin representations due to interactions in their respective subspaces.

id: 0807.1725
title: Coherence measures for heralded single-photon sources
authors: E. Bocquillon, C. Couteau, M. Razavi, R. Laflamme, G. Weihs
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, corrected Eq. (10)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 035801 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1725
abstract: Single-photon sources (SPSs) are mainly characterized by the minimum value of their second-order coherence function, viz. their $g^{(2)}$ function. A precise measurement of $g^{(2)}$ may, however, require high time-resolution devices, in whose absence, only time-averaged measurements are accessible. These time-averaged measures, standing alone, do not carry sufficient information for proper characterization of SPSs. Here, we develop a theory, corroborated by an experiment, that allows us to scrutinize the coherence properties of heralded SPSs that rely on continuous-wave parametric down-conversion. Our proposed measures and analysis enable proper standardization of such SPSs.

id: 0807.1748
title: Landau-Zener tunnelling in dissipative circuit QED
authors: David Zueco, Peter H?nggi, Sigmund Kohler
comments: Accepted for publication
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 115012 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1748
abstract: We investigate the influence of temperature and dissipation on the Landau-Zener transition probability in circuit QED. Dissipation is modelled by coupling the transmission line to a bath of harmonic oscillators. The reduced description for the density operator is treated within Bloch-Redfield theory. A phase-space representation allows an efficient numerical implementation of the resulting master equation. It provides reliable results which are valid even for rather low temperatures. We find that the spin-flip probability as a function of temperature and dissipation strength exhibits a non-monotonic behaviour. Our numerical results are complemented by analytical solutions for zero temperature and for vanishing dissipation strength.

id: 0807.1760
title: Closing the gap of secure quantum key rate with the Heralded Pair-Coherent States
authors: ShengLi Zhang, XuBo Zou, ChenHui Jin, GuangCan Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1760
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the long-standing gap of quantum key rate between the Weak Coherent Pulse (WCP) and Heralded Single Photon Sources(HSPS) implementation of quantum cryptographical protocol. We prove that, by utilizing the Heralded Pair Coherent State (HPCS) photon sources, such a gap can be actually filled in both BB84 and SARG quantum key distribution. Thus, a universal photon source which achieves the up-to-date optimal key rate for each transmission distance is obtained.

id: 0807.1777
title: Mean-field dynamics of a non-Hermitian Bose-Hubbard dimer
authors: E. M. Graefe, H. J. Korsch, A. E. Niederle
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 150408 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1777
abstract: We investigate an $N$-particle Bose-Hubbard dimer with an additional effective decay term in one of the sites. A mean-field approximation for this non-Hermitian many-particle system is derived, based on a coherent state approximation. The resulting nonlinear, non-Hermitian two-level dynamics, in particular the fixed point structures showing characteristic modifications of the self-trapping transition, are analyzed. The mean-field dynamics is found to be in reasonable agreement with the full many-particle evolution.

id: 0807.1781
title: An alternative quantum fidelity for mixed states of qudits
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Chang-Shui Yu, X. X. Yi
comments: 3 pages, no figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1781
abstract: We give an alternative definition of quantum fidelity for two density operators on qudits in terms of the Hilbert-Schmidt inner product between them and their purity. It can be regarded as the well-defined operator fidelity for the two operators and satisfies all Jozsa's four axioms up to a normalization factor. One desire property is that it is not computationally demanding.

id: 0807.1798
title: Two-Site shift Product Wave Function Renormalization Group Method Applied to Quantum Systems
authors: Hiroshi Ueda, Tomotoshi Nishino, Koichi Kusakabe
comments: 7 pages, 6figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 77 (2008) 114002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1798
abstract: We report a way of wave function estimation for the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) method applied to quantum systems, which has 2-site modulation, when the system size extension is necessary in both the finite and the infinite algorithms. The estimation is performed by renormalization group (RG) transformation applied to the ground state wave function, which is represented as the matrix product. This RG scheme is known as the product wave function renormalization group (PWFRG) method. In order to treat the 2-site modulation, the operation of the RG transformation is shifted by amount of 2 lattice sites. It turns out that this 2-site shift algorithm provides better wave function estimation in the thermodynamic limit, compared with the previously known PWFRG algorithm.

id: 0807.1802
title: Fractional Quantum Hall State in Coupled Cavities
authors: Jaeyoon Cho, Dimitris G. Angelakis, Sougato Bose
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 246809 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1802
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize the fractional quantum Hall system with atoms confined in a two-dimensional array of coupled cavities. Our scheme is based on simple optical manipulation of atomic internal states and inter-cavity hopping of virtually excited photons. It is shown that as well as the fractional quantum Hall system, any system of hard-core bosons on a lattice in the presence of an arbitrary Abelian vector potential can be simulated solely by controlling the phases of constantly applied lasers. The scheme, for the first time, exploits the core advantage of coupled cavity simulations, namely the individual addressability of the components and also brings the gauge potential into such simulations as well as the simple optical creation of particles.

id: 0807.1804
title: A study of two-qubit density matrices with fermionic purifications
authors: Szil¨¢rd Szalay, P¨¦ter L¨¦vay, Szilvia Nagy, J¨¢nos Pipek
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 505304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1804
abstract: We study 12 parameter families of two qubit density matrices, arising from a special class of two-fermion systems with four single particle states or alternatively from a four-qubit state with amplitudes arranged in an antisymmetric matrix. We calculate the Wooters concurrences and the negativities in a closed form and study their behavior. We use these results to show that the relevant entanglement measures satisfy the generalized Coffman-Kundu-Wootters formula of distributed entanglement. An explicit formula for the residual tangle is also given. The geometry of such density matrices is elaborated in some detail. In particular an explicit form for the Bures metric is given.

id: 0807.1815
title: A local hidden-variable model violating Bell's inequalities: a reply to Matzkin
authors: R.N. Nijhoff
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1815
abstract: Recently, Matzkin claimed the construction of a hidden variable (HV) model which is both local and equivalent with the quantum-mechanical predictions. In this paper we will briefly present this HV model and argue, by identifying an extra non-local "hidden" HV, why this model is not local

id: 0807.1834
title: Creating and Verifying a Quantum Superposition in a Micro-optomechanical System
authors: D. Kleckner, I. Pikovski, E. Jeffrey, L. Ament, E. Eliel, J. van den Brink, D. Bouwmeester
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures, published in New J. Phys. 10 095020 (2008); minor revisions to improve clarity; fixed possibly corrupted figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1834
abstract: Micro-optomechanical systems are central to a number of recent proposals for realizing quantum mechanical effects in relatively massive systems. Here we focus on a particular class of experiments which aim to demonstrate massive quantum superpositions, although the obtained results should be generalizable to similar experiments. We analyze in detail the effects of finite temperature on the interpretation of the experiment, and obtain a lower bound on the degree of non-classicality of the cantilever. Although it is possible to measure the quantum decoherence time when starting from finite temperature, an unambiguous demonstration of a quantum superposition requires the mechanical resonator to be in or near the ground state. This can be achieved by optical cooling of the fundamental mode, which also provides a method to measure the mean phonon number in that mode. We also calculate the rate of environmentally induced decoherence and estimate the timescale for gravitational collapse mechanisms as proposed by Penrose and Diosi. In view of recent experimental advances, practical considerations for the realization of the described experiment are discussed.

id: 0807.1850
title: Generalized spin bases for quantum chemistry and quantum information
authors: M. Kibler
comments: Dedicated to Professor Rudolf Zahradnik on the occasion of his 80th birthday. Invited paper to be published in Collection of Czechoslovak Chemical Communications
journal: Collection of Czechoslovak Chemical Communications 73 (2008) 1281-1298
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1850
abstract: Symmetry adapted bases in quantum chemistry and bases adapted to quantum information share a common characteristics: both of them are constructed from subspaces of the representation space of the group SO(3) or its double group (i.e., spinor group) SU(2). We exploit this fact for generating spin bases of relevance for quantum systems with cyclic symmetry and equally well for quantum information and quantum computation. Our approach is based on the use of generalized Pauli matrices arising from a polar decomposition of SU(2). This approach leads to a complete solution for the construction of mutually unbiased bases in the case where the dimension d of the considered Hilbert subspace is a prime number. We also give the starting point for studying the case where d is the power of a prime number. A connection of this work with the unitary group U(d) and the Pauli group is brielly underlined.

id: 0807.1877
title: Nonlinear Schrodinger-Pauli Equations
authors: Wei Khim Ng, Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: Presented at Conference in Honour of Murray Gell-Mann's 80th Birthday, Singapore, 24 - 26 Feb 2010.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1877
abstract: We obtain novel nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger-Pauli equations through a formal non-relativistic limit of appropriately constructed nonlinear Dirac equations. This procedure automatically provides a physical regularisation of potential singularities brought forward by the nonlinear terms and suggests how to regularise previous equations studied in the literature. The enhancement of contributions coming from the regularised singularities suggests that the obtained equations might be useful for future precision tests of quantum nonlinearity.

id: 0807.1901
title: Matter--wave emission in optical lattices: Single particle and collective effects
authors: Ines de Vega, Diego Porras, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1901
abstract: We introduce a simple set--up corresponding to the matter-wave analogue of impurity atoms embedded in an infinite photonic crystal and interacting with the radiation field. Atoms in a given internal level are trapped in an optical lattice, and play the role of the impurities. Atoms in an untrapped level play the role of the radiation field. The interaction is mediated by means of lasers that couple those levels. By tuning the lasers parameters, it is possible to drive the system through different regimes, and observe phenomena like matter wave superradiance, non-Markovian atom emission, and the appearance of bound atomic states.

id: 0807.1910
title: Influence of atomic collisions on spectrum of light scattered from an f-deformed Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Z. Haghshenasfard, M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi
comments: 17 pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1910
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the spectrum of light scattered from a Bose-Einstein condensate in the framework of f-deformed boson. We use an f-deformed quantum model in which the Gardiners phonon operators for BEC are deformed by an operator-valued function, f(n), of the particle-number operator n. We consider the collisions between the atoms as a special kind of f-deformation. The collision rate k is regarded as the deformation parameter and the spectrum of light scattered from the deformed BEC is analyzed. In particular, we find that with increasing the values of deformation parameters k and eta=1/N (N, total number of condensate atoms) the scattering spectrum shows deviation from the spectrum associated with nondeformed Bose-Einstein condensate.

id: 0807.1937
title: Security of two-way quantum cryptography against asymmetric Gaussian attacks
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Stefano Mancini, Seth Lloyd, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: Proceeding of the SPIE Conference "Quantum Communications and Quantum Imaging VI" - San Diego 2008. This paper is connected with arXiv:quant-ph/0611167 (for the last version see: Nature Physics 4, 726 (2008))
journal: Proc. SPIE, Vol. 7092, 709215 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1937
abstract: Recently, we have shown the advantages of two-way quantum communications in continuous variable quantum cryptography. Thanks to this new approach, two honest users can achieve a non-trivial security enhancement as long as the Gaussian interactions of an eavesdropper are independent and identical. In this work, we consider asymmetric strategies where the Gaussian interactions can be different and classically correlated. For several attacks of this kind, we prove that the enhancement of security still holds when the two-way protocols are used in direct reconciliation.

id: 0807.1966
title: Wigner Distribution Functions and the Representation of Canonical Transformations in Time-Dependent Quantum Mechanics
authors: Dieter Schuch, Marcos Moshinsky
comments: Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 4:054,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1966
abstract: For classical canonical transformations, one can, using the Wigner transformation, pass from their representation in Hilbert space to a kernel in phase space. In this paper it will be discussed how the time-dependence of the uncertainties of the corresponding time-dependent quantum problems can be incorporated into this formalism.

id: 0807.1986
title: Spin-Based Quantum Computers made by Chemistry: Hows and Whys
authors: Philip C. E. Stamp, Alejandro Gaita-Ari?o
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: J Mat Chem. 19, 1718-1730 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1986
abstract: This introductory review discusses the main problems facing the attempt to build quantum information processing systems (like quantum computers) from spin-based qubits. We emphasize 'bottom-up' attempts using methods from chemistry. The essentials of quantum computing are explained, along with a description of the qubits and their interactions in terms of physical spin qubits. The main problem to be overcome is decoherence - how this works is described, along with ways to suppress contributions from spin bath and oscillator bath environments, and from dipolar interactions. Finally we discuss various strategies for making chemistry-based spin qubits, using both magnetic molecules and magnetic ions.

id: 0807.1987
title: Decoherence and Entanglement Dynamics of Coupled Qubits
authors: G. Campagnano, A. Hamma, U. Weiss
comments: improved version with all the details and study in function of temperature, coupling strengths and the study of the mixed state case
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1987
abstract: We study the entanglement dynamics and relaxation properties of a system of two interacting qubits in the two cases (I) two independent bosonic baths and (II) one common bath, at temperature T. The entanglement dynamics is studied in terms of the concurrence C (t) between the two spins and of the von Neumann entropy S(t) with respect to the bath, as a function of time. We prove that the system does thermalize. In the case (II) of a single bath, the existence of a decoherence-free (DFS) subspace makes entanglement dynamics very rich. We show that when the system is initially in a state with a component in the DFS the relaxation time is surprisingly long, showing the existence of semi-decoherence free subspaces. The equilibrium state in this case is not the Gibbs state. The entanglement dynamics for the single bath case is also studied as a function of temperature, coupling strength with the environment and strength of tunneling coupling. The case of the mixed state is finally shown and discussed.

id: 0807.1990
title: The quark-gluon plasma, turbulence, and quantum mechanics
authors: Mark Davidson
comments: 41 pages. Content changes in the azimuthal soliton section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1990
abstract: Quark-gluon plasmas formed in heavy ion collisions at high energies are well described by ideal classical fluid equations with nearly zero viscosity. It is believed that a similar fluid permeated the entire universe at about three microseconds after the big bang. The estimated Reynolds number for this quark-gluon plasma at 3 microseconds is approximately 10^19. The possibility that quantum mechanics may be an emergent property of a turbulent proto-fluid is tentatively explored. A simple relativistic fluid equation which is consistent with general relativity and is based on a cosmic dust model is studied. A proper time transformation transforms it into an inviscid Burgers equation. This is analyzed numerically using a spectral method. Soliton-like solutions are demonstrated for this system, and these interact with the known ergodic behavior of the fluid to yield a stochastic and chaotic system which is time reversible. Various similarities to quantum mechanics are explored.

id: 0807.2021
title: Canonical quantum potential scattering theory
authors: M. S. Hussein, W. Li, S. Wuester
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. and Theor., 41, 475207 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2021
abstract: A new formulation of potential scattering in quantum mechanics is developed using a close structural analogy between partial waves and the classical dynamics of many non-interacting fields. Using a canonical formalism we find non-linear first-order differential equations for the low energy scattering parameters like scattering length and effective range. They significantly simplify typical calculations, as we illustrate for atom-atom and neutron-nucleus scattering systems. A generalization to charged particle scattering is also possible.

id: 0807.2033
title: Mean parity of single quantum excitation of some optical fields in thermal environments
authors: Shang-Bin Li
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, RevTex4; PACS numbers: 42.50.Dv, 03.65.Yz, 05.40.Ca; Three typo errors have been corrected
journal: J.Phys.B42:055505,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2033
abstract: The mean parity (the Wigner function at the origin) of excited binomial states, excited coherent states and excited thermal states in thermal channel is investigated in details. It is found that the single-photon excited binomial state and the single-photon excited coherent state exhibit certain similarity in the aspect of their mean parity in the thermal channel. We show the negative mean parity can be regarded as an indicator of nonclassicality of single-photon excitation of optical fields with a little coherence, especially for the single-photon excited thermal states.

id: 0807.2041
title: Bell's Theorem and the Causal Arrow of Time
authors: Nathan Argaman
comments: Extensive changes. Conditionally accepted by American Journal of Physics
journal: American Journal of Physics 78 (2010), 1007-1013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2041
abstract: Einstein held that the formalism of Quantum Mechanics (QM) entails "spooky actions at a distance". Indeed, in the 60's Bell showed that the predictions of QM disagree with the results of any locally causal description. Accepting non-local descriptions while retaining causality leads to a clash with the theory of relativity. Furthermore, the causal arrow of time by definition contradicts time-reversal symmetry. For these reasons, some authors (Feynman and Wheeler, Costa de Beauregard, Cramer, Price) have advocated abandoning microscopic causality. In the present article, a simplistic but concrete example of following this line of thought is presented, in the form of a retro-causal toy-model which is stochastic and which provides an appealing description of the specific quantum correlations discussed by Bell. One concludes that Einstein's "spooky actions" may occur "in the past" rather than "at a distance", resolving the tension between QM and relativity, and opening unexplored possibilities for future reformulations of QM.

id: 0807.2080
title: Entanglement-assisted Coding Theory
authors: Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: PhD dissertation, 102 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2080
abstract: In this dissertation, I present a general method for studying quantum error correction codes (QECCs). This method not only provides us an intuitive way of understanding QECCs, but also leads to several extensions of standard QECCs, including the operator quantum error correction (OQECC), the entanglement-assisted quantum error correction (EAQECC). Furthermore, we can combine both OQECC and EAQECC into a unified formalism, the entanglement-assisted operator formalism. This provides great flexibility of designing QECCs for different applications. Finally, I show that the performance of quantum low-density parity-check codes will be largely improved using entanglement-assisted formalism.

id: 0807.2085
title: An improved approximation to l-wave bound states of the Manning-Rosen potential by Nikiforov-Uvarov method
authors: Sameer. M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2085
abstract: A new approximation scheme to the centrifugal term is proposed to obtain the $l\neq 0$ solutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation with the Manning-Rosen potential. We also find the corresponding normalized wave functions in terms of the Jacobi polynomials. To show the accuracy of the new approximation scheme, we calculate the energy eigenvalues numerically for arbitrary quantum numbers $n$ and $l$ with two different values of the potential parameter $\alpha .$ The bound state energies of various states for a few $% HCl,$ $CH,$ $LiH$ and $CO$ diatomic molecules are also calculated. The numerical results are in good agreement with those obtained by using program based on a numerical integration procedure. Our solution can be also reduced to the s-wave ($l=0$) case and to the Hulth\'{e}n potential case.

id: 0807.2087
title: Exact Solution of a Yang-Baxter Spin-1/2 Chain Model and Quantum Entanglement
authors: Ming-Guang Hu, Kang Xue, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052324 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2087
abstract: Entanglement is believed to be crucial in macroscopic physical systems for understanding the collective quantum phenomena such as quantum phase transitions. We start from and solve exactly a novel Yang-Baxter spin-1/2 chain model with inhomogeneous and anisotropic short-range interactions. For the ground state, we show the behavior of neighboring entanglement in the parameter space and find that the inhomogeneous coupling strengths affect entanglement in a distinctive way from the homogeneous case, but this would not affect the coincidence between entanglement and quantum criticality.

id: 0807.2122
title: An Adaptive Entanglement Distillation Scheme Using Quantum Low Density Parity Check Codes
authors: K. H. Ho, H. F. Chau
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2122
abstract: Quantum low density parity check (QLDPC) codes are useful primitives for quantum information processing because they can be encoded and decoded efficiently. Besides, the error correcting capability of a few QLDPC codes exceeds the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov bound. Here, we report a numerical performance analysis of an adaptive entanglement distillation scheme using QLDPC codes. In particular, we find that the expected yield of our adaptive distillation scheme to combat depolarization errors exceed that of Leung and Shor whenever the error probability is less than about 0.07 or greater than about 0.28. This finding illustrates the effectiveness of using QLDPC codes in entanglement distillation.

id: 0807.2143
title: Simulation of partial entanglement with one cbit and one M-box
authors: Ali Ahanj, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 8 pages, no figures, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2143
abstract: We present a protocol to simulate the correlations implied by nonmaximally entangled two qubit states. We extend this protocol to simulate the non-local part of these correlations. These protocols use single cbit communication and a single use of Millionaire box (M-box). To the best of our knowledge, these resources are weaker than those used in previous protocols using classical communication.

id: 0807.2158
title: Universally-composable privacy amplification from causality constraints
authors: Lluis Masanes
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 140501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2158
abstract: We consider schemes for secret key distribution which use as a resource correlations that violate Bell inequalities. We provide the first security proof for such schemes, according to the strongest notion of security, the so called universally-composable security. Our security proof does not rely on the validity of quantum mechanics, it solely relies on the impossibility of arbitrarily-fast signaling between separate physical systems. This allows for secret communication in situations where the participants distrust their quantum devices.

id: 0807.2202
title: Long-lived spin entanglement induced by a spatially correlated thermal bath
authors: Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Ahsan Nazir, Sougato Bose, Andrew J. Fisher
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022337 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2202
abstract: We investigate how two spatially separated qubits coupled to a common heat bath can be entangled by purely dissipative dynamics. We identify a dynamical time scale associated with the lifetime of the dissipatively generated entanglement and show that it can be much longer than either the typical single-qubit decoherence time or the time scale on which a direct exchange interaction can entangle the qubits. We give an approximate analytical expression for the long-time evolution of the qubit concurrence and propose an ion trap scheme in which such dynamics should be observable.

id: 0807.2212
title: Ramsey interferometry with a spin embedded in a Coulomb chain
authors: Gabriele De Chiara, Tommaso Calarco, Shmuel Fishman, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures. Changes: typical experimental parameters + minor corrections. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 043414 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2212
abstract: We show that the statistical properties of a Coulomb crystal can be measured by means of a standard interferometric procedure performed on the spin of one ion in the chain. The ion spin, constituted by two internal levels of the ion, couples to the crystal modes via spatial displacement induced by photon absorption. The loss of contrast in the interferometric signal allows one to measure the autocorrelation function of the crystal observables. Close to the critical point, where the chain undergoes a second-order phase transition to a zigzag structure, the signal gives the behaviour of the correlation function at the critical point.

id: 0807.2232
title: Nondegenerate parametric down conversion in coherently prepared two-level atomic gas
authors: Gevorg Muradyan, Atom Zh. Muradyan
comments: 
journal: J. Mod. Opt., 55, 3579 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2232
abstract: We describe parametric down conversion process in a two-level atomic gas, where the atoms are in a superposition state of relevant energy levels. This superposition results in splitting of the phase matching condition into three different conditions. Another, more important, peculiarity of the system under discussion is the nonsaturability of amplification coefficients with increasing pump wave intensity, under "sideband" generation conditions.

id: 0807.2234
title: Quantum cryptography using partially entangled states
authors: Goren Gordon, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, RevTex 4; v2: published version
journal: Opt. Commun. 283, 184 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2234
abstract: We show that non-maximally entangled states can be used to build a quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme whose security and key rate transmission is nearly equivalent to those of standard QKD protocols. These aspects can be controlled by using the new free parameter in the present scheme, namely, the degree of partial entanglement. Furthermore, we discuss how to build a controlled QKD scheme, also based on partially entangled states, where a third party can decide whether or not Alice and Bob are allowed to share a key.

id: 0807.2263
title: One-dimensional quantum random walks with two entangled coins
authors: Chaobin Liu, Nelson Petulante
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032312 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2263
abstract: We offer theoretical explanations for some recent observations in numerical simulations of quantum random walks (QRW). Specifically, in the case of a QRW on the line with one particle (walker) and two entangled coins, we explain the phenomenon, called "localization", whereby the probability distribution of the walker's position is seen to exhibit a persistent major "spike" (or "peak") at the initial position and two other minor spikes which drift to infinity in either direction. Another interesting finding in connection with QRW's of this sort pertains to the limiting behavior of the position probability distribution. It is seen that the probability of finding the walker at any given location becomes eventually stationary and non-vanishing. We explain these observations in terms of the degeneration of some eigenvalue of the time evolution operator $U(k)$. An explicit general formula is derived for the limiting probability, from which we deduce the limiting value of the height of the observed spike at the origin. We show that the limiting probability decreases {\em quadratically} for large values of the position $x$. We locate the two minor spikes and demonstrate that their positions are determined by the phases of non-degenerated eigenvalues of $U(k)$. Finally, for fixed time $t$ sufficiently large, we examine the dependence on $t$ of the probability of finding a particle at a given location $x$.

id: 0807.2289
title: Entangled Quantum Key Distribution Over Two Free-Space Optical Links
authors: C. Erven, C. Couteau, R. Laflamme, G. Weihs
comments: v2: Revised paper based on referee report, primarily in the Security assumption section and towards the end of the Experimental implementation section. 14 pages, 5 figures, higher resolution images will be available in the published article. v1: 13 pages, 5 figures, higher resolution images will be available in the published article
journal: Opt. Exp. 16, 16840 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2289
abstract: We report on the first real-time implementation of a quantum key distribution (QKD) system using entangled photon pairs that are sent over two free-space optical telescope links. The entangled photon pairs are produced with a type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion source placed in a central, potentially untrusted, location. The two free-space links cover a distance of 435 m and 1,325 m respectively, producing a total separation of 1,575 m. The system relies on passive polarization analysis units, GPS timing receivers for synchronization, and custom written software to perform the complete QKD protocol including error correction and privacy amplification. Over 6.5 hours during the night, we observed an average raw key generation rate of 565 bits/s, an average quantum bit error rate (QBER) of 4.92%, and an average secure key generation rate of 85 bits/s.

id: 0807.2304
title: A General Approach for the Exact Solution of the Schrodinger Equation
authors: Cevdet Tezcan, Ramazan Sever
comments: 20 pages
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48, 337(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2304
abstract: The Schr\"{o}dinger equation is solved exactly for some well known potentials. Solutions are obtained reducing the Schr\"{o}dinger equation into a second order differential equation by using an appropriate coordinate transformation. The Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used in the calculations to get energy eigenvalues and the corresponding wave functions.

id: 0807.2320
title: Approaches to Single Photon Detection
authors: R. T. Thew, N. Curtz, P. Eraerds, N. Walenta, J-D. Gautier, E. Koller, J. Zhang, N. Gisin, H. Zbinden
comments: NDIP08 Conf proceedings. 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2320
abstract: We present recent results on our development of single photon detectors, including: gated and free-running InGaAs/InP avalanche photodiodes; hybrid detection systems based on sum-frequency generation and Si APDs; and SSPDs (superconducting single photon detectors), for telecom wavelengths; as well as SiPM (Silicon photomultiplier) detectors operating in the visible regime.

id: 0807.2338
title: Linear Quantum Feedback Networks
authors: J. Gough, R. Gohm, M. Yanagisawa
comments: 19 pages, Latex figures in text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062104 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2338
abstract: The mathematical theory of quantum feedback networks has recently been developed for general open quantum dynamical systems interacting with bosonic input fields. In this article we show, for the special case of linear dynamical systems Markovian systems with instantaneous feedback connections, that the transfer functions can be deduced and agree with the algebraic rules obtained in the nonlinear case. Using these rules, we derive the the transfer functions for linear quantum systems in series, in cascade, and in feedback arrangements mediated by beam splitter devices.

id: 0807.2342
title: Dynamics of dissipative coupled spins: decoherence and relaxation
authors: P. N?gele, G. Campagnano, U. Weiss
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2342
abstract: We study the reduced dynamics of interacting spins, each coupled to its own bath of bosons. We derive the solution in analytic form in the white-noise limit and analyze the rich behaviors in diverse limits ranging from weak coupling and/or low temperature to strong coupling and/or high temperature. We also view the one spin as being coupled to a spin-boson environment and consider the regimes in which it is effectively nonlinear, and in which it can be regarded as a resonant bosonic environment.

id: 0807.2347
title: Cavity Opto-Mechanics with a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Ferdinand Brennecke, Stephan Ritter, Tobias Donner, Tilman Esslinger
comments: F.B. and S.R. contributed equally to this work. 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Science 322, 235-238 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2347
abstract: Cavity opto-mechanics studies the coupling between a mechanical oscillator and a cavity field, with the aim to shed light on the border between classical and quantum physics. Here we report on a cavity opto-mechanical system in which a collective density excitation of a Bose-Einstein condensate is shown to serve as the mechanical oscillator coupled to the cavity field. We observe that a few photons inside the ultrahigh-finesse cavity trigger a strongly driven back-action dynamics, in quantitative agreement with a cavity opto-mechanical model. With this experiment we approach the strong coupling regime of cavity opto-mechanics, where a single excitation of the mechanical oscillator significantly influences the cavity field. The work opens up new directions to investigate mechanical oscillators in the quantum regime and quantum gases with non-local coupling.

id: 0807.2360
title: Separable Operations on Pure States
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu, Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Typo corrected in the abstract
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 020304 (R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2360
abstract: We show that the possible ensembles produced when a separable operation acts on a single pure bipartite entangled state are completely characterized by a majorization condition, a collection of inequalities for Schmidt coefficients, which is identical to that already known for the particular case of local operations and classical communication (LOCC). As a consequence, various known results for LOCC, including some involving monotonicity of entanglement, can be extended to the class of all separable operations.

id: 0807.2368
title: Observing the Spontaneous Breakdown of Unitarity
authors: Jasper van Wezel
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser., 150, 042225 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2368
abstract: During the past decade, the experimental development of being able to create ever larger and heavier quantum superpositions has brought the discussion of the connection between microscopic quantum mechanics and macroscopic classical physics back to the forefront of physical research. Under equilibrium conditions this connection is in fact well understood in terms of the mechanism of spontaneous symmetry breaking, while the emergence of classical dynamics can be described within an ensemble averaged description in terms of decoherence. The remaining realm of individual-state quantum dynamics in the thermodynamic limit was addressed in a recent paper proposing that the unitarity of quantum mechanical time evolution in macroscopic objects may be susceptible to a spontaneous breakdown. Here we will discuss the implications of this theory of spontaneous unitarity breaking for the modern experiments involving truly macroscopic Schrodinger cat states.

id: 0807.2379
title: Excited-state spectroscopy of single NV defects in diamond using optically detected magnetic resonance
authors: P. Neumann, R. Kolesov, V. Jacques, J. Beck, J. Tisler, A. Batalov, L. Rogers, N. B. Manson, G. Balasubramanian, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 013017 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2379
abstract: Using pulsed optically detected magnetic resonance techniques, we directly probe electron-spin resonance transitions in the excited-state of single Nitrogen-Vacancy color centers in diamond. Unambiguous assignment of excited state fine structure is made, based on changes of NV defect photoluminescence lifetime. This study provides significant insight into the structure of the emitting 3E excited state, which is invaluable for the development of diamond-based quantum information processing.

id: 0807.2413
title: A non-local hidden-variable model that violates Leggett-type inequalities
authors: F. De Zela
comments: 14 pages, no figures. Section 2.2 modified by generalizing the model to arbitrary initial states
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 505301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2413
abstract: Recent experiments of Groeblacher et al. proved the violation of a Leggett-type inequality that was claimed to be valid for a broad class of non-local hidden-variable theories. The impossibility of constructing a non-local and realistic theory, unless it entails highly counterintuitive features, seems thus to have been experimentally proved. This would bring us close to a definite refutation of realism. Indeed, realism was proved to be also incompatible with locality, according to a series of experiments testing Bell inequalities. The present paper addresses the said experiments of Groeblacher et al. and presents an explicit, contextual and realistic, model that reproduces the predictions of quantum mechanics. It thus violates the Leggett-type inequality that was established with the aim of ruling out a supposedly broad class of non-local models. We can thus conclude that plausible contextual, realistic, models are still tenable. This restates the possibility of a future completion of quantum mechanics by a realistic and contextual theory which is not in a class containing only highly counterintuitive models. The class that was ruled out by the experiments of Groeblacher et al. is thus proved to be a limited one, arbitrarily separating models that physically belong in the same class.

id: 0807.2425
title: Domain-averaged Fermi hole versus regional reduced density matrices: a critical comparison
authors: Diego R. Alcoba, Roberto C. Bochicchio, Luis Lain, Alicia Torre
comments: four pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2425
abstract: In their recent work Cooper and Ponec [Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 1319-1329] proposed a ``one-electron approximation to domain-averaged Fermi hole (DAFH)" used in electronic population studies. The goal of this comment is to note that the proposal had been already published within the framework of domain-restricted reduced density matrices ($\mathrm{\Omega}$-RDM) and to show that it cannot conceptually be considered as an approximation to DAFH as the authors invoke.

id: 0807.2444
title: Measuring measurement
authors: J.S. Lundeen, A. Feito, H. Coldenstrodt-Ronge, K.L. Pregnell, Ch. Silberhorn, T.C. Ralph, J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio, I.A. Walmsley
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures,see video abstract at this http URL
journal: Nature Physics 5, 27 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2444
abstract: Measurement connects the world of quantum phenomena to the world of classical events. It plays both a passive role, observing quantum systems, and an active one, preparing quantum states and controlling them. Surprisingly - in the light of the central status of measurement in quantum mechanics - there is no general recipe for designing a detector that measures a given observable. Compounding this, the characterization of existing detectors is typically based on partial calibrations or elaborate models. Thus, experimental specification (i.e. tomography) of a detector is of fundamental and practical importance. Here, we present the realization of quantum detector tomography: we identify the optimal positive-operator-valued measure describing the detector, with no ancillary assumptions. This result completes the triad, state, process, and detector tomography, required to fully specify an experiment. We characterize an avalanche photodiode and a photon number resolving detector capable of detecting up to eight photons. This creates a new set of tools for accurately detecting and preparing non-classical light.

id: 0807.2490
title: Generation of field mediated three qubit entangled state shared by Alice and Bob
authors: Paulo Jose dos Reis, S. Shelly Sharma
comments: 14 pages, 06 figures, section IV revised, Other minor changes to improve readability
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012326 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2490
abstract: A scheme to generate shared tripartite entangled states, with two-trapped atoms in a cavity held by Alice (qubits A1 and A2) entangled to a single trapped atom in a remote lab owned by Bob (B), is proposed. The entanglement is generated through interaction of trapped atoms with two mode squeezed light shared by the two cavities. The proposed scheme is an extension of the proposal of ref. [W. Son, M. S. Kim, J. Lee, and D. Ahn, J. Mod. Opt. 49, 1739 (2002)], where the possibility of entangling two remote qubits using a bipartite continuous variable state was examined. While the global negativity detects the free entanglement of the three atom mixed state, the bound entanglement is detected by the negativity calculated from pure state decomposition of the state operator. The partial negativities calculated by selective partial transposition of the three atom mixed state detect the pairwise entanglement of qubit pairs A1B, A2B, and A1A2. The entanglement of three atoms is found to be W-like, no GHZ like quantum correlations being generated.

id: 0807.2501
title: The effect of quantum memory on quantum games
authors: M. Ramzan, Ahmad Nawaz, A. H. Toor, M. K. Khan
comments: 26 pages, 7 ps figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 055307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2501
abstract: We study quantum games with correlated noise through a generalized quantization scheme. We investigate the effects of memory on quantum games, such as Prisoner's Dilemma, Battle of the Sexes and Chicken, through three prototype quantum-correlated channels. It is shown that the quantum player enjoys an advantage over the classical player for all nine cases considered in this paper for the maximally entangled case. However, the quantum player can also outperform the classical player for subsequent cases that can be noted in the case of the Battle of the Sexes game. It can be seen that the Nash equilibria do not change for all the three games under the effect of memory.

id: 0807.2502
title: Simulations and Experiments on Polarisation Squeezing in Optical Fibre
authors: Joel F. Corney, Joel Heersink, Ruifang Dong, Vincent Josse, Peter D. Drummond, Gerd Leuchs, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 19 pages, lots of figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2502
abstract: We investigate polarisation squeezing of ultrashort pulses in optical fibre, over a wide range of input energies and fibre lengths. Comparisons are made between experimental data and quantum dynamical simulations, to find good quantitative agreement. The numerical calculations, performed using both truncated Wigner and exact $+P$ phase-space methods, include nonlinear and stochastic Raman effects, through coupling to phonons variables. The simulations reveal that excess phase noise, such as from depolarising GAWBS, affects squeezing at low input energies, while Raman effects cause a marked deterioration of squeezing at higher energies and longer fibre lengths. The optimum fibre length for maximum squeezing is also calculated.

id: 0807.2516
title: Adiabatic preparation without Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Gernot Schaller
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, published version (references and remarks on implementation added, typos corrected)
journal: Physical Review A 78, 032328, (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2516
abstract: Many physically interesting models show a quantum phase transition when a single parameter is varied through a critical point, where the ground state and the first excited state become degenerate. When this parameter appears as a coupling constant, these models can be understood as straight-line interpolations between different Hamiltonians $H_{\rm I}$ and $H_{\rm F}$. For finite-size realizations however, there will usually be a finite energy gap between ground and first excited state. By slowly changing the coupling constant through the point with the minimum energy gap one thereby has an adiabatic algorithm that prepares the ground state of $H_{\rm F}$ from the ground state of $H_{\rm I}$. The adiabatic theorem implies that in order to obtain a good preparation fidelity the runtime $\tau$ should scale with the inverse energy gap and thereby also with the system size. In addition, for open quantum systems not only non-adiabatic but also thermal excitations are likely to occur. It is shown that -- using only local Hamiltonians -- for the 1d quantum Ising model and the cluster model in a transverse field the conventional straight line path can be replaced by a series of straight-line interpolations, along which the fundamental energy gap is always greater than a constant independent on the system size. The results are of interest for adiabatic quantum computation since strong similarities between adiabatic quantum algorithms and quantum phase transitions exist.

id: 0807.2529
title: Enhancing the Detection of Natural Thermal Entanglement with Disorder
authors: Jenny Hide, Wonmin Son, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, accepted by Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 100503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2529
abstract: Physical systems have some degree of disorder present in them. We discuss how to treat natural, thermal entanglement in any random macroscopic system from which a thermodynamic witness bounded by a constant can be found. We propose that functional many-body perturbation theory be applied to allow either a quenched or an annealed average over the disorder to be taken. We find when considering the example of an XX Heisenberg spin chain with a random coupling strength, that the region of natural entanglement detected by both witnesses can be enhanced by the disorder.

id: 0807.2536
title: Max- Relative Entropy of Entanglement, alias Log Robustness
authors: Nilanjana Datta
comments: Published version; 9 pages, no figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, vol 7, no.2, 475-491, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2536
abstract: Properties of the max- relative entropy of entanglement are investigated, and its significance as an upper bound to the one shot rate for perfect entanglement dilution, under a particular class of quantum operations, is discussed. It is shown that it is in fact equal to another known entanglement monotone, namely the log robustness. It is known that the latter is not asymptotically continuous and it is not known whether it is weakly additive. However, by suitably modifying the max- relative entropy of entanglement we obtain a quantity which is seen to satisfy both these properties. In fact, the modified quantity is shown to be equal to the regularised relative entropy of entanglement.

id: 0807.2551
title: Entanglement in a Raman-driven cascaded system
authors: C. Di Fidio, W. Vogel
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032334 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2551
abstract: The dynamics of a cascaded system that consists of two atom-cavity subsystems is studied by using the quantum trajectory method. Considering the two atom-cavity subsystems driven by a Raman interaction, analytical solutions are obtained. Subsequently, the entanglement evolution between the two atoms is studied, and it is shown that the entanglement can be stored by switching off the Raman coupling. By monitoring the radiation field, the entanglement between the two atoms can be enhanced.

id: 0807.2556
title: Violations of Bell's inequality for Gaussian states with homodyne detection and nonlinear interactions
authors: M. Paternostro, H. Jeong, T. C. Ralph
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX4; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2556
abstract: We show that homodyne measurements can be used to demonstrate violations of Bell's inequality with Gaussian states, when the local rotations used for these types of tests are implemented using nonlinear unitary operations. We reveal that the local structure of the Gaussian state under scrutiny is crucial in the performance of the test. The effects of finite detection efficiency is thoroughly studied and shown to only mildly affect the revelation of Bell violations. We speculate that our approach may be extended to other applications such as entanglement distillation where local operations are necessary elements besides quantum entanglement.

id: 0807.2584
title: Refractive Index Enhancement with Vanishing Absorption in an Atomic Vapor
authors: N. A. Proite, B. E. Unks, J. T. Green, D. D. Yavuz
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 147401 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2584
abstract: We report a proof-of-principle experiment where the refractive index of an atomic vapor is enhanced while maintaining vanishing absorption of the beam. The key idea is to drive alkali atoms in a vapor with appropriate control lasers and induce a gain resonance and an absorption resonance for a probe beam in a two-photon Raman configuration. The strength and the position of these two resonances can be manipulated by changing the parameters of the control lasers. By using the interference between these two resonances, we obtain an enhanced refractive index without an increase in the absorption.

id: 0807.2609
title: Quantum decay cannot be completely reversed. The 5% rule
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2609
abstract: Using an exactly solvable model of the Wigner-Weisskopf atom it is shown that an unstable quantum state cannot be recovered completely by the procedure involving detection of the decay products followed by creation of the time reversed decay products state, as proposed in \cite{Son}. The universal lower bound on the recovery error is approximately equal to $5% $ of the \emph{error per cycle} - the dimensionless parameter characterizing decay process in the Markovian approximation. This result has consequences for the efficiency of quantum error correction procedures which are based on syndrome measurements and corrective operations.

id: 0807.2614
title: Computational Ghost Imaging
authors: Jeffrey H Shapiro
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2614
abstract: Ghost-imaging experiments correlate the outputs from two photodetectors: a high spatial-resolution (scanning pinhole or CCD camera) detector that measures a field which has not interacted with the object to be imaged, and a bucket (single-pixel) detector that collects a field that has interacted with the object. We describe a computational ghost-imaging arrangement that uses only a single-pixel detector. This configuration affords background-free imagery in the narrowband limit and a 3D sectioning capability. It clearly indicates the classical nature of ghost-image formation.

id: 0807.2615
title: Quantumness Witnesses
authors: Robert Alicki, Marco Piani, Nicholas Van Ryn
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 495303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2615
abstract: A recently proposed test of quantumness [R. Alicki and N. Van Ryn, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 062001 (2008)] is put into a broader mathematical and physical perspective. The notion of quantumness witness is introduced, in analogy to entanglement witness, and illustrated by examples of a single qubit and many-body systems with additive observables. We compare also our proposal with the quantumness test based on quantum correlations (entanglement) and Bell inequalities. A class of quantumness witnesses associated to the phase space representation is also discussed.

id: 0807.2668
title: Mixing doubly stochastic quantum channels with the completely depolarizing channel
authors: John Watrous
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2668
abstract: It is proved that every doubly stochastic quantum channel that is properly averaged with the completely depolarizing channel can be written as a convex combination of unitary channels. As a consequence, we find that the collection of channels expressible as convex combinations of unitary channels has non-zero Borel measure within the space of doubly stochastic channels.

id: 0807.2681
title: Bounds on Bipartitiely Shared Entanglement Reduced from Superposed Tripartite Quantum States
authors: Chang-shui Yu, X. X. Yi, He-shan Song
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Accepted by Euro. Phys. J. D
journal: Euro. Phys. J. D 49, 273 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2681
abstract: For a tripartite pure state superposed by two individual states, the bipartitely shared entanglement can always be achieved by local measurements of the third party. Consider the different aims of the third party, i.e. maximizing or minimizing the bipartitely shared entanglement, we find bounds on both the possible bipartitely shared entanglement of the superposition state in terms of the corresponding entanglement of the two states being superposed. In particular, by choosing the concurrence as bipartite entanglement measure, we obtain calculable bounds for tripartite $(2\otimes 2\otimes n)$ -dimensional cases.

id: 0807.2691
title: Statement of uncertainty principle for quantum measurements in terms of the Renyi entropies
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 21 pages, no figures. This paper is connected with arXiv:0805.1777
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2691
abstract: The aim of the work is to give the explicit proofs of the Renyi-entropy uncertainty relations presented in the previous work [A. Rastegin, arXiv:0805.1777]. The relations with both the state-dependent and state-independent entropic bounds are proved. For a pair of POVM measurements the two relations are obtained. The first of them is generalization of the known results, whereas the second is quite alternative. It is shown that both these relations are meaty. The important case of POVM's with one-rank elements is extra discussed. The measurements designed for distinction between two non-orthogonal quantum states are considered as examples.

id: 0807.2703
title: Coupled dynamics of an atom and an optomechanical cavity
authors: X. X. Yi, H. Y. Sun, L. C. Wang
comments: 5 papes, 5 figues, typos are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2703
abstract: We consider the motion of the end mirror of a cavity inside which a two-level atom trapped. The fast vibrating mirror induces nonlinear couplings between the cavity field and the atom. We analyze this optical effect by showing the population of the atom in its internal degrees of freedom as a function of time. On the other side, fast atom-field variables result in an additional potential for the atomic center-of-mass motion and the mirror vibration, leading to entanglement in the motion and the vibration. The entanglement has been numerically simulated and discussed.

id: 0807.2711
title: Entanglement swapping between spacelike separated atoms
authors: Juan Le¨®n, Carlos Sab¨ªn
comments: v2: version accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052314 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2711
abstract: We show a mechanism that projects a pair of neutral two-level atoms from an initially uncorrelated state to a maximally entangled state while they remain spacelike separated. The atoms begin both excited in a common electromagnetic vacuum, and the radiation is collected with a partial Bell-state analyzer. If the interaction time is short enough and a certain two-photon Bell state is detected after the interaction, a high degree of entanglement, even maximal, can be generated while one atom is outside the light cone of the other, for arbitrary large interatomic distances.

id: 0807.2758
title: Simultaneous Communication Protocols with Quantum and Classical Messages
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky, Oded Regev, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 11 pages LaTeX. 2nd version: author added and some changes to the writing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2758
abstract: We study the simultaneous message passing (SMP) model of communication complexity, for the case where one party is quantum and the other is classical. We show that in an SMP protocol that computes some function with the first party sending q qubits and the second sending c classical bits, the quantum message can be replaced by a randomized message of O(qc) classical bits, as well as by a deterministic message of O(q c log q) classical bits. Our proofs rely heavily on earlier results due to Scott Aaronson. In particular, our results imply that quantum-classical protocols need to send Omega(sqrt{n/log n}) bits/qubits to compute Equality on n-bit strings, and hence are not significantly better than classical-classical protocols (and are much worse than quantum-quantum protocols such as quantum fingerprinting). This essentially answers a recent question of Wim van Dam. Our results also imply, more generally, that there are no superpolynomial separations between quantum-classical and classical-classical SMP protocols for functional problems. This contrasts with the situation for relational problems, where exponential gaps between quantum-classical and classical-classical SMP protocols are known. We show that this surprising situation cannot arise in purely classical models: there, an exponential separation for a relational problem can be converted into an exponential separation for a functional problem.

id: 0807.2768
title: Quantum Information and Wave function Collapse
authors: S.Mayburov
comments: 8 pages, talk given on Simposium 'Frontiers of fundamental Physics', Udine, Italy, January 2008, to appear in Proceedings
journal: 'Frontiers of Fundamental and Computational Physics", AIP Conference proceedings, vol. 1018, 33 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2768
abstract: Inofrmation-theoretical restrictions on information transferred in the measurement of object S by information system O are studied. It is shown that such constraints, induced by Heisenberg commutation relations, result in the loss of information about the purity of S state. Consequently, it becomes impossible for O to discriminate pure and mixed S states. In individual events this effect is manifested by the stochastic outcomes of pure S state measurement, i.e. the collapse of pure S state.

id: 0807.2783
title: Controlling entanglement sudden death in cavity QED by classical driving fields
authors: Jian-Song Zhang, Jing-Bo Xu, Qiang Lin
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 51, 283-288 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2783
abstract: We investigate the entanglement dynamics of a quantum system consisting of two-level atoms interacting with vacuum or thermal fields with classical driving fields. We find that the entanglement of the system can be improved by adjusting the classical driving field. The influence of the classical field and the purity of the initial state on the entanglement sudden death is also studied. It is shown that the time of entanglement sudden death can be controlled by the classical driving fields. Particularly, the entanglement sudden death phenomenon will disappear if the classical driving fields are strong enough.

id: 0807.2837
title: Variations on a theme of Heisenberg, Pauli and Weyl
authors: M.R. Kibler
comments: Dedicated to the memory of Mosh\'e Flato on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of his death
journal: Journal of Physics A Mathematical and Theoretical 41 (2008) 375302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2837
abstract: The parentage between Weyl pairs, generalized Pauli group and unitary group is investigated in detail. We start from an abstract definition of the Heisenberg-Weyl group on the field R and then switch to the discrete Heisenberg-Weyl group or generalized Pauli group on a finite ring Z_d. The main characteristics of the latter group, an abstract group of order d**3 noted P_d, are given (conjugacy classes and irreducible representation classes or equivalently Lie algebra of dimension d**3 associated with P_d). Leaving the abstract sector, a set of Weyl pairs in dimension d is derived from a polar decomposition of SU(2) closely connected to angular momentum theory. Then, a realization of the generalized Pauli group P_d and the construction of generalized Pauli matrices in dimension d are revisited in terms of Weyl pairs. Finally, the Lie algebra of the unitary group U(d) is obtained as a subalgebra of the Lie algebra associated with P_d. This leads to a development of the Lie algebra of U(d) in a basis consisting of d**2 generalized Pauli matrices. In the case where d is a power of a prime integer, the Lie algebra of SU(d) can be decomposed into d-1 Cartan subalgebras.

id: 0807.2846
title: Collapse models with non-white noises II: particle-density coupled noises
authors: Stephen L. Adler, Angelo Bassi
comments: Latex, 43 pages; versions 2&3 have minor editorial revisions
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 395308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2846
abstract: We continue the analysis of models of spontaneous wave function collapse with stochastic dynamics driven by non-white Gaussian noise. We specialize to a model in which a classical "noise" field, with specified autocorrelator, is coupled to a local nonrelativistic particle density. We derive general results in this model for the rates of density matrix diagonalization and of state vector reduction, and show that (in the absence of decoherence) both processes are governed by essentially the same rate parameters. As an alternative route to our reduction results, we also derive the Fokker-Planck equations that correspond to the initial stochastic Schr\"odinger equation. For specific models of the noise autocorrelator, including ones motivated by the structure of thermal Green's functions, we discuss the qualitative and qantitative dependence on model parameters, with particular emphasis on possible cosmological sources of the noise field.

id: 0807.2876
title: Stabilizer states and local realism
authors: Matthew B. Elliott
comments: 213 pages, 25 figures, and 2 tables. Ph.D. Thesis, University of New Mexico, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2876
abstract: The central focus of this work is to make progress towards understanding entanglement as a resource for computation by examining the quantum correlations that can be extracted from stabilizer states. As such, we focus on the stabilizer formalism, local realism, and the convergence of the two.

id: 0807.2909
title: Aberration cancellation in quantum interferometry
authors: C. Bonato, A. V. Sergienko, B. E. A. Saleh, S. Bonora, P. Villoresi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 233603 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2909
abstract: We report the first experimental demonstration of even-order aberration cancellation in quantum interferometry. The effect is a spatial counterpart of the spectral group velocity dispersion cancellation, which is associated with spectral entanglement. It is manifested in temporal interferometry by virtue of the multi-parameter spatial-spectral entanglement. Spatially-entangled photons, generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion, were subjected to spatial aberrations introduced by a deformable mirror that modulates the wavefront. We show that only odd-order spatial aberrations affect the quality of quantum interference.

id: 0807.2950
title: Casimir effect in a superconducting cavity and the thermal controversy
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 11 pages, 4 encapsulated figures. This in an expanded version of the previous paper, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A78:062101,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2950
abstract: One of the most important and still unresolved problems in the field of dispersion forces, is that of determining the influence of temperature on the Casimir force between two metallic plates. While alternative theoretical approaches lead to contradictory predictions for the magnitude of the effect, no experiment has yet detected the thermal correction to the Casimir force. In this paper we show that a superconducting cavity provides a new opportunity to investigate the problem of the thermal dependence of the Casimir force in real materials, by looking at the change of the Casimir force determined by a small change of temperature. The actual feasibility of the proposed scheme is briefly discussed.

id: 0807.2992
title: Structure constants of $su(2S+1)$ algebra and the decomplexification of the Liouville-von Neumann equation
authors: E. A. Ivanchenko
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2992
abstract: he analytic formulas for structure constants of $su(2S+1)$ algebra in terms of $3jm$ and $6j$ symbols of $su(2)$ have been derived for the decomplexification of the Liouville-von Neumann equation.

id: 0807.3025
title: A Quantum Imager for Intensity Correlated Photons
authors: D. L. Boiko, N. J. Gunther, N. Brauer, M. Sergio, C. Niclass, G. B. Beretta, E. Charbon
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, references added. Accepted in NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 013001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3025
abstract: We report on a novel device capable of imaging second-order spatio-temporal correlations g2(x,t) between photons. The imager is based on a monolithic array of single-photon avalanche diodes (SPAD) implemented in CMOS technology and a simple algorithm to treat multiphoton time-of-arrival distributions from different SPAD pairs. It is capable of 80 ps temporal resolution with fluxes as low as 10 photons/s at room temperature. An important application might be the local imaging of g2 as a means of confirming the presence of true Bose-Einstein macroscopic coherence (BEC) of cavity exciton polaritons.

id: 0807.3030
title: A singular position-dependent mass particle in an infinite potential well
authors: Omar Mustafa, S.Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 13 pages, no figures. To appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, 325 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3030
abstract: We consider an unusual singular position=dependent-mass particle in an infinite potential well. The corresponding Hamiltonian is mapped through a point-canonical-transformation and an explicit correspondence between the target Hamiltonian and a Poschl-Teller type reference Hamiltonian is obtained. New ordering ambiguity parametric setting are suggested.

id: 0807.3063
title: Transport and Quantum Walk of Nonclassical Light in Coupled Waveguides
authors: Amit Rai, G. S. Agarwal, J. H. H. Perk
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 78, 042304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3063
abstract: We study the transport and quantum walk of nonclassical light in an array of coupled waveguides which have novel properties like very low decoherence and thus making them ideal for storage of quantum information. We show how squeezing gets turned over from one waveguide to another. We further show how input nonclassical light can generate entanglement among different waveguides. Our results involve both first quantization due to array structure and second quantization due to the quantum nature of fields and can also be used to discuss the Talbot effect in the quantum regime.

id: 0807.3084
title: Brownian motion of a charged test particle driven by vacuum fluctuations near a dielectric half-space
authors: Hongwei Yu, Xiangyun Fu, Puxun Wu
comments: 9 pages, no figures, Revtex4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 335402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3084
abstract: We study the Brownian motion of a charged test particle driven by quantum electromagnetic fluctuations in the vacuum region near a non-dispersive and non-absorbing dielectric half-space and calculate the mean squared fluctuations in the velocity of the test particle. Our results show that a nonzero susceptibility of the dielectrics has its imprints on the velocity dispersions of the test particles. The most noteworthy feature in sharp contrast to the case of an idealized perfectly conducting interface is that the velocity dispersions in the parallel directions are no longer negative and does not die off in time, suggesting that the potentially problematic negativeness of the dispersions in those directions in the case of perfect conductors is just a result of our idealization and does not occur for real material boundaries.

id: 0807.3110
title: Ramsey-like measurement of the decoherence rate between Zeeman sub-levels
authors: M. Shuker, O. Firstenberg, Y. Sagi, A. Ben-kish, N. Davidson, A. Ron
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 063818 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3110
abstract: Two-photon processes that involve different sub-levels of the ground state of an atom, are highly sensitive to depopulation and decoherence within the ground state. For example, the spectral width of electromagnetically induced transparency resonances in $\Lambda-$type system, are strongly affected by the ground state depopulation and decoherence rates. We present a direct measurement of decay rates between hyperfine and Zeeman sub-levels in the ground state of $^{87}$Rb vapor. Similar to the relaxation-in-the-dark technique, pumping lasers are used to pre-align the atomic vapor in a well defined quantum state. The free propagation of the atomic state is monitored using a Ramsey-like method. Coherence times in the range 1-10 ms were measured for room temperature atomic vapor. In the range of the experimental parameters used in this study, the dominant process inducing Zeeman decoherence is the spin-exchange collisions between rubidium atoms.

id: 0807.3111
title: Simplified contact pseudopotential for anisotropic interactions of polarized particles under harmonic confinement
authors: Andrei Derevianko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3111
abstract: Motivated by the recent progress in cooling and trapping polar molecules, we present a simplified version of the rigorous contact pseudopotential for anisotropically-interacting polarized particles [A. Derevianko, Phys. Rev. A 67, 033607 (2003); Phys. Rev. A 72, 039901(E) (2005)]. The simplifications are carried out for a practically important case of harmonically confined particles described by sufficiently smooth wavefunctions. The resulting contact pseudo-potential depends on the K-matrix of the underlying scattering process and is represented as a sum over pairs of partial waves coupled by the collision. The contribution of each pair of the coupled waves (l and l') involves a tensor product of derivatives of orders l and l'. The asymmetry in the derivatives reflects the anisotropy of the original interaction potential: there is a preferential appearance of the derivatives along the polarizing field.

id: 0807.3141
title: Study of the decoherence of a double quantum dot charge qubit via the Redfield equation
authors: Zeng-Zhao Li, Xiao-Yin Pan, Xian-Ting Liang
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physica E 41, 220 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3141
abstract: By using the Redfield form of the master equation, we investigate the decoherence times of a double quantum dot charge qubit (DQDCQ) in three different cases, namely when it is coupled to (I) the piezoelectric coupling phonon bath (PCPB), (II) the deformation coupling phonon bath (DCPB), and (III) the Ohmic bath. It is found that our results for case (I) and (II) are in the same magnitude with those obtained via the exact path integral methods, while for case (III), the decoherence time is in well agreement with the experimental value.

id: 0807.3142
title: Investigation of quantum roulette
authors: S. Salimi, M.M. Soltanzadeh
comments: 17 page
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 7, No. 3 (2009) 615-626
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3142
abstract: In this paper, by using permutation matrices as a representation of symmetric group $S_N$ and Fourier matrix, we investigate quantum roulette with an arbitrary $N$-state. This strategy, which we introduce, is general method that allows us to solve quantum game for an arbitrary $N$-state. We consider the interaction between the system and its environment and study the effect of the depolarizing channel on this strategy. Finally, as an example we employ this strategy for quantum roulette with N=3.

id: 0807.3200
title: Squeezed single-atom laser in a photonic crystal
authors: Rong Tan, Gao-xiang Li, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3200
abstract: We study non-classical and spectral properties of a strongly driven single-atom laser engineered within a photonic crystal that facilitates a frequency-dependent reservoir. In these studies, we apply a dressed atom model approach to derive the master equation of the system and study the properties of the dressed laser under the frequency dependent transition rates. By going beyond the secular approximation in the dressed-atom cavity field interaction, we find that if, in addition, the non-secular terms are included into the dynamics of the system, then non-linear processes can occur that lead to interesting new aspects of cavity field behavior. We calculate variances of the quadrature phase amplitudes and the incoherent part of the spectrum of the cavity field and show that they differ qualitatively from those observed under the secular approximation. In particular, it is found that the non-linear processes lead to squeezing of the fluctuations of the cavity field below the quantum shot noise limit. The squeezing depends on the relative population of the dressed states of the system and is found only if there is no population inversion between the dressed states. Furthermore, we find a linewidth narrowing below the quantum limit in the spectrum of the cavity field that is achieved only when the secular approximation is not made. An interpretation of the linewidth narrowing is provided in terms of two phase dependent noise (squeezing) spectra that make up the incoherent spectrum. We establish that the linewidth narrowing is due squeezing of the fluctuations in one quadrature phase components of the cavity field.

id: 0807.3208
title: Sudden death, birth and stable entanglement in a two-qubit Heisenberg XY spin chain
authors: Chuan-Jia Shan, Wei-Wen Cheng, Tang-Kun Liu, Ji-Bing Liu, Hua Wei
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: CHIN.PHYS.LETT. 2008 25(9): 3115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3208
abstract: Taking the decoherence effect due to population relaxation into account, we investigate the entanglement properties for two qubits in the Heisenberg XY interaction and subject to an external magnetic field. It is found that the phenomenon of entanglement sudden death (ESD) as well as sudden birth(ESB) appear during the evolution process for particular initial states. The influence of the external magnetic field and the spin environment on ESD and ESB are addressed in detail. It is shown that the concurrence, a measure of entanglement, can be controlled by tuning the parameters of the spin chain, such as the anisotropic parameter, external magnetic field, and the coupling strength with their environment. In particular, we find that a critical anisotropy constant exists, above which ESB vanishes while ESD appears. It is also notable that stable entanglement, which is independent of different initial states of the qubits, occurs even in the presence of decoherence.

id: 0807.3213
title: Optimal quantum estimation in spin systems at criticality
authors: Carmen Invernizzi, Michael Korbman, Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Matteo G. A Paris
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys Rev A vol 78, 042106 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3213
abstract: It is a general fact that the coupling constant of an interacting many-body Hamiltonian do not correspond to any observable and one has to infer its value by an indirect measurement. For this purpose, quantum systems at criticality can be considered as a resource to improve the ultimate quantum limits to precision of the estimation procedure. In this paper, we consider the one-dimensional quantum Ising model as a paradigmatic example of many-body system exhibiting criticality, and derive the optimal quantum estimator of the coupling constant varying size and temperature. We find the optimal external field, which maximizes the quantum Fisher information of the coupling constant, both for few spins and in the thermodynamic limit, and show that at the critical point a precision improvement of order $L$ is achieved. We also show that the measurement of the total magnetization provides optimal estimation for couplings larger than a threshold value, which itself decreases with temperature.

id: 0807.3272
title: Formation of ultracold polar molecules in the rovibrational ground state
authors: J. Deiglmayr, A. Grochola, M. Repp, K. M?rtlbauer, C. Gl¨¹ck, J. Lange, O. Dulieu, R. Wester, M. Weidem¨¹ller
comments: 
journal: PRL 101, 133004 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3272
abstract: Ultracold LiCs molecules in the absolute ground state X$^1\Sigma^+$, v"=0, J"=0 are formed via a single photo-association step starting from laser-cooled atoms. The selective production of v"=0, J"=2 molecules with a 50-fold higher rate is also demonstrated. The rotational and vibrational state of the ground state molecules is determined in a setup combining depletion spectroscopy with resonant-enhanced multi-photon ionization time-of-flight spectroscopy. Using the determined production rate of up to 5x10^3 molecules/s, we describe a simple scheme which can provide large samples of externally and internally cold dipolar molecules.

id: 0807.3286
title: The Strong Free Will Theorem
authors: John Conway, Simon Kochen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3286
abstract: We strengthen "The Free Will Theorem" [1] in several ways, by replacing the axiom FIN by a weaker axiom MIN, and also by allowing the particles' responses to depend on past half-spaces rather than on on past light cones. This change allows us to directly apply our theorem to relativistic theories of the GRW type.

id: 0807.3358
title: Quantum interface between light and atomic ensembles
authors: K. Hammerer, A.S. Sorensen, E.S. Polzik
comments: 57 pages, 22 figures, 4.6MB; published version
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 82, 1041 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3358
abstract: During the past decade the interaction of light with multi-atom ensembles has attracted a lot of attention as a basic building block for quantum information processing and quantum state engineering. The field started with the realization that optically thick free space ensembles can be efficiently interfaced with quantum optical fields. By now the atomic ensemble - light interfaces have become a powerful alternative to the cavity-enhanced interaction of light with single atoms. We discuss various mechanisms used for the quantum interface, including quantum nondemolition or Faraday interaction, quantum measurement and feedback, Raman interaction and electromagnetically induced transparency. The paper provides a common theoretical frame for these processes, describes basic experimental techniques and media used for quantum interfaces, and reviews several key experiments on quantum memory for light, quantum entanglement between atomic ensembles and light, and quantum teleportation with atomic ensembles. We discuss the two types of quantum measurements which are most important for the interface: homodyne detection and photon counting. The paper concludes with an outlook on the future of atomic ensembles as an enabling technology in quantum information processing.

id: 0807.3369
title: A new look at Bell's inequalities and Nelson's theorem
authors: Benjamin Schulz
comments: The stochastic model presented in this article was defect. The parts of this work that are correct are now in a separate article on arxiv.org
journal: Annalen der Physik (Berlin) 18, No. 4, 231 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3369
abstract: In 1985, Edward Nelson, who formulated the theory of stochastic mechanics, made an interesting remark on Bell's theorem. Nelson analysed the latter in the light of classical fields that behave randomly. He found that if a stochastic hidden variable theory fulfils certain conditions, the inequality of Bell can be violated. Moreover, Nelson was able to prove that this may happen without any instantaneous communication between the two spatially separated measurement stations. Since Nelson's article got almost overlooked by physicists, we try to review his comments on Bell's theorem. We argue that a modification of stochastic mechanics published recently by Fritsche and Haugk can be extended to a theory which fulfils the requirements of Nelson's analysis. The article proceeds to derive the quantum mechanical formalism of spinning particles and the Pauli equation from this version of stochastic mechanics. Then, we investigate Bohm's version of the EPR experiment. Additionally, other setups, like entanglement swapping or time and position correlations, are shortly explained from the viewpoint of our local hidden-variable model. Finally, we mention that this theory could perhaps be relativistically extended.

id: 0807.3376
title: Decoherence and the (non)emergence of classicality
authors: Steven Weinstein
comments: Changed to emphasize the role of stability as a criterion for classicality, rather than diagonalization of the reduced density matrix. The conclusion is restated to emphasize that, irrespective of the dynamics, it is only for very special global quantum states that macroscopic objects will display behavior distinct from microscopic objects
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3376
abstract: We consider the claim that decoherence explains the emergence of classicality in quantum systems, and conclude that it does not. We show that, given a randomly chosen universe composed of a variety of subsystems, some of which are macroscopic and subject to decoherence-inducing interactions, and some of which are microscopic, the macroscopic subsystems will not display any distinctively classical behavior. Therefore, a universe in which macroscopic and microscopic do display distinct behavior must be in a very special, highly nongeneric quantum state.

id: 0807.3399
title: Tunable Up-Conversion Photon Detector
authors: R. T. Thew, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures, Accepted for publication in APL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3399
abstract: We introduce a simple approach for a tunable up-conversion detector. This scheme is relevant for both single photon detection or anywhere where low light levels at telecom wavelengths need to be detected with a high degree of temporal resolution or where high count rates are desired. A system combining a periodically poled Lithium niobate waveguide for the nonlinear wavelength conversion and a low jitter Silicon avalanche photodiode are used in conjunction with a tunable pump source. We report more than a ten-fold increase in the detectable bandwidth using this tuning scheme.

id: 0807.3405
title: Geometric Phase for Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians and Its Holonomy Interpretation
authors: H. Mehri-Dehnavi, A. Mostafazadeh
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 082105 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3405
abstract: For an arbitrary possibly non-Hermitian matrix Hamiltonian H, that might involve exceptional points, we construct an appropriate parameter space M and the lines bundle L^n over M such that the adiabatic geometric phases associated with the eigenstates of the initial Hamiltonian coincide with the holonomies of L^n. We examine the case of 2 x 2 matrix Hamiltonians in detail and show that, contrary to claims made in some recent publications, geometric phases arising from encircling exceptional points are generally geometrical and not topological in nature.

id: 0807.3440
title: Quantum Random Number Generator using Photon-Number Path Entanglement
authors: Osung Kwon, Young-Wook Cho, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 
journal: Applied Optics, 48, 1774 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3440
abstract: We report a novel quantum random number generator based on the photon-number$-$path entangled state which is prepared via two-photon quantum interference at a beam splitter. The randomness in our scheme is of truly quantum mechanical origin as it comes from the projection measurement of the entangled two-photon state. The generated bit sequences satisfy the standard randomness test.

id: 0807.3484
title: Bose-Einstein condensation of stationary-light polaritons
authors: Michael Fleischhauer, Johannes Otterbach, Razmik G. Unanyan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3484
abstract: We propose and analyze a mechanism for Bose-Einstein condensation of stationary dark-state polaritons. Dark-state polaritons (DSPs) are formed in the interaction of light with laser-driven 3-level Lambda-type atoms and are the basis of phenomena such as electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT), ultra-slow and stored light. They have long intrinsic lifetimes and in a stationary set-up with two counterpropagating control fields of equal intensity have a 3D quadratic dispersion profile with variable effective mass. Since DSPs are bosons they can undergo a Bose-Einstein condensation at a critical temperature which can be many orders of magnitude larger than that of atoms. We show that thermalization of polaritons can occur via elastic collisions mediated by a resonantly enhanced optical Kerr nonlinearity on a time scale short compared to the decay time. Finally condensation can be observed by turning stationary into propagating polaritons and monitoring the emitted light.

id: 0807.3491
title: Scaling dimension of fidelity susceptibility in quantum phase transitions
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, final version to appear in EPL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3491
abstract: We analyze ground-state behaviors of fidelity susceptibility (FS) and show that the FS has its own distinct dimension instead of real system's dimension in general quantum phases. The scaling relation of the FS in quantum phase transitions (QPTs) is then established on more general grounds. Depending on whether the FS's dimensions of two neighboring quantum phases are the same or not, we are able to classify QPTs into two distinct types. For the latter type, the change in the FS's dimension is a characteristic that separates two phases. As a non-trivial application to the Kitaev honeycomb model, we find that the FS is proportional to $L^2\ln L$ in the gapless phase, while $L^2$ in the gapped phase. Therefore, the extra dimension of $\ln L$ can be used as a characteristic of the gapless phase.

id: 0807.3500
title: Spatial correlation functions for the collective degrees of freedom of many trapped ions
authors: Nicolas C. Menicucci, G. J. Milburn
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3500
abstract: Spatial correlation functions provide a glimpse into the quantum correlations within a quantum system. Ions in a linear trap collectively form a nonuniform, discretized background on which a scalar field of phonons propagates. Trapped ions have the experimental advantage of each having their own "built-in" motional detector: electronic states that can be coupled, via an external laser, to the ion's vibrational motion. The post-interaction electronic state can be read out with high efficiency, giving a stochastic measurement record whose classical correlations reflect the quantum correlations of the ions' collective vibrational state. Here we calculate this general result, then we discuss the long detection-time limit and specialize to Gaussian states, and finally we compare the results for thermal versus squeezed states.

id: 0807.3508
title: On a New Form of Quantum Mechanics
authors: N. N. Gorobey, A. S. Lukyanenko
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3508
abstract: We propose a new form of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics which is based on a quantum version of the action principle.

id: 0807.3511
title: Controlling Irreversibility and Directional Flow of Light with Atomic Motion
authors: C. H. Raymond Ooi
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3511
abstract: The Doppler effect of moving atoms can create irreversibility of light. We show that the laser field in electromagnetic induced transparency (EIT) scheme with atomic motion can control the directional propagation of two counter-propagating probe fields in atomic gas cell. The quantum coherence effect serves as an optical transistor. Interference of the two output fields from the cell shows useful feature for determining the mean atomic velocity and can be useful as quantum velocimeter. We also find that the sign of the dispersive phase in EIT has a unique property, which helps to explain certain features in the interference.

id: 0807.3515
title: Re-Thinking Schroedinger Boundary Conditions: the Simple Rotator is Not Simple
authors: Arthur Davidson
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3515
abstract: A contradiction arises when applying standard boundary conditions to a simple quantum rotator with a single coordinate. New boundary conditions for the Schroedinger equation are proposed that involve only gauge invariant quantities, and that can be applied beyond the immediate problem. The use of gauge invariant boundary conditions has important consequence for energy flow in or out of a simple rotator.

id: 0807.3533
title: Parametric down-conversion from a wave-equations approach: geometry and absolute brightness
authors: Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 043835 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3533
abstract: Using the approach of coupled wave equations, we consider spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) in the narrow-band regime and its relationship to classical nonlinear processes such as sum-frequency generation. We find simple expressions in terms of mode overlap integrals for the absolute pair production rate into single spatial modes, and simple relationships between the efficiencies of the classical and quantum processes. The results, obtained with Green function techniques, are not specific to any geometry or nonlinear crystal. The theory is applied to both degenerate and non-degenerate SPDC. We also find a time-domain expression for the correlation function between filtered signal and idler fields.

id: 0807.3549
title: Unity fidelity multiple teleportation using partially entangled states
authors: Gustavo Rigolin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTex4; v2: 6 pages, 7 figures, more results, published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42, 235504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3549
abstract: We show that the recent multiple teleportation protocol (MTP) presented in Ref. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 110503 (2008)] is not restricted to the Knill-Laflamme-Milburn (KLM) scheme. Rather, we show that MTP is quite general and can be implemented using whatever teleportation scheme at hand. We also present two new MTP's which are more efficient than the original proposal, requiring just half the number of teleportations of the original scheme to achieve at least the same probability of success. One of the protocols, however, employs less entanglement than all the previous ones yielding, surprisingly, the greatest probability of success.

id: 0807.3566
title: Stabilizer Quantum Codes: A Unified View based on Forney-style Factor Graphs
authors: Pascal O. Vontobel
comments: Proceedings 5th International Symposium on Turbo Codes and Related Topics, Lausanne, Switzerland, September 1-5, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3566
abstract: Quantum error-correction codes (QECCs) are a vital ingredient of quantum computation and communication systems. In that context it is highly desirable to design QECCs that can be represented by graphical models which possess a structure that enables efficient and close-to-optimal iterative decoding. In this paper we focus on stabilizer QECCs, a class of QECCs whose construction is rendered non-trivial by the fact that the stabilizer label code, a code that is associated with a stabilizer QECC, has to satisfy a certain self-orthogonality condition. In order to design graphical models of stabilizer label codes that satisfy this condition, we extend a duality result for Forney-style factor graphs (FFGs) to the stabilizer label code framework. This allows us to formulate a simple FFG design rule for constructing stabilizer label codes, a design rule that unifies several earlier stabilizer label code constructions.

id: 0807.3572
title: Casimir Interactions for Anisotropic Magnetodielectric Metamaterials
authors: F.S.S. Rosa, D.A.R. Dalvit, P.W. Milonni
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78 032117 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3572
abstract: We extend our previous work [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 100}, 183602 (2008)] on the generalization of the Casimir-Lifshitz theory to treat anisotropic magnetodielectric media, focusing on the forces between metals and magnetodielectric metamaterials and on the possibility of inferring magnetic effects by measurements of these forces. We present results for metamaterials including structures with uniaxial and biaxial magnetodielectric anisotropies, as well as for structures with isolated metallic or dielectric properties that we describe in terms of filling factors and a Maxwell Garnett approximation. The elimination or reduction of Casimir "stiction" by appropriate engineering of metallic-based metamaterials, or the indirect detection of magnetic contributions, appear from the examples considered to be very challenging, as small background Drude contributions to the permittivity act to enhance attraction over repulsion, as does magnetic dissipation. In dielectric-based metamaterials the magnetic properties of polaritonic crystals, for instance, appear to be too weak for repulsion to overcome attraction. We also discuss Casimir-Polder experiments, that might provide another possibility for the detection of magnetic effects.

id: 0807.3585
title: Dynamical Backaction of Microwave Fields on a Nanomechanical Oscillator
authors: J. D. Teufel, J. W. Harlow, C. A. Regal, K. W. Lehnert
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. D. Teufel et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 197203, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3585
abstract: We measure the response and thermal motion of a high-Q nanomechanical oscillator coupled to a superconducting microwave cavity in the resolved-sideband regime where the oscillator's resonance frequency exceeds the cavity's linewidth. The coupling between the microwave field and mechanical motion is strong enough for radiation pressure to overwhelm the intrinsic mechanical damping. This radiation-pressure damping cools the fundamental mechanical mode by a factor of 5 below the thermal equilibrium temperature in a dilution refrigerator to a phonon occupancy of 140 quanta.

id: 0807.3589
title: Influence of Pure Dephasing on Emission Spectra from Single Photon Sources
authors: Andreas Naesby, Troels Suhr, Philip T. Kristensen, Jesper Moerk
comments: Published version, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 045802 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3589
abstract: We investigate the light-matter interaction of a quantum dot with the electromagnetic field in a lossy microcavity and calculate emission spectra for non-zero detuning and dephasing. It is found that dephasing shifts the intensity of the emission peaks for non-zero detuning. We investigate the characteristics of this intensity shifting effect and offer it as an explanation for the non-vanishing emission peaks at the cavity frequency found in recent experimental work.

id: 0807.3592
title: 1-D Dirac Equation, Klein Paradox and Graphene
authors: S. P. Bowen
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3592
abstract: Solutions of the one dimensional Dirac equation with piece-wise constant potentials are presented using standard methods. These solutions show that the Klein Paradox is non-existent and represents a failure to correctly match solutions across a step potential. Consequences of this exact solution are studied for the step potential and a square barrier. Characteristics of massless Dirac states and the momentum linear band energies for Graphene are shown to have quite different current and momentum properties.

id: 0807.3594
title: How to securely decouple quantum systems: local shredding of bipartite correlations
authors: Francesco Buscemi
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author, as it is now incorporated in (and superseded by) 0901.4506 (v4)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3594
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author, as it is now incorporated in 0901.4506 (v4)

id: 0807.3599
title: Quantum Matching Pennies Game
authors: Azhar Iqbal, Derek Abbott
comments: Revised in light of referees' comments, submitted to Journal of the Physical Society of Japan, 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 78/1, 014803 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3599
abstract: A quantum version of the Matching Pennies (MP) game is proposed that is played using an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm (EPR-Bohm) setting. We construct the quantum game without using the state vectors, while considering only the quantum mechanical joint probabilities relevant to the EPR-Bohm setting. We embed the classical game within the quantum game such that the classical MP game results when the quantum mechanical joint probabilities become factorizable. We report new Nash equilibria in the quantum MP game that emerge when the quantum mechanical joint probabilities maximally violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt form of Bell's inequality.

id: 0807.3604
title: Supmech: the Geometro-statistical Formalism Underlying Quantum Mechanics
authors: Tulsi Dass
comments: 117 pages; A substantially improved version of this work has appeared in the three papers arXiv : 0909.4606, 1002.2061, 1006.4918
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3604
abstract: As the first step in an approach to the solution of Hilbert's sixth problem, a general scheme of mechanics, called `supmech', is developed integrating noncommutative symplectic geometry and noncommutative probability theory in an algebraic framework; it has quantum mechanics (QM) and classical mechanics as special subdisciplines and facilitates an autonomous development of QM and satisfactory treatments of quantum-classical correspondence and quantum measurements (including a straightforward \emph{derivation} of the von Neumann reduction rule). The scheme associates, with every `experimentally accessible' system, a symplectic superalgebra and operates essentially as noncommutative Hamiltonian mechanics incorporating the extra condition that the sets of observables and pure states be mutually separating. The latter condition serves to smoothly connect the algebraically defined quantum systems to ilbert space-based ones; the rigged Hilbert space - based Dirac bra-ket formalism naturally appears. The formalism has a natural place for commutative superselection rules. Noncommutative analogues of objects like the momentum map and the Poincar$\acute{e}$-Cartan form are introduced and some related symplectic geometry developed.

id: 0807.3610
title: Few qubit atom-light interfaces with collective encoding
authors: Line Hjortshoj Pedersen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; atomic decay rate corrected in text and in Fig. 1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012320 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3610
abstract: Samples with few hundred atoms within a few micrometer sized region of space are large enough to provide efficient cooperative absorption and emission of light, and small enough to ensure strong dipole-dipole interactions when atoms are excited into high-lying Rydberg states. Based on a recently proposed collective encoding scheme, we propose to build few-qubit quantum registers in such samples. The registers can store and transmit quantum information in the form of single photons, and they can employ entanglement pumping protocols to perform ideally in networks for scalable quantum computing and long distance quantum communication.

id: 0807.3616
title: Protecting Quantum Information with Entanglement and Noisy Optical Modes
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Todd A. Brun
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Quantum Information Processing Vol. 8, No. 5, pp. 401-413, October 2009.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3616
abstract: We incorporate active and passive quantum error-correcting techniques to protect a set of optical information modes of a continuous-variable quantum information system. Our method uses ancilla modes, entangled modes, and gauge modes (modes in a mixed state) to help correct errors on a set of information modes. A linear-optical encoding circuit consisting of offline squeezers, passive optical devices, feedforward control, conditional modulation, and homodyne measurements performs the encoding. The result is that we extend the entanglement-assisted operator stabilizer formalism for discrete variables to continuous-variable quantum information processing.

id: 0807.3643
title: The Naimark dilated PT-symmetric brachistochrone
authors: Uwe Guenther, Boris F. Samsonov
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.101:230404,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3643
abstract: The quantum mechanical brachistochrone system with PT-symmetric Hamiltonian is Naimark dilated and reinterpreted as subsystem of a Hermitian system in a higher-dimensional Hilbert space. This opens a way to a direct experimental implementation of the recently hypothesized PT-symmetric ultra-fast brachistochrone regime of [C. M. Bender et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 98}, 040403 (2007)] in an entangled two-spin system.

id: 0807.3645
title: Cluster state generation with atomic ensembles via the dipole blockade mechanism
authors: Marcin Zwierz, Pieter Kok
comments: 4 pages and 4 figures, title of article changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3645
abstract: We present a new scheme for cluster states generation based on atomic ensembles and the dipole blockade mechanism. The protocol requires identical single photon sources, one ensemble per physical qubit, and regular photodetectors. The general entangling procedure is presented, as well as a procedure that generates Q-qubit GHZ states with probability p ~ eta^{Q/2}, where eta is the combined detection and source efficiency. This is significantly more efficient than any known robust probabilistic entangling operation. The GHZ states form the basic building block for universal cluster states - a resource for the one-way quantum computer.

id: 0807.3649
title: Impact of Quantum Phase Transitions on Excited Level Dynamics
authors: Pavel Cejnar, Pavel Stransky
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review E 78, 031130 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3649
abstract: The influence of quantum phase transitions on the evolution of excited levels in the critical parameter region is discussed. The analysis is performed for 1D and 2D systems with first- and second-order ground-state transitions. Examples include the cusp and nuclear collective Hamiltonians.

id: 0807.3650
title: Unitary reflection groups for quantum fault tolerance
authors: Michel Planat, Maurice R. Kibler
comments: new version for the Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience, focused on "Technology Trends and Theory of Nanoscale Devices for Quantum Applications"
journal: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience, 7 (2010) 1759-1770
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3650
abstract: This paper explores the representation of quantum computing in terms of unitary reflections (unitary transformations that leave invariant a hyperplane of a vector space). The symmetries of qubit systems are found to be supported by Euclidean real reflections (i.e., Coxeter groups) or by specific imprimitive reflection groups, introduced (but not named) in a recent paper [Planat M and Jorrand Ph 2008, {\it J Phys A: Math Theor} {\bf 41}, 182001]. The automorphisms of multiple qubit systems are found to relate to some Clifford operations once the corresponding group of reflections is identified. For a short list, one may point out the Coxeter systems of type $B_3$ and $G_2$ (for single qubits), $D_5$ and $A_4$ (for two qubits), $E_7$ and $E_6$ (for three qubits), the complex reflection groups $G(2^l,2,5)$ and groups No 9 and 31 in the Shephard-Todd list. The relevant fault tolerant subsets of the Clifford groups (the Bell groups) are generated by the Hadamard gate, the $\pi/4$ phase gate and an entangling (braid) gate [Kauffman L H and Lomonaco S J 2004 {\it New J. of Phys.} {\bf 6}, 134]. Links to the topological view of quantum computing, the lattice approach and the geometry of smooth cubic surfaces are discussed.

id: 0807.3659
title: Optimal Quantum Phase Estimation
authors: U. Dorner, R. Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, B. J. Smith, J. S. Lundeen, W. Wasilewski, K. Banaszek, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Replaced with final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 040403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3659
abstract: By using a systematic optimization approach we determine quantum states of light with definite photon number leading to the best possible precision in optical two mode interferometry. Our treatment takes into account the experimentally relevant situation of photon losses. Our results thus reveal the benchmark for precision in optical interferometry. Although this boundary is generally worse than the Heisenberg limit, we show that the obtained precision beats the standard quantum limit thus leading to a significant improvement compared to classical interferometers. We furthermore discuss alternative states and strategies to the optimized states which are easier to generate at the cost of only slightly lower precision.

id: 0807.3715
title: Damped driven coupled oscillators: entanglement, decoherence and the classical limit
authors: R. D. Guerrero Mancilla, R. R. Rey-Gonz¨¢lez, K. M. Fonseca-Romero
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, uses braket.sty
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 42 105302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3715
abstract: The interaction of (two-level) Rydberg atoms with dissipative QED cavity fields can be described classically or quantum mechanically, even for very low temperatures and mean number of photons, provided the damping constant is large enough. We investigate the quantum-classical border, the entanglement and decoherence of an analytically solvable model, analog to the atom-cavity system, in which the atom (field) is represented by a (driven and damped) harmonic oscillator. The maximum value of entanglement is shown to depend on the initial state and the dissipation-rate to coupling-constant ratio. While in the original model the atomic entropy never grows appreciably (for large dissipation rates), in our model it reaches a maximum before decreasing. Although both models predict small values of entanglement and dissipation, for fixed times of the order of the inverse of the coupling constant and large dissipation rates, these quantities decrease faster, as a function of the ratio of the dissipation rate to the coupling constant, in our model.

id: 0807.3716
title: Entropy of entanglement and multifractal exponents for random states
authors: Olivier Giraud, John Martin, Bertrand Georgeot
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032308 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3716
abstract: We relate the entropy of entanglement of ensembles of random vectors to their generalized fractal dimensions. Expanding the von Neumann entropy around its maximum we show that the first order only depends on the participation ratio, while higher orders involve other multifractal exponents. These results can be applied to entanglement behavior near the Anderson transition.

id: 0807.3751
title: Security of Binary Modulated Continuous Variable Quantum Key Distribution under Collective Attacks
authors: Yi-Bo Zhao, Matthias Heid, Johannes Rigas, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3751
abstract: We give an achievable secret key rate of a binary modulated continuous variable quantum key distribution schemes in the collective attack scenario considering quantum channels that impose arbitrary noise on the exchanged signals. Bob performs homodyne measurements on the received states and the two honest parties employ a reverse reconciliation procedure in the classical post-processing step of the protocol.

id: 0807.3803
title: Quantum Convolutional Coding with Shared Entanglement: General Structure
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Todd A. Brun
comments: 23 pages, replaced with final published version
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Volume 9, Number 5, pages 509-540, September 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3803
abstract: We present a general theory of entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional coding. The codes have a convolutional or memory structure, they assume that the sender and receiver share noiseless entanglement prior to quantum communication, and they are not restricted to possess the Calderbank-Shor-Steane structure as in previous work. We provide two significant advances for quantum convolutional coding theory. We first show how to "expand" a given set of quantum convolutional generators. This expansion step acts as a preprocessor for a polynomial symplectic Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization procedure that simplifies the commutation relations of the expanded generators to be the same as those of entangled Bell states (ebits) and ancilla qubits. The above two steps produce a set of generators with equivalent error-correcting properties to those of the original generators. We then demonstrate how to perform online encoding and decoding for a stream of information qubits, halves of ebits, and ancilla qubits. The upshot of our theory is that the quantum code designer can engineer quantum convolutional codes with desirable error-correcting properties without having to worry about the commutation relations of these generators.

id: 0807.3811
title: Entanglement-redistribution boxes
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki, Marco Piani
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042317 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3811
abstract: We establish a framework to study the classical-communication properties of primitive local operations assisted by classical communication which realize various redistributions of entanglement, like, e.g., entanglement swapping. On the one hand, we analyze what local operations and how much classical communication are needed to perform them. On the other hand, we investigate whether and to what extent such primitives can help to establish classical communication when they are used in the form of black boxes available to spatially-separated users. In particular, we find that entanglement swapping costs more communication than it can signal; in this sense, entanglement swapping is a weaker primitive than quantum teleportation.

id: 0807.3841
title: Clear evasion of the uncertainty relation with very small probability
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa, Koichiro Umetsu
comments: 21 pages and 1 figure. The title has been changed. The presentation of the entire manuscript has been modified and expanded. This revised version is to appear in the November issue of Progress of Theoretical Physics
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.120:797-814,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3841
abstract: We entertain the idea that the uncertainty relation is not a principle, but rather it is a consequence of quantum mechanics. The uncertainty relation is then a probabilistic statement and can be clearly evaded in processes which occur with a very small probability in a tiny sector of the phase space. This clear evasion is typically realized when one utilizes indirect measurements, and some examples of the clear evasion appear in the system with entanglement though the entanglement by itself is not essential for the evasion. The standard Kennard's relation and its interpretation remain intact in our analysis. As an explicit example, we show that the clear evasion of the uncertainty relation for coordinate and momentum in the diffraction process discussed by Ballentine is realized in a tiny sector of the phase space with a very small probability. We also examine the uncertainty relation for a two-spin system with the EPR entanglement and show that no clear evasion takes place in this system with the finite discrete degrees of freedom.

id: 0807.3853
title: Resonance beating of light stored using atomic spinor polaritons
authors: Leon Karpa, Frank Vewinger, Martin Weitz
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; paper title changed, minor corrections implemented;
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 170406 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3853
abstract: We investigate the storage of light in atomic rubidium vapor using a multilevel-tripod scheme. In the system, two collective dark polariton modes exist, forming an effective spinor quasiparticle. Storage of light is performed by dynamically reducing the optical group velocity to zero. After releasing the stored pulse, a beating of the two reaccelerated optical modes is monitored. The observed beating signal oscillates at an atomic transition frequency, opening the way to novel quantum limited measurements of atomic resonance frequencies and quantum switches.

id: 0807.3887
title: One-way quantum computation with two-photon multiqubit cluster states
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Enrico Pomarico, Francesco De Martini, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 13 pages, 13 figures, 6 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042335 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3887
abstract: We describe in detail the application of four qubit cluster states, built on the simultaneous entanglement of two photons in the degrees of freedom of polarization and linear momentum, for the realization of a complete set of basic one-way quantum computation operations. These consist of arbitrary single qubit rotations, either probabilistic or deterministic, and simple two qubit gates, such as a c-not gate for equatorial qubits and a universal c-phase (CZ) gate acting on arbitrary target qubits. Other basic computation operations, such as the Grover's search and the Deutsch's algorithms, have been realized by using these states. In all the cases we obtained a high value of the operation fidelities. These results demonstrate that cluster states of two photons entangled in many degrees of freedom are good candidates for the realization of more complex quantum computation operations based on a larger number of qubits.

id: 0807.3894
title: Nearest-Neighbor Detection of Atoms in a 1D Optical Lattice by Fluorescence Imaging
authors: M. Karski, L. F?rster, J. M. Choi, W. Alt, A. Widera, D. Meschede
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 053001 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3894
abstract: We overcome the diffraction limit in fluorescence imaging of neutral atoms in a sparsely filled one-dimensional optical lattice. At a periodicity of 433 nm, we reliably infer the separation of two atoms down to nearest neighbors. We observe light induced losses of atoms occupying the same lattice site, while for atoms in adjacent lattice sites, no losses due to light induced interactions occur. Our method points towards characterization of correlated quantum states in optical lattice systems with filling factors of up to one atom per lattice site.

id: 0807.3902
title: The Photon Wavefunction: a covariant formulation and equivalence with QED
authors: Fabrizio Tamburini, Denise Vicino
comments: 4 pages, no figures, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3902
abstract: We discuss the limits of the photon wavefunction (PWF) formalism, which is experiencing a revival in these days from the new practical applications in photonics and quantum optics. We build a Dirac-like equation for the PWF written in a manifestly covariant form and show that, in presence of charged matter fields, it reproduces the standard formulation of (classical) Electrodinamics. This shows the inconsistency of the attempts to construct a quantum theory of interacting photons, based on the so called photon wavefunction approach, alternative to standard QED. PWF formalism can then be used to provide an easier description of the propagation of free photons, when the photon number remains fixed in time.

id: 0807.3923
title: Unambiguous state discrimination: optimal solution and case study
authors: M. Kleinmann, H. Kampermann, D. Bruss
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 020304(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3923
abstract: We present a generic study of unambiguous discrimination between two mixed quantum states. We derive operational optimality conditions and show that the optimal measurements can be classified according to their rank. In Hilbert space dimensions smaller or equal to five this leads to the complete optimal solution. We demonstrate our method with a physical example, namely the unambiguous comparison of n quantum states, and find the optimal success probability.

id: 0807.3930
title: No Evidence for Particles
authors: Casey Blood
comments: Version 2, April, 2011, 16 pages. All the arguments are redone, particularly the derivation of the perception of a single, classical version of reality. Includes the relation of this method to decoherence
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3930
abstract: There are a number of experiments and observations that appear to argue for the existence of particles, including the photoelectric and Compton effects, exposure of only one film grain by a spread-out photon wave function, and particle-like trajectories in bubble chambers. It can be shown, however, that all the particle-like phenomena can be explained by using properties of the wave functions/state vectors alone. Thus there is no evidence for particles. Wave-particle duality arises because the wave functions alone have both wave-like and particle-like properties. Further the results of the Bell-Aspect experiment and other experiments on entangled systems, which seem to imply peculiar properties for particles if they exist, are easily and naturally understood if reality consists of the state vectors alone. The linear equation-Hilbert space structure for the state vectors, by itself, can explain every mystery in quantum mechanics except the origin of the probability law.

id: 0807.3938
title: Quantum and classical correlations in waveguide lattices
authors: Y. Bromberg, Y. Lahini, R. Morandotti, Y. Silberberg
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3938
abstract: We study quantum and classical Hanbury Brown-Twiss correlations in waveguide lattices. We develop a theory for the propagation of photon pairs in the lattice, predicting the emergence of nontrivial quantum interferences unique to lattice systems. Experimentally, we observe the classical counterpart of these interferences using intensity correlation measurements. We discuss the correspondence between the classical and quantum correlations, and consider path-entangled input states which do not have a classical analogue. Our results demonstrate that waveguide lattices can be used as a robust and highly controllable tool for manipulating quantum states, and offer new ways of studying the quantum properties of light.

id: 0807.3941
title: Nonlinear stationary solutions of the Wigner and Wigner-Poisson equations
authors: F. Haas, P. K. Shukla
comments: 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3941
abstract: Exact nonlinear stationary solutions of the one-dimensional Wigner and Wigner-Poisson equations in the terms of the Wigner functions that depend not only on the energy but also on position are presented. In this way, the Bernstein-Greene-Kruskal modes of the classical plasma are adapted for the quantum formalism in the phase space. The solutions are constructed for the case of a quartic oscillator potential, as well as for the self-consistent Wigner-Poisson case. Conditions for well-behaved physically meaningful equilibrium Wigner functions are discussed.

id: 0807.3944
title: On the partial trace over collective spin-degrees of freedom
authors: Yamen Hamdouni
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, minor typographical errors fixed
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2009) 1233--1238
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3944
abstract: We derive analytical properties for the degeneracy $\nu(N,j)$ occurring in the decomposition $\bigoplus\limits_{j}^\frac{N}{2}\nu(N,j)\mathbb C^{2j+1}$ of the state space $\mathbb C^{2\otimes N}$. We also investigate the dynamics of two qubits coupled via Ising interactions to separate spin baths, and we study the thermodynamic limit.

id: 0807.3946
title: Four-photon scattering in birefringent fibers
authors: E. Brainis
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3946
abstract: Four-photon scattering in nonlinear waveguides is an important physical process that allows photon-pair generation in well defined guided modes, with high rate and reasonably low noise. Most of the experiments to date used the scalar four-photon scattering process in which the pump photons and the scattered photons have the same polarization. In birefringent waveguides, vectorial four-photon scattering is also allowed: these vectorial scattering processes involve photons with different polarizations. In this article, the theory of four-photon scattering in nonlinear, birefringent, and dispersive fibers is developed in the framework of the quantum theory of light. The work focusses on the spectral properties and quantum correlations (including entanglement) of photon-pairs generated in high-birefringence and low-birefringence fibers.

id: 0807.3958
title: Optimal estimation of losses at the ultimate quantum limit with non-Gaussian states
authors: G. Adesso, F. Dell'Anno, S. De Siena, F. Illuminati, L. A. M. Souza
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 040305(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3958
abstract: We address the estimation of the loss parameter of a bosonic channel probed by arbitrary signals. Unlike the optimal Gaussian probes, which can attain the ultimate bound on precision asymptotically either for very small or very large losses, we prove that Fock states at any fixed photon number saturate the bound unconditionally for any value of the loss. In the relevant regime of low-energy probes, we demonstrate that superpositions of the first low-lying Fock states yield an absolute improvement over any Gaussian probe. Such few-photon states can be recast quite generally as truncations of de-Gaussified photon-subtracted states.

id: 0807.3977
title: Nonadditivity effects in classical capacities of quantum multiple-access channels
authors: Lukasz Czekaj, Pawel Horodecki
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3977
abstract: We study classical capacities of quantum multi-access channels in geometric terms revealing breaking of additivity of Holevo-like capacity. This effect is purely quantum since, as one points out, any classical multi-access channels have their regions additive. The observed non-additivity in quantum version presented here seems to be the first effect of this type with no additional resources like side classical or quantum information (or entanglement) involved. The simplicity of quantum channels involved resembles butterfly effect in case of classical channel with two senders and two receivers.

id: 0807.4025
title: Interfacing with Hamiltonian Dynamics
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures v2: small correction to cooling section
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042330 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4025
abstract: Simple constructions and protocols are demonstrated to allow the implementation of universal quantum computation on an arbitrarily large quantum system by controlling a fixed number of spins, vastly reducing the engineering requirements in comparison to a direct implementation of the circuit model. Analytic pulse sequences are derived for deterministic gate operation and system cooling which only require pulse strengths that are comparable to the intrinsic Hamiltonian of the system.

id: 0807.4030
title: High fidelity state transfer in binary tree spin networks
authors: T. Tufarelli, V. Giovannetti
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 79, 022313 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4030
abstract: Quantum state propagation over binary tree configurations is studied in the context of quantum spin networks. For binary tree of order two a simple protocol is presented which allows to achieve arbitrary high transfer fidelity. It does not require fine tuning of local fields and two-nodes coupling of the intermediate spins. Instead it assumes simple local operations on the intended receiving node: their role is to brake the transverse symmetry of the network that induces an effective refocusing of the propagating signals. Some ideas on how to scale up these effect to binary tree of arbitrary order are discussed.

id: 0807.4046
title: New anatomy of quantum holonomy
authors: Taksu Cheon, Atushi Tanaka
comments: 5 pages EPL double column format, no figure. See allso this http URL
journal: Europhys.Lett.85:20001,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4046
abstract: We present a unified formulation of quantum holonomy which is capable of describing all of its known varieties. The full role of non-Abelian gauge connection is elucidated. As examples, solvable models of quantum kicked spin are analyzed. They are shown to exhibit spiral holonomy, as well as Berry phase and Wilczek-Zee holonomy.

id: 0807.4063
title: Broadening the bandwidth of entangled photons: a step towards the generation of extremely short biphotons
authors: M. Hendrych, X. Shi, A. Valencia, J. P. Torres
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4063
abstract: We demonstrate a technique that allows to fully control the bandwidth of entangled photons independently of the frequency band of interest and of the nonlinear crystal. We show that this technique allows to generate nearly transform-limited biphotons with almost one octave of bandwidth (hundreds of THz) which corresponds to correlation times of just a few femtoseconds. The presented method becomes an enabling tool for attosecond entangled-photons quantum optics. The technique can also be used to generate paired photons with a very high degree of entanglement.

id: 0807.4087
title: Exceptional orthogonal polynomials, exactly solvable potentials and supersymmetry
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 10 pages, no figure, published version (this http URL)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 392001 (6pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4087
abstract: We construct two new exactly solvable potentials giving rise to bound-state solutions to the Schr\"odinger equation, which can be written in terms of the recently introduced Laguerre- or Jacobi-type $X_1$ exceptional orthogonal polynomials. These potentials, extending either the radial oscillator or the Scarf I potential by the addition of some rational terms, turn out to be translationally shape invariant as their standard counterparts and isospectral to them.

id: 0807.4108
title: Phase variance of squeezed vacuum states
authors: Emilio Bagan, Alex Monras, Ramon Munoz-Tapia
comments: Minor changes, version to appear in PRA, 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 043829 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4108
abstract: We consider the problem of estimating the phase of squeezed vacuum states within a Bayesian framework. We derive bounds on the average Holevo variance for an arbitrary number $N$ of uncorrelated copies. We find that it scales with the mean photon number, $n$, as dictated by the Heisenberg limit, i.e., as $n^{-2}$, only for $N>4$. For $N\leq 4$ this fundamental scaling breaks down and it becomes $n^{-N/2}$. Thus, a single squeezed vacuum state performs worse than a single coherent state with the same energy. We find the optimal splitting of a fixed given energy among various copies. We also compute the variance for repeated individual measurements (without classical communication or adaptivity) and find that the standard Heisenberg-limited scaling $n^{-2}$ is recovered for large samples.

id: 0807.4111
title: A High Speed, Post-Processing Free, Quantum Random Number Generator
authors: J. F. Dynes, Z. L. Yuan, A. W. Sharpe, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters Vol. 93 031109 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4111
abstract: A quantum random number generator (QRNG) based on gated single photon detection of an InGaAs photodiode at GHz frequency is demonstrated. Owing to the extremely long coherence time of each photon, each photons' wavefuntion extends over many gating cycles of the photodiode. The collapse of the photon wavefunction on random gating cycles as well as photon random arrival time detection events are used to generate sequences of random bits at a rate of 4.01 megabits/s. Importantly, the random outputs are intrinsically bias-free and require no post-processing procedure to pass random number statistical tests, making this QRNG an extremely simple device.

id: 0807.4154
title: Universal blind quantum computation
authors: Anne Broadbent, Joseph Fitzsimons, Elham Kashefi
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures. This version contains detailed proofs of authentication and fault tolerance. It also contains protocols for quantum inputs and outputs and appendices not available in the published version
journal: Proceedings of the 50th Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS 2009), pp. 517-526
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4154
abstract: We present a protocol which allows a client to have a server carry out a quantum computation for her such that the client's inputs, outputs and computation remain perfectly private, and where she does not require any quantum computational power or memory. The client only needs to be able to prepare single qubits randomly chosen from a finite set and send them to the server, who has the balance of the required quantum computational resources. Our protocol is interactive: after the initial preparation of quantum states, the client and server use two-way classical communication which enables the client to drive the computation, giving single-qubit measurement instructions to the server, depending on previous measurement outcomes. Our protocol works for inputs and outputs that are either classical or quantum. We give an authentication protocol that allows the client to detect an interfering server; our scheme can also be made fault-tolerant. We also generalize our result to the setting of a purely classical client who communicates classically with two non-communicating entangled servers, in order to perform a blind quantum computation. By incorporating the authentication protocol, we show that any problem in BQP has an entangled two-prover interactive proof with a purely classical verifier. Our protocol is the first universal scheme which detects a cheating server, as well as the first protocol which does not require any quantum computation whatsoever on the client's side. The novelty of our approach is in using the unique features of measurement-based quantum computing which allows us to clearly distinguish between the quantum and classical aspects of a quantum computation.

id: 0807.4164
title: Two-Photon Beatings Using Biphotons Generated from a Two-Level System
authors: Jianming Wen, Shengwang Du, Morton H. Rubin, Eun Oh
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4164
abstract: We propose a two-photon beating experiment based upon biphotons generated from a resonant pumping two-level system operating in a backward geometry. On the one hand, the linear optical-response leads biphotons produced from two sidebands in the Mollow triplet to propagate with tunable refractive indices, while the central-component propagates with unity refractive index. The relative phase difference due to different refractive indices is analogous to the pathway-length difference between long-long and short-short in the original Franson interferometer. By subtracting the linear Rayleigh scattering of the pump, the visibility in the center part of the two-photon beating interference can be ideally manipulated among [0, 100%] by varying the pump power, the material length, and the atomic density, which indicates a Bell-type inequality violation. On the other hand, the proposed experiment may be an interesting way of probing the quantum nature of the detection process. The interference will disappear when the separation of the Mollow peaks approaches the fundamental timescales for photon absorption in the detector.

id: 0807.4166
title: Stable suspension and dispersion-induced transitions from repulsive Casimir forces between fluid-separated eccentric cylinders
authors: Alejandro W. Rodriguez, J. N. Munday, J. D. Joannopoulos, Federico Capasso, Diego A. R. Dalvit, Steven G. Johnson
comments: Published in Physical Review Letters. Vol. 101, page, 190404 (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4166
abstract: Using an exact numerical method for finite nonplanar objects, we demonstrate a stable mechanical suspension of a silica cylinder within a metallic cylinder separated by ethanol, via a repulsive Casimir force between the silica and the metal. We investigate cylinders with both circular and square cross sections, and show that the latter exhibit a stable orientation as well as a stable position, via a method to compute Casimir torques for finite objects. Furthermore, the stable orientation of the square cylinder is shown to undergo an unusual 45 degrees transition as a function of the separation lengthscale, which is explained as a consequence of material dispersion.

id: 0807.4191
title: Two-Pulse Propagation in a Partially Phase-Coherent Medium
authors: B.D. Clader, J.H. Eberly
comments: 29 pages, 12 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 033803 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4191
abstract: We analyze the effects of partial coherence of ground state preparation on two-pulse propagation in a three-level $\Lambda$ medium, in contrast to previous treastments that have considered the cases of media whose ground states are characterized by probabilities (level populations) or by probability amplitudes (coherent pure states). We present analytic solutions of the Maxwell-Bloch equations, and we extend our analysis with numerical solutions to the same equations. We interpret these solutions in the bright/dark dressed state basis, and show that they describe a population transfer between the bright and dark state. For mixed-state $\Lambda$ media with partial ground state phase coherence the dark state can never be fully populated. This has implications for phase-coherent effects such as pulse matching, coherent population trapping, and electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). We show that for partially phase-coherent three-level media, self induced transparency (SIT) dominates EIT and our results suggest a corresponding three-level area theorem.

id: 0807.4194
title: Compatible Transformations for a Qudit Decoherence-free/Noiseless Encoding
authors: C. Allen Bishop, Mark S. Byrd
comments: 30 pages, replaced with published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 055301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4194
abstract: The interest in decoherence-free, or noiseless subsystems (DFS/NSs) of quantum systems is both of fundamental and practical interest. Understanding the invariance of a set of states under certain transformations is mutually associated with a better understanding of some fundamental aspects of quantum mechanics as well as the practical utility of invariant subsystems. For example, DFS/NSs are potentially useful for protecting quantum information in quantum cryptography and quantum computing as well as enabling universal computation. Here we discuss transformations which are compatible with a DFS/NS that is composed of d-state systems which protect against collective noise. They are compatible in the sense that they do not take the logical (encoded) states outside of the DFS/NS during the transformation. Furthermore, it is shown that the Hamiltonian evolutions derived here can be used to perform universal quantum computation on a three qudit DFS/NS. Many of the methods used in our derivations are directly applicable to a large variety of DFS/NSs. More generally, we may also state that these transformations are compatible with collective motions.

id: 0807.4211
title: A Monte Carlo Method for Modeling Thermal Damping: Beyond the Brownian-Motion Master Equation
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 6 pages, revtex4. v2: numerical results for a nonlinear system
journal: EPL 85, 40002 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4211
abstract: The "standard" Brownian motion master equation, used to describe thermal damping, is not completely positive, and does not admit a Monte Carlo method, important in numerical simulations. To eliminate both these problems one must add a term that generates additional position diffusion. He we show that one can obtain a completely positive simple quantum Brownian motion, efficiently solvable, without any extra diffusion. This is achieved by using a stochastic Schroedinger equation (SSE), closely analogous to Langevin's equation, that has no equivalent Markovian master equation. Considering a specific example, we show that this SSE is sensitive to nonlinearities in situations in which the master equation is not, and may therefore be a better model of damping for nonlinear systems.

id: 0807.4225
title: Construction of bilinear control Hamiltonians using the series product and quantum feedback
authors: J. Gough
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052311 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4225
abstract: We show that it is possible to construct closed quantum systems governed by a bilinear Hamiltonian depending on an arbitrary input signal. This is achieved by coupling the system to a quantum input field and performing a feedback of the output field back into the system to cancel out the stochastic effects, with the signal being added to the field between these events and later subtracted. Here we assume the zero time delay limit between the various connections and operations.

id: 0807.4251
title: Quantum control of dispersion in electromagnetically induced transparency via interacting dressed ground states
authors: James Owen Weatherall, Christopher P. Search
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4251
abstract: We offer a general treatment of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in a five level system consisting of four metastable ground states. Two additional RF/microwave fields coherently couple the two ground states of the standard EIT $\Lambda$ atom to a pair of additional hyperfine states in the ground state manifold, generating two sets of dressed states that interact via the probe and control lasers, which couple to the electronic excited state. These new hyperfine dressed states manifest themselves in the linear optical susceptibility of the probe as new resonances in addition to the Autler-Townes doublet characteristic of EIT. In particular, we show that the existence of two new narrow resonances, whose width are limited only by ground state decoherence, appear inside the normal EIT transparency window. We show that by controlling the intensity of these RF/microwave fields, one can engineer both the position and width of these narrow resonances and thereby exercise additional control over both the dispersion and group velocity of the probe.

id: 0807.4273
title: Quantum Zeno and Anti-Zeno Effect without Rotating Wave Approximation
authors: H. Zheng, S. Y. Zhu
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4273
abstract: The effect of the anti-rotating terms on the short-time evolution and the quantum Zeno (QZE) and anti-Zeno (AQZE) effects is studied for a two-level system coupled to a bosonic environment. A unitary transformation and perturbation theory are used to obtain the electron self-energy, energy shift and the enhanced QZE or the AQZE, simultaneously. The calculated Zeno time depends on the atomic transition frequency sensitively. When the atomic transition frequency is smaller than the central frequency of the spectrum of boson environment, the Zeno time is prolonged and the anti-rotating terms enhance the QZE; when it is larger than that the Zeno time is reduced and the anti-rotating terms enhance the AQZE.

id: 0807.4335
title: Rubidium resonant squeezed light from a diode-pumped optical-parametric oscillator
authors: A. Predojevi?, Z. Zhai, J.M. Caballero, M.W. Mitchell
comments: 6 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4335
abstract: We demonstrate a diode-laser-pumped system for generation of quadrature squeezing and polarization squeezing. Due to their excess phase noise, diode lasers are challenging to use in phase-sensitive quantum optics experiments such as quadrature squeezing. The system we present overcomes the phase noise of the diode laser through a combination of active stabilization and appropriate delays in the local oscillator beam. The generated light is resonant to the rubidium D1 transition at 795nm and thus can be readily used for quantum memory experiments.

id: 0807.4356
title: Loss of Spin Entanglement For Accelerated Electrons in Electric and Magnetic Fields
authors: Jason Doukas, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, appendix and other discussion added, fixed some typographical errors and some references were corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.A79:052109,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4356
abstract: Using an open quantum system we calculate the time dependence of the concurrence between two maximally entangled electron spins with one accelerated uniformly in the presence of a constant magnetic field and the other at rest and isolated from fields. We find at high Rindler temperature the proper time for the entanglement to be extinguished is proportional to the inverse of the acceleration cubed.

id: 0807.4364
title: Entanglement, randomness and chaos
authors: Giuliano Benenti
comments: Review paper, 40 pages, 7 figures, added references
journal: Riv. Nuovo Cimento 32, 105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4364
abstract: Entanglement is not only the most intriguing feature of quantum mechanics, but also a key resource in quantum information science. The entanglement content of random pure quantum states is almost maximal; such states find applications in various quantum information protocols. The preparation of a random state or, equivalently, the implementation of a random unitary operator, requires a number of elementary one- and two-qubit gates that is exponential in the number n_q of qubits, thus becoming rapidly unfeasible when increasing n_q. On the other hand, pseudo-random states approximating to the desired accuracy the entanglement properties of true random states may be generated efficiently, that is, polynomially in n_q. In particular, quantum chaotic maps are efficient generators of multipartite entanglement among the qubits, close to that expected for random states. This review discusses several aspects of the relationship between entanglement, randomness and chaos. In particular, I will focus on the following items: (i) the robustness of the entanglement generated by quantum chaotic maps when taking into account the unavoidable noise sources affecting a quantum computer; (ii) the detection of the entanglement of high-dimensional (mixtures of) random states, an issue also related to the question of the emergence of classicality in coarse grained quantum chaotic dynamics; (iii) the decoherence induced by the coupling of a system to a chaotic environment, that is, by the entanglement established between the system and the environment.

id: 0807.4383
title: Probabilistic theories: what is special about Quantum Mechanics?
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: Greately improved compared to version 2: many new results! We are getting closer to the solution of the operational axiomatization problem. To appear in "Philosophy of Quantum Information and Entanglement" Eds A. Bokulich and G. Jaeger (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge UK)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4383
abstract: Quantum Mechanics (QM) is a very special probabilistic theory, yet we don't know which operational principles make it so. All axiomatization attempts suffer at least one postulate of a mathematical nature. Here I will analyze the possibility of deriving QM as the mathematical representation of a "fair operational framework", i.e. a set of rules which allows the experimenter to make predictions on future "events" on the basis of suitable "tests", e.g. without interference from uncontrollable sources. Two postulates need to be satisfied by any fair operational framework: NSF: "no-signaling from the future"--for the possibility of making predictions on the basis of past tests; PFAITH: "existence of a preparationally faithful state"--for the possibility of preparing any state and calibrating any test. I will show that all theories satisfying NSF admit a C*-algebra representation of events as linear transformations of effects. Based on a very general notion of dynamical independence, it is easy to see that all such probabilistic theories are "non-signaling without interaction" ("non-signaling" for short)--another requirement for a fair operational framework. Postulate PFAITH then implies the "local observability principle", the tensor-product structure for the linear spaces of states and effects, the impossibility of bit commitment and additional features, such an operational definition of transpose, a scalar product for effects, weak-selfduality of the theory, and more. Dual to Postulate PFAITH an analogous postulate for effects would give additional quantum features, such as teleportation. However, all possible consequences of these postulates still need to be investigated, and it is not clear yet if we can derive QM from the present postulates only. [CONTINUES on manuscript]

id: 0807.4396
title: Any multipartite entangled state violating Mermin-Klyshko inequality can be distilled for almost all bipartite splits
authors: Soojoon Lee, Jinhyoung Lee, Jaewan Kim
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032309 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4396
abstract: We study the explicit relation between violation of Bell inequalities and bipartite distillability of multi-qubit states. It has been shown that even though for $N\ge 8$ there exist $N$-qubit bound entangled states which violates a Bell inequality [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 87}, 230402 (2001)], for all the states violating the inequality there exists at least one splitting of the parties into two groups such that pure-state entanglement can be distilled [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 88}, 027901 (2002)]. We here prove that for all $N$-qubit states violating the inequality the number of distillable bipartite splits increases exponentially with $N$, and hence the probability that a randomly chosen bipartite split is distillable approaches one exponentially with $N$, as $N$ tends to infinity. We also show that there exists at least one $N$-qubit bound entangled state violating the inequality if and only if $N\ge 6$.

id: 0807.4407
title: Dynamical Casimir-Polder force between an atom and a conducting wall
authors: R. Vasile, R. Passante
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4407
abstract: The time-dependent Casimir-Polder force arising during the time evolution of an initially bare two-level atom, interacting with the radiation field and placed near a perfectly conducting wall, is considered. Initially the electromagnetic field is supposed to be in the vacuum state and the atom in its ground state. The analytical expression of the force as a function of time and atom-wall distance, is evaluated from the the time-dependent atom-field interaction energy. Physical features and limits of validity of the results are discussed in detail.

id: 0807.4414
title: Hardy's non-locality and generalized non-local theory
authors: Sujit K. Choudhary, Sibasish Ghosh, Guruprasad Kar, Samir Kunkri, Ramij Rahaman, Anirban Roy
comments: 15 pages
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 10, No. 9 & 10 (2010) 0859-0871
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4414
abstract: Hardy's non-locality theorem for multiple two-level systems is explored in the context of generalized nonlocal theory. We find nonlocal but non-signaling probabilities, providing Hardy's nonlocal argument, which are higher than those in Quantum Mechanics. Maximum probability of success of Hardy's argument is obtained for three two-level systems in quantum as well as in a more generalized theory. Interestingly, the maximum in the nonlocal generalized theory for both the cases turns out to be same.

id: 0807.4437
title: Anti-symmetrization reveals hidden entanglement
authors: Alessandro Fedrizzi, Thomas Herbst, Markus Aspelmeyer, Marco Barbieri, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: Published version, 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys., 11, 103052 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4437
abstract: Two-photon anti-bunching at a beamsplitter is only possible if the photons are entangled in a specific state, anti-symmetric in the spatial modes. Thus, observation of anti-bunching is an indication of entanglement in a degree of freedom which might not be easily accessible in an experiment. We experimentally demonstrate this concept in the case of the interference of two frequency entangled photons with continuous frequency detunings. The principle of anti-symmetrisation of the spatial part of a wavefunction and subsequent detection of hidden entanglement via anti-bunching at a beamsplitter may facilitate the observation of entanglement in other systems, like atomic ensembles or Bose-Einstein condensates. The analogue for fermionic systems would be to observe bunching.

id: 0807.4440
title: Unusual decoherence in qubit measurements with a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: D. Sokolovski, S.A. Gurvitz
comments: 5 pages, additional explanations related to experimental realization are added, typos corrected, Phys. Rev. A, in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4440
abstract: We consider an electrostatic qubit located near a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) of noninteracting bosons in a double-well potential, which is used for qubit measurements. Tracing out the BEC variables we obtain a simple analytical expression for the qubit's density-matrix. The qubit's evolution exhibits a slow ($\propto1/\sqrt{t}$) damping of the qubit's coherence term, which however turns to be a Gaussian one in the case of static qubit. This stays in contrast to the exponential damping produced by most classical detectors. The decoherence is, in general, incomplete and strongly depends on the initial state of the qubit.

id: 0807.4482
title: Schrodinger dynamics as a two-phase conserved flow: an alternative trajectory construction of quantum propagation
authors: Peter Holland
comments: To appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A42:075307,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4482
abstract: It is shown that the Schrodinger equation can be cast in the form of two coupled real conservation equations, in Euclidean spacetime in the free case and in a five-dimensional Eisenhart geometry in the presence of an external potential. This implies a novel two-phase quantum hydrodynamic model whose Lagrangian picture provides an exact scheme to calculate the time-dependent wavefunction from a continuum of deterministic trajectories where two points are linked by at most two orbits. Properties of the model are examined, including the appearance of entangled trajectories in separable states. Wavefunction constructions employing alternative two-phase models are proposed.

id: 0807.4490
title: Studies on the Role of Entanglement in Mixed-state Quantum Computation
authors: Animesh Datta
comments: PhD thesis, defended in June 2008. 130 pages, 14 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0201143 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4490
abstract: In this thesis, I look at the role of quantum entanglement in mixed-state quantum computation. The model we consider is the DQC1 or `power of one qubit' model. I show that there is minimal bipartite entanglement in a typical instance of the DQC1 circuit and even put an upper bound on the possible amount of entanglement. This limited amount of entanglement, however, does not imply that the system is classically simulatable. A matrix product state (MPS) algorithm for a typical instance of the DQC1 system requires exponential classical resources. This exposes a gap between the amount of entanglement and the amount of purely nonclassical correlations in a quantum system. This gap, I suggest, can be filled by quantum discord. I calculate it in a typical instance of the DQC1 circuit and find that the amount of discord is a constant fraction of the maximum possible discord for a system of that size. This allows an interpretation of quantum discord as the resource that drives mixed-state quantum computation. I also study quantum discord as a quantity of independent interest. Its role in the phenomenon of entanglement distribution is studied through an easily comprehensible example. This thesis also contains discussions on the relation between the complexity classes P, BQP and DQC1. Additional material is presented on the connections between the DQC1 model, Jones polynomials and statistical mechanics. The thesis concludes with a discussion of a few open problems related to the DQC1 model, the quantum discord and their scope in quantum information science.

id: 0807.4535
title: Decoherence of floating qubits due to capacitive coupling
authors: Matthias Steffen, Frederico Brito, David DiVincenzo, Shwetank Kumar, Mark Ketchen
comments: V1: 4 pages, 3 figures. V2: 5 pages, 3 figures. Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 033030 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4535
abstract: It has often been assumed that electrically floating qubits, such as flux qubits, are immune to decoherence due to capacitive coupling. We show that capacitive coupling to bias leads can be a dominant source of dissipation, and therefore of decoherence, for such floating qubits. Classical electrostatic arguments are sufficient to get a good estimate of this source of relaxation for standard superconducting qubit designs. We show that relaxation times can be improved by designing floating qubits so they couple symmetrically to the bias leads. Observed coherence times of flux qubits with varying degrees of symmetry qualitatively support our results.

id: 0807.4536
title: Private information via the Unruh effect
authors: Kamil Bradler, Patrick Hayden, Prakash Panangaden
comments: 5 pages. v2: footnote deleted and typos corrected. v3: major revision. New capacity (single-letter!) theorem and implicit assumption lifted
journal: JHEP 0908:074,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4536
abstract: In a relativistic theory of quantum information, the possible presence of horizons is a complicating feature placing restrictions on the transmission and retrieval of information. We consider two inertial participants communicating via a noiseless qubit channel in the presence of a uniformly accelerated eavesdropper. Owing to the Unruh effect, the eavesdropper's view of any encoded information is noisy, a feature the two inertial participants can exploit to achieve perfectly secure quantum communication. We show that the associated private quantum capacity is equal to the entanglement-assisted quantum capacity for the channel to the eavesdropper's environment, which we evaluate for all accelerations.

id: 0807.4552
title: Non-optimality of unitary operations for dense coding
authors: Michael R. Beran, Scott M. Cohen
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, comments welcome
journal: Physical Review A 78, 062337 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4552
abstract: One of the primary goals of information theory is to provide limits on the amount of information it is possible to send through various types of communication channels, and to understand the encoding methods that will allow one to achieve such limits. An early surprise in the study of \textit{quantum} information theory was the discovery of dense coding, which demonstrated that it is possible to achieve higher rates for communicating classical information by transmitting quantum systems, rather than classical ones. To achieve the highest possible rate, the transmitted quantum system must initially be maximally entangled with another that is held by the receiver, and the sender can achieve this rate by encoding her messages with unitary operations. The situation where these two systems are not maximally entangled has been intensively studied in recent years, and to date it has appeared as though unitary encoding might well be optimal in all cases. Indeed, this optimality of unitary operations for quantum communication protocols has been found to hold under far more general conditions, extending well beyond the special case of dense coding. Nonetheless, we here present strong numerical evidence supported by analytical arguments that indicate there exist circumstances under which one can encode strictly more classical information using dense coding with non-unitary, as opposed to unitary, operations.

id: 0807.4568
title: Asymptotic teleportation scheme as a universal programmable quantum processor
authors: Satoshi Ishizaka, Tohya Hiroshima
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 240501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4568
abstract: We consider a scheme of quantum teleportation where a receiver has multiple (N) output ports and obtains the teleported state by merely selecting one of the N ports according to the outcome of the sender's measurement. We demonstrate that such teleportation is possible by showing an explicit protocol where N pairs of maximally entangled qubits are employed. The optimal measurement performed by a sender is the square-root measurement, and a perfect teleportation fidelity is asymptotically achieved for a large N limit. Such asymptotic teleportation can be utilized as a universal programmable processor.

id: 0807.4576
title: Designing the unambiguous discriminator from the one -photon interferometer
authors: Xiaohua Wu, Yu Shaolan, Zhou Tao
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4576
abstract: In this paper, we shall show that the question of quanum state unambiguous discrimination can be solved by reducing it to the known problem of quantum states filtering.

id: 0807.4619
title: Guaranteed Cost LQG Control of Uncertain Linear Quantum Stochastic Systems
authors: A. J. Shaiju, I. R. Petersen, M. R. James
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4619
abstract: In this paper, we formulate and solve a guaranteed cost control problem for a class of uncertain linear stochastic quantum systems. For these quantum systems, a connection with an associated classical (non-quantum) system is first established. Using this connection, the desired guaranteed cost results are established. The theory presented is illustrated using an example from quantum optics.

id: 0807.4659
title: Path integral derivations of novel complex trajectory methods
authors: Jeremy Schiff, Yair Goldfarb, David J. Tannor
comments: 41 pages; references and citations were corrupted in first two versions, sorry
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4659
abstract: Path integral derivations are presented for two recently developed complex trajectory techniques for the propagation of wave packets, Complex WKB and BOMCA. Complex WKB is derived using a standard saddle point approximation of the path integral, but taking into account the hbar dependence of both the amplitude and the phase of the intial wave function, thus giving rise to the need for complex classical trajectories. BOMCA is derived using a modification of the saddle point technique, in which the path integral is approximated by expanding around a near-classical path, chosen so that up to some predetermined order there is no need to add any correction terms to the leading order approximation. Both Complex WKB and BOMCA give the same leading order approximation; in Complex WKB higher accuracy is achieved by adding correction terms, while in BOMCA no additional terms are ever added -higher accuracy is achieved by changing the path along which the original approximation is computed. The path integral derivation of the methods explains the need to incorporate contributions from more than one trajectory, as observed in previous numerical work. On the other hand, it emerges that the methods provide efficient schemes for computing the higher order terms in the asymptotic evaluation of path integrals. The understanding we develop of BOMCA suggests that there should exist near-classical trajectories that give exact quantum dynamical results when used in the computation of the path integral keeping just the leading order term. We also apply our path integral techniques to give a compact derivation of the semiclassical approximation to the coherent state propagator.

id: 0807.4662
title: Quantum phase transitions, entanglement, and geometric phases of two qubits
authors: Sangchul Oh
comments: 4 pages and 4 figures. submitted to the journal
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, 644 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4662
abstract: The relation between quantum phase transitions, entanglement, and geometric phases is investigated with a system of two qubits with XY type interaction. A seam of level crossings of the system is a circle in parameter space of the anisotropic coupling and the transverse magnetic field, which is identical to the disorder line of an one-dimensional XY model. The entanglement of the ground state changes abruptly as the parameters vary across the circle except specific points crossing to the straight line of the zero magnetic field. At those points the entanglement does not change but the ground state changes suddenly. This is an counter example that the entanglement is not alway a good indicator to quantum phase transitions. The rotation of the circle about an axis of the parameter space produces the magnetic monopole sphere like a conducting sphere of electrical charges. The ground state evolving adiabatically outside the sphere acquires a geometric phase, whereas the ground state traveling inside the sphere gets no geometric phase. The system also has the Renner-Teller intersection which gives no geometric phases.

id: 0807.4688
title: Estimating Jones and HOMFLY polynomials with One Clean Qubit
authors: Stephen P. Jordan, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures, revised in response to referee comments
journal: Quantum Information and Computation Vol. 9 pg. 264 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4688
abstract: The Jones and HOMFLY polynomials are link invariants with close connections to quantum computing. It was recently shown that finding a certain approximation to the Jones polynomial of the trace closure of a braid at the fifth root of unity is a complete problem for the one clean qubit complexity class. This is the class of problems solvable in polynomial time on a quantum computer acting on an initial state in which one qubit is pure and the rest are maximally mixed. Here we generalize this result by showing that one clean qubit computers can efficiently approximate the Jones and single-variable HOMFLY polynomials of the trace closure of a braid at any root of unity.

id: 0807.4708
title: Recent developments in photon-level operations on travelling light fields
authors: M. S. Kim
comments: 18 pages, Tutorial paper
journal: J. Phys. B 41, 133001 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4708
abstract: Annihilating and creating a photon in a travelling light field are useful building blocks for quantum-state engineering to generate a photonic state at will. In this paper, we review the relevance of these operations to some of the fundamental aspects of quantum physics and recent advances in this research.

id: 0807.4732
title: Hiding Quantum States in a Superposition
authors: Ahmed Younes
comments: 8 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4732
abstract: A method to hide certain quantum states in a superposition will be proposed. Such method can be used to increase the security of a communication channel. States represent an encrypted message will disappear during data exchange. This makes the message 100% safe under direct measurement by an eavesdropper. No entanglement sharing is required among the communicating parties.

id: 0807.4736
title: Finite representations of continuum environments
authors: Michael Zwolak
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, updated to fix fonts
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 129, 101101 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4736
abstract: Understanding dissipative and decohering processes is fundamental to the study of quantum systems. An accurate and generic method for investigating these processes is to simulate both the system and environment, which, however, is computationally very demanding. We develop a novel approach to constructing finite representations of the environment based on the influence of different frequency scales on the system's dynamics. As an illustration, we analyze a solvable model of an optical mode decaying into a reservoir. The influence of the environment modes is constant for small frequencies, but drops off rapidly for large frequencies, allowing for a very sparse representation at high frequencies that gives a significant computational speedup in simulating the environment. This approach provides a general framework for simulating open quantum systems.

id: 0807.4741
title: Entanglement and ground states of gapped Hamiltonians
authors: Spyridon Michalakis
comments: 91 pages, Ph.D. dissertation, University of California, Davis. Chapters 2 and 4 are extended versions of arXiv:math-ph/0606018v3 and arXiv:0707.1722v1 [quant-ph], respectively
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4741
abstract: We begin by deriving bounds for the entanglement of a spin with an (adjacent and non-adjacent) interval of spins in an arbitrary pure Finitely Correlated States (FCS). The bounds we derive become exact in the case where one considers the entanglement of a single spin with a half-infinite chain to the right of it. Our result permits a more efficient calculation, numerically and in some cases even analytically, of the entanglement in arbitrary finitely correlated quantum spin chains. We continue the study of entanglement in the setting of ground states of Hamiltonians with a spectral gap. In particular, for $V$ a finite subset of $Z^d$, we let $H_V$ denote a Hamiltonian on $V$ with finite range, finite strength interactions and a unique ground state with a non-vanishing spectral gap. For a density matrix $\rho_A$ that describes the finite-volume restriction to a region $A$ of the unique ground state, we provide a detailed version of a proof by M. Hastings, that the entropy of $\rho_A$ is bounded by a uniform constant $C$. Moreover, we provide a detailed generalization of the 1-dimensional construction of Hastings' approximation to the ground state in dimensions 2 and higher. Finally, we turn our attention to the study of a conjecture central to Quantum Information Theory, the multiplicativity of the maximal output Schatten $p$-norm of quantum channels, for $p > 1$. In particular, we study the output 2-norm for a special class of quantum channels, the depolarized Werner-Holevo channels, and show that multiplicativity holds for a product of two identical channels in this class.

id: 0807.4753
title: Counterexamples to the maximal p-norm multiplicativity conjecture for all p > 1
authors: Patrick Hayden, Andreas Winter
comments: Merger of arXiv:0707.0402 and arXiv:0707.3291 containing new and improved analysis of counterexamples. 17 pages
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 284(1):263-280, 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4753
abstract: For all p > 1, we demonstrate the existence of quantum channels with non-multiplicative maximal output p-norms. Equivalently, for all p >1, the minimum output Renyi entropy of order p of a quantum channel is not additive. The violations found are large; in all cases, the minimum output Renyi entropy of order p for a product channel need not be significantly greater than the minimum output entropy of its individual factors. Since p=1 corresponds to the von Neumann entropy, these counterexamples demonstrate that if the additivity conjecture of quantum information theory is true, it cannot be proved as a consequence of any channel-independent guarantee of maximal p-norm multiplicativity. We also show that a class of channels previously studied in the context of approximate encryption lead to counterexamples for all p > 2.

id: 0807.4762
title: Backaction noise produced via cavity-aided nondemolition measurement of an atomic clock state
authors: Igor Teper, Geert Vrijsen, Jongmin Lee, Mark A. Kasevich
comments: 4.1 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4762
abstract: We use a quantum nondemolition measurement to probe the collective pseudospin of an atomic ensemble in a high-finesse optical cavity. We analyze the backaction antisqueezing produced by the measurement process to show that our protocol could create conditional spin squeezing in the atomic ensemble.

id: 0807.4773
title: Thresholdless dressed-atom laser in a photonic band-gap material
authors: Gao-xiang Li, Min Luo, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 6 pages 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A79, 053847 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4773
abstract: We demonstrate the capability of complete thresholdless lasing operation between dressed states of a two-level atom located inside a microscopic cavity engineered in a photonic band-gap material. We distinguish between threshold and thresholdless behaves by analyzing the Mandel's Q parameter for the cavity field. We find that the threshold behave depends on whether the spontaneous emission is or is not present on the lasing transition. In the presence of the spontaneous emission, the mean photon number of the cavity field exhibits threshold behavior indicating that the system may operate as an ordinary laser. When the spontaneous emission is eliminated on the lasing transition, no threshold is observed for all values of the pumping rate indicating the system becomes a thresholdless laser. Moreover, we find that under a thresholdless operation, the mean photon number can increase nonlinearly with the pumping rate, and this process is accompanied by a sub-Poisson statistics of the field. This suggests that the nonclassical statistics can be used to distinguish a nonlinear operation of the dressed-atom laser.

id: 0807.4788
title: Efficient purification protocols using iSWAP gates in solid-state qubits
authors: Tetsufumi Tanamoto, Koji Maruyama, Yu-xi Liu, Xuedong Hu, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062313 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4788
abstract: We show an efficient purification protocol in solid-state qubits by replacing the usual bilateral CNOT gate by the bilateral iSWAP gate. We also show that this replacement can be applied to breeding and hashing protocols, which are useful for quantum state purification. These replacements reduce the number of fragile and cumbersome two-qubit operations, making more feasible quantum-information-processing with solid-state qubits. As examples, we also present quantitative analyses for the required time to perform state purification using either superconducting or semiconducting qubits.

id: 0807.4797
title: Transitions in the computational power of thermal states for measurement-based quantum computation
authors: Sean D. Barrett, Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew C. Doherty, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, v4 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062328 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4797
abstract: We show that the usefulness of the thermal state of a specific spin-lattice model for measurement-based quantum computing exhibits a transition between two distinct "phases" - one in which every state is a universal resource for quantum computation, and another in which any local measurement sequence can be simulated efficiently on a classical computer. Remarkably, this transition in computational power does not coincide with any phase transition, classical or quantum, in the underlying spin-lattice model.

id: 0807.4819
title: Thermal Noise on Adiabatic Quantum Computation
authors: Man-Hong Yung
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4819
abstract: The success of adiabatic quantum computation (AQC) depends crucially on the ability to maintain the quantum computer in the ground state of the evolution Hamiltonian. The computation process has to be sufficiently slow as restricted by the minimal energy gap. However, at finite temperatures, it might need to be fast enough to avoid thermal excitations. The question is, how fast does it need to be? The structure of evolution Hamiltonians for AQC is generally too complicated for answering this question. Here we model an adiabatic quantum computer as a (parametrically driven) harmonic oscillator. The advantages of this model are (1) it offers high flexibility for quantitative analysis on the thermal effect, (2) the results qualitatively agree with previous numerical calculation, and (3) it could be experimentally verified with quantum electronic circuits.

id: 0807.4830
title: Characterizing entanglement with geometric entanglement witnesses
authors: Philipp Krammer
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, some typos and notational errors corrected. To be published in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys.A: Math. Theor. 42, 065305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4830
abstract: We show how to detect entangled, bound entangled, and separable bipartite quantum states of arbitrary dimension and mixedness using geometric entanglement witnesses. These witnesses are constructed using properties of the Hilbert-Schmidt geometry and can be shifted along parameterized lines. The involved conditions are simplified using Bloch decompositions of operators and states. As an example we determine the three different types of states for a family of two-qutrit states that is part of the "magic simplex", i.e. the set of Bell-state mixtures of arbitrary dimension.

id: 0807.4842
title: A simplex of bound entangled multipartite qubit states
authors: B.C. Hiesmayr, F. Hipp, M. Huber, Ph. Krammer, Ch. Spengler
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures; 2nd version changed considerably and a detailed derivation of the multipartite measure is included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042327 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4842
abstract: We construct a simplex for multipartite qubit states of even number n of qubits, which has the same geometry concerning separability, mixedness, kind of entanglement, amount of entanglement and nonlocality as the bipartite qubit states. We derive the entanglement of the class of states which can be described by only three real parameters with the help of a multipartite measure for all discrete systems. We prove that the bounds on this measure are optimal for the whole class of states and that it reveals that the states possess only n-partite entanglement and not e.g. bipartite entanglement. We then show that this n-partite entanglement can be increased by stochastic local operations and classical communication to the purest maximal entangled states. However, pure n-partite entanglement cannot be distilled, consequently all entangled states in the simplex are n-partite bound entangled. We study also Bell inequalities and find the same geometry as for bipartite qubits. Moreover, we show how the (hidden) nonlocality for all n-partite bound entangled states can be revealed.

id: 0807.4843
title: The distribution of quantum fidelities
authors: Line Hjortshoj Pedersen, Niels Martin Moller, Klaus Molmer
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008), 7028--7032.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4843
abstract: When applied to different input states, an imperfect quantum operation yields output states with varying fidelities, defined as the absolute square of their overlap with the desired states. We present an expression for the distribution of fidelities for a class of operations applied to a general qubit state, and we present general expressions for the variance and input-space averaged fidelities of arbitrary linear maps on finite dimensional Hilbert spaces.

id: 0807.4902
title: Dephasing assisted transport: Quantum networks and biomolecules
authors: M.B. Plenio, S.F. Huelga
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 113019 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4902
abstract: Transport phenomena are fundamental in Physics. They allow for information and energy to be exchanged between individual constituents of communication systems, networks or even biological entities. Environmental noise will generally hinder the efficiency of the transport process. However, and contrary to intuition, there are situations in classical systems where thermal fluctuations are actually instrumental in assisting transport phenomena. Here we show that, even at zero temperature, transport of excitations across dissipative quantum networks can be enhanced by local dephasing noise. We explain the underlying physical mechanisms behind this phenomenon, show that entanglement does not play a supportive role and propose possible experimental demonstrations in quantum optics. We argue that Nature may be routinely exploiting this effect and show that the transport of excitations in light harvesting molecules does benefit from such noise assisted processes. These results point towards the possibility for designing optimized structures for transport, for example in artificial nano-structures, assisted by noise.

id: 0807.4906
title: Linear-Optical Hyperentanglement-Assisted Quantum Error-Correcting Code
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Dmitry B. Uskov
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, 1 table, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 79, 022305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4906
abstract: We propose a linear-optical implementation of a hyperentanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting code. The code is hyperentanglement-assisted because the shared entanglement resource is a photonic state hyperentangled in polarization and orbital angular momentum. It is possible to encode, decode, and diagnose channel errors using linear-optical techniques. The code corrects for polarization "flip" errors and is thus suitable only for a proof-of-principle experiment. The encoding and decoding circuits use a Knill-Laflamme-Milburn-like scheme for transforming polarization and orbital angular momentum photonic qubits. A numerical optimization algorithm finds a unit-fidelity encoding circuit that requires only three ancilla modes and has success probability equal to 0.0097.

id: 0807.4913
title: A random matrix theory of decoherence
authors: T. Gorin, C. Pineda, H. Kohler, T. H. Seligman
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 115016 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4913
abstract: Random matrix theory is used to represent generic loss of coherence of a fixed central system coupled to a quantum-chaotic environment, represented by a random matrix ensemble, via random interactions. We study the average density matrix arising from the ensemble induced, in contrast to previous studies where the average values of purity, concurrence, and entropy were considered; we further discuss when one or the other approach is relevant. The two approaches agree in the limit of large environments. Analytic results for the average density matrix and its purity are presented in linear response approximation. The two-qubit system is analysed, mainly numerically, in more detail.

id: 0807.4935
title: Quantum Communication With Zero-Capacity Channels
authors: Graeme Smith, Jon Yard
comments: Final submitted version
journal: Science 321, 1812 - 1815 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4935
abstract: Communication over a noisy quantum channel introduces errors in the transmission that must be corrected. A fundamental bound on quantum error correction is the quantum capacity, which quantifies the amount of quantum data that can be protected. We show theoretically that two quantum channels, each with a transmission capacity of zero, can have a nonzero capacity when used together. This unveils a rich structure in the theory of quantum communications, implying that the quantum capacity does not uniquely specify a channel's ability for transmitting quantum information.

id: 0807.4941
title: Slow and stored light and optical depth
authors: M. Klein, Y. Xiao, A.V. Gorshkov, M. Hohensee, C.D. Leung, M.R. Browning, D.F. Phillips, I. Novikova, R.L. Walsworth
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures; small modifications (including title) from published version
journal: Proc. SPIE 6904, 69040C (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4941
abstract: We present a preliminary experimental study of the dependence on optical depth of slow and stored light pulses in Rb vapor. In particular, we characterize the efficiency of slow and stored light as a function of Rb density; pulse duration, delay and storage time; and control field intensity. Experimental results are in good qualitative agreement with theoretical calculations based on a simplified three-level model at moderate densities.

id: 0807.4985
title: The characteristic polynomial of the next-nearest-neighbour qubit chain for single excitations
authors: C. J. Mewton, Z. Ficek
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures; minor corrections
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 445201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4985
abstract: The characteristic polynomial for a chain of dipole-dipole coupled two-level atoms with nearest-neighbour and next-nearest-neighbour interactions is developed for the study of eigenvalues and eigenvectors for single-photon excitations. We find the exact form of the polynomial in terms of the Chebyshev polynomials of the second kind that is valid for an arbitrary number of atoms and coupling strengths. We then propose a technique for expressing the roots of the polynomial as a power series in the coupling constants. The general properties of the solutions are also explored, to shed some light on the general properties that the exact, analytic form of the energy eigenvalues should have. A method for deriving the eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian is also outlined.

id: 0807.4994
title: Architectures for a quantum random access memory
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures. Updated version includes the answers to the Referee
journal: V. Giovannetti, S. Lloyd, L. Maccone, Phys. Rev. A 78, 052310 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4994
abstract: A random access memory, or RAM, is a device that, when interrogated, returns the content of a memory location in a memory array. A quantum RAM, or qRAM, allows one to access superpositions of memory sites, which may contain either quantum or classical information. RAMs and qRAMs with n-bit addresses can access 2^n memory sites. Any design for a RAM or qRAM then requires O(2^n) two-bit logic gates. At first sight this requirement might seem to make large scale quantum versions of such devices impractical, due to the difficulty of constructing and operating coherent devices with large numbers of quantum logic gates. Here we analyze two different RAM architectures (the conventional fanout and the "bucket brigade") and propose some proof-of-principle implementations which show that in principle only O(n) two-qubit physical interactions need take place during each qRAM call. That is, although a qRAM needs O(2^n) quantum logic gates, only O(n) need to be activated during a memory call. The resulting decrease in resources could give rise to the construction of large qRAMs that could operate without the need for extensive quantum error correction.

id: 0807.5003
title: Separability of Multi-Partite Quantum States
authors: Xiaofen Huang, Naihuan Jing
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 395302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5003
abstract: We give a direct tensor decomposition for any density matrix into Hermitian operators. Based upon the decomposition we study when the mixed states are separable and generalize the separability indicators to multi-partite states and show that a density operator is separable if and only if the separable indicator is non-negative. We then derive two bounds for the separable indicator in terms of the spectrum of the factor operators in the tensor summands.

id: 0807.5018
title: Perfect state transfer in long-range interacting spin chains
authors: Giulia Gualdi, Vojtech Kostak, Irene Marzoli, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5018
abstract: We investigate the most general conditions under which a finite ferromagnetic long-range inter- acting spin chain achieves unitary fidelity and the shortest transfer time in transmitting an unknown input qubit. A deeper insight into system dynamics, allows us to identify an ideal system involving sender and receiver only. However, this two-spin ideal chain is unpractical due to the rapid decrease of the coupling strength with the distance. Therefore, we propose an optimization scheme for ap- proaching the ideal behaviour, while keeping the interaction strength still reasonably high. The procedure is scalable with the size of the system and straightforward to implement.

id: 0807.5019
title: Coherent control of ac Stark allowed transition in $¦«$ system
authors: G.A. Koganov, R. Shuker
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5019
abstract: We show that quantum-interference-related phenomena, such as electromagnetically induced transparency, gain without inversion and enhanced refractive index may occur on electric-dipole forbidden transitions. Gain/dispersion characteristics of such transitions strongly depend upon the relative phase between the driving and probe fields. Unlike allowed transitions, gain/absorption behavior of forbidden transitions exhibit antisymmetric feature on the Rabi sidebands. Absorption/gain spectra possess extremely narrow sub-natural resonances.

id: 0807.5032
title: Anharmonic oscillator, negative dimensions and inverse factorial convergence of large orders to the asymptotic form
authors: P.V. Pobylitsa
comments: 42 pages, typos corrected, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5032
abstract: The spectral problem for O(D) symmetric polynomial potentials allows for a partial algebraic solution after analytical continuation to negative even dimensions D. This fact is closely related to the disappearance of the factorial growth of large orders of the perturbation theory at negative even D. As a consequence, certain quantities constructed from the perturbative coefficients exhibit fast inverse factorial convergence to the asymptotic values in the limit of large orders. This quantum mechanical construction can be generalized to the case of quantum field theory.

id: 0807.5058
title: Adaptive Bayesian and frequentist data processing for quantum tomography
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, D. F. Magnani, P. Perinotti
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, revised version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, pp. 1111-1115 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5058
abstract: The outcome statistics of an informationally complete quantum measurement for a system in a given state can be used to evaluate the ensemble expectation of any linear operator in the same state, by averaging a function of the outcomes that depends on the specific operator. Here we introduce two novel data-processing strategies, non-linear in the frequencies, which lead to faster convergence to theoretical expectations.

id: 0807.5064
title: A millisecond quantum memory for scalable quantum networks
authors: Bo Zhao, Yu-Ao Chen, Xiao-Hui Bao, Thorsten Strassel, Chih-Sung Chuu, Xian-Min Jin, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Shuai Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 11pages, 4 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Nature Physics 5, 95 - 99 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5064
abstract: Scalable quantum information processing critically depends on the capability of storage of a quantum state. In particular, a long-lived storable and retrievable quantum memory for single excitations is of crucial importance to the atomic-ensemble-based long-distance quantum communication. Although atomic memories for classical lights and continuous variables have been demonstrated with milliseconds storage time, there is no equal advance in the development of quantum memory for single excitations, where only around 10 $\mu$s storage time was achieved. Here we report our experimental investigations on extending the storage time of quantum memory for single excitations. We isolate and identify distinct mechanisms for the decoherence of spin wave (SW) in atomic ensemble quantum memories. By exploiting the magnetic field insensitive state, ``clock state", and generating a long-wavelength SW to suppress the dephasing, we succeed in extending the storage time of the quantum memory to 1 ms. Our result represents a substantial progress towards long-distance quantum communication and enables a realistic avenue for large-scale quantum information processing.

id: 0807.5074
title: Limit theorems for quantum walks driven by many coins
authors: Etsuo Segawa, Norio Konno
comments: 14 pages, Journal-ref. added
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol.6, Issue 6, pp.1231-1243 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5074
abstract: We obtain some rigorous results on limit theorems for quantum walks driven by many coins introduced by Brun et al. in the long time limit. The results imply that whether the behavior of a particle is quantum or classical depends on the three factors: the initial qubit, the number of coins M, d= [t/M], where t is time step. Our main theorem shows that we can see a transition from classical behavior to quantum one for a class of three factors.

id: 0807.5079
title: Illustration of quantum complementarity using single photons interfering on a grating
authors: V. Jacques, N. D. Lai, A. Dreau, D. Zheng, D. Chauvat, F. Treussart, P. Grangier, J-F Roch
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 123009 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5079
abstract: A recent experiment performed by S. S. Afshar et al. has been interpreted as a violation of Bohr's complementarity principle between interference visibility and which-path information in a two-path interferometer. We have reproduced this experiment, using true single-photon pulses propagating in a two-path wavefront- splitting interferometer realized with a Fresnel's biprism, and followed by a grating with adjustable transmitting slits. The measured values of interference visibility V and which-path information, characterized by the distinguishability parameter D, are found to obey the complementarity relation V^2+D^2=<1. This result demonstrates that the experiment can be perfectly explained by the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics.

id: 0807.5098
title: Efficient upconversion of sub-THz radiation in a high-Q whispering gallery resonator
authors: D. V. Strekalov, A. A. Savchenkov, A. B. Matsko, N. Yu
comments: This revision is limited to discussion of only optical WGMs coupled with the external Rf field. Discussion of RF WGMs is now posted separately
journal: D. V. Strekalov, A. A. Savchenkov, A. B. Matsko and N. Yu, Opt. Lett. 34, 713--715 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5098
abstract: We demonstrate efficient upconversion of sub-THz radiation into the optical domain in a high-Q whispering gallery mode resonator with quadratic optical nonlinearity. The 5x10^{-3} power conversion efficiency of continuous wave 100GHz signal is achieved with only 16 mW of optical pump.

id: 0807.5126
title: Phase-Covariant Quantum Benchmarks
authors: J. Calsamiglia, M. Aspachs, R. Munoz-Tapia, E. Bagan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 050301(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5126
abstract: We give a quantum benchmark for teleportation and quantum storage experiments suited for pure and mixed test states. The benchmark is based on the average fidelity over a family of phase-covariant states and certifies that an experiment can not be emulated by a classical setup, i.e., by a measure-and-prepare scheme. We give an analytical solution for qubits, which shows important differences with standard state estimation approach, and compute the value of the benchmark for coherent and squeezed states, both pure and mixed.

id: 0807.0196
title: Underdamped quantum ratchets
authors: S. Denisov, S. Kohler, P. Hanggi
comments: EPL 85, 40003 (2009)
journal: EPL 85, 40003 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0196
abstract: We investigate the quantum ratchet effect under the influence of weak dissipation which we treat within a Floquet-Markov master equation approach. A ratchet current emerges when all relevant symmetries are violated. Using time-reversal symmetric driving we predict a purely dissipation-induced quantum ratchet current. This directed quantum transport results from bath-induced superpositions of non-transporting Floquet states.

id: 0807.0217
title: Pseudospin entanglement and Bell test in graphene
authors: M. Kindermann
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; v2 with slightly modified abstract and introduction
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 115444 (2009).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0217
abstract: We propose a way of producing and detecting pseudospin entanglement between electrons and holes in graphene. Electron-hole pairs are produced by a fluctuating potential and their entanglement is demonstrated by a current correlation measurement. The chirality of electrons in graphene facilitates a well-controlled Bell test with (pseudo-)spin projection angles defined in real space.

id: 0807.0241
title: Quantum substitutions of Pisot type, their quantum topological entropy and their use for optimal spacing
authors: Gavriel Segre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0241
abstract: Quantum substitutions of Pisot type (and their quantum topological entropy) are introduced. Their utility as algorithms for optimal spacing is analyzed.

id: 0807.0242
title: Dynamical constants for electromagnetic fields with elliptic-cylindrical symmetry
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, R. J¨¢uregui
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, revised version, animated graphs provided at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 033813 (2008)
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0242
abstract: Taking into account the characteristics of a free scalar field in elliptic coordinates, a new dynamical variable is found for the free electromagnetic field. The conservation law associated to this variable cannot be obtained by direct application of standard Noether theorem since the symmetry generator is of second order. Consequences on the expected mechanical behavior of an atomic system interacting with electromagnetic waves exhibiting such a symmetry are also discussed.

id: 0807.0487
title: Low-energy effective theory of the toric code model in a parallel field
authors: J. Vidal, S. Dusuel, K. P. Schmidt
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, typos in Eq.(8) corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.B79:033109,2009
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0487
abstract: We determine analytically the phase diagram of the toric code model in a parallel magnetic field which displays three distinct regions. Our study relies on two high-order perturbative expansions in the strong- and weak-field limit, as well as a large-spin analysis. Calculations in the topological phase establish a quasiparticle picture for the anyonic excitations. We obtain two second-order transition lines that merge with a first-order line giving rise to a multicritical point as recently suggested by numerical simulations. We compute the values of the corresponding critical fields and exponents that drive the closure of the gap. We also give the one-particle dispersions of the anyonic quasiparticles inside the topological phase.

id: 0807.0797
title: Landau-Zener Transitions in an Adiabatic Quantum Computer
authors: J. Johansson, M.H.S. Amin, A.J. Berkley, P. Bunyk, V. Choi, R. Harris, M.W. Johnson, T.M. Lanting, Seth Lloyd, G. Rose
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 012507 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0797
abstract: We report an experimental measurement of Landau-Zener transitions on an individual flux qubit within a multi-qubit superconducting chip designed for adiabatic quantum computation. The method used isolates a single qubit, tunes its tunneling amplitude Delta into the limit where Delta is much less than both the temperature T and the decoherence-induced energy level broadening, and forces it to undergo a Landau-Zener transition. We find that the behavior of the qubit agrees to a high degree of accuracy with theoretical predictions for Landau-Zener transition probabilities for a double-well quantum system coupled to 1/f magnetic flux noise.

id: 0807.0826
title: Yang-Mills gauge theories from fermionic lattice models
authors: Paolo Maraner, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:2542-2545,2009
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0826
abstract: A doublet of three-dimensional Dirac fermions can effectively describe the low energy spectrum of a fermionic cubic lattice. We employ this fermion doubling to encode a non-Abelian SU(2) charge in the fundamental representation. We explicitly demonstrate that suitable distortion of the tunnelling couplings can introduce a scalar and a Yang-Mills field in the effective low energy description, both coupled to the Dirac fermions. As an application we simulate Yang-Mills monopoles that give rise to localized zero-modes and fermion fractionalization. The generation of the non-Abelian field in the two-dimensional case is also presented.

id: 0807.1386
title: A neutron diffraction study of macroscopically entangled proton states in the high temperature phase of the KHCO3 crystal at 340 K
authors: Fran?ois Fillaux, Alain Cousson, Matthias J. Gutmann
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics Condensed Matter 20 (2007) 015225
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1386
abstract: We utilize single-crystal neutron diffraction to study the $C2/m$ structure of potassium hydrogen carbonate (KHCO$_3$) and macroscopic quantum entanglement above the phase transition at $T_c = 318$ K. Whereas split atom sites could be due to disorder, the diffraction pattern at 340 K evidences macroscopic proton states identical to those previously observed below $T_c$ by F. Fillaux et al., (2006 \textit{J. Phys.: Condens. Matter} \textbf{18} 3229). We propose a theoretical framework for decoherence-free proton states and the calculated differential cross-section accords with observations. The structural transition occurs from one ordered $P2_1/a$ structure ($T < T_c$) to another ordered $C2/m$ structure. There is no breakdown of the quantum regime. It is suggested that the crystal is a macroscopic quantum object which can be represented by a state vector. Raman spectroscopy and quasi-elastic neutron scattering suggest that the $|C2/m>$ state vector is a superposition of the state vectors for two $P2_1/a$-like structures symmetric with respect to $(a,c)$ planes.

id: 0807.1388
title: Nonlocal protons and deuterons opposed to disorder: a single-crystal neutron diffraction study of KH0.76D0.24CO3 and a theoretical framewok
authors: Fran?ois Fillaux, Alain Cousson
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics Condensed Matter 20 (2008) 252202
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1388
abstract: We show with neutron diffraction that a single-crystal of potassium hydrogen deuterium carbonate at room temperature, namely KH$_{0.76}$D$_{0.24}$CO$_3$, is isomorphous with the KHCO$_3$ and KDCO$_3$ derivatives. Protons and deuterons are not disordered particles located at definite sites and Bragg peaks are best fitted with separate H and D sublattices. We propose a theoretical framework for nonlocal observables and macroscopic states compatible with the crystal field.

id: 0807.1419
title: On the spectrum of a bent chain graph
authors: Pierre Duclos, Pavel Exner, Ondrej Turek
comments: LaTeX, 23 pages with 7 figures; minor changes, references added; to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1419
abstract: We study Schr\"odinger operators on an infinite quantum graph of a chain form which consists of identical rings connected at the touching points by $\delta$-couplings with a parameter $\alpha\in\R$. If the graph is "straight", i.e. periodic with respect to ring shifts, its Hamiltonian has a band spectrum with all the gaps open whenever $\alpha\ne 0$. We consider a "bending" deformation of the chain consisting of changing one position at a single ring and show that it gives rise to eigenvalues in the open spectral gaps. We analyze dependence of these eigenvalues on the coupling $\alpha$ and the "bending angle" as well as resonances of the system coming from the bending. We also discuss the behaviour of the eigenvalues and resonances at the edges of the spectral bands.

id: 0807.1790
title: A Jacobson Radical Decomposition of the Fano-Snowflake Configuration
authors: Metod Saniga, Petr Pracna
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: SIGMA 4 (2008) 072, 7 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1790
abstract: The Fano-Snowflake, a specific $non$-unimodular projective lattice configuration associated with the smallest ring of ternions $R_{\diamondsuit}$ (arXiv:0803.4436 and 0806.3153), admits an interesting partitioning with respect to the Jacobson radical of $R_{\diamondsuit}$. The totality of 21 free cyclic submodules generated by non-unimodular vectors of the free left $R_{\diamondsuit}$-module $R_{\diamondsuit}^{3}$ are shown to split into three disjoint sets of cardinalities 9, 9 and 3 according as the number of Jacobson radical entries in the generating vector is 2, 1 or 0, respectively. The corresponding "ternion-induced" factorization of the lines of the Fano plane sitting in the middle of the Fano-Snowflake (6 -- 7 -- 3) is found to $differ fundamentally$ from the natural one, i. e., from that with respect to the Jacobson radical of the Galois field of two elements (3 -- 3 -- 1).

id: 0807.1828
title: PT-symmetric extensions of the supersymmetric Korteweg-de Vries equation
authors: Bijan Bagchi, Andreas Fring
comments: 10 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 392004
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1828
abstract: We discuss several PT-symmetric deformations of superderivatives. Based on these various possibilities, we propose new families of complex PT-symmetric deformations of the supersymmetric Korteweg-de Vries equation. Some of these new models are mere fermionic extensions of the former in the sense that they are formulated in terms of superspace valued superfields containing bosonic and fermionic fields, breaking however the supersymmetry invariance. Nonetheless, we also find extensions, which may be viewed as new supersymmetric Korteweg-de Vries equation. Moreover, we show that these deformations allow for a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian formulation and construct three charges associated to the corresponding flow.

id: 0807.1847
title: Form factors of integrable higher-spin XXZ chains and the affine quantum-group symmetry
authors: Tetsuo Deguchi, Chihiro Matsui
comments: 46 pages with no figure
journal: Nucl.Phys.B814:405-438,2009; Erratum-ibid.B851:238-243,2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1847
abstract: We derive exactly scalar products and form factors for integrable higher-spin XXZ chains through the algebraic Bethe-ansatz method. Here spin values are arbitrary and different spins can be mixed. We show the affine quantum-group symmetry, $U_q(\hat{sl_2})$, for the monodromy matrix of the XXZ spin chain, and then obtain the exact expressions. Furthermore, through the quantum-group symmetry we explicitly derive the diagonalized forms of the $B$ and $C$ operators in the $F$-basis for the spin-1/2 XXZ spin chain, which was conjectured in the algebraic Bethe-ansatz calculation of the XXZ correlation functions. The results should be fundamental in studying form factors and correlation functions systematically for various solvable models associated with the integrable XXZ spin chains.

id: 0807.1882
title: Long-distance frequency transfer over an urban fiber link using optical phase stabilization
authors: Haifeng Jiang, Fabien K¨¦f¨¦lian, Scott Crane, Olivier Lopez, Michel Lours, Jacques Millo, David Holleville, Pierre Lemonde, Christian Chardonnet, Anne Amy-Klein, Georgio Santarelli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1882
abstract: We transferred the frequency of an ultra-stable laser over 86 km of urban fiber. The link is composed of two cascaded 43-km fibers connecting two laboratories, LNE-SYRTE and LPL in Paris area. In an effort to realistically demonstrate a link of 172 km without using spooled fiber extensions, we implemented a recirculation loop to double the length of the urban fiber link. The link is fed with a 1542-nm cavity stabilized fiber laser having a sub-Hz linewidth. The fiber-induced phase noise is measured and cancelled with an all fiber-based interferometer using commercial off the shelf pigtailed telecommunication components. The compensated link shows an Allan deviation of a few 10-16 at one second and a few 10-19 at 10,000 seconds.

id: 0807.2114
title: Separability of the massive Dirac's equation in 5-dimensional Myers-Perry black hole geometry and its relation to a rank-three Killing-Yano tensor
authors: Shuang-Qing Wu
comments: 15 pages, no figure, revtex4.cls. Typos removed. PRD published version
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:064052,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2114
abstract: The Dirac equation for the electron around a five-dimensional rotating black hole with two different angular momenta is separated into purely radial and purely angular equations. The general solution is expressed as a superposition of solutions derived from these two decoupled ordinary differential equations. By separating variables for the massive Klein-Gordon equation in the same space-time background, I derive a simple and elegant form for the Stackel-Killing tensor, which can be easily written as the square of a rank-three Killing-Yano tensor. I have also explicitly constructed a symmetry operator that commutes with the scalar Laplacian by using the Stackel-Killing tensor, and the one with the Dirac operator by the Killing-Yano tensor admitted by the five-dimensional Myers-Perry metric, respectively.

id: 0807.2315
title: Deformed quantum statistics in two-dimensions
authors: A. Lavagno, P. Narayana Swamy
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 23 (2009) 235
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2315
abstract: It is known from the early work of May in 1964 that ideal Bose gas do not exhibit condensation phenomenon in two dimensions. On the other hand, it is also known that the thermostatistics arising from q-deformed oscillator algebra has no connection with the spatial dimensions of the system. Our recent work concerns the study of important thermodynamic functions such as the entropy, occupation number, internal energy and specific heat in ordinary three spatial dimensions, where we established that such thermostatistics is developed by consistently replacing the ordinary thermodynamic derivatives by the Jackson derivatives. The thermostatistics of q-deformed bosons and fermions in two spatial dimensions is an unresolved question and that is the subject of this investigation. We study the principal thermodynamic functions of both bosons and fermions in the two dimensional q-deformed formalism and we find that, different from the standard case, the specific heat of q-boson and q-fermion ideal gas, at fixed temperature and number of particle, are no longer identical.

id: 0807.2418
title: Damped bounces of an isolated perfect quantum gas
authors: S. Camalet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2418
abstract: The issue of the thermalization of an isolated quantum system is addressed by considering a perfect gas confined by gravity and initially trapped above a certain height. As we are interested in the behavior of truly isolated systems, we assume the gas is in a pure state of macroscopically well-defined energy. We show that, in general, for single-particle distributions, such a state is strictly equivalent to the microcanonical mixed state at the same energy. We derive an expression for the time-dependent gas density which depends on the initial gas state only via a few thermodynamic parameters. Though we consider non-interacting particles, the density relaxes into an asymptotic profile, but which is not the thermal equilibrium one determined by the gas energy and particle number.

id: 0807.2422
title: Frustrated total internal reflection and the illusion of superluminal propagation
authors: Vera L. Brudny, W. Luis Moch¨¢n
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2422
abstract: We analyze the propagation of a pulse across a vacuum gap separating opposite flat parallel faces of two transparent dielectrics by means of an explicitly causal and retarded propagator constructed directly from the free-space wave equation. Nevertheless, our approach yields apparently superluminal propagation for the case of frustrated total internal reflection (FTIR), that is, a transmitted wave packet appears on the far side of the gap at the same time that the corresponding incident packet crosses the front one. Thus, in this example superluminality is just an illusion, being consistent with both casuality and classical electrodynamics. We study the origin of the apparent superluminality in this case, which is inherent to light pulse propagation in free space and does not depend on the particulars of light-matter interaction, and find that it is due to propagation from the lateral wings of the incident pulse to the central part of the transmitted pulse. Thus, notwithstanding their similarities, FTIR is not equivalent to 1D tunneling. We propose experiments to test our explanation of superluminality using opaque screens to block part of the wavefront, although we demonstrate that the propagation of smooth finite pulses constrained to be made up completely of evanescent Fourier components is indistinguishable from truly superluminal propagation, i.e., it may be completely accounted for using an explicitely superluminal and acausal propagator as well as the causal subluminal one.

id: 0807.2553
title: On the path integral representation for quantum spin models and its application to the quantum cavity method and to Monte Carlo simulations
authors: Florent Krzakala, Alberto Rosso, Guilhem Semerjian, Francesco Zamponi
comments: 25 pages, 15 figures, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 134428 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2553
abstract: The cavity method is a well established technique for solving classical spin models on sparse random graphs (mean-field models with finite connectivity). Laumann et al. [arXiv:0706.4391] proposed recently an extension of this method to quantum spin-1/2 models in a transverse field, using a discretized Suzuki-Trotter imaginary time formalism. Here we show how to take analytically the continuous imaginary time limit. Our main technical contribution is an explicit procedure to generate the spin trajectories in a path integral representation of the imaginary time dynamics. As a side result we also show how this procedure can be used in simple heat-bath like Monte Carlo simulations of generic quantum spin models. The replica symmetric continuous time quantum cavity method is formulated for a wide class of models, and applied as a simple example on the Bethe lattice ferromagnet in a transverse field. The results of the methods are confronted with various approximation schemes in this particular case. On this system we performed quantum Monte Carlo simulations that confirm the exactness of the cavity method in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 0807.2555
title: Qubit coherence decay down to threshold: influence of substrate dimensions
authors: Roland Doll, Peter Hanggi, Sigmund Kohler, Martijn Wubs
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 68, 523 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2555
abstract: Keeping single-qubit quantum coherence above some threshold value not far below unity is a prerequisite for fault-tolerant quantum error correction (QEC). We study the initial dephasing of solid-state qubits in the independent-boson model, which describes well recent experiments on quantum dot (QD) excitons both in bulk and in substrates of reduced geometry such as nanotubes. Using explicit expressions for the exact coherence dynamics, a minimal QEC rate is identified in terms of the error threshold, temperature, and qubit-environment coupling strength. This allows us to systematically study the benefit of a current trend towards substrates with reduced dimensions.

id: 0807.2572
title: Quantum dynamics and transport in a double well system
authors: Itamar Sela, Doron Cohen
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, version to be published in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 155404 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2572
abstract: The simplest one-dimensional model for the studying of non-trivial geometrical effects is a ring shaped device which is formed by joining two arms. We explore the possibility to model such a system as a two level system (TLS). Of particular interest is the analysis of quantum stirring, where it is not evident that the topology is properly reflected within the framework of the TLS modeling. On the technical side we provide a practical "neighboring level" approximation for the analysis of such quantum devices, which remains valid even if the TLS modeling does not apply.

id: 0807.2902
title: Complexity of Quantum States and Reversibility of Quantum Motion
authors: Valentin V. Sokolov, Oleg V. Zhirov, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures; the list of references is updated
journal: PRE 78, 046212 (2008)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2902
abstract: We present a quantitative analysis of the reversibility properties of classically chaotic quantum motion. We analyze the connection between reversibility and the rate at which a quantum state acquires a more and more complicated structure in its time evolution. This complexity is characterized by the number ${\cal M}(t)$ of harmonics of the (initially isotropic, i.e. ${\cal M}(0)=0$) Wigner function, which are generated during quantum evolution for the time $t$. We show that, in contrast to the classical exponential increase, this number can grow not faster than linearly and then relate this fact with the degree of reversibility of the quantum motion. To explore the reversibility we reverse the quantum evolution at some moment $T$ immediately after applying at this moment an instant perturbation governed by a strength parameter $\xi$. It follows that there exists a critical perturbation strength, $\xi_c\approx \sqrt{2}/{\cal M}(T)$, below which the initial state is well recovered, whereas reversibility disappears when $\xi\gtrsim \xi_c(T)$. In the classical limit the number of harmonics proliferates exponentially with time and the motion becomes practically irreversible. The above results are illustrated in the example of the kicked quartic oscillator model.

id: 0807.2933
title: Cooling dynamics of pure and random Ising chains
authors: Sei Suzuki
comments: 10 pages and 2 figures, published version
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P03032 (2009)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2933
abstract: Dynamics of quenching temperature is studied in pure and random Ising chains. Using the Kibble-Zurek argument, we obtain for the pure Ising model that the density of kinks after quenching decays as 1/\sqrt{\tau} with the quench rate of temperature 1/\tau for large \tau. For the random Ising model, we show that decay rates of the density of kinks and the residual energy are 1/\ln\tau and 1/(\ln\tau)^2 for large \tau respectively. Analytic results for the random Ising model are confirmed by the Monte-Carlo simulation. Our results reveal a clear difference between classical and quantum quenches in the random Ising chain.

id: 0807.2965
title: Sum-frequency generation of 589 nm light with near-unit efficiency
authors: Emmanuel Mimoun, Luigi De Sarlo, Jean-Jacques Zondy, Jean Dalibard, Fabrice Gerbier
comments: 
journal: Optics Express Vol. 16, Iss. 23, pp. 18684--18691 (2008)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2965
abstract: We report on a laser source at 589 nm based on sum-frequency generation of two infrared laser at 1064 nm and 1319 nm. Output power as high as 800 mW are achieved starting from 370 mW at 1319 nm and 770 mW at 1064 nm, corresponding to converting roughly 90% of the 1319 nm photons entering the cavity. The power and frequency stability of this source are ideally suited for cooling and trapping of sodium atoms.

id: 0807.3067
title: Spin Field Effect Transistors with Ultracold Atoms
authors: J. Y. Vaishnav, Julius Ruseckas, Charles W. Clark, Gediminas Juzeliunas
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 265302 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3067
abstract: We propose a method of constructing cold atom analogs of the spintronic device known as the Datta-Das transistor (DDT), which despite its seminal conceptual role in spintronics, has never been successfully realized with electrons. We propose two alternative schemes for an atomic DDT, both of which are based on the experimental setup for tripod stimulated Raman adiabatic passage. Both setups involve atomic beams incident on a series of laser fields mimicking the relativistic spin orbit coupling for electrons that is the operating mechanism of the DDT.

id: 0807.3408
title: Doppler-free spectroscopy of the 1S0-3P0 optical clock transition in laser-cooled fermionic isotopes of neutral mercury
authors: M. Petersen, R. Chicireanu, S.T. Dawkins, D.V. Magalh?es, C. Mandache, Y. Lecoq, A. Clairon, S. Bize
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3408
abstract: We have performed for the first time direct laser spectroscopy of the 1S0-3P0 optical clock transition at 265.6 nm in fermionic isotopes of neutral mercury laser-cooled in a magneto-optical trap. Spectroscopy is performed by measuring the depletion of the magneto-optical trap induced by the excitation of the long-lived 3P0 state by a probe at 265.6 nm. Measurements resolve the Doppler-free recoil doublet allowing for a determination of the transition frequency to an uncer- tainty well below the Doppler-broadened linewidth. We have performed absolute measurement of the frequency with respect to an ultra-stable reference monitored by LNE-SYRTE fountain pri- mary frequency standards using a femtosecond laser frequency comb. The measured frequency is 1128575290808 +/- 5.6 kHz in 199Hg and 1128569561140 +/- 5.3 kHz in 201Hg, more than 4 orders of magnitude better than previous indirect determinations. Owing to a low sensitivity to blackbody radiation, mercury is a promising candidate for reaching the ultimate performance of optical lattice clocks.

id: 0807.3467
title: Quantum phase transitions in the interacting boson model
authors: Pavel Cejnar, Jan Jolie
comments: a review article, 71 pages, 18 figures
journal: Prog.Part.Nucl.Phys.62:210-256,2009
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3467
abstract: This review is focused on various properties of quantum phase transitions (QPTs) in the Interacting Boson Model (IBM) of nuclear structure. The model in its infinite-size limit exhibits shape-phase transitions between spherical, deformed prolate, and deformed oblate forms of the ground state. Finite-size precursors of such behavior are verified by robust variations of nuclear properties (nuclear masses, excitation energies, transition probabilities for low lying levels) across the chart of nuclides. Simultaneously, the model serves as a theoretical laboratory for studying diverse general features of QPTs in interacting many-body systems, which differ in many respects from lattice models of solid-state physics. We outline the most important fields of the present interest: (a) The coexistence of first- and second-order phase transitions supports studies related to the microscopic origin of the QPT phenomena. (b) The competing quantum phases are characterized by specific dynamical symmetries and novel symmetry related approaches are developed to describe also the transitional dynamical domains. (c) In some parameter regions, the QPT-like behavior can be ascribed also to individual excited states, which is linked to the thermodynamic and classical descriptions of the system. (d) The model and its phase structure can be extended in many directions: by separating proton and neutron excitations, considering odd-fermion degrees of freedom or different particle-hole configurations, by including other types of bosons, higher order interactions, and by imposing external rotation. All these aspects of IBM phase transitions are relevant in the interpretation of experimental data and important for a fundamental understanding of the QPT phenomenon.

id: 0807.3487
title: Mirrorless Negative-index Parametric Micro-oscillator
authors: Alexander K. Popov, Sergei A. Myslivets, Vladimir M. Shalaev
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 34, 1165-1167 (2009),
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3487
abstract: The feasibility and extraordinary properties of mirrorless parametric oscillations in strongly absorbing negative-index metamaterials are shown. They stem from the backwardness of electromagnetic waves inherent to this type of metamaterials.

id: 0807.3516
title: Phase Transition in Space: How Far Does a Symmetry Bend Before It Breaks?
authors: Wojciech H. Zurek, Uwe Dorner
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures. Published online 5 June 2008
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 366, 2953 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3516
abstract: We extend the theory of symmetry breaking dynamics in non-equilibrium second order phase transitions known as the Kibble-Zurek mechanism (KZM) to transitions where the change of phase occurs not in time, but in space. This can be due to a time-independent spatial variation of a field that imposes a phase with one symmetry to the left of where it attains critical value, while allowing spontaneous symmetry breaking to the right of that critical borderline. Topological defects need not form in such a situation. We show, however, that the size, in space, of the ``scar'' over which the order parameter adjusts as it ``bends'' interpolating between the phases with different symmetry follows from a KZM - like approach. As we illustrate on the example of a transverse quantum Ising model, in quantum phase transitions this spatial scale -- the size of the scar -- is directly reflected in the energy spectrum of the system: In particular, it determines the size of the energy gap.

id: 0807.3539
title: Casimir effect with dynamical matter on thin mirrors
authors: C. D. Fosco, F. C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: 9 pages, no figures. Minor changes. Version to appear in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett.B669:371-375,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3539
abstract: We calculate the Casimir energy for scalar and gauge fields in interaction with zero-width mirrors, including quantum effects due to the matter fields inside the mirrors. We consider models where those fields are either scalar or fermionic, obtaining general expressions for the energy as a function of the vacuum field 1PI function. We also study, within the frame of a concrete model, the role of the dissipation induced by those degrees of freedom, showing that, after integration of the matter fields, the effective theory for the electromagnetic field contains modes with complex energies. As for the case of Lifshitz formula, we show that the formal result obtained by neglecting dissipation coincides with the correct result that comes from the quantum fluctuations of both bulk and matter fields.

id: 0807.3627
title: Tunneling-induced damping of phase coherence revivals in deep optical lattices
authors: Uwe R. Fischer, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 4+epsilon pages of RevTex4; Rapid Communication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 061603(R) (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3627
abstract: We consider phase coherence collapse and revival in deep optical lattices, and calculate within the Bose-Hubbard model the revival amplitude damping incurred by a finite tunneling coupling of the lattice wells (after sweeping from the superfluid to the Mott phase). Deriving scaling laws for the corresponding decay of first-order coherence revival in terms of filling factor, final lattice depth, and number of tunneling coupling partners, we estimate whether revival-damping related to tunneling between sites can be or even has already been observed in experiment.

id: 0807.4058
title: Universality of Uhrig dynamical decoupling for suppressing qubit pure dephasing and relaxation
authors: Wen Yang, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 180403 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4058
abstract: The optimal $N$-pulse dynamical decoupling discovered by Uhrig for a spin-boson mmodel [Phys. Rev. Lett, {\bf 98}, 100504 (2007)] is proved to be universal in suppressing to $O(T^{N+1})$ the pure dephasing or the longitudinal relaxation of a qubit (or spin-1/2) coupled to a generic bath in a short-time evolution of duration $T$. It is also found that for the purpose of suppressing the longitudinal relaxation, an ideal Uhrig $\pi$-pulse sequence can be generalized to a sequence consisting of the ideal one superimposed with finite-duration pulses satisfying certain symmetry requirements.

id: 0807.4066
title: Geometric potentials in quantum optics: A semi-classical interpretation
authors: Marc Cheneau, Steffen Patrick Rath, Tarik Yefsah, Kenneth John G¨¹nter, Gediminas Juzeliunas, Jean Dalibard
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, minor typos corrected
journal: Europhysics Letters (EPL) 83, 6 (2008) 60001
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4066
abstract: We propose a semi-classical interpretation of the geometric scalar and vector potentials that arise due to Berry's phase when an atom moves slowly in a light field. Starting from the full quantum Hamiltonian, we turn to a classical description of the atomic centre-of-mass motion while still treating the internal degrees of freedom as quantum variables. We show that the scalar potential can be identified as the kinetic energy of an atomic micro-motion caused by quantum fluctuations of the radiative force, and that the Lorentz-type force appears as a result of the motion-induced perturbation of the internal atomic state. For a specific configuration involving two counter-propagating Gaussian laser beams, we relate the geometric forces to the radiation pressure and dipole forces known from quantum optics. The simple physical pictures provided by the present analysis may help for the design and the implementation of novel geometric forces.

id: 0807.4282
title: Dynamic Coulomb blockade in single-lead quantum dots
authors: Xiao Zheng, Jinshuang Jin, YiJing Yan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4282
abstract: We investigate transient dynamic response of an Anderson impurity quantum dot to a family of ramp-up driving voltage applied to the single coupling lead. Transient current is calculated based on a hierarchical equations of motion formalism for open dissipative systems [J. Chem. Phys. 128, 234703 (2008)]. In the nonlinear response and nonadiabatic charging regime, characteristic resonance features of transient response current reveal distinctly and faithfully the energetic configuration of the quantum dot. We also discuss and comment on both the physical and numerical aspects of the theoretical formalism used in this work.

id: 0807.4534
title: Unconventional quantum phases of lattice bosonic mixtures
authors: P. Buonsante, S. M. Giampaolo, F. Illuminati, V. Penna, A. Vezzani
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures - to appear in the topical issue on "Novel Quantum Phases and Mesoscopic Physics in Quantum Gases" of the European Physical Journal B (2009)
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 68, 427 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4534
abstract: We consider strongly interacting boson-boson mixtures on one-dimensional lattices and, by adopting a qualitative mean-field approach, investigate their quantum phases as the interspecies repulsion is increased. In particular, we analyze the low-energy "quantum emulsion" metastable states occurring at large values of the interspecies interaction, which are expected to prevent the system from reaching its true ground state. We argue a significant decrease in the visibility of the time-of-flight images in the case of these spontaneously disordered states.

id: 0807.4612
title: Noise in an SSET-resonator driven by an external field
authors: D. A. Rodrigues, G. J. Milburn
comments: 11 pages. Accepted for PRB
journal: Physical Review B, 78, 104302 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4612
abstract: We investigate the noise properties of a superconducting single electron transistor (SSET) coupled to an harmonically driven resonator. Using a Langevin equation approach, we calculate the frequency spectrum of the SSET charge and calculate its effect on the resonator field. We find that the heights of the peaks in the frequency spectra depend sensitively on the amplitude of the resonator oscillation and hence suggest that the heights of these peaks could act as a sensitive signal for detecting the small changes in the amplitude of the drive. The previously known results for the effective amplitude-dependent damping and temperature provided by the SSET for the case of a low frequency resonator are generalized for all resonator frequencies.

id: 0807.4632
title: Quantum Thermodynamics of Non-Ideal Gases
authors: Antonin Coutant, S. G. Rajeev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4632
abstract: We show that when the thermal wavelength is comparable to the spatial size of a system, thermodynamic observables like Pressure and Volume have quantum fluctuations that cannot be ignored. They are now represented by operators; conventional (classical) thermodynamics is no longer applicable. We continue the work in earlier papers where quantization rules for thermodynamics were developed by analogy with optics and mechanics, by working out explicitly the quantum theory of van der Waals gases. We find a wave equation satisfied by the thermodynamic wave function as well as solutions ({\em coherent states}) that are centered at the classical equations of state. The probability of departure from the classical theory is dependent on a parameter $\sigma$ which is a property of the gas molecule.

id: 0807.4650
title: Point Canonical Transformation versus Deformed Shape Invariance for Position-Dependent Mass Schr?dinger Equations
authors: Christiane Quesne
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 046, 17 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4650
abstract: On using the known equivalence between the presence of a position-dependent mass (PDM) in the Schr\"odinger equation and a deformation of the canonical commutation relations, a method based on deformed shape invariance has recently been devised for generating pairs of potential and PDM for which the Schr\"odinger equation is exactly solvable. This approach has provided the bound-state energy spectrum, as well as the ground-state and the first few excited-state wavefunctions. The general wavefunctions have however remained unknown in explicit form because for their determination one would need the solutions of a rather tricky differential-difference equation. Here we show that solving this equation may be avoided by combining the deformed shape invariance technique with the point canonical transformation method in a novel way. It consists in employing our previous knowledge of the PDM problem energy spectrum to construct a constant-mass Schr\"odinger equation with similar characteristics and in deducing the PDM wavefunctions from the known constant-mass ones. Finally, the equivalence of the wavefunctions coming from both approaches is checked.

id: 0807.4763
title: Cryogenic Ion Trapping Systems with Surface-Electrode Traps
authors: P. B. Antohi, D. Schuster, G. M. Akselrod, J. Labaziewicz, Y. Ge, Z. Lin, W. S. Bakr, I. L. Chuang
comments: 10 pages, 13 EPS figures
journal: Rev.Sci.Instrum.80:013103,2009
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4763
abstract: We present two simple cryogenic RF ion trap systems in which cryogenic temperatures and ultra high vacuum pressures can be reached in as little as 12 hours. The ion traps are operated either in a liquid helium bath cryostat or in a low vibration closed cycle cryostat. The fast turn around time and availability of buffer gas cooling made the systems ideal for testing surface-electrode ion traps. The vibration amplitude of the closed cycled cryostat was found to be below 106 nm. We evaluated the systems by loading surface-electrode ion traps with $^{88}$Sr$^+$ ions using laser ablation, which is compatible with the cryogenic environment. Using Doppler cooling we observed small ion crystals in which optically resolved ions have a trapped lifetime over 2500 minutes.

id: 0807.4779
title: Dynamics revealed by correlations of time-distributed weak measurements of a single spin
authors: R.-B. Liu, Shu-Hong Fung, Hok-Kin Fung, A. N. Korotkov, L. J. Sham
comments: 5 pages 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 013018 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4779
abstract: We show that the correlations in stochastic outputs of time-distributed weak measurements can be used to study the dynamics of an individual quantum object, with a proof-of-principle setup based on small Faraday rotation caused by a single spin in a quantum dot. In particular, the third order correlation can reveal the "true" spin decoherence, which would otherwise be concealed by the inhomogeneous broadening effect in the second order correlations. The viability of such approaches lies in that (1) in weak measurement the state collapse which would disturb the system dynamics occurs at a very low probability, and (2) a shot of measurement projecting the quantum object to a known basis state serves as a starter or stopper of the evolution without pumping or coherently controlling the system as otherwise required in conventional spin echo.

id: 0807.4803
title: Barycentric decomposition of quantum measurements in finite dimensions
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, D. M. Schlingemann
comments: !5 pages, no figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 022111 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4803
abstract: We analyze the convex structure of the set of positive operator valued measures (POVMs) representing quantum measurements on a given finite dimensional quantum system, with outcomes in a given locally compact Hausdorff space. The extreme points of the convex set are operator valued measures concentrated on a finite set of k \le d^2 points of the outcome space, d< \infty being the dimension of the Hilbert space. We prove that for second countable outcome spaces any POVM admits a Choquet representation as the barycenter of the set of extreme points with respect to a suitable probability measure. In the general case, Krein-Milman theorem is invoked to represent POVMs as barycenters of a certain set of POVMs concentrated on k \le d^2 points of the outcome space.

id: 0807.4833
title: Cooling a mechanical resonator via coupling to a tunable double quantum dot
authors: Shi-Hua Ouyang, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 075304 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4833
abstract: We study the cooling of a mechanical resonator (MR) that is capacitively coupled to a double quantum dot (DQD). The MR is cooled by the dynamical backaction induced by the capacitive coupling between the DQD and the MR. The DQD is excited by a microwave field and afterwards a tunneling event results in the decay of the excited state of the DQD. An important advantage of this system is that both the energy level splitting and the decay rate of the DQD can be well tuned by varying the gate voltage. We find that the steady average occupancy, below unity, of the MR can be achieved by changing both the decay rate of the excited state and the detuning between the transition frequency of the DQD and the microwave frequency, in analogy to the laser sideband cooling of an atom or trapped ion in atomic physics. Our results show that the cooling of the MR to the ground state is experimentally implementable.

id: 0807.4887
title: Geometrical interpretation of the Casimir effect
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, Joseph P. Straley
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, an expanded and revised version of arXiv:0712.1974
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4887
abstract: Casimir forces are a manifestation of the change in the zero-point energy of the vacuum caused by the insertion of boundaries. We show how the Casimir force can be efficiently computed by consideration of the vacuum fluctuations that are suppressed by the boundaries, and rederive the scalar Casimir effects for a series of the Dirichlet geometries. For the planar case a finite universal force is automatically found. Consistent with other calculations of the effect, for curved geometries divergent (non-universal) expressions are encountered. They are interpreted geometrically following Candelas and Deutsch (1979) as largely due to the divergent self-energy of the boundary contributing to the force. This viewpoint is supported by explicit calculations for a wedge-circular arc geometry in two dimensions where non-universal and universal contributions into the effect can be unambiguously separated. We also give a heuristic derivation of the purely geometrical expression (Sen, 1981) for the non-universal piece of the Casimir energy due to an arbitrary smooth two-dimensional Dirichlet boundary of a compact region.

id: 0807.5049
title: Semiclassical Theory of Time-Reversal Focusing
authors: Hernan L. Calvo, Rodolfo A. Jalabert, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 240403 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5049
abstract: Time reversal mirrors have been successfully implemented for various kinds of waves propagating in complex media. In particular, acoustic waves in chaotic cavities exhibit a refocalization that is extremely robust against external perturbations or the partial use of the available information. We develop a semiclassical approach in order to quantitatively describe the refocusing signal resulting from an initially localized wave-packet. The time-dependent reconstructed signal grows linearly with the temporal window of injection, in agreement with the acoustic experiments, and reaches the same spatial extension of the original wave-packet. We explain the crucial role played by the chaotic dynamics for the reconstruction of the signal and its stability against external perturbations.

id: 0807.5071
title: Coherence loss and recovery of an electron spin coupled inhomogeneously to a one-dimensional interacting spin bath: an adaptive t-DMRG study
authors: Zhi-Hui Wang, Bing-Shen Wang, Zhao-Bin Su
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Physical Review B 78, 054433 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5071
abstract: Coherence evolution and echo effect of an electron spin, which is coupled inhomogeneously to an interacting one-dimensional finite spin bath via hyperfine-type interaction, is studied using the adaptive time dependent density matrix renormalization group (t-DMRG) method. It is found that the interplay of the coupling inhomogeneity and the transverse intra-bath interactions results in two qualitatively different coherence evolutions, namely, a coherence preserving evolution characterized by periodic oscillation and a complete decoherence evolution. Correspondingly, the echo effects induced by an electron spin flip at time $\tau$ exhibit stable recoherence pulse sequence for the periodic evolution and a single peak at $\sqrt 2 \tau$ for the decoherence evolution, respectively. With the diagonal intra-bath interaction included, the specific feature of the periodic regime is kept, while the $\sqrt 2\tau$-type echo effect in the decoherence regime is significantly affected. To render the experimental verifications possible, the Hahn echo envelope as a function of $\tau$ is calculated, which eliminates the inhomogeneous broadening effect and serves for the identification of the different status of the dynamic coherence evolution, periodic versus decoherence.

id: 0807.5072
title: Not to normal order - Notes on the kinetic limit for weakly interacting quantum fluids
authors: Jani Lukkarinen, Herbert Spohn
comments: 43 pages, corrected typos, updated assumptions in sec. 7
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 134 (2009) 1133-1172
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5072
abstract: The derivation of the Nordheim-Boltzmann transport equation for weakly interacting quantum fluids is a longstanding problem in mathematical physics. Inspired by the method developed to handle classical dilute gases, a conventional approach is the use of the BBGKY hierarchy for the time-dependent reduced density matrices. In contrast, our contribution is motivated by the kinetic theory of the weakly nonlinear Schrodinger equation. The main observation is that the results obtained in the latter context carry over directly to weakly interacting quantum fluids provided one does not insist on normal order in the Duhamel expansion. We discuss the term by term convergence of the expansion and the equilibrium time correlation <a(t)* a(0)>.

id: 0807.5103
title: Long Tail of Quantum Decay from Scattering Data
authors: M. Nowakowski, N. G. Kelkar
comments: Talk given by M. Nowakowski at SCADRON70: Workshop on Scalar Mesons and Related Topics, Lisbon, Portugal
journal: AIPConf.Proc.1030:250-255,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5103
abstract: Whereas the short time behaviour of an unstable quantum mechanical system is well understood from its theoretical as well as experimental side, the long time tail of the very same systems has neither been measured experimentally nor is there a theoretical agreement on how to handle it. We suggest a possible way out of this unsatisfactory state of art. Theoretically we suggest that the correct spectral function entering the Fock-Krylov method to calculate the survival amplitude is proportional to the density of states of a resonance. The latter is essentially the energy derivative of a phase shift. As a bonus, we can connect the survival probability to scattering data via the phase shift. The method then not only establishes the spectral function, but is per se a semi-empirical method to extract the large time behaviour from scattering data.

id: 0807.5110
title: Thomas-Fermi versus one- and two-dimensional regimes of a trapped dipolar Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: N.G. Parker, D.H.J. O'Dell
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 78, 041601R (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5110
abstract: We derive the criteria for the Thomas-Fermi regime of a dipolar Bose-Einstein condensate in cigar, pancake and spherical geometries. This also naturally gives the criteria for the mean-field one- and two-dimensional regimes. Our predictions, including the Thomas-Fermi density profiles, are shown to be in excellent agreement with numerical solutions. Importantly, the anisotropy of the interactions has a profound effect on the Thomas-Fermi/low-dimensional criteria.

id: 0807.5132
title: Engineering Superposition States and Tailored Probes for Nano-resonators Via Open-Loop Control
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Lin Tian, Justin Finn
comments: 4 pages, Revtex 4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 057208 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5132
abstract: We show that a nano-resonator can be prepared in mesoscopic-superposition states merely by monitoring a qubit coupled to the square of the resonators position. This works for thermal initial states, and does not require a third-order nonlinearity. The required coupling can be generated using a simple open-loop control protocol, obtained with optimal control theory. We simulate the complete preparation process, including environmental noise. Our results indicate the power of open-loop control for state-engineering and measurement in quantum nano-systems.

id: 0807.4667
title: Equilibrium long-ranged charge correlations at the surface of a conductor coupled to the electromagnetic radiation
authors: Ladislav Samaj, Bernard Jancovici
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78 (2008) 051119
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4667
abstract: This study is related to the fluctuation theory of electromagnetic fields, charges and currents. The three-dimensional system under consideration is a semi-infinite conductor, modeled by the jellium, in vacuum. In previous theoretical studies it was found that the correlation functions of the surface charge density on the conductor decay as the inverse cube of the distance at asymptotically large distances. The prefactor to this asymptotic decay was obtained in the classical limit and in the quantum case without retardation effects. To describe the retarded regime, we study a more general problem of the semi-infinite jellium in thermal equilibrium with the radiated electromagnetic field. By using Rytov's fluctuational electrodynamics we show that, for both static and time-dependent surface charge correlation functions, the inclusion of retardation effects causes the quantum prefactor to take its universal static classical form, for any temperature.

id: 0807.2927
title: Completeness of dagger-categories and the complex numbers
authors: Jamie Vicary
comments: 39 pages. Accepted for publication in the Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J. Math. Phys. (2011), 52, 082104
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2927
abstract: The complex numbers are an important part of quantum theory, but are difficult to motivate from a theoretical perspective. We describe a simple formal framework for theories of physics, and show that if a theory of physics presented in this manner satisfies certain completeness properties, then it necessarily includes the complex numbers as a mathematical ingredient. Central to our approach are the techniques of category theory, and we introduce a new category-theoretical tool, called the dagger-limit, which governs the way in which systems can be combined to form larger systems. These dagger-limits can be used to characterize the dagger-functor on the category of finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces, and so can be used as an equivalent definition of the inner product. One of our main results is that in a nontrivial monoidal dagger-category with all finite dagger-limits and a simple tensor unit, the semiring of scalars embeds into an involutive field of characteristic 0 and orderable fixed field.

id: 0807.1011
title: An Analysis of States in the Phase Space: From Quantum Mechanics to General Relativity
authors: Sebastiano Tosto
comments: 93 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1011
abstract: The paper has heuristic character. The conceptual frame, based on the assumption of quantum uncertainty only, has been formerly introduced in two papers [S. Tosto, Il Nuovo Cimento B, vol. 111, n.2, 1996 and S. Tosto, Il Nuovo Cimento D, vol. 18, n.12, 1996]. Instead of attempting to increase the accuracy of some existing computational model through a new kind of approximation, these papers acknowledge since the beginning the lack of deterministic information about the local properties of the constituent particles, considered random, unknown and unpredictable and thus ignored in principle. The leading idea is that the physical properties of quantum systems could be inferred merely considering the delocalization ranges of dynamical variables, rather than their local values. In effect, despite the agnostic character of the approach proposed, both papers show that the kind of physical information reachable reproduces exactly in all cases examined that obtained solving the pertinent wave equations. The concept of quantum uncertainty is further extended in the present paper to both space and time coordinates, considering thus a unique spacetime delocalization range and still discarding since the beginning the local values of the conjugate dynamical variables. The paper shows an unexpected wealth of information obtainable simply extending the concept of space uncertainty to that of spacetime uncertainty: the results are inherently consistent with that of the operator formalism of wave mechanics and with the basic postulates of special relativity, both inferred as corollaries. Moreover, even the gravity appears to be essentially a quantum phenomenon. The most relevant outcomes of special and general relativity are achieved as straightforward consequence of the space-time delocalization of particles using the simple quantum formalism first introduced in the early papers.

