id: 0808.0020
title: Finite Size Corrections to Entanglement in Quantum Critical Systems
authors: F. C. Alcaraz, M. S. Sarandy
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. v2: References updated. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032319 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0020
abstract: We analyze the finite size corrections to entanglement in quantum critical systems. By using conformal symmetry and density functional theory, we discuss the structure of the finite size contributions to a general measure of ground state entanglement, which are ruled by the central charge of the underlying conformal field theory. More generally, we show that all conformal towers formed by an infinite number of excited states (as the size of the system $L \to \infty$) exhibit a unique pattern of entanglement, which differ only at leading order $(1/L)^2$. In this case, entanglement is also shown to obey a universal structure, given by the anomalous dimensions of the primary operators of the theory. As an illustration, we discuss the behavior of pairwise entanglement for the eigenspectrum of the spin-1/2 XXZ chain with an arbitrary length $L$ for both periodic and twisted boundary conditions.

id: 0808.0027
title: Evolution equation of quantum tomograms for a driven oscillator in the case of the general linear quantization
authors: G.G. Amosov, V.I. Man'ko, Yu.N. Orlov
comments: 11 pages
journal: Physica Scripta 79 (2009) 015004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0027
abstract: The symlectic quantum tomography for the general linear quantization is introduced. Using the approach based upon the Wigner function techniques the evolution equation of quantum tomograms is derived for a parametric driven oscillator.

id: 0808.0042
title: Efficient quantum key distribution over a collective noise channel
authors: Xi-Han Li, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure; the revised version of the paper published in Phys. Rev. A 78, 022321 (2008). Some negligible errors on the error rates of eavesdropping check are corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022321 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0042
abstract: We present two efficient quantum key distribution schemes over two different collective-noise channels. The accepted hypothesis of collective noise is that photons travel inside a time window small compared to the variation of noise. Noiseless subspaces are made up of two Bell states and the spatial degree of freedom is introduced to form two nonorthogonal bases. Although these protocols resort to entangled states for encoding the key bit, the receiver is only required to perform single-particle product measurements and there is no basis mismatch. Moreover, the detection is passive as the receiver does not switch his measurements between two conjugate measurement bases to get the key.

id: 0808.0052
title: Hardy's Test versus the CHSH Test of Quantum Non-Locality: Fundamental and Practical Aspects
authors: Daniel Braun, Mahn-Soo Choi
comments: 26 pages; 3 EPS figures; typos corrected; references added/corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032114 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0052
abstract: We compare two different tests of quantum non-locality, both in theoretical terms and with respect to a possible implementation in a mesoscopic circuit: Hardy's test [Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{68}, 2981 (1992)] and the CHSH test, the latter including a recently discovered inequality relevant for experiments with three possible outcomes [Collins and Gisin, J. Phys. A \textbf{37}, 1775 (2004)]. We clarify the geometry of the correlations defined by Hardy's equations with respect to the polytope of causal correlations, and show that these equations generalize to the CHSH inequality if the slightest imperfections in the setup need to be taken into account. We propose a mesoscopic circuit consisting of two interacting Mach-Zehnder interferometers in a Hall bar system for which both Hardy's test and the CHSH test can be realized with a simple change of gate voltages, and evaluate the robustness of the two tests in the case of fluctuating experimental parameters. The proposed setup is remarkably robust and should work for fluctuations of beam splitter angles or phases up to the order of one radian, or single particle loss rates up to about 15%.

id: 0808.0059
title: Quantum walk based search algorithms
authors: Miklos Santha
comments: 16 pages, survey paper
journal: 5th Theory and Applications of Models of Computation (TAMC08), Xian, April 2008, LNCS 4978, 31-46
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0059
abstract: In this survey paper we give an intuitive treatment of the discrete time quantization of classical Markov chains. Grover search and the quantum walk based search algorithms of Ambainis, Szegedy and Magniez et al. will be stated as quantum analogues of classical search procedures. We present a rather detailed description of a somewhat simplified version of the MNRS algorithm. Finally, in the query complexity model, we show how quantum walks can be applied to the following search problems: Element Distinctness, Matrix Product Verification, Restricted Range Associativity, Triangle, and Group Commutativity.

id: 0808.0084
title: On the hitting times of quantum versus random walks
authors: Frederic Magniez, Ashwin Nayak, Peter C. Richter, Miklos Santha
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0084
abstract: In this paper we define new Monte Carlo type classical and quantum hitting times, and we prove several relationships among these and the already existing Las Vegas type definitions. In particular, we show that for some marked state the two types of hitting time are of the same order in both the classical and the quantum case. Further, we prove that for any reversible ergodic Markov chain $P$, the quantum hitting time of the quantum analogue of $P$ has the same order as the square root of the classical hitting time of $P$. We also investigate the (im)possibility of achieving a gap greater than quadratic using an alternative quantum walk. Finally, we present new quantum algorithms for the detection and finding problems. The complexities of both algorithms are related to the new, potentially smaller, quantum hitting times. The detection algorithm is based on phase estimation and is particularly simple. The finding algorithm combines a similar phase estimation based procedure with ideas of Tulsi from his recent theorem for the 2D grid. Extending his result, we show that for any state-transitive Markov chain with unique marked state, the quantum hitting time is of the same order for both the detection and finding problems.

id: 0808.0089
title: Quantum fluctuations in the mazer
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures. Replaced with final version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42, 044015 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0089
abstract: Quantum fluctuations in the mazer are considered, arising either from the atomic motion or from the quantized intracavity field. Analytical results, for both the meza and the hyperbolic secant mode profile, predict for example an attenuation of tunneling resonances due to such fluctuations. The case of a Gaussian mode profile is studied numerically using a wave packet propagation approach. The method automatically takes into account fluctuations in the atomic motion and the dynamics is especially considered at or adjacent to a tunnel resonance. We find that the system evolution is greatly sensitive to the atom-field detuning, bringing about a discussion about the concept of adiabaticity in this model. Further, a novel collapse-revival phenomena is demonstrated, originating from the quantum fluctuations in the atomic motion rather from field fluctuations as is normally the case.

id: 0808.0102
title: Local temperature in quantum thermal states
authors: A. Garcia-Saez, A. Ferraro, A. Acin
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures. New fidelity measure with similar results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052340 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0102
abstract: We consider blocks of quantum spins in a chain at thermal equilibrium, focusing on their properties from a thermodynamical perspective. Whereas in classical systems the temperature behaves as an intensive magnitude, a deviation from this behavior is expected in quantum systems. In particular, we see that under some conditions the description of the blocks as thermal states with the same global temperature as the whole chain fails. We analyze this issue by employing the quantum fidelity as a figure of merit, singling out in detail the departure from the classical behavior. The influence in this sense of zero-temperature quantum phase transitions can be clearly observed within this approach. Then we show that the blocks can be considered indeed as thermal states with a high fidelity, provided an effective local temperature is properly identified. Such a result originates from typical properties of reduced sub-systems of energy-constrained Hilbert spaces. Finally, the relation between local and global temperature is analyzed as a function of the size of the blocks and the system parameters.

id: 0808.0139
title: Comments on the Dynamics of the Pais-Uhlenbeck Oscillator
authors: Andrei V. Smilga
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 017, 13 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0139
abstract: We discuss the quantum dynamics of the Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator. The Lagrangian of this higher-derivative model depends on two frequencies. When the frequencies are different, the free PU oscillator has a pure point spectrum that is dense everywhere. When the frequencies are equal, the spectrum is continuous. It is not bounded from below, running from minus to plus infinity, but this is not disastrous as the Hamiltonian is still Hermitian and the evolution operator is still unitary. Generically, the inclusion of interaction terms breaks unitarity, but in some special cases unitarity is preserved. We discuss also the nonstandard realization of the PU oscillator suggested by Bender and Mannheim, where the spectrum of the free Hamiltonian is positive definite, but wave functions grow exponentially for large real values of canonical coordinates. The free nonstandard PU oscillator is unitary when the frequencies are different, but unitarity is broken in the equal frequencies limit.

id: 0808.0154
title: Dynamic polarization of single nuclear spins by optical pumping of NV color centers in diamond at room temperature
authors: V. Jacques, P. Neumann, J. Beck, M. Markham, D. Twitchen, J. Meijer, F. Kaiser, G. Balasubramanian, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 057403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0154
abstract: We report a versatile method to efficiently polarize single nuclear spins in diamond, which is based on optical pumping of a single NV color center and mediated by a level-anti crossing in its excited state. A nuclear spin polarization higher than 98% is achieved at room temperature for the 15N nuclear spin associated to the NV center, corresponding to $\mu$K effective nuclear spin temperature. We then show simultaneous deterministic initialization of two nuclear spins (13C and 15N) in close vicinity to a NV defect. Such robust control of nuclear spin states is a key ingredient for further scaling up of nuclear-spin based quantum registers in diamond.

id: 0808.0164
title: Vacuum charge fractionlization re-examined
authors: Y. Nogami
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0164
abstract: We consider a model of a quantized fermion field that is based on the Dirac equation in one dimensional space and re-examine how the fermion number of the vacuum, or the vacuum charge, varies when an external potential is switched on. With this model, fractionization of the vacuum charge has been illustrated in the literature by showing that the external potential can change the vacuum charge from zero to a fractional number. Charge conservation then appears violated in this process. This is because the charge that has been examined in this context is only a part of the total charge of the vacuum. The total charge is conserved. It is not fractionalized unless the Dirac equation has a zero mode. Two other confusing aspects are discussed. One is concerned with the usage of the continuum limit and the other with the regularization of the current operator. Implications of these aspects of the vacuum problem are explored.

id: 0808.0174
title: Simon's Algorithm, Clebsch-Gordan Sieves, and Hidden Symmetries of Multiple Squares
authors: D. Bacon
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0174
abstract: The first quantum algorithm to offer an exponential speedup (in the query complexity setting) over classical algorithms was Simon's algorithm for identifying a hidden exclusive-or mask. Here we observe how part of Simon's algorithm can be interpreted as a Clebsch-Gordan transform. Inspired by this we show how Clebsch-Gordan transforms can be used to efficiently find a hidden involution on the group G^n where G is the dihedral group of order eight (the group of symmetries of a square.) This problem previously admitted an efficient quantum algorithm but a connection to Clebsch-Gordan transforms had not been made. Our results provide further evidence for the usefulness of Clebsch-Gordan transform in quantum algorithm design.

id: 0808.0175
title: Vanishing quantum discord is necessary and sufficient for completely positive maps
authors: A. Shabani, D.A. Lidar
comments: 4 pages, no figures. v2: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 100402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0175
abstract: Two long standing open problems in quantum theory are to characterize the class of initial system-bath states for which quantum dynamics is equivalent to (1) a map between the initial and final system states, and (2) a completely positive (CP) map. The CP map problem is especially important, due to the widespread use of such maps in quantum information processing and open quantum systems theory. Here we settle both these questions by showing that the answer to the first is "all", with the resulting map being Hermitian, and that the answer to the second is that CP maps arise exclusively from the class of separable states with vanishing quantum discord.

id: 0808.0178
title: Quantum Interferences in Cooperative Dicke Emission from Spatial Variation of Laser Phase
authors: Sumanta Das, G.S.Agarwal, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letter 101, 153601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0178
abstract: We report generation of a new quantum interference effect in spontaneous emission from a resonantly driven system of two identical two-level atoms due to the spatial variation of the laser phase at the positions of the atoms. This interference affects significantly the spectral features of the emitted radiation and the quantum entanglement in the system. The interference leads to dynamic coupling of the populations and coherences in a basis, determined by the laser phase and represents a kind of vacuum mediated super-exchange between the symmetric and antisymmetric states.

id: 0808.0210
title: Reverse Coherent Information
authors: Ra¨²l Garc¨ªa-Patr¨®n, Stefano Pirandola, Seth Lloyd, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: Modification of the introduction to match the published manuscript
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 210501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0210
abstract: In this letter we define a family of entanglement distribution protocols assisted by feedback classical communication that gives an operational interpretation to reverse coherent information, i.e., the symmetric counterpart of the well known coherent information. This lead to the definition of a new entanglement distribution capacity that exceeds the unassisted capacity for some interesting channels.

id: 0808.0229
title: The Quantum Refrigerator: The quest for absolute zero
authors: Yair Rezek, Peter Salamon, Karl Heinz Hoffmann, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0229
abstract: The scaling of the optimal cooling power of a reciprocating quantum refrigerator is sought as a function of the cold bath temperature as $T_c \to 0$. The working medium consists of noninteracting particles in a harmonic potential. Two closed-form solutions of the refrigeration cycle are analyzed, and compared to a numerical optimization scheme, focusing on cooling toward zero temperature. The optimal cycle is characterized by linear relations between the heat extracted from the cold bath, the energy level spacing of the working medium and the temperature. The scaling of the optimal cooling rate is found to be proportional to $T_c^{3/2}$ giving a dynamical interpretation to the third law of thermodynamics.

id: 0808.0230
title: Electro-Optic Modulation of Single Photons
authors: Pavel Kolchin, Chinmay Belthangady, Shengwang Du, G.Y. Yin, S.E. Harris
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0230
abstract: We use the Stokes photon of a biphoton pair to set the time origin for electro-optic modulation of the wave function of the anti-Stokes photon thereby allowing arbitrary phase and amplitude modulation. We demonstrate conditional single-photon wave functions composed of several pulses, or instead, having gaussian or exponential shapes.

id: 0808.0242
title: Geometric Phase and Quantum Phase Transition : Two-Band Model
authors: H.T.Cui, Jie Yi
comments: 7.5 pages and comments are welcome
journal: PhysRevA,78, 022101 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0242
abstract: The connection between the geometric phase and quantum phase transition has been discussed extensively in the two-band model. By introducing the twist operator, the geometric phase can be defined by calculating its ground-state expectation value. In contrast to the previous numerical examinations, our discussion presents an exact calculation for the determination of the geometric phase. Through two representative examples, our calculation shows the intimate connection between the geometric phase and phase transition: different behaviors of the geometric phase can be identified in this paper, which are directly related to the energy gap above the ground state.

id: 0808.0249
title: Reconstruction of Quantum Mechanics with Information Operators
authors: Ken'ichi Takano
comments: 19 pages, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0249
abstract: We reconstruct quantum mechanics by introducing "information operators" and excluding the concept of wave functions. Multiple information operators simultaneously describe a single system and continuously develop in time even in the process of a measurement. We also introduce the concept of condensation for a system with many degrees of freedom in a rather general meaning. In terms of the multiplicity of description and the condensation, we explain quantum phenomena including measurements without the collapse of the wave function.

id: 0808.0263
title: Gain-assisted superluminal light propagation via incoherent pump field
authors: M. Mahmoudi, S. Worya Rabiei, L. Safari, M. Sahrai
comments: 
journal: Laser Phys. Vol. 19, No. 7, (2009) 1428-1433.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0263
abstract: We investigate the dispersion and the absorption properties of a weak probe field in a three-level Lambda-type atomic system. We use just an incoherent field for controlling the group velocity of light. It is shown that the slope of dispersion changes from positive to negative just with changing the intensity of the indirect incoherent pumping field. Gain-assisted superluminal light propagation appears in this system. No laser field is used in the pumping processes.

id: 0808.0290
title: De Broglie-Bohm Guidance Equations for Arbitrary Hamiltonians
authors: Ward Struyve, Antony Valentini
comments: 22 pages, no figures, LaTex; v3 minor corrections; v2 minor corrections
journal: J. Phys. A 42, 035301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0290
abstract: In a pilot-wave theory, an individual closed system is described by a wavefunction $\psi(q)$ and configuration $q$. The evolution of the wavefunction and configuration are respectively determined by the Schr\"odinger and guidance equations. The guidance equation states that the velocity field for the configuration is given by the quantum current divided by the density $|\psi(q)|^2$. We present the currents and associated guidance equations for any Hamiltonian given by a differential operator. These are derived directly from the Schr\"odinger equation, and also as Noether currents arising from a global phase symmetry associated with the wavefunction in configuration space.

id: 0808.0307
title: A high bandwidth quantum repeater
authors: W. J. Munro, R. Van Meter, Sebastien G.R. Louis, Kae Nemoto
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 040502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0307
abstract: We present a physical- and link-level design for the creation of entangled pairs to be used in quantum repeater applications where one can control the noise level of the initially distributed pairs. The system can tune dynamically, trading initial fidelity for success probability, from high fidelity pairs (F=0.98 or above) to moderate fidelity pairs. The same physical resources that create the long-distance entanglement are used to implement the local gates required for entanglement purification and swapping, creating a homogeneous repeater architecture. Optimizing the noise properties of the initially distributed pairs significantly improves the rate of generating long-distance Bell pairs. Finally, we discuss the performance trade-off between spatial and temporal resources.

id: 0808.0326
title: Towards nonlinear quantum Fokker-Planck equations
authors: Roumen Tsekov
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48 (2009) 1431-1435
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0326
abstract: It is demonstrated how the equilibrium semiclassical approach of Coffey et al. can be improved to describe more correctly the evolution. As a result a new semiclassical Klein-Kramers equation for the Wigner function is derived, which remains quantum for a free quantum Brownian particle as well. It is transformed to a semiclassical Smoluchowski equation, which leads to our semiclassical generalization of the classical Einstein law of Brownian motion derived before. A possibility is discussed how to extend these semiclassical equations to nonlinear quantum Fokker-Planck equations based on the Fisher information.

id: 0808.0334
title: Employing trapped cold ions to verify the quantum Jarzynski equality
authors: Gerhard Huber, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler, Sebastian Deffner, Eric Lutz
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0334
abstract: We propose a scheme to investigate the nonequilibrium work distribution of a quantum particle under well controlled transformations of the external potential, exploiting the versatility of a single ion in a segmented linear Paul trap. We describe in detail how the motional quantum state of a single ion can be prepared, manipulated and finally read out to fully determine the free energy difference in both harmonic and anharmonic potentials. Uniquely to our system, we show how an ion may be immersed in an engineered laser--field reservoir. Trapped ions therefore represent an ideal tool for investigating the Jarzynski equality in open and closed quantum systems.

id: 0808.0353
title: Non-malleable encryption of quantum information
authors: Andris Ambainis, Jan Bouda, Andreas Winter
comments: 8 pages. Title changed in v2, a couple of mistakes corrected, the results are essentially unchanged; accepted for publication at J Math Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0353
abstract: We introduce the notion of "non-malleability" of a quantum state encryption scheme (in dimension d): in addition to the requirement that an adversary cannot learn information about the state, here we demand that no controlled modification of the encrypted state can be effected. We show that such a scheme is equivalent to a "unitary 2-design" [Dankert et al.], as opposed to normal encryption which is a unitary 1-design. Our other main results include a new proof of the lower bound of (d^2-1)^2+1 on the number of unitaries in a 2-design [Gross et al.], which lends itself to a generalization to approximate 2-design. Furthermore, while in prime power dimension there is a unitary 2-design with =< d^5 elements, we show that there are always approximate 2-designs with O(epsilon^{-2} d^4 log d) elements.

id: 0808.0365
title: Ground-state statistics from annealing algorithms: Quantum vs classical approaches
authors: Yoshiki Matsuda, Hidetoshi Nishimori, Helmut G Katzgraber
comments: 12 pages, 16 epsfiles
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 073021
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0365
abstract: We study the performance of quantum annealing for systems with ground-state degeneracy by directly solving the Schr\"odinger equation for small systems and quantum Monte Carlo simulations for larger systems. The results indicate that naive quantum annealing using a transverse field may not be well suited to identify all degenerate ground-state configurations, although the value of the ground-state energy is often efficiently estimated. An introduction of quantum transitions to all states with equal weights is shown to greatly improve the situation but with a sacrifice in the annealing time. We also clarify the relation between the spin configurations in the degenerate ground states and the probabilities that those states are obtained by quantum annealing. The strengths and weaknesses of quantum annealing for problems with degenerate ground states are discussed in comparison with classical simulated annealing.

id: 0808.0369
title: Quantum Algorithms
authors: Michele Mosca
comments: 71 pages, 1 figure, to appear in the Springer Encyclopedia of Complexity and Systems Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0369
abstract: This article surveys the state of the art in quantum computer algorithms, including both black-box and non-black-box results. It is infeasible to detail all the known quantum algorithms, so a representative sample is given. This includes a summary of the early quantum algorithms, a description of the Abelian Hidden Subgroup algorithms (including Shor's factoring and discrete logarithm algorithms), quantum searching and amplitude amplification, quantum algorithms for simulating quantum mechanical systems, several non-trivial generalizations of the Abelian Hidden Subgroup Problem (and related techniques), the quantum walk paradigm for quantum algorithms, the paradigm of adiabatic algorithms, a family of ``topological'' algorithms, and algorithms for quantum tasks which cannot be done by a classical computer, followed by a discussion.

id: 0808.0395
title: Protecting entanglement in superconducting qubits
authors: Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Chun-Wen Li, Tzyh-Jong Tarn, Franco Nori
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052308 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0395
abstract: When a two-qubit system is initially maximally-entangled, two independent decoherence channels, one per qubit, would greatly reduce the entanglement of the two-qubit system when it reaches its stationary state. We propose a method on how to minimize such a loss of entanglement in open quantum systems. We find that the quantum entanglement of general two-qubit systems with controllable parameters can be protected by tuning both the single-qubit parameters and the two-qubit coupling strengths. Indeed, the maximum fidelity $F_{\rm max}$ between the stationary entangled state, $\rho_{\infty}$, and the maximally-entangled state, $\rho_m$, can be about $2/3\approx\max\{{\rm tr}(\rho_{\infty}\rho_m)\}=F_{\rm max}$, corresponding to a maximum stationary concurrence, $C_{\rm max}$, of about $1/3\approx C(\rho_{\infty})=C_{\rm max}$. This is significant because the quantum entanglement of the two-qubit system can be protected, even for a long time. We apply our proposal to several types of two-qubit superconducting circuits, and show how the entanglement of these two-qubit circuits can be optimized by varying experimentally-controllable parameters.

id: 0808.0427
title: Unital Positive Maps and Quantum States
authors: M. Asorey, A. Kossakowski, G. Marmo, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 14 pages
journal: OpenSyst.Info.Dyn.15:123-134,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0427
abstract: We analyze the structure of the subset of states generated by unital completely positive quantum maps, A witness that certifies that a state does not belong to the subset generated by a given map is constructed. We analyse the representations of positive maps and their relation to quantum Perron-Frobenius theory.

id: 0808.0510
title: Quantum Networks on Cubelike Graphs
authors: Anna Bernasconi, Chris Godsil, Simone Severini
comments: 5 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0510
abstract: Cubelike graphs are the Cayley graphs of the elementary abelian group (Z_2)^n (e.g., the hypercube is a cubelike graph). We give conditions for perfect state transfer between two particles in quantum networks modeled by a large class of cubelike graphs. This generalizes results of Christandl et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 187902 (2004)] and Facer et al. [Phys. Rev. A 92, 187902 (2008)].

id: 0808.0516
title: Spin squeezing of atomic ensembles by multi-colour quantum non-demolition measurements
authors: M. Saffman, D. Oblak, J. Appel, E. S. Polzik
comments: 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 023831 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0516
abstract: We analyze the creation of spin squeezed atomic ensembles by simultaneous dispersive interactions with several optical frequencies. A judicious choice of optical parameters enables optimization of an interferometric detection scheme that suppresses inhomogeneous light shifts and keeps the interferometer operating in a balanced mode that minimizes technical noise. We show that when the atoms interact with two-frequency light tuned to cycling transitions the degree of spin squeezing $\xi^2$ scales as $\xi^2\sim 1/d$ where $d$ is the resonant optical depth of the ensemble. In real alkali atoms there are loss channels and the scaling may be closer to $\xi^2\sim 1/\sqrt d.$ Nevertheless the use of two-frequencies provides a significant improvement in the degree of squeezing attainable as we show by quantitative analysis of non-resonant probing on the Cs D1 line. Two alternative configurations are analyzed: a Mach-Zehnder interferometer that uses spatial interference, and an interaction with multi-frequency amplitude modulated light that does not require a spatial interferometer.

id: 0808.0550
title: Effect of Quantum Point Contact Measurement on Electron Spin State in Quantum Dot
authors: Fei-Yun Zhu, Zhi-Cheng Zhu, Tao Tu, Hua Tu, Guang-Can Guo, Guo-Ping Guo
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0550
abstract: We study the time evolution of two electron spin states in a double quantum-dot system, which includes a nearby quantum point contact (QPC) as a measurement device. We obtain that the QPC measurement induced decoherence is in time scales of microsecond. We also find that the enhanced QPC measurement will trap the system in its initial spin states, which is consistent with quantum Zeno effect.

id: 0808.0551
title: Demonstration of a quantum nondemolition sum gate
authors: Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Yoshichika Miwa, Alexander Huck, Ulrik L. Andersen, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 250501 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0551
abstract: The sum gate is the canonical two-mode gate for universal quantum computation based on continuous quantum variables. It represents the natural analogue to a qubit C-NOT gate. In addition, the continuous-variable gate describes a quantum nondemolition (QND) interaction between the quadrature components of two light fields. We experimentally demonstrate a QND sum gate, employing the scheme by R. Filip, P. Marek, and U.L. Andersen [\pra {\bf 71}, 042308 (2005)], solely based on offline squeezed states, homodyne measurements, and feedforward. The results are verified by simultaneously satisfying the criteria for QND measurements in both conjugate quadratures.

id: 0808.0594
title: Tracking quasi-classical chaos in ultracold boson gases
authors: Maxence Lepers, V¨¦ronique Zehnl¨¦, Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, submitted to PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters 101, 14 (2008) 144103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0594
abstract: We study the dynamics of a ultra-cold boson gas in a lattice submitted to a constant force. We track the route of the system towards chaos created by the many-body-induced nonlinearity and show that relevant information can be extracted from an experimentally accessible quantity, the gas mean position. The threshold nonlinearity for the appearance of chaotic behavior is deduced from KAM arguments and agrees with the value obtained by calculating the associated Lyapunov exponent.

id: 0808.0598
title: Two-qubit analogs of octonions and projective planes
authors: A.R.P.Rau
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0598
abstract: A quantum spin-1/2, and its associated su(2) algebra of Pauli spin matrices are familiarly linked to Clifford algebra and quaternions. Somewhat more loosely, we develop connections between the su(4) algebra of two spins and of its sub-algebras, which are important throughout the field of quantum information, with octonions, the projective plane of seven elements, and entities in projective geometry and design theory called partial Steiner systems of 10 and 15 elements. Although not the exact correspondence between a single spin and quaternions, the close analogy between these geometrical objects and the 15 operators of a two-spin system may be useful to both projective geometry and quantum information.

id: 0808.0600
title: Entanglement of two blocks of spins in the critical Ising model
authors: P. Facchi, G. Florio, C. Invernizzi, S. Pascazio
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0600
abstract: We compute the entropy of entanglement of two blocks of L spins at a distance d in the ground state of an Ising chain in an external transverse magnetic field. We numerically study the von Neumann entropy for different values of the transverse field. At the critical point we obtain analytical results for blocks of size L=1 and L=2. In the general case, the critical entropy is shown to be additive when d goes to infinity. Finally, based on simple arguments, we derive an expression for the entropy at the critical point as a function of both L and d. This formula is in excellent agreement with numerical results.

id: 0808.0610
title: Paradoxical Reflection in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Pedro L. Garrido, Sheldon Goldstein, Jani Lukkarinen, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 32 pages LaTeX, 8 figures
journal: American Journal of Physics 79(12): 1218-1231 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0610
abstract: This article concerns a phenomenon of elementary quantum mechanics that is quite counter-intuitive, very non-classical, and apparently not widely known: a quantum particle can get reflected at a downward potential step. In contrast, classical particles get reflected only at upward steps. The conditions for this effect are that the wave length is much greater than the width of the potential step and the kinetic energy of the particle is much smaller than the depth of the potential step. This phenomenon is suggested by non-normalizable solutions to the time-independent Schroedinger equation, and we present evidence, numerical and mathematical, that it is also indeed predicted by the time-dependent Schroedinger equation. Furthermore, this paradoxical reflection effect suggests, and we confirm mathematically, that a quantum particle can be trapped for a long time (though not forever) in a region surrounded by downward potential steps, that is, on a plateau.

id: 0808.0633
title: Maximum entangled states and quantum Teleportation via Single Cooper pair Box
authors: N. Metwally, A. A. El-Amin
comments: 
journal: Physica E: Volume 41, Issue 4, February 2009, Pages 718-722
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0633
abstract: In this contribution, we study a single Cooper pair box interacts with a single cavity mode. We show the roles played by the detuning parameters and charged capacities on the degree of entanglement. For large values of the detuning parameter the survival entanglement increases on the expanse of the degree of entanglement. We generate a maximum entangled state and use it to perform the original teleportation protocol. The fidelity of the teleportated state is increased with decreasing the detuning parameter and the number of photon inside the cavity.

id: 0808.0651
title: Bipartite Units of Non-Locality
authors: Manuel Forster, Stefan Wolf
comments: 15 pages, two-column, 7 figures, minor changes, added journal reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0651
abstract: Imagine a task in which a group of separated players aim to simulate a statistic that violates a Bell inequality. Given measurement choices the players shall announce an output based solely on the results of local operations -- which they can discuss before the separation -- on shared random data and shared copies of a so-called unit correlation. In the first part of this article we show that in such a setting the simulation of any bipartite correlation, not containing the possibility of signaling, can be made arbitrarily accurate by increasing the number of shared Popescu-Rohrlich (PR) boxes. This establishes the PR box as a simple asymptotic unit of bipartite nonlocality. In the second part we study whether this property extends to the multipartite case. More generally, we ask if it is possible for separated players to asymptotically reproduce any nonsignaling statistic by local operations on bipartite unit correlations. We find that non-adaptive strategies are limited by a constant accuracy and that arbitrary strategies on n resource correlations make a mistake with a probability greater or equal to c/n, for some constant c.

id: 0808.0675
title: Asymptotic entanglement in open quantum systems
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure; contribution given at the Workshop "Noise, Information and Complexity @ Quantum Scale" (nic@qs07), Erice, Italy (2007)
journal: Int. J. Q. Inf. vol. 6, 689-694 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0675
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems based on completely positive quantum dynamical semigroups, we solve in the asymptotic long-time regime the master equation for two independent harmonic oscillators interacting with an environment. We give a description of the continuous-variable asymptotic entanglement in terms of the covariance matrix of the considered subsystem for an arbitrary Gaussian input state. Using Peres--Simon necessary and sufficient condition for separability of two-mode Gaussian states, we show that for certain classes of environments the initial state evolves asymptotically to an entangled equilibrium bipartite state, while for other values of the coefficients describing the environment, the asymptotic state is separable. We calculate also the logarithmic negativity characterizing the degree of entanglement of the asymptotic state.

id: 0808.0676
title: System-bath entanglement in nanothermodynamics
authors: Stefanie Hilt, Eric Lutz
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 010101(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0676
abstract: We consider a quantum harmonic oscillator linearly coupled to a bath of harmonic oscillators and evaluate the degree of entanglement between system and bath using the negativity as an exact entanglement measure. We establish the existence of a critical temperature above which the system-bath negativity vanishes. Our results imply that system-bath entanglement is not responsible for the violation of the Clausius inequality observed in the low temperature/strong coupling regime [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 1799 (2000)], as the latter still occurs well above the critical temperature.

id: 0808.0679
title: Quantum Cellular Automata
authors: K. Wiesner
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. To appear in the Springer Encyclopedia of Complexity and Systems Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0679
abstract: Quantum cellular automata (QCA) are reviewed, including early and more recent proposals. QCA are a generalization of (classical) cellular automata (CA) and in particular of reversible CA. The latter are reviewed shortly. An overview is given over early attempts by various authors to define one-dimensional QCA. These turned out to have serious shortcomings which are discussed as well. Various proposals subsequently put forward by a number of authors for a general definition of one- and higher-dimensional QCA are reviewed and their properties such as universality and reversibility are discussed.

id: 0808.0686
title: Quantum cryptography with polarization, phase and time encoding
authors: W.T. Buttler, S.K. Lamoreaux
comments: Submitted to PRL May 1, 2008 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0686
abstract: We develop and present a quantum cryptography concept in which phase determinations are made from the time that a photon is detected, as opposed to where the photon is detected, and hence is a non-interferometric process. The phase-encoded quantum information is contained in temporal and polarization superpositions of single photon states, forming a complex qudit of Hilbert dimension D equal to or greater than 4. Based on this, we have developed a new quantum key distribution protocol that allows the generation of secret key in the presence of higher noise than is possible with other protocols.

id: 0808.0725
title: Petal-shape probability areas: complete quantum state discrimination
authors: Luis Roa, Carla Hermann-Avigliano, Roberto Salazar, A. B. Klimov, B. Burgos, A. Delgado
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0725
abstract: We find the allowed complex numbers associated with the inner product of N equally separated pure quantum states. The allowed areas on the unitary complex plane have the form of petals. A point inside the petal-shape represents a set of N linearly independent (LI) pure states, and a point on the edge of that area represents a set of N linearly dependent (LD) pure states. For each one of those LI sets we study the complete discrimination of its N equi-separated states combining sequentially the two known strategies: first the unambiguous identification protocol for LI states, followed, if necessary, by the error-minimizing measurement scheme for LD states. We find that the probabilities of success for both unambiguous and ambiguous discrimination procedures depend on both the module and the phase of the involved inner product complex number. We show that, with respect to the phase-parameter, the maximal probability of discriminating unambiguously the N non-orthogonal pure states holds just when there no longer be probability of obtaining ambiguously information about the prepared state by applying the second protocol if the first one was not successful.

id: 0808.0743
title: Kerr nonlinearities and nonclassical states with superconducting qubits and nanomechanical resonators
authors: F. L. Semi?o, K. Furuya, G. J. Milburn
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, fixed typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 063811 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0743
abstract: We propose the use of a superconducting charge qubit capacitively coupled to two resonant nanomechanical resonators to generate Yurke-Stoler states, i.e. quantum superpositions of pairs of distinguishable coherent states 180$^\circ$ out of phase with each other. This is achieved by effectively implementing Kerr nonlinearities induced through application of a strong external driving field in one of the resonators. A simple study of the effect of dissipation on our scheme is also presented, and lower bounds of fidelity and purity of the generated state are calculated. Our procedure to implement a Kerr nonlinearity in this system may be used for high precision measurements in nanomechanical resonators.

id: 0808.0748
title: Communication in XYZ All-to-All Quantum Networks with a Missing Link
authors: Sougato Bose, Andrea Casaccino, Stefano Mancini, Simone Severini
comments: 5 pages, 7 eps figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. Vol. 7, pp. 713-723 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0748
abstract: We explicitate the relation between Hamiltonians for networks of interacting qubits in the XYZ model and graph Laplacians. We then study evolution in networks in which all sites can communicate with each other. These are modeled by the complete graph K_{n} and called all-to-all networks. It turns out that K_{n} does not exhibit perfect state transfer (PST). However, we prove that deleting an edge in K_{n} allows PST between the two non-adjacent sites, when n is a multiple of four. An application is routing a qubit over n different sites, by switching off the link between the sites that we wish to put in communication. Additionally, we observe that, in certain cases, the unitary inducing evolution in K_{n} is equivalent to the Grover operator.

id: 0808.0776
title: Experimental Measurement of Lower and Upper Bounds of Concurrence for Mixed Quantum States
authors: Xiao-Ling Niu, Yan-Xiao Gong, Jian Li, Liang Peng, Cheng-Jie Zhang, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Yun-Feng Huang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0776
abstract: We experimentally measure the lower and upper bounds of concurrence for a set of two-qubit mixed quantum states using photonic systems. The measured concurrence bounds are in agreement with the results evaluated from the density matrices reconstructed through quantum state tomography. In our experiment, we propose and demonstrate a simple method to provide two faithful copies of a two-photon mixed state required for parity measurements: Two photon pairs generated by two neighboring pump laser pulses through optical parametric down conversion processes represent two identical copies. This method can be conveniently generalized for entanglement estimation of multi-photon mixed states.

id: 0808.0779
title: Two elementary proofs of the Wigner theorem on symmetry in quantum mechanics
authors: R. Simon, N. Mukunda, S. Chaturvedi, V. Srinivasan
comments: A second proof of Wigner's theorem added and, consequently, the title slightly changed. 8 pages, Latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0779
abstract: In quantum theory, symmetry has to be defined necessarily in terms of the family of unit rays, the state space. The theorem of Wigner asserts that a symmetry so defined at the level of rays can always be lifted into a linear unitary or an antilinear antiunitary operator acting on the underlying Hilbert space. We present a proof of this theorem which is both elementary and economical. Central to our proof is the recognition that a given Wigner symmetry can, by post-multiplication by a unitary symmetry, be taken into either the identity or complex conjugation. Our analysis involves a judicious interplay between the effect a given Wigner symmetry has on certain two-dimensional subspaces and the effect it has on the entire Hilbert space.

id: 0808.0794
title: Understanding photonic quantum-logic gates: The road to fault tolerance
authors: Till J. Weinhold, Alexei Gilchrist, Kevin J. Resch, Andrew C. Doherty, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Geoffrey J. Pryde, Andrew G. White
comments: Article (6 pages, 4 figures, 1 table) + Supplementary material (3 pages, 1 table)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0794
abstract: Fault-tolerant quantum computing requires gates which function correctly despite the presence of errors, and are scalable if the error probability-per-gate is below a threshold value. To date, no method has been described for calculating this probability from measurements on a gate. Here we introduce a technique enabling quantitative benchmarking of quantum-logic gates against fault-tolerance thresholds for any architecture. We demonstrate our technique experimentally using a photonic entangling-gate. The relationship between experimental errors and their quantum logic effect is non-trivial: revealing this relationship requires a comprehensive theoretical model of the quantum-logic gate. We show the first such model for any architecture, and find multi-photon emission--a small effect previously regarded as secondary to mode-mismatch--to be the dominant source of logic error. We show that reducing this will move photonic quantum computing to within striking distance of fault-tolerance.

id: 0808.0820
title: Pure emitter dephasing : a resource for advanced solid-state single photon sources
authors: Alexia Auff¨¨ves, Jean-Michel G¨¦rard, Jean-Philippe Poizat
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0820
abstract: We have computed the spectrum emitted spontaneously by a quantum dot coupled to an arbitrarily detuned single mode cavity, taking into account pure dephasing processes. We show that if the emitter is incoherent, the cavity can efficiently emit photons with its own spectral characteristics. This effect opens unique opportunities for the development of devices exploiting both cavity quantum electrodynamics effects and pure dephasing, such as wavelength stabilized single photon sources robust against spectral diffusion.

id: 0808.0859
title: The Parts Determine the Whole except for n-Qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger States
authors: Scott N. Walck, David W. Lyons
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032326 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0859
abstract: The generalized n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states and their local unitary equivalents are the only pure states of n qubits that are not uniquely determined (among arbitrary states, pure or mixed) by their reduced density matrices of n-1 qubits. Thus, the generalized GHZ states are the only ones containing information at the n-party level.

id: 0808.0885
title: Electrostatic Background Forces due to Varying Contact Potentials in Casimir Experiments
authors: Steve K. Lamoreaux
comments: 4 pages version 2 points out that the determined V_a should not be included in the energy derivative for the force
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0885
abstract: The existence of a monotonic distance dependent contact potential between two plates in a Casimir experiment leads to an additional electrostatic force that is significantly different from the case of a constant potential. Such a varying potential can arise if there is a uniform gradient in the work function or contact potential across a plate, as opposed to random microscopic fluctuations associated with patch potentials. A procedure to compensate for this force is described for the case of an experiment where the electrostatic force is minimized at each measurement distance by applying a voltage between the plates. It is noted that the minimizing voltage is not the contact potential.

id: 0808.0903
title: Nonlocal Modulation of Entangled Photons
authors: S. E. Harris
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0903
abstract: We consider ramifications of the use of high speed light modulators to questions of correlation and measurement of time-energy entangled photons. Using phase modulators, we find that temporal modulation of one photon of an entangled pair, as measured by correlation in the frequency domain, may be negated or enhanced by modulation of the second photon. Using amplitude modulators we describe a Fourier technique for measurement of biphoton wave functions with slow detectors.

id: 0808.0938
title: Geometric Entanglement in a One-Dimensional Valence Bond Solid State
authors: Roman Orus
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Physical Review A 78, 062332 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0938
abstract: In this paper we provide the analytical derivation of the global geometric entanglement per block for the valence bond solid ground state of the spin-1 AKLT chain. In particular, we show that this quantity saturates exponentially fast to a constant when the sizes of the blocks are sufficiently large. Our result provides the first known example of an analytical calculation of the geometric entanglement for a gapped quantum many-body system in one dimension and far away from a quantum critical point.

id: 0808.0944
title: Improving Quantum State Estimation with Mutually Unbiased Bases
authors: Robert B. A. Adamson, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0944
abstract: When used in quantum state estimation, projections onto mutually unbiased bases have the ability to maximize information extraction per measurement and to minimize redundancy. We present the first experimental demonstration of quantum state tomography of two-qubit polarization states to take advantage of mutually unbiased bases. We demonstrate improved state estimation as compared to standard measurement strategies and discuss how this can be understood from the structure of the measurements we use. We experimentally compared our method to the standard state estimation method for three different states and observe that the infidelity was up to 1.84+/-0.06 times lower using our technique than it was using standard state estimation methods.

id: 0808.0984
title: Fidelity induced distance measures for quantum states
authors: Zhihao Ma, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0984
abstract: Fidelity plays an important role in quantum information theory. In this letter, we introduce new metric of quantum states induced by fidelity, and connect it with the well-known trace metric, Sine metric and Bures metric for the qubit case. The metric character is also presented for the qudit (i.e., $d$-dimensional system) case. The CPT contractive property and joint convex property of the metric are also studied.

id: 0808.1002
title: Solutions of Dirac Equation for Symmetric Generalized Woods-Saxon Potential by the Hypergeometric Method
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1002
abstract: The Dirac equation is solved approximately for the Hulthen potential with the pseudospin symmetry for any spin-orbit quantum number $\kappa$ in the position-dependent mass background. Solutions are obtained reducing the Dirac equation into a Schr\"{o}dinger-like differential equation by using an appropriate coordinate transformation. The Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used in the calculations to get energy eigenvalues and the corresponding wave functions.

id: 0808.1006
title: Infinite potential well with a sinusoidal bottom
authors: A. D. Alhaidari, H. Bahlouli
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, 1 table Details will be published in Journal of Mathematical Physics, Vol. 49, Issue 8 (August 2008)
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 082102 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1006
abstract: We construct a tridiagonal matrix representation of the wave operator that maps the wave equation into a three-term recursion relation for the expansion coefficients of the wavefunction. Finding a solution of the recursion relation is equivalent to solving the original problem. Consequently, a larger class of solvable potentials is obtained. The usual diagonal representation constraint results in a reduction to the conventional class of solvable potentials. To exhibit the power of this approach, we give an exact solution for the infinite potential well with sinusoidal bottom.

id: 0808.1007
title: On Quantum Capacity of Compound Channels
authors: I. Bjelakovic, H. Boche, J. Noetzel
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1007
abstract: In this paper we address the issue of universal or robust communication over quantum channels. Specifically, we consider memoryless communication scenario with channel uncertainty which is an analog of compound channel in classical information theory. We determine the quantum capacity of finite compound channels and arbitrary compound channels with informed decoder. Our approach in the finite case is based on the observation that perfect channel knowledge at the decoder does not increase the capacity of finite quantum compound channels. As a consequence we obtain coding theorem for finite quantum averaged channels, the simplest class of channels with long-term memory. The extension of these results to quantum compound channels with uninformed encoder and decoder, and infinitely many constituents remains an open problem.

id: 0808.1014
title: What is measured in a photoluminescence experiment on Quantum dots embedded in a large Purcell factor microcavity?
authors: Bruno Gayral, Jean-Michel Gerard
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1014
abstract: It is usually assumed that when performing a photoluminescence experiment on a microcavity containing an inhomogeneously broadened quantum dots ensemble, the cavity mode appears as a positive peak with a linewidth that reflects the mode quality factor Q. We show in this article that this conclusion is in general not true, and that the measured mode linewidth depends strongly on the excitation power for microcavities having large Purcell factors. We analyze theoretically this effect in the case of the micropillar cavity and we show that the same microcavity can give rise to a large variety of photoluminescence spectral signatures depending on the excitation power and collection set-up. We finally give guidelines to measure the real cavity quality factor by photoluminescence.

id: 0808.1023
title: Categorical quantum mechanics
authors: Samson Abramsky, Bob Coecke
comments: 63 pages with 22 pictures; Chapter in the Handbook of Quantum Logic and Quantum Structures vol II, Elsevier, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1023
abstract: This invited chapter in the Handbook of Quantum Logic and Quantum Structures consists of two parts: 1. A substantially updated version of quant-ph/0402130 by the same authors, which initiated the area of categorical quantum mechanics, but had not yet been published in full length; 2. An overview of the progress which has been made since then in this area.

id: 0808.1029
title: Bases in diagrammatic quantum protocols
authors: Bob Coecke, Eric Oliver Paquette, Simon Perdrix
comments: 21 pages and loads of pictures. Proceedings of Mathematical Foundations of Programming Semantics XXIV, Electronic Notes in theoretical Computer Science, to appear
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1029
abstract: This paper contains two new results: 1. We amend the notion of abstract basis in a dagger symmetric monoidal category, as well as its corresponding graphical representation, in order to accommodate non-self-dual dagger compact structures; this is crucial for obtaining a `planar' diagrammatical representation of the induced dagger compact structure as well as for representing many complementary bases within one diagrammatic calculus. 2. We (crucially) rely on these basis structures in a purely diagrammatic derivation of the `quantum state transfer protocol'; this derivation provides interesting insights in the distinct structural resources required for state-transfer and teleportation as models of quantum computing.

id: 0808.1032
title: Introducing categories to the practicing physicist
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: 30 pages and 19 pictures
journal: What is category theory? Advanced Studies in Mathematics and Logic, volume 30, pages 45-74, Polimetrica Publishing, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1032
abstract: We argue that category theory should become a part of the daily practice of the physicist, and more specific, the quantum physicist and/or informatician. The reason for this is not that category theory is a better way of doing mathematics, but that monoidal categories constitute the actual algebra of practicing physics. We will not provide rigorous definitions or anything resembling a coherent mathematical theory, but we will take the reader for a journey introducing concepts which are part of category theory in a manner that the physicist will recognize them.

id: 0808.1037
title: Toy quantum categories
authors: Bob Coecke, Bill Edwards
comments: 11 pages and 8 pictures. In the proceedings of Quantum Physics and Logic 2008, Electronic Notes in theoretical Computer Science, to appear
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1037
abstract: We show that Rob Spekken's toy quantum theory arises as an instance of our categorical approach to quantum axiomatics, as a (proper) subcategory of the dagger compact category FRel of finite sets and relations with the cartesian product as tensor, where observables correspond to dagger Frobenius algebras. This in particular implies that the quantum-like properties of the toy model are in fact very general category-theoretic properties. We also show the remarkable fact that we can already interpret complementary quantum observables on the two-element set FRel.

id: 0808.1052
title: Structural approximations to positive maps and entanglement breaking channels
authors: J. K. Korbicz, M. L. Almeida, J. Bae, M. Lewenstein, A. Acin
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062105 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1052
abstract: Structural approximations to positive, but not completely positive maps are approximate physical realizations of these non-physical maps. They find applications in the design of direct entanglement detection methods. We show that many of these approximations, in the relevant case of optimal positive maps, define an entanglement breaking channel and, consequently, can be implemented via a measurement and state-preparation protocol. We also show how our findings can be useful for the design of better and simpler direct entanglement detection methods.

id: 0808.1068
title: Symplectic approach to quantum constraints
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Anna C. T. Gustavsson, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 475301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1068
abstract: A general prescription for the treatment of constrained quantum motion is outlined. We consider in particular constraints defined by algebraic submanifolds of the quantum state space. The resulting formalism is applied to obtain solutions to the constrained dynamics of systems of multiple spin-1/2 particles. When the motion is constrained to a certain product space containing all of the energy eigenstates, the dynamics thus obtained are quasi-unitary in the sense that the equations of motion take a form identical to that of unitary motion, but with different boundary conditions. When the constrained subspace is a product space of disentangled states, the associated motion is more intricate. Nevertheless, the equations of motion satisfied by the dynamical variables are obtained in closed form.

id: 0808.1102
title: Quantum Feedback Control: How to use Verification Theorems and Viscosity Solutions to Find Optimal Protocols
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Alireza Shabani
comments: 12 pages, revtex4
journal: Contemp. Phys. 49, 435 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1102
abstract: While feedback control has many applications in quantum systems, finding optimal control protocols for this task is generally challenging. So-called "verification theorems" and "viscosity solutions" provide two useful tools for this purpose: together they give a simple method to check whether any given protocol is optimal, and provide a numerical method for finding optimal protocols. While treatments of verification theorems usually use sophisticated mathematical language, this is not necessary. In this article we give a simple introduction to feedback control in quantum systems, and then describe verification theorems and viscosity solutions in simple language. We also illustrate their use with a concrete example of current interest.

id: 0808.1147
title: Sufficient and Necessary Condition of Separability for Generalized Werner States
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 4 pages
journal: Annals of Physics 324, 408-413 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1147
abstract: We introduce a sufficient and necessary condition for the separability of a specific class of $N$ $d$-dimensional system (qudits) states, namely special generalized Werner state (SGWS): $W^{[d^N]}(v)=(1-v)\frac{I^{(N)}}{d^N}+v|\psi _d^N><\psi_d^N|$, where $ |\psi_d^N>=\sum_{i=0}^{d-1}\alpha_i|i... i>$ is an entangled pure state of $N$ qudits system and $\alpha_i$ satisfys two restrictions: (i) $\sum_{i=0}^{d-1}\alpha_i\alpha_i^*=1$; (ii) Matrix $\frac{1}{d}(I^{(1)}+\mathcal{T}\sum_{i\neq j}\alpha_i|i>< j|\alpha_j^*)$, where $\mathcal{T}=\texttt{Min}_{i\neq j}\{1/|\alpha_i\alpha_j|\}$, is a density matrix. Our condition gives quite a simple and efficiently computable way to judge whether a given SGWS is separable or not and previously known separable conditions are shown to be special cases of our approach.

id: 0808.1181
title: Analog Grover search by adiabatic passage in a cavity-laser-atom system
authors: D. Daems, S. Gu¨¦rin
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022330 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1181
abstract: A physical implementation of the adiabatic Grover search is theoretically investigated in a system of N identical three-level atoms trapped in a single mode cavity. Some of the atoms are marked through the presence of an energy gap between their two ground states. The search is controlled by two partially delayed lasers which allow a deterministic adiabatic transfer from an initially entangled state to the marked states. Pulse schemes are proposed to satisfy the Grover speedup either exactly or approximately, and the success rate of the search is calculated.

id: 0808.1245
title: Bohmian trajectories and the Path Integral Paradigm. Complexified Lagrangian Mechanics
authors: Valeriy I. Sbitnev
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, 46 references, 48 equations
journal: International Journal of Bifurcation and Chaos, v.19, no. 7, pp. 2335-2346 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1245
abstract: David Bohm shown that the Schr{\"o}dinger equation, that is a "visiting card" of quantum mechanics, can be decomposed onto two equations for real functions - action and probability density. The first equation is the Hamilton-Jacobi (HJ) equation, a "visiting card" of classical mechanics, to be modified by the Bohmian quantum potential. And the second is the continuity equation. The latter can be transformed to the entropy balance equation. The Bohmian quantum potential is transformed to two Bohmian quantum correctors. The first corrector modifies kinetic energy term of the HJ equation, and the second one modifies potential energy term. Unification of the quantum HJ equation and the entropy balance equation gives complexified HJ equation containing complex kinetic and potential terms. Imaginary parts of these terms have order of smallness about the Planck constant. The Bohmian quantum corrector is indispensable term modifying the Feynman's path integral by expanding coordinates and momenta to imaginary sector.

id: 0808.1265
title: Quantum bit error rate in modeled atmospheres
authors: Nicolo' Antonietti, Marina Mondin, Fred Daneshgaran, Giorgio Giovanelli, Ivan Kostadinov, Bruno Lunelli, Giorgio Brida, Marco Genovese, Marco Gramegna
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI) Volume: 5 No: 1/2 Year: 2007 pp. 241-248
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1265
abstract: The quantum bit error rate is a key quantity in quantum communications. If the quantum channel is the atmosphere, the information is usually encoded in the polarization of a photon. A link budget is required, which takes into account the depolarization of the photon after its interaction with the atmosphere as well as absorption, scattering and atmospheric emissions. An experimental setup for the reproduction of a simple model of the atmosphere is used to evaluate the quantum bit error rate in a BB84 protocol and the results are presented. This result represents a first step toward the realization of an optical bench experiment where atmospheric effects are simulated and controlled for reproducing the effects on a quantum channel in different meteorological situations.

id: 0808.1272
title: Spontaneous recoil effects of optical pumping on trapped atoms
authors: S. Wallentowitz, P.E. Toschek
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1272
abstract: The recoil effects of spontaneous photon emissions during optical pumping of a trapped three-level atom are exactly calculated. Without resort to the Lamb-Dicke approximation, and considering arbitrary detuning and saturation of the pump laser, the density of recoil shifts in phase space is derived. It is shown that this density is not of Gaussian shape, and that it becomes isotropic in phase space only for a branching ratio corresponding to fluorescence scattering but unfavorable for optical pumping. The dependence of its anisotropy on the laser saturation is discussed in the resonant case, and the mapping of moments of the atom's center-of-mass motion due to the pumping is presented. Moreover, it is shown how optimum parameters for protecting the center-of-mass quantum state from pump-induced disturbance depend on the specific property to be protected.

id: 0808.1385
title: Quantum cryptography: theory and practice
authors: Xiongfeng Ma
comments: Ph.D. Thesis; University of Toronto
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1385
abstract: A highly attenuated laser pulse which gives a weak coherent state is widely used in quantum key distribution (QKD) experiments. A weak coherent state has multi-photon components, which opens up a security loophole to the sophisticated eavesdropper. With a small adjustment of the hardware, we prove that the decoy state method can close this loophole and substantially improve the QKD performance. We also propose a few practical decoy state protocols, study statistical fluctuations and perform experimental demonstrations. Moreover, we apply the methods from entanglement distillation protocols based on two-way classical communication to improve the decoy state QKD performance. Furthermore, we study the decoy state methods for other single photon sources, such as triggering parametric down-conversion (PDC) source. We propose a model and post-processing scheme for the entanglement-based QKD with a PDC source. Although the model is proposed to study the entanglement-based QKD, we emphasize that our generic model may also be useful for other non-QKD experiments involving a PDC source. By simulating a real PDC experiment, we show that the entanglement-based QKD can achieve longer maximal secure distance than the single-photon-based QKD schemes. We present a time-shift attack that exploits the efficiency mismatch of two single photon detectors in a QKD system. This eavesdropping strategy can be realized by current technology. We also discuss counter measures against the attack and study the security of a QKD system with efficiency mismatch detectors.

id: 0808.1389
title: A Formalism for Quantum Games and an Application
authors: Steven A. Bleiler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1389
abstract: This paper presents a new mathematical formalism that describes the quantization of games. The study of so-called quantum games is quite new, arising from a seminal paper of D. Meyer \cite{Meyer} published in Physics Review Letters in 1999. The ensuing near decade has seen an explosion of contributions and controversy over what exactly a quantized game really is and if there is indeed anything new for game theory. What has clouded many of the issues is the lack of a mathematical formalism for the subject in which these various issues can be clearly and precisely expressed, and which provides a context in which to present their resolution. Such a formalism is presented here, along with proposed resolutions to some of the issues discussed in the literature. One in particular, the question of whether there can exist equilibria in a quantized version of a game that do not correspond to classical correlated equilibria of that game and also deliver better payoffs than the classical correlated equilibria is answered in the affirmative for the Prisoner's Dilemma and Simplified Poker.

id: 0808.1391
title: Octonionization of three player, two strategy maximally entangled quantum games
authors: Aden Ahmed, Steve Bleiler, Faisal Shah Khan
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI) Volume: 8, Issue: 3(2010) pp. 411-434
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1391
abstract: We develop an octonionic representation of the payoff function for three player, two strategy, maximally entangled quantum games in order to obtain computationally friendly version of this function. This computational capability is then exploited to analyze and potentially classify the Nash equilibria in the quantum games.

id: 0808.1392
title: Quantum error correcting codes based on privacy amplification
authors: Zhicheng Luo
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1392
abstract: Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) quantum error-correcting codes are based on pairs of classical codes which are mutually dual containing. Explicit constructions of such codes for large blocklengths and with good error correcting properties are not easy to find. In this paper we propose a construction of CSS codes which combines a classical code with a two-universal hash function. We show, using the results of Renner and Koenig, that the communication rates of such codes approach the hashing bound on tensor powers of Pauli channels in the limit of large block-length. While the bit-flip errors can be decoded as efficiently as the classical code used, the problem of efficiently decoding the phase-flip errors remains open.

id: 0808.1411
title: Metastable superpositions of ortho- and para-Helium states
authors: Pedro Sancho, Luis Plaja
comments: 
journal: PLA 372 (2008) 5560
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1411
abstract: We analyze superpositions of ortho- and para-Helium states, considering the possible existence of stationary and metastable states in the system. In particular, the metastable superposition of 1s2s ortho and para states seems to be accessible to experimental scrutiny.

id: 0808.1450
title: Hypothesis testing for Gaussian states on bosonic lattices
authors: Milan Mosonyi
comments: 22 pages, submitted version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50 032105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1450
abstract: The asymptotic state discrimination problem with simple hypotheses is considered for a cubic lattice of bosons. A complete solution is provided for the problems of the Chernoff and the Hoeffding bounds and Stein's lemma in the case when both hypotheses are gauge-invariant Gaussian states with translation-invariant quasi-free parts.

id: 0808.1478
title: XY model on the circle: diagonalization, spectrum, and forerunners of the quantum phase transition
authors: A. De Pasquale, P. Facchi
comments: 29 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1478
abstract: We exactly diagonalize the finite-size XY model with periodic boundary conditions and analytically determine the ground state energy. We show that there are two types of fermions: singles and pairs, whose dispersion relations have a completely arbitrary gauge-dependent sign. It follows that the ground state is determined by a competition between the vacuum states (with a suitable gauge) of two parity sectors. We finally exhibit some points in finite size systems that forerun criticality. They are associated to single Bogoliubov fermions and to the level crossings between physical and unphysical states. In the thermodynamic limit they approach the ground state and build up singularities at logarithmic rates.

id: 0808.1532
title: Graph States for Quantum Secret Sharing
authors: Damian Markham, Barry C. Sanders
comments: This version amends the original security claim for QQ (n,n): in fact the secret is not completely denied to the adversary in this case. We thank S. Perdrix, B. Fortescue and G. Gour for pointing out the error. The changes are detailed in D. Markham and B. C. Sanders, "Erratum: Graph states for quantum secret sharing [Phys. Rev. A 78, 042309 (2008)]", Phys. Rev. A 83, 019901(E) (2011)
journal: Physical Review A 78, 042309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1532
abstract: We consider three broad classes of quantum secret sharing with and without eavesdropping and show how a graph state formalism unifies otherwise disparate quantum secret sharing models. In addition to the elegant unification provided by graph states, our approach provides a generalization of threshold classical secret sharing via insecure quantum channels beyond the current requirement of 100% collaboration by players to just a simple majority in the case of five players. Another innovation here is the introduction of embedded protocols within a larger graph state that serves as a one-way quantum information processing system.

id: 0808.1536
title: Direct observation of quantum criticality in Ising spin chains
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Fernando M. Cucchietti, C. M. Chandrashekar, Martin Laforest, Colm A. Ryan, Michael Ditty, Adam Hubbard, John K. Gamble, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 012305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1536
abstract: We use NMR quantum simulators to study antiferromagnetic Ising spin chains undergoing quantum phase transitions. Taking advantage of the sensitivity of the systems near criticality, we detect the critical points of the transitions using a direct measurement of the Loschmidt echo. We test our simulators for spin chains of even and odd numbers of spins, and compare the experimental results to theoretical predictions.

id: 0808.1546
title: The Study of Entangled States in Quantum Computation and Quantum Information Science
authors: Hyeyoun Chung
comments: 206 pages, 42 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1546
abstract: This thesis explores the use of entangled states in quantum computation and quantum information science. Entanglement, a quantum phenomenon with no classical counterpart, has been identified as an important and quantifiable resource in many areas of theoretical quantum information science, including quantum error correction, quantum cryptography, and quantum algorithms. We first investigate the equivalence classes of a particular class of entangled states (known as graph states due to their association with mathematical graphs) under local operations. We prove that for graph states corresponding to graphs with neither cycles of length 3 nor 4, the equivalence classes can be characterized in a very simple way. We also present software for analyzing and manipulating graph states. We then study quantum error-correcting codes whose codewords are highly entangled states. An important area of investigation concerning QECCs is to determine which resources are necessary in order to carry out any computation on the code to an arbitrary degree of accuracy, while simultaneously maintaining a high degree of resistance to noise. We prove that transversal gates, which are designed to prevent the propagation of errors through a system, are insufficient to achieve universal computation on almost all QECCs. Finally, we study the problem of creating efficient quantum circuits for creating entangling measurements. Entangling measurements can be used to harness the apparent extra computing power of quantum systems by allowing us to extract information about the global, collective properties of a quantum state using local measurements. We construct explicit quantum circuits that create entangling measurements, and show that these circuits scale polynomially in the input parameters.

id: 0808.1558
title: Quantum algorithm design using dynamic learning
authors: E.C. Behrman, J.E. Steck, P. Kumar, K.A. Walsh
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol. 8, No. 1&2, pp. 12-29 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1558
abstract: We present a dynamic learning paradigm for "programming" a general quantum computer. A learning algorithm is used to find the control parameters for a coupled qubit system, such that the system at an initial time evolves to a state in which a given measurement corresponds to the desired operation. This can be thought of as a quantum neural network. We first apply the method to a system of two coupled superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs), and demonstrate learning of both the classical gates XOR and XNOR. Training of the phase produces a gate congruent to the CNOT modulo a phase shift. Striking out for somewhat more interesting territory, we attempt learning of an entanglement witness for a two qubit system. Simulation shows a reasonably successful mapping of the entanglement at the initial time onto the correlation function at the final time for both pure and mixed states. For pure states this mapping requires knowledge of the phase relation between the two parts; however, given that knowledge, this method can be used to measure the entanglement of an otherwise unknown state. The method is easily extended to multiple qubits or to quNits.

id: 0808.1581
title: On Conway and Kochen's "Thou shalt not clone one bit!"
authors: N. David Mermin
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1581
abstract: A physicists' explanation of why thou shalt not clone one bit gives a stronger version of Conway and Kochen's theorem.

id: 0808.1582
title: On the absence of a measurement problem in quantum computer science
authors: N. David Mermin
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1582
abstract: I comment on GianCarlo Ghirardi's criticism of my claim that quantum computation has no measurement problem.

id: 0808.1591
title: A scalable, high-speed measurement-based quantum computer using trapped ions
authors: R. Stock, D. F. V. James
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 170501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1591
abstract: We describe a scalable, high-speed, and robust architecture for measurement-based quantum-computing with trapped ions. Measurement-based architectures offer a way to speed-up operation of a quantum computer significantly by parallelizing the slow entangling operations and transferring the speed requirement to fast measurement of qubits. We show that a 3D cluster state suitable for fault-tolerant measurement-based quantum computing can be implemented on a 2D array of ion traps. We propose the projective measurement of ions via multi-photon photoionization for nanosecond operation and discuss the viability of such a scheme for Ca ions.

id: 0808.1610
title: Quantum chaotic systems with arbitrarily large Ehrenfest times
authors: Maciej Kuna
comments: completely rewritten; another physical example but with the same mathematics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1610
abstract: A class of time independent and physically meaningful Hamiltonians leads to evolution of observable quantities whose Ehrenfest times are arbitrarily large. This fact contradicts the popular claim that the true chaos is in quantum mechanics excluded by first principles.

id: 0808.1614
title: Maximal Sets of Mutually Unbiased Quantum States in Dimension Six
authors: Stephen Brierley, Stefan Weigert
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, 4 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042312 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1614
abstract: We study sets of pure states in a Hilbert space of dimension d which are mutually unbiased (MU), that is, the squares of the moduli of their scalar products are equal to zero, one, or 1/d. These sets will be called a MU constellation, and if four MU bases were to exist for d=6, they would give rise to 35 different MU constellations. Using a numerical minimisation procedure, we are able to identify only 18 of them in spite of extensive searches. The missing MU constellations provide the strongest numerical evidence so far that no seven MU bases exist in dimension six.

id: 0808.1618
title: Quantum computation with graphene nanoribbon
authors: Guo-Ping Guo, Zhi-Rong Lin, Xiao-Peng Li, Tao Tu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 123005 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1618
abstract: We propose a scalable scheme to implement quantum computation in graphene nanoribbon. It is shown that electron or hole can be naturally localized in each zigzag region for a graphene nanoribbon with a sequence of Z-shaped structure without exploiting any confined gate. An one-dimensional graphene quantum dots chain is formed in such graphene nanoribbon, where electron or hole spin can be encoded as qubits. The coupling interaction between neighboring graphene quantum dots is found to be always-on Heisenberg type. Applying the bang-bang control strategy and decoherence free subspaces encoding method, universal quantum computation is argued to be realizable with the present techniques.

id: 0808.1623
title: Electrostatics of surface-electrode ion traps
authors: Janus H. Wesenberg
comments: Published version. Sec. III significantly changed. Some minor edits throughout
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 063410 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1623
abstract: Surface-electrode (SE) rf traps are a promising approach to manufacturing complex ion-trap networks suitable for large-scale quantum information processing. In this paper we present analytical methods for modeling SE traps in the gapless plane approximation, and apply these methods to two particular classes of SE traps. For the SE ring trap we derive analytical expressions for the trap geometry and strength, and also calculate the depth in the absence of control fields. For translationally symmetric multipole configurations (analogs of the linear Paul trap), we derive analytical expressions for electrode geometry and strength. Further, we provide arbitrarily good approximations of the trap depth in the absence of static fields and identify the requirements for obtaining maximal depth. Lastly, we show that the depth of SE multipoles can be greatly influenced by control fields.

id: 0808.1640
title: Decoherence-free quantum information in Markovian systems
authors: Manas K. Patra, Peter G. Brooke
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 010308(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1640
abstract: Decoherence in Markovian systems can result indirectly from the action of a system Hamiltonian which is usually fixed and unavoidable. Here, we show that in general in Markovian systems, because of the system Hamiltonian, quantum information decoheres. We give conditions for the system Hamiltonian that must be satisfied if coherence is to be preserved. Finally, we show how to construct robust subspaces for quantum information processing.

id: 0808.1648
title: Radio-frequency driven dipole-dipole interactions in spatially separated volumes
authors: Atreju Tauschinsky, C. S. E. van Ditzhuijzen, L. D. Noordam, H. B. van Linden van den Heuvell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1648
abstract: Radio-frequency (rf) fields in the MHz range are used to induce resonant energy transfer between cold Rydberg atoms in spatially separated volumes. After laser preparation of the Rydberg atoms, dipole-dipole coupling excites the 49s atoms in one cylinder to the 49p state while the 41d atoms in the second cylinder are transferred down to the 42p state. The energy exchanged between the atoms in this process is 33 GHz. An external rf-field brings this energy transfer into resonance. The strength of the interaction has been investigated as a function of amplitude (0-1 V/cm) and frequency (1-30 MHz) of the rf-field and as a function of a static field offset. Multi-photon transitions up to fifth order as well as selection rules prohibiting the process at certain fields have been observed. The width of the resonances has been reduced compared to earlier results by switching off external magnetic fields of the magneto-optical trap, making sub-MHz spectroscopy possible. All features are well reproduced by theoretical calculations taking the strong ac-Stark shift due to the rf-field into account.

id: 0808.1649
title: Entangling characterization of (SWAP)1/m and Controlled unitary gates
authors: S.Balakrishnan, R.Sankaranarayanan
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, One more paragraph added in Introduction
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052305 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1649
abstract: We study the entangling power and perfect entangler nature of (SWAP)1/m, for m>=1, and controlled unitary (CU) gates. It is shown that (SWAP)1/2 is the only perfect entangler in the family. On the other hand, a subset of CU which is locally equivalent to CNOT is identified. It is shown that the subset, which is a perfect entangler, must necessarily possess the maximum entangling power.

id: 0808.1658
title: Entanglement of Formation for Gaussian States
authors: J. Solomon Ivan, R. Simon
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1658
abstract: The entanglement of formation (EOF) is computed for arbitrary two-mode Gaussian states. Apart from a conjecture, our analysis rests on two main ingredients. The first is a four-parameter canonical form we develop for the covariance matrix, one of these parameters acting as a measure of EOF, and the second is a generalisation of the EPR correlation, used in the work of Giedke {\em et al} [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 91}, 107901 (2003)], to noncommuting variables. The conjecture itself is in respect of an extremal property of this generalized EPR correlation.

id: 0808.1660
title: Cavity photon counting: ab-initio derivation of the quantum jump superoperators and comparison of the existing models
authors: Teppo Hayrynen, Jani Oksanen, Jukka Tulkki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1660
abstract: Time development of electromagnetic fields in closed cavities under continuous detection of photons continues to be a subject of confusing controversy. Recently Dodonov et al. [Phys. Rev. A, 75, 013806, 2007] argued that their model of quantum superoperators (E model) invalidates some of the predictions of the previously introduced photon counting model of Srinivas and Davies [J. Mod. Optic. 28, 981, 1981] (SD model). Both the SD and the E models are based on two postulated quantum jump superoperators: (1) the one-count operator corresponding to the absorption of a single photon and (2) the no-count operator. In this work we develop a stochastic difference equation that describes the dissipative coupling of the cavity field and the detector. The difference equation is based on non-perturbative treatment of the cavity-detector coupling. In spite of being non-integrable due to the coupling of the detector with an external reservoir it can be used to derive the exact forms of the quantum jump superoperators. When applied to a particular photon counting measurement our theory gives predictions identical with those of the SD model which should be considered a non-perturbative and ab-initio result. It is pointed out that available experimental results coincide with the results given by the ab-initio SD model. We summarize some of the key characteristics of cavity fields and photon counting processes to demonstrate that the results given by the SD model are consistent with the principles of quantum mechanics while those given by the E model are not.

id: 0808.1666
title: Perfect excitation of a matter qubit by a single photon in free space
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Gernot Alber, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 86, 14007 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1666
abstract: We propose a scheme for perfect excitation of a single two-level atom by a single photon in free space. The photon state has to match the time reversed photon state originating from spontaneous decay of a two-level system. We discuss its experimental preparation. The state is characterized by a particular asymmetric exponentially-shaped temporal profile. Any deviations from this ideal state limit the maximum absorption. Although perfect excitation requires an infinite amount of time we demonstrate that there is a class of initial one-photon quantum states which can achieve almost perfect absorption even for a finite interaction time. Our results pave the way for realizing perfect coupling between flying and stationary qubits in free space thus opening a possibility for building scalable quantum networks.

id: 0808.1698
title: Regularisation as a quantised low-pass filter
authors: L I Plimak
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1698
abstract: A divergence-free approach to relativistic quantum electrodynamics based on regularisation of equations of quantum mechanics is discussed. This approach is shown to be exactly equivalent to the conventional Feynman-Dyson renormalisation techniques.

id: 0808.1730
title: Unambiguous modification of nonorthogonal single and two photon polarization states
authors: F.A. Torres-Ruiz, J. Aguirre, A. Delgado, L. Neves, G. Lima, S. P¨¢dua, L. Roa, C. Saavedra
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1730
abstract: In this work we propose a probabilistic method which allows an unambiguous modification of two non-orthogonal quantum states. We experimentally implement this protocol by using two-photon polarization states generated in the process of spontaneous parametric down conversion. In the experiment, for codifying initial quantum states, we consider single photon states and heralded detection. We show that the application of this protocol to entangled states, it allows a fine control of the amount of entanglement of the initial state.

id: 0808.1762
title: Communication Complexities of XOR functions
authors: Yaoyun Shi, Zhiqiang Zhang
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1762
abstract: We call $F:\{0, 1\}^n\times \{0, 1\}^n\to\{0, 1\}$ a symmetric XOR function if for a function $S:\{0, 1, ..., n\}\to\{0, 1\}$, $F(x, y)=S(|x\oplus y|)$, for any $x, y\in\{0, 1\}^n$, where $|x\oplus y|$ is the Hamming weight of the bit-wise XOR of $x$ and $y$. We show that for any such function, (a) the deterministic communication complexity is always $\Theta(n)$ except for four simple functions that have a constant complexity, and (b) up to a polylog factor, the error-bounded randomized and quantum communication complexities are $\Theta(r_0+r_1)$, where $r_0$ and $r_1$ are the minimum integers such that $r_0, r_1\leq n/2$ and $S(k)=S(k+2)$ for all $k\in[r_0, n-r_1)$.

id: 0808.1768
title: Quadratic fermionic interactions yield effective Hamiltonians for adiabatic quantum computing
authors: Michael J. O'Hara, Dianne P. O'Leary
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1768
abstract: Polynomially-large ground-state energy gaps are rare in many-body quantum systems, but useful for adiabatic quantum computing. We show analytically that the gap is generically polynomially-large for quadratic fermionic Hamiltonians. We then prove that adiabatic quantum computing can realize the ground states of Hamiltonians with certain random interactions, as well as the ground states of one, two, and three-dimensional fermionic interaction lattices, in polynomial time. Finally, we use the Jordan-Wigner transformation and a related transformation for spin-3/2 particles to show that our results can be restated using spin operators in a surprisingly simple manner. A direct consequence is that the one-dimensional cluster state can be found in polynomial time using adiabatic quantum computing.

id: 0808.1782
title: Architectural design for a topological cluster state quantum computer
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Austin G. Fowler, Ashley M. Stephens, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 14 Pages, 8 Figures, changes to the main text, new appendix added
journal: New. J. Phys. 11, 083032 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1782
abstract: The development of a large scale quantum computer is a highly sought after goal of fundamental research and consequently a highly non-trivial problem. Scalability in quantum information processing is not just a problem of qubit manufacturing and control but it crucially depends on the ability to adapt advanced techniques in quantum information theory, such as error correction, to the experimental restrictions of assembling qubit arrays into the millions. In this paper we introduce a feasible architectural design for large scale quantum computation in optical systems. We combine the recent developments in topological cluster state computation with the photonic module, a simple chip based device which can be used as a fundamental building block for a large scale computer. The integration of the topological cluster model with this comparatively simple operational element addresses many significant issues in scalable computing and leads to a promising modular architecture with complete integration of active error correction exhibiting high fault-tolerant thresholds.

id: 0808.1816
title: Reduced fidelity susceptibility in the one-dimensional transverse field Ising model
authors: Jian Ma, Lei Xu, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1816
abstract: We study critical behaviors of the reduced fidelity susceptibility for two neighboring sites in the one-dimensional transverse field Ising model. It is found that the divergent behaviors of the susceptibility take the form of square of logarithm, in contrast with the global ground-state fidelity susceptibility which is power divergence. In order to perform a scaling analysis, we take the square root of the susceptibility and determine the scaling exponent analytically and the result is further confirmed by numerical calculations.

id: 0808.1817
title: Reduced fidelity approach for quantum phase transitions in spin-1/2 dimerized Heisenberg chains
authors: Heng-Na Xiong, Jian Ma, Zhe Sun, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1817
abstract: We use reduced fidelity approach to characterize quantum phase transitions in the one-dimensional spin-1/2 dimerized Heisenberg chain in the antiferromagnetic case. The reduced fidelity susceptibilities between two nearest-neighboring spin pairs are considered. We find that they are directly related to the square of the second derivative of the ground-state energy. This enables us to conclude that the former might be a more effective indicator of the second-order quantum phase transitions than the latter. Two further exemplifications are given to confirm the conclusion is available for a broad class of systems with SU(2) and translation symmetries. Moreover, a general connection between reduced fidelity susceptibility and quantum phase transitions is illustrated.

id: 0808.1823
title: Optimal Time Evolution for Hermitian and Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: Carl M. Bender, Dorje C. Brody
comments: 20 pages. To appear in: Time in Quantum Mechanics II, edited by J.G. Muga
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1823
abstract: Consider the set of all Hamiltonians whose largest and smallest energy eigenvalues, E_max and E_min, differ by a fixed energy \omega. Given two quantum states, an initial state |\psi_I> and a final state |\psi_F>, there exist many Hamiltonians H belonging to this set under which |\psi_I> evolves in time into |\psi_F>. Which Hamiltonian transforms the initial state to the final state in the least possible time \tau? For Hermitian Hamiltonians, $\tau$ has a nonzero lower bound. However, among complex non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonians satisfying the same energy constraint, \tau can be made arbitrarily small without violating the time-energy uncertainty principle. The minimum value of \tau can be made arbitrarily small because for PT-symmetric Hamiltonians the evolution path from the vector |\psi_I> to the vector |\psi_F>, as measured using the Hilbert-space metric appropriate for this theory, can be made arbitrarily short. The mechanism described here resembles the effect in general relativity in which two space-time points can be made arbitrarily close if they are connected by a wormhole. This result may have applications in quantum computing.

id: 0808.1885
title: Generating mixtures of spatial qubits
authors: G. Lima, F.A. Torres-Ruiz, L. Neves, A. Delgado, C. Saavedra, S. Padua
comments: To appear in Optics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1885
abstract: In a recent letter [Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 100501 (2005)], we presented a scheme for generating pure entangled states of spatial qudits ($D$-dimensional quantum systems) by using the momentum transverse correlation of the parametric down-converted photons. In this work we discuss a generalization of this process to enable the creation of mixed states. With the technique proposed we experimentally generated a mixture of two spatial qubits.

id: 0808.1897
title: Superconducting atom chips: advantages and challenges
authors: Valery Dikovsky, Vladimir Sokolovsky, Bo Zhang, Carsten Henkel, Ron Folman
comments: submitted to Eur. Phys. J. D, latex article class (27 pages, 20 .eps figure files)
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 51 (2009) 247
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1897
abstract: Superconductors are considered in view of applications to atom chip devices. The main features of magnetic traps based on superconducting wires in the Meissner and mixed states are discussed. The former state may mainly be interesting for improved atom optics, while in the latter, cold atoms may provide a probe of superconductor phenomena. The properties of a magnetic side guide based on a single superconducting strip wire placed in an external magnetic field are calculated analytically and numerically. In the mixed state of type II superconductors, inhomogeneous trapped magnetic flux, relaxation processes and noise caused by vortex motion are posing specific challenges for atom trapping.

id: 0808.1898
title: Phonon-induced artificial magnetic fields
authors: Alexander Klein, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: EPL, 85 (2009) 13001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1898
abstract: We investigate the effect of a rotating Bose-Einstein condensate on a system of immersed impurity atoms trapped by an optical lattice. We analytically show that for a one-dimensional, ring-shaped setup the coupling of the impurities to the Bogoliubov phonons of the condensate leads to a non-trivial phase in the impurity hopping. The presence of this phase can be tested by observing a drift in the transport properties of the impurities. These results are quantitatively confirmed by a numerically exact simulation of a two-mode Bose-Hubbard model. We also give analytical expressions for the occurring phase terms for a two-dimensional setup. The phase realises an artificial magnetic field and can for instance be used for the simulation of the quantum Hall effect using atoms in an optical lattice.

id: 0808.1901
title: Measurements of the Casimir-Lifshitz force in fluids: the effect of electrostatic forces and Debye screening
authors: J. N. Munday, Federico Capasso, V. Adrian Parsegian, Sergey M. Bezrukov
comments: 11 figures. PRA in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1901
abstract: In this work, we present detailed measurements of the Casimir-Lifshitz force between two gold surfaces (a sphere and a plate) immersed in ethanol and study the effect of residual electrostatic forces, which are dominated by static fields within the apparatus and can be reduced with proper shielding. Electrostatic forces are further reduced by Debye screening through the addition of salt ions to the liquid. Additionally, the salt leads to a reduction of the Casimir-Lifshitz force by screening the zero-frequency contribution to the force; however, the effect is small between gold surfaces at the measured separations and within experimental error. An improved calibration procedure is described and compared to previous methods. Finally, the experimental results are compared to Lifshitz's theory and found to be consistent for the materials used in the experiment.

id: 0808.1926
title: Maximal Success Probabilities of Linear-Optical Quantum Gates
authors: Dmitry B. Uskov, Lev Kaplan, A. Matthew Smith, Sean D. Huver, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, presented at Quantum Computing and Algorithms Program Review in Atlanta, GA (August 11-15, 2008)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042326 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1926
abstract: Numerical optimization is used to design linear-optical devices that implement a desired quantum gate with perfect fidelity, while maximizing the success rate. For the 2-qubit CS (or CNOT) gate, we provide numerical evidence that the maximum success rate is $S=2/27$ using two unentangled ancilla resources; interestingly, additional ancilla resources do not increase the success rate. For the 3-qubit Toffoli gate, we show that perfect fidelity is obtained with only three unentangled ancilla photons -- less than in any existing scheme -- with a maximum $S=0.00340$. This compares well with $S=(2/27)^2/2 \approx 0.00274$, obtainable by combining two CNOT gates and a passive quantum filter [PRA 68, 064303 (2003)]. The general optimization approach can easily be applied to other areas of interest, such as quantum error correction, cryptography, and metrology [arXiv:0807.4906, PRL 99 070801 (2007)].

id: 0808.1930
title: Geometry of density sates
authors: Luis J. Boya, Kuldeep Dixit
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1930
abstract: We reconsider the geometry of pure and mixed states in a finite quantum system. The rangesof eigenvalues of the density matrices delimit a regular simplex (Hypertetrahedron TN) in any dimension N; the polytope isometry group is the symmetric group SN+1, and splits TN in chambers, the orbits of the states under the projective group PU(N + 1). The type of states correlates with the vertices, edges, faces, etc. of the polytope, with the vertices making up a base of orthogonal pure states. The entropy function as a measure of the purity of these states is also easily calculable; we draw and consider some isentropic surfaces. The Casimir invariants acquire then also a more transparent interpretation.

id: 0808.1933
title: Measurement-Only Topological Quantum Computation via Anyonic Interferometry
authors: Parsa Bonderson, Michael Freedman, Chetan Nayak
comments: 57 pages, 5 figures; v2: minor corrections
journal: Annals Phys. 324, 787-826 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1933
abstract: We describe measurement-only topological quantum computation using both projective and interferometrical measurement of topological charge. We demonstrate how anyonic teleportation can be achieved using "forced measurement" protocols for both types of measurement. Using this, it is shown how topological charge measurements can be used to generate the braiding transformations used in topological quantum computation, and hence that the physical transportation of computational anyons is unnecessary. We give a detailed discussion of the anyonics for implementation of topological quantum computation (particularly, using the measurement-only approach) in fractional quantum Hall systems.

id: 0808.1934
title: Division of the two-qubit Hilbert space according to the entanglement sudden death under composite noise environment
authors: Peng Li, Qun Zhang, J.Q. You
comments: 4 reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 014303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1934
abstract: We show theoretically that according to the disentanglement behavior under composite noise environment, the Hilbert space of a two-qubit system can be divided into two separate parts: a 3-dimensional subspace in which all states disentangle asymptotically, and the rest in which all states disentangle abruptly. The violation of additivity for entanglement decay rates under weak noises [see, PRL 97, 140403 (2006)] therefore can be explained in terms of such division of the Hilbert space.

id: 0808.1935
title: A Quantum Adiabatic Algorithm for Factorization and Its Experimental Implementation
authors: Xinhua Peng, Zeyang Liao, Nanyang Xu, Gan Qin, Xianyi Zhou, Dieter Suter, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1935
abstract: We propose an adiabatic quantum algorithm capable of factorizing numbers, using fewer qubits than Shor's algorithm. We implement the algorithm in an NMR quantum information processor and experimentally factorize the number 21. Numerical simulations indicate that the running time grows only quadratically with the number of qubits.

id: 0808.1940
title: Quantum computing with alkaline earth atoms
authors: Andrew J. Daley, Martin M. Boyd, Jun Ye, Peter Zoller
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 170504 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1940
abstract: We present a complete scheme for quantum information processing using the unique features of alkaline earth atoms. We show how two completely independent lattices can be formed for the $^1$S$_0$ and $^3$P$_0$ states, with one used as a storage lattice for qubits encoded on the nuclear spin, and the other as a transport lattice to move qubits and perform gate operations. We discuss how the $^3$P$_2$ level can be used for addressing of individual qubits, and how collisional losses from metastable states can be used to perform gates via a lossy blockade mechanism.

id: 0808.1988
title: A tunable narrowband entangled photon pair source for resonant single-photon single-atom interaction
authors: Albrecht Haase, Nicolas Piro, J¨¹rgen Eschner, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1988
abstract: We present a tunable, frequency-stabilized, narrow-bandwidth source of frequency-degenerate, entangled photon pairs. The source is based on spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC) in periodically-poled KTiOPO4 (PPKTP). Its wavelength can be stabilized to 850 or 854 nm, thus allowing to address two D-P transitions in 40Ca+ ions. Its output bandwidth of 22 MHz coincides with the absorption bandwidth of the calcium ions. Its spectral power density is 1.0 generated pairs/(s MHz mW).

id: 0808.1990
title: Measurement of spatial qubits
authors: G. Lima, F.A. Torres-Ruiz, L. Neves, A. Delgado, C. Saavedra, S. Padua
comments: To appear in J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1990
abstract: In this paper we study the state determination for composite systems of two spatial qubits. We show, theoretically, that one can use the technique of quantum tomography to reconstruct the density matrixes of these systems. This tomographic reconstruction is based on the free evolution of the spatial qubits and a postelection process.

id: 0808.1994
title: Short seed extractors against quantum storage
authors: Amnon Ta-Shma
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1994
abstract: Some, but not all, extractors resist adversaries with limited quantum storage. In this paper we show that Trevisan's extractor has this property, thereby showing an extractor against quantum storage with logarithmic seed length.

id: 0808.1995
title: Local complementation rule for continuous-variable four-mode unweighted graph states
authors: Jing Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 034301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1995
abstract: The local complementation rule is applied for continuous-variable (CV) graph states in the paper, which is an elementary graph transformation rule and successive application of which generates the orbit of any graph states. The corresponding local Gaussian transformations of local complementation for four-mode unweighted graph states were found, which do not mirror the form of the local Clifford unitary of qubit exactly. This work is an important step to characterize the local Gaussian equivalence classes of CV graph states.

id: 0808.2003
title: Lossless Quantum Prefix Compression for Communication Channels that are Always Open
authors: Markus Mueller, Caroline Rogers, Rajagopal Nagarajan
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2003
abstract: We describe a method for lossless quantum compression if the output of the information source is not known. We compute the best possible compression rate, minimizing the expected base length of the output quantum bit string (the base length of a quantum string is the maximal length in the superposition). This complements work by Schumacher and Westmoreland who calculated the corresponding rate for minimizing the output's average length. Our compressed code words are prefix-free indeterminate-length quantum bit strings which can be concatenated in the case of multiple sources. Therefore, we generalize the known theory of prefix-free quantum codes to the case of strings with indeterminate length. Moreover, we describe a communication model which allows the lossless transmission of the compressed code words. The benefit of compression is then the reduction of transmission errors in the presence of noise.

id: 0808.2010
title: Dynamical Quantum Memories
authors: Q. Y. He, M. D. Reid, E. Giacobino, J. Cviklinski, P. D Drummond
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2010
abstract: We propose a dynamical approach to quantum memories using an oscillator-cavity model. This overcomes the known difficulties of achieving high quantum input-output fidelity with storage times long compared to the input signal duration. We use a generic model of the memory response, which is applicable to any linear storage medium ranging from a superconducting device to an atomic medium. The temporal switching or gating of the device may either be through a control field changing the coupling, or through a variable detuning approach, as in more recent quantum memory experiments. An exact calculation of the temporal memory response to an external input is carried out. This shows that there is a mode-matching criterion which determines the optimum input and output mode shape. This optimum pulse shape can be modified by changing the gate characteristics. In addition, there is a critical coupling between the atoms and the cavity that allows high fidelity in the presence of long storage times. The quantum fidelity is calculated both for the coherent state protocol, and for a completely arbitrary input state with a bounded total photon number. We show how a dynamical quantum memory can surpass the relevant classical memory bound, while retaining a relatively long storage time.

id: 0808.2040
title: Impossibility Proofs and Quantum Bit Commitment
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2040
abstract: The nature and scope of various impossibility proofs as they relate to real-world situations are discussed. In particular, it is shown in words without technical symbols how secure quantum bit commitment protocols may be obtained with testing that exploits the multiple possibilities of cheating entanglement formation.

id: 0808.2057
title: Weighing matrices and optical quantum computing
authors: Steven T. Flammia, Simone Severini
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures. v2: Minor typos fixed, improved discussion
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 065302 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2057
abstract: Quantum computation in the one-way model requires the preparation of certain resource states known as cluster states. We describe how the construction of continuous-variable cluster states for optical quantum computing relate to the existence of certain families of matrices. The relevant matrices are known as weighing matrices, with a few additional constraints. We prove some results regarding the structure of these matrices, and their associated graphs.

id: 0808.2077
title: Bounds of concurrence and their relation with fidelity and frontier states
authors: Zhihao Ma, Fu-Lin Zhang, Dong-Ling Deng, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2009) 1616-1620
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2077
abstract: The bounds of concurrence in [F. Mintert and A. Buchleitner, Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 (2007) 140505] and [C. Zhang \textit{et. al.}, Phys. Rev. A 78 (2008) 042308] are proved by using two properties of the fidelity. In two-qubit systems, for a given value of concurrence, the states achieving the maximal upper bound, the minimal lower bound or the maximal difference upper-lower bound are determined analytically.

id: 0808.2117
title: Local Hamiltonians in Quantum Computation
authors: Daniel Nagaj
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, June 2008, MIT, 176 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2117
abstract: In this thesis, I investigate aspects of local Hamiltonians in quantum computing. First, I focus on the Adiabatic Quantum Computing model, based on evolution with a time dependent Hamiltonian. I show that to succeed using AQC, the Hamiltonian involved must have local structure, which leads to a result about eigenvalue gaps from information theory. I also improve results about simulating quantum circuits with AQC. Second, I look at classically simulating time evolution with local Hamiltonians and finding their ground state properties. I give a numerical method for finding the ground state of translationally invariant Hamiltonians on an infinite tree. This method is based on imaginary time evolution within the Matrix Product State ansatz, and uses a new method for bringing the state back to the ansatz after each imaginary time step. I then use it to investigate the phase transition in the transverse field Ising model on the Bethe lattice. Third, I focus on locally constrained quantum problems Local Hamiltonian and Quantum Satisfiability and prove several new results about their complexity. Finally, I define a Hamiltonian Quantum Cellular Automaton, a continuous-time model of computation which doesn't require control during the computation process, only preparation of product initial states. I construct two of these, showing that time evolution with a simple, local, translationally invariant and time-independent Hamiltonian can be used to simulate quantum circuits.

id: 0808.2126
title: Locality, detection efficiencies, and probability polytopes
authors: J. Wilms, Y. Disser, G. Alber, I. C. Percival
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2126
abstract: We present a detailed investigation of minimum detection efficiencies, below which locality cannot be violated by any quantum system of any dimension in bipartite Bell experiments. Lower bounds on these minimum detection efficiencies are determined with the help of linear programming techniques. Our approach is based on the observation that any possible bipartite quantum correlation originating from a quantum state in an arbitrary dimensional Hilbert space is sandwiched between two probability polytopes, namely the local (Bell) polytope and a corresponding nonlocal no-signaling polytope. Numerical results are presented demonstrating the dependence of these lower bounds on the numbers of inputs and outputs of the bipartite physical system.

id: 0808.2149
title: Entangled state for constructing generalized phase space representation and its statistical behavior
authors: Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2149
abstract: Based on the conception of quantum entanglement of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen we construct generalized phase space representation associated with the entangled state |Gamma>_{e}, which is endowed with definite physical meaning. The set of states make up a complete and non-orthogonal representation. The Weyl ordered form of |Gamma>_{ee}_<Gamma| is derived which clearly exhibit the statistical behavior of marginal distribution of |Gamma>_{ee}_<Gamma|.The minimum uncertainty relation obeyed by |Gamma>_{e} is also demonstrated.

id: 0808.2178
title: Local Causality and Completeness: Bell vs. Jarrett
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics, Vol. 39, Issue 3 (2009), pg 273
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2178
abstract: J.S. Bell believed that his famous theorem entailed a deep and troubling conflict between the empirically verified predictions of quantum theory and the notion of local causality that is motivated by relativity theory. Yet many physicists continue to accept, usually on the reports of textbook writers and other commentators, that Bell's own view was wrong, and that, in fact, the theorem only brings out a conflict with determinism or the hidden-variables program or realism or some other such principle that (unlike local causality), allegedly, nobody should have believed anyway. (Moreover, typically such beliefs arise without the person in question even being aware that the view they are accepting differs so radically from Bell's own.) Here we try to shed some light on the situation by focusing on the concept of local causality that is the heart of Bell's theorem, and, in particular, by contrasting Bell's own understanding with the analysis of Jon Jarrett which has been the most influential source, in recent decades, for the kinds of claims mentioned previously. We point out a crucial difference between Jarrett's and Bell's own understanding of Bell's formulation of local causality, which turns out to be the basis for the erroneous claim, made by Jarrett and many others, that Bell misunderstood the implications of his own theorem.

id: 0808.2226
title: Qubit phase-space: SU(n) coherent state P-representations
authors: D. W. Barry, P. D. Drummond
comments: Replaced to correct the citation style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2226
abstract: We introduce a phase-space representation for qubits and spin models. The technique uses an SU(n) coherent state basis, and can equally be used for either static or dynamical simulations. We review previously known definitions and operator identities, and show how these can be used to define an off-diagonal, positive phase-space representation analogous to the positive P-function. As an illustration of the phase-space method, we use the example of the Ising model, which has exact solutions for the finite temperature canonical ensemble in two dimensions. We show how a canonical ensemble for an Ising model of arbitrary structure can be efficiently simulated using SU(2) or atomic coherent states. The technique utilizes a transformation from a canonical (imaginary-time) weighted simulation to an equivalent unweighted real-time simulation. The results are compared to the exactly soluble two-dimensional case. We note that Ising models in one, two or three dimensions are potentially achievable experimentally as a lattice-gas of ultra-cold atoms in optical lattices. The technique is not restricted to canonical ensembles or to Ising-like couplings. It is also able to be used for real-time evolution, and for systems whose time-evolution follows a master-equation describing decoherence and coupling to external reservoirs. The case of SU(n) phase-space is used to describe n-level systems. In general, the requirement that time-evolution is stochastic corresponds to a restriction to Hamiltonians and master-equations that are quadratic in the group generators or generalized spin operators.

id: 0808.2258
title: Markovian evolution of Gaussian states in the semiclassical limit
authors: O. Brodier, A. M. Ozorio de Almeida
comments: 10 pages. Reason for replacement: the article was split into two parts: the first part about WKB was incomplete and led to an other article; the second part about Gaussian states remains in this replaced version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2258
abstract: We derive an approximate Gaussian solution of the Lindblad equation in the semiclassical limit, given a general Hamiltonian and linear coupling with the environment. The theory is carried out in the chord representation and describes the evolved quantum characteristic function, which gives direct access to the Wigner function and the position representation of the density operator by Fourier transforms. The propagation is based on a system of non-linear equations taking place in a double phase space, which coincides with Heller's theory of unitary evolution of Gaussian wave packets when the Lindbladian part is zero.

id: 0808.2260
title: Squeezing the limit: Quantum benchmarks for the teleportation and storage of squeezed states
authors: M. Owari, M. B. Plenio, E. S. Polzik, A. Serafini, M. M. Wolf
comments: 19 pages, 4figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 113014, (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2260
abstract: We derive fidelity benchmarks for the quantum storage and teleportation of squeezed states of continuous variable systems, for input ensembles where the degree of squeezing $s$ is fixed, no information about its orientation in phase space is given, and the distribution of phase space displacements is a Gaussian. In the limit where the latter becomes flat, we prove analytically that the maximal classical achievable fidelity (which is 1/2 without squeezing, for $s=1$) is given by $\sqrt{s}/(1+s)$, vanishing when the degree of squeezing diverges. For mixed states, as well as for general distributions of displacements, we reduce the determination of the benchmarks to the solution of a finite-dimensional semidefinite program, which yields accurate, certifiable bounds thanks to a rigorous analysis of the truncation error. This approach may be easily adapted to more general ensembles of input states.

id: 0808.2261
title: State Transfer in Highly Connected Networks and a Quantum Babinet Principle
authors: D.I. Tsomokos, M.B. Plenio, I. de Vega, S.F. Huelga
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062310 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2261
abstract: The transfer of a quantum state between distant nodes in two-dimensional networks, is considered. The fidelity of state transfer is calculated as a function of the number of interactions in networks that are described by regular graphs. It is shown that perfect state transfer is achieved in a network of size N, whose structure is that of a N/2-cross polytope graph, if N is a multiple of 4. The result is reminiscent of the Babinet principle of classical optics. A quantum Babinet principle is derived, which allows for the identification of complementary graphs leading to the same fidelity of state transfer, in analogy with complementary screens providing identical diffraction patterns.

id: 0808.2287
title: Bell inequality for qubits based on the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Dong-Ling Deng
comments: 4 pages. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 79, 012115 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2287
abstract: We develop a systematic approach to establish Bell inequalities for qubits based on the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality. We also use the concept of distinct "roots" of Bell function to classify some well-known Bell inequalities for qubits. As applications of the approach, we present three new and tight Bell inequalities for four and three qubits, respectively.

id: 0808.2306
title: Quantum state transfer with untuneable couplings
authors: P.K. Gagnebin, S. Skinner, E.C. Behrman, J.E. Steck
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 75, 022310 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2306
abstract: We present a general scheme for implementing bi-directional quantum state transfer in a quantum swapping channel. Unlike many other schemes for quantum computation and communication, our method does not require qubit couplings to be switched on and off. The only control variable is the bias acting on individual qubits. We show how to derive the parameters of the system (fixed and variable) such that perfect state transfer can be achieved. Since these parameters vary linearly with the pulse width, our scheme allows flexibility in the time scales under which qubits evolve. Unlike quantum spin networks, our scheme allows the transmission of several quantum states at a time, requiring only a two qubit separation between quantum states. By pulsing the biases of several qubits at the same time, we show that only eight bias control lines are required to achieve state transfer along a channel of arbitrary length. Furthermore, when the information to be transferred is purely classical in nature, only three bias control lines are required, greatly simplifying the circuit complexity.

id: 0808.2320
title: Creation of high-quality long-distance entanglement with flexible resources
authors: Bing He, Yu-Hang Ren, Janos A. Bergou
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 052323 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2320
abstract: We present a quantum repeater protocol that generates the elementary segments of entangled photons through the communication of qubus in coherent states. The input photons at the repeater stations can be in arbitrary states to save the local state preparation time for the operations. The flexibility of the scheme accelerates the generation of the elementary segments (close to the exact Bell states) to a high rate for practical quantum communications. The entanglement connection to long distances is simplified and sped up, possibly realizing an entangled pair of high quality within the time in the order of that for classical communication between two far-away locations.

id: 0808.2348
title: Spin Bath Decoherence Mediated by Phonons
authors: O. Bozat, Z. Gedik
comments: 8 pages, no figures, to appear in Solid State Communications
journal: Solid State Communications 148, 237 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2348
abstract: We introduce an exactly solvable model to study decoherence of a central spin interacting with a spin bath where the coupling is mediated by phonons which we assume to be in a coherent state or thermal distribution. For the coherent state case, we find that the decoherence factor decays in a Gaussian fashion and it becomes independent of the phonon frequencies at short times. If the phonon energies are much larger than spin-phonon coupling or bath spins are fully polarized, decoherence time becomes independent of the initial phonon state. For the thermal state case, phonons play more important role in decoherence with increasing temperature. We also discuss possible effects of the temperature on spin bath contribution to decoherence.

id: 0808.2353
title: Spin squeezing of a cold atomic ensemble with the nuclear spin of one-half
authors: T. Takano, M. Fuyama, R. Namiki, Y. Takahashi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2353
abstract: To establish an applicable system for advanced quantum information processing between light and atoms, we have demonstrated the quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement with a collective spin of cold ytterbium atoms (171Yb), and observed 1.8 (-1.5, +2.4) dB spin squeezing. Since a 171Yb atom has only a nuclear spin of 1/2 in the ground state, the system is the simplest spin ensemble and robust against decoherence. We used very short pulses with the width of 100 ns, so the interaction time became much shorter than the decoherence time, which is important for multi-step quantum information processing.

id: 0808.2373
title: Tests of multimode quantum non-locality with homodyne measurements
authors: Antonio Ac¨ªn, Nicolas J. Cerf, Alessandro Ferraro, Julien Niset
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012112 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2373
abstract: We investigate the violation of local realism in Bell tests involving homodyne measurements performed on multimode continuous-variable states. By binning the measurement outcomes in an appropriate way, we prove that the Mermin-Klyshko inequality can be violated by an amount that grows exponentially with the number of modes. Furthermore, the maximum violation allowed by quantum mechanics can be attained for any number of modes, albeit requiring a quantum state that is rather unrealistic. Interestingly, this exponential increase of the violation holds true even for simpler states, such as multipartite GHZ states. The resulting benefit of using more modes is shown to be significant in practical multipartite Bell tests by analyzing the increase of the robustness to noise with the number of modes. In view of the high efficiency achievable with homodyne detection, our results thus open a possible way to feasible loophole-free Bell tests that are robust to experimental imperfections. We provide an explicit example of a three-mode state (a superposition of coherent states) which results in a significantly high violation of the Mermin-Klyshko inequality (around 10%) with homodyne measurements.

id: 0808.2380
title: Hamiltonian statistical mechanics
authors: Dorje C. Brody, David C.P. Ellis, Darryl D. Holm
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, references added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. (2008) 41, 502002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2380
abstract: A framework for statistical-mechanical analysis of quantum Hamiltonians is introduced. The approach is based upon a gradient flow equation in the space of Hamiltonians such that the eigenvectors of the initial Hamiltonian evolve toward those of the reference Hamiltonian. The nonlinear double-bracket equation governing the flow is such that the eigenvalues of the initial Hamiltonian remain unperturbed. The space of Hamiltonians is foliated by compact invariant subspaces, which permits the construction of statistical distributions over the Hamiltonians. In two dimensions, an explicit dynamical model is introduced, wherein the density function on the space of Hamiltonians approaches an equilibrium state characterised by the canonical ensemble. This is used to compute quenched and annealed averages of quantum observables.

id: 0808.2382
title: Mixing of Quantum Walks on Generalized Hypercubes
authors: Ana Best, Markus Kliegl, Shawn Mead-Gluchacki, Christino Tamon
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 6(6):1135-1148, 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2382
abstract: We study continuous-time quantum walks on graphs which generalize the hypercube. The only known family of graphs whose quantum walk instantaneously mixes to uniform is the Hamming graphs with small arities. We show that quantum uniform mixing on the hypercube is robust under the addition of perfect matchings but not much else. Our specific results include: (1) The graph obtained by augmenting the hypercube with an additive matching is instantaneous uniform mixing whenever the parity of the matching is even, but with a slower mixing time. This strictly includes Moore-Russell's result on the hypercube. (2) The class of Hamming graphs is not uniform mixing if and only if its arity is greater than 5. This is a tight characterization of quantum uniform mixing on Hamming graphs; previously, only the status of arity less than 5 was known. (3) The bunkbed graph B(A[f]), defined by a hypercube-circulant matrix A and a Boolean function f, is not uniform mixing if the Fourier transform of f has small support. This explains why the hypercube is uniform mixing and why the join of two hypercubes is not.

id: 0808.2406
title: Quantum teleportation via a two-qubit Heisenberg XXZ chain-effects of anisotropy and magnetic field
authors: Yue Zhou, Guofeng Zhang
comments: 
journal: Eur.Phys.J.D 47,227-231(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2406
abstract: We study quantum teleportation via a two-qubit Heisenberg XXZ chain under an inhomogeneous magnetic field. We first consider entanglement teleportation, and then focus on the teleportation fidelity under different conditions. The effects of anisotropy and the magnetic field, both uniform and inhomogeneous, are discussed. We also find that, though entanglement teleportation does require an entangled quantum channel, a nonzero critical value of minimum entanglement is not always necessary.

id: 0808.2407
title: Geometric phase of a bipartite system with Dzyaloshinski-Moriya interaction
authors: Yue Zhou, Guo-Feng Zhang
comments: Optics Communications (2008) in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2407
abstract: The Berry phase of a bipartite system described by a Heisenberg XXZ model driven by a one-site magnetic field is investigated. The effect of the Dzyaloshinski-Moriya (DM) anisotropic interaction on the Berry phase is discussed. It is found that the DM interaction affects the Berry phase monotonously, and can also cause sudden change of the Berry phase for some weak magnetic field cases.

id: 0808.2409
title: Entangled quantum heat engines based on two two-spin systems with Dzyaloshinski-Moriya anisotropic antisymmetric interaction
authors: Guo-Feng Zhang
comments: 
journal: Eur.Phys.J.D 49,123-128 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2409
abstract: We construct an entangled quantum heat engine (EQHE) based on two two-spin systems with Dzyaloshinski-Moriya (DM) anisotropic antisymmetric interaction. By applying the explanations of heat transferred and work performed at the quantum level in Kieu's work [PRL, 93, 140403 (2004)], the basic thermodynamic quantities, i.e., heat transferred, net work done in a cycle and efficiency of EQHE are investigated in terms of DM interaction and concurrence. The validity of the second law of thermodynamics is confirmed in the entangled system. It is found that there is a same efficiency for both antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic cases, and the efficiency can be controlled in two manners: 1. only by spin-spin interaction J and DM interaction D; 2. only by the temperature T and concurrence C. In order to obtain a positive net work, we need not entangle all qubits in two two-spin systems and we only require the entanglement between qubits in a two-spin system not be zero. As the ratio of entanglement between qubits in two two-spin systems increases, the efficiency will approach infinitely the classical Carnot one. An interesting phenomenon is an abrupt transition of the efficiency when the entanglements between qubits in two two-spin systems are equal.

id: 0808.2415
title: Decision Theory is a Red Herring for the Many Worlds Interpretation
authors: Jacques Mallah
comments: 14 pages; revised to extend remarks on nature of 'probability' within the MWI
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2415
abstract: There have been many attempts over the years to derive the Born Rule from the wave equation since Everett's Many Worlds Interpretation was proposed; however, none of these have been satisfactory as shown when critics pointed out loopholes and unsupported assumptions. In this paper the case is made that the currently fashionable decision-theoretic approach founded by David Deutsch and explicated by David Wallace is likewise unsatisfactory. A more fundamental computationalist approach is advocated.

id: 0808.2420
title: A local scheme accounting for EPR quantum correlations
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2420
abstract: A model for two entangled systems in an EPR setting is shown to reproduce the quantum-mechanical outcomes and expectation values. Each system is represented by a small sphere containing a point-like particle embedded in a field. A quantum state appears as an equivalence class of several possible particle-field configurations. Contrarily to Bell-type hidden variables models, the fields account for the non-commutative aspects of the measurements and deny the simultaneous reality of incompatible physical quantities, thereby allowing to escape EPR's "completeness or locality" dilemma.

id: 0808.2422
title: A study of the electromagnetic fluctuation induced forces on thin metallic films
authors: Andrea Benassi, Carlo Calandra
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 13453
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2422
abstract: Using the plasma model for the metal dielectric function we have calculated the electromagnetic fluctuation induced forces on a free standing metallic film in vacuum as a function of the film size and the plasma frequency. The force for unit area is attractive and for a given film thickness it shows an intensity maximum at a specific plasma value, which cannot be predicted on the basis of a non retarded description of the electromagnetic interaction. If the film is deposited on a substrate or interacts with a plate, both the sign and the value of the force are modified. It is shown that the force can change sign from attraction to repulsion upon changing the substrate plasma frequency. A detailed comparison between the force on the film boundaries and the force between film and substrate indicates that, for 50-100 nm thick films, they are comparable when film-substrate distance is of the order of the film thickness.

id: 0808.2427
title: On the genuine bound states of a non-relativistic particle in a linear finite range potential
authors: Nagalakshmi A Rao, B. A. Kagali
comments: Latex, 8 pages, 1 Table, 1 Figure
journal: Electronic Journal of Theoretical Physics EJTP Vol.5 No.19 (2008) 169 - 176
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2427
abstract: We explore the energy spectrum of a non-relativistic particle bound in a linear finite range, attractive potential, envisaged as a quark-confining potential. The intricate transcendental eigenvalue equation is solved numerically to obtain the explicit eigen-energies. The linear potential, which resembles the triangular well, has potential significance in particle physics and exciting applications in electronics.

id: 0808.2429
title: Role of vacuum fluctuation forces in thin metal film stability
authors: Andrea Benassi, Carlo Calandra
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 175401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2429
abstract: Thin metal films are subject to the pressure caused by the zero point oscillations of the electromagnetic field, which depends upon the film optical properties and, in case of deposition onto a substrate, upon the substrate reflectivity. It has been suggested that this force may be relevant in determining the stability of deposited pseudomorphic films with respect to buckling or island formation. We present a detailed analysis of its behaviour as a function of the optical parameters and of the film thickness and we illustrate the conditions under which it may play some role. For free standing films it turns out that the film stabilization is basically due to the surface stress, which largely overwhelms the vacuum force. For epilayers on metal substrate the vacuum force may be important, and we give stability diagrams and critical thicknesses for several cases, illustrating how the flat surface growth may depend upon the film parameters. The importance of including retardation effects into the theory for a realistic determination of the stability conditions is also discussed.

id: 0808.2438
title: Vacuum fluctuation forces between ultra-thin films
authors: Andrea Benassi, Carlo Calandra
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 82 (2008) 61002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2438
abstract: We have investigated the role of the quantum size effects in the evaluation of the force caused by electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations between ultra-thin films, using the dielectric tensor derived from the particle in a box model. Comparison with the results obtained by adopting a continuum dielectric model shows that, for film thicknesses of 1-10 nm, the electron confinement causes changes in the force intensity with respect to the isotropic plasma model which range from 40% to few percent depending upon the film electron density and the film separation. The calculated force shows quantum size oscillations, which can be significant for film separation distances of several nanometers. The role of electron confinement in reducing the large distance Casimir force is discussed.

id: 0808.2456
title: Experimentally testable state-independent quantum contextuality
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101 (2008) 210401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2456
abstract: We show that there are Bell-type inequalities for noncontextual theories that are violated by any quantum state. One of these inequalities between the correlations of compatible measurements is particularly suitable for testing this state-independent violation in an experiment.

id: 0808.2474
title: Making Almost Commuting Matrices Commute
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 22 pages; tighter bounds; Note: fixed mistake in proof pointed out by Filonov and Kachkovskiy
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 291, 321 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2474
abstract: Suppose two Hermitian matrices $A,B$ almost commute ($\Vert [A,B] \Vert \leq \delta$). Are they close to a commuting pair of Hermitian matrices, $A',B'$, with $\Vert A-A' \Vert,\Vert B-B'\Vert \leq \epsilon$? A theorem of H. Lin shows that this is uniformly true, in that for every $\epsilon>0$ there exists a $\delta>0$, independent of the size $N$ of the matrices, for which almost commuting implies being close to a commuting pair. However, this theorem does not specify how $\delta$ depends on $\epsilon$. We give uniform bounds relating $\delta$ and $\epsilon$. We provide tighter bounds in the case of block tridiagonal and tridiagonal matrices and a fully constructive method in that case. Within the context of quantum measurement, this implies an algorithm to construct a basis in which we can make a {\it projective} measurement that approximately measures two approximately commuting operators simultaneously. Finally, we comment briefly on the case of approximately measuring three or more approximately commuting operators using POVMs (positive operator-valued measures) instead of projective measurements.

id: 0808.2495
title: Lieb-Robinson bounds and the speed of light from topological order
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Fotini Markopoulou, Isabeau Premont-Schwarz, Simone Severini
comments: 4 pages, 1 eps figure. Bound improved
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:017204,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2495
abstract: We apply the Lieb-Robinson bounds technique to find the maximum speed of interaction in a spin model with topological order whose low-energy effective theory describes light [see X.-G. Wen, \prb {\bf 68}, 115413 (2003)]. The maximum speed of interactions is found in two dimensions is bounded from above less than $\sqrt{2} e$ times the speed of emerging light, giving a strong indication that light is indeed the maximum speed of interactions. This result does not rely on mean field theoretic methods. In higher spatial dimensions, the Lieb-Robinson speed is conjectured to increase linearly with the dimension itself. Implications for the horizon problem in cosmology are discussed.

id: 0808.2501
title: Extending Hudson's theorem to mixed quantum states
authors: A. Mandilara, E. Karpov, N. J. Cerf
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2501
abstract: According to Hudson's theorem, any pure quantum state with a positive Wigner function is necessarily a Gaussian state. Here, we make a step towards the extension of this theorem to mixed quantum states by finding upper and lower bounds on the degree of non-Gaussianity of states with positive Wigner functions. The bounds are expressed in the form of parametric functions relating the degree of non-Gaussianity of a state, its purity, and the purity of the Gaussian state characterized by the same covariance matrix. Although our bounds are not tight, they permit us to visualize the set of states with positive Wigner functions.

id: 0808.2504
title: Non-Gaussian continuous-variable teleportation
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: Contributed to Workshop "Noise, Information and Complexity @ Quantum Scale", Erice, Italy (2007)
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 6 Supp., 721-726 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2504
abstract: We have recently shown that the output field in the Braunstein-Kimble protocol of teleportation is a superposition of two fields: the input one and a field created by Alice's measurement and by displacement of the state at Bob's station by using the classical information provided by Alice. We study here the noise added by teleportation and compare its influence in the Gaussian and non-Gaussian settings.

id: 0808.2531
title: Quantum memory for light using extended atomic ensembles in a tunable cavity
authors: Alexey Kalachev
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures; v2: some corrections regarding input-output relations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 043812 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2531
abstract: Cavity-assisted storage and retrieval of single-photon wave packets in optically thin spatially extended resonant materials are analyzed. It is shown that the use of cavity tuning allows one to store and recall time-symmetric double-sided exponential pulses with near unit efficiency. The optimal regime of the cavity tuning is determined and the effect of time jitter on the storage efficiency is analyzed.

id: 0808.2549
title: The swap operation in the two-qubit Heisenberg XXZ model-effects of anisotropy and magnetic field
authors: Yue Zhou, Guo-Feng Zhang, Fu-Hua Yang, Song-Lin Feng
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 75, 062304(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2549
abstract: In this paper we study the swap operation in a two-qubit anisotropic XXZ model in the presence of an inhomogeneous magnetic field. We establish the range of anisotropic parameter within which the swap operation is feasible. The swap errors caused by the inhomogeneous field are evaluated.

id: 0808.2557
title: Quantum Many-Body Phenomena in Coupled Cavity Arrays
authors: Michael J. Hartmann, Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Martin B. Plenio
comments: overview article, 27 pages, 31 figures
journal: Laser & Photon. Rev. 2, No. 6, 527 - 556 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2557
abstract: The increasing level of experimental control over atomic and optical systems gained in the past years have paved the way for the exploration of new physical regimes in quantum optics and atomic physics, characterised by the appearance of quantum many-body phenomena, originally encountered only in condensed-matter physics, and the possibility of experimentally accessing them in a more controlled manner. In this review article we survey recent theoretical studies concerning the use of cavity quantum electrodynamics to create quantum many-body systems. Based on recent experimental progress in the fabrication of arrays of interacting micro-cavities and on their coupling to atomic-like structures in several different physical architectures, we review proposals on the realisation of paradigmatic many-body models in such systems, such as the Bose-Hubbard and the anisotropic Heisenberg models. Such arrays of coupled cavities offer interesting properties as simulators of quantum many-body physics, including the full addressability of individual sites and the accessibility of inhomogeneous models.

id: 0808.2581
title: Separability bounds on multiqubit moments due to positivity under partial transpose
authors: A R Usha Devi, A K Rajagopal
comments: 16 pages, no figures, minor revisions, references added; To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062334 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2581
abstract: Positivity of the density operator reflects itself in terms of sequences of inequalities on observable moments. Uncertainty relations for non-commuting observables form a subset of these inequalities. In addition, criterion of positivity under partial transposition (PPT) imposes distinct bounds on moments, violations of which signal entanglement. We present bounds on some novel sets of composite moments, consequent to positive partial transposition of the density operator and report their violation by entangled multiqubit states. In particular, we derive separability bounds on a multiqubit moment matrix (based on PPT constraints on bipartite divisions of the density matrix) and show that three qubit pure states with non-zero tangle violate these PPT moment constraints. Further, we recover necessary and sufficient condition of separability in a multiqubit Werner state through PPT bounds on moments.

id: 0808.2639
title: Nonclassical Correlation of Polarization Entangled Photons in a Biexciton-Exciton Cascade
authors: Sumanta Das, G.S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 (2008) 225502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2639
abstract: We develop a theoretical model to study the Intensity-Intensity correlation of polarization entangled photons emitted in a biexciton-exciton cascade. We calculate the degree of correlation and show how polarization correlation are affected by the presence of dephasing and energy level splitting of the excitonic states. Our theoretical calculations are in agreement with the recent observation of polarization dependent Intensity-Intensity correlations from a single semiconductor quantum dot [R. M. Stevenson et. al., Nature 439, 179 (2006)] . Our model can be extended to study polarization entangled photon emission in coupled quantum dot systems.

id: 0808.2669
title: Closed Timelike Curves Make Quantum and Classical Computing Equivalent
authors: Scott Aaronson, John Watrous
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2669
abstract: While closed timelike curves (CTCs) are not known to exist, studying their consequences has led to nontrivial insights in general relativity, quantum information, and other areas. In this paper we show that if CTCs existed, then quantum computers would be no more powerful than classical computers: both would have the (extremely large) power of the complexity class PSPACE, consisting of all problems solvable by a conventional computer using a polynomial amount of memory. This solves an open problem proposed by one of us in 2005, and gives an essentially complete understanding of computational complexity in the presence of CTCs. Following the work of Deutsch, we treat a CTC as simply a region of spacetime where a "causal consistency" condition is imposed, meaning that Nature has to produce a (probabilistic or quantum) fixed-point of some evolution operator. Our conclusion is then a consequence of the following theorem: given any quantum circuit (not necessarily unitary), a fixed-point of the circuit can be (implicitly) computed in polynomial space. This theorem might have independent applications in quantum information.

id: 0808.2674
title: Fast and simple characterization of a photon pair source
authors: Felix Bussieres, Joshua A. Slater, Nicolas Godbout, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. Published version
journal: Opt. Express 16, 17060-17069 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2674
abstract: We present an exact model of the detection statistics of a probabilistic source of photon pairs from which a fast, simple and precise method to measure the source's brightness and photon channel transmissions is demonstrated. We measure such properties for a source based on spontaneous parametric downconversion in a periodically poled LiNbO$_3$ crystal producing pairs at 810 and 1550 nm wavelengths. We further validate the model by comparing the predicted and measured values for the $g^{(2)}(0)$ of a heralded single photon source over a wide range of the brightness. Our model is of particular use for monitoring and tuning the brightness on demand as required for various quantum communication applications. We comment on its applicability to sources involving spectral and/or spatial filtering.

id: 0808.2680
title: Optimal control of a leaking qubit
authors: Patrick Rebentrost, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 060507(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2680
abstract: Physical implementations of quantum bits can contain coherent transitions to energetically close non-qubit states. In particular, for anharmonic oscillator systems such as the superconducting phase qubit and the transmon a two-level approximation is insufficient. We apply optimal control theory to the envelope of a resonant Rabi pulse in a qubit in the presence of a single, weakly off-resonant leakage level. The gate error of a spin flip operation reduces by orders of magnitude compared to simple pulse shapes. Near-perfect gates can be achieved for any pulse duration longer than an intrinsic limit given by the nonlinearity. The pulses can be understood as composite sequences that refocus the leakage transition. We also discuss ways to improve the pulse shapes.

id: 0808.2681
title: Quantum properties of a superposition of squeezed displaced two-mode vacuum and single-photon states
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, A-S. F. Obada, Zafer M. Asker, J. Perina
comments: 25pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 79 (2009) 035402 (13pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2681
abstract: In this paper, we study some quantum properties of a superposition of displaced squeezed two-mode vacuum and single-photon states, such as the second-order correlation function, the Cauchy-Schwartz inequality, quadrature squeezing, quasiprobability distribution functions and purity. This type of states includes two mechanisms, namely, interference in phase space and entanglement. We show that these states can exhibit sub-Piossonian statistics, squeezing and deviate from the classical Cauchy-Schwartz inequality. Moreover, the amount of entanglement in the system can be increased by increasing the squeezing mechanism. In the framework of the quasiprobability distribution functions we show that the single-mode state can tend to thermal state based on the correlation mechanism. Generation scheme for such states is given.

id: 0808.2687
title: Quantum Memory with Optically Trapped Atoms
authors: Chih-Sung Chuu, Thorsten Strassel, Bo Zhao, Markus Koch, Yu-Ao Chen, Shuai Chen, Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 101, 120501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2687
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of a quantum memory for collective atomic states in a far-detuned optical dipole trap. Generation of the collective atomic state is heralded by the detection of a Raman scattered photon and accompanied by storage in the ensemble of atoms. The optical dipole trap provides confinement for the atoms during the quantum storage while retaining the atomic coherence. We probe the quantum storage by cross-correlation of the photon pair arising from the Raman scattering and the retrieval of the atomic state stored in the memory. Non-classical correlations are observed for storage times up to 60 microseconds.

id: 0808.2694
title: Mutual information and swap operation in the two-qubit Heisenberg model with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya anisotropic antisymmetric interaction
authors: Guo-Feng Zhang
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.:Condens.Matter 19 (2007) 456205 (8pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2694
abstract: Mutual information and swap operation in the two-qubit Heisenberg model with the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) anisotropic antisymmetric interaction are investigated. It is found that the mutual information I of such a quantum channel is sensitive to the initial conditions and declines with the increase of the temperature. The DM interaction can lead to a higher mutual information, especially for the ferromagnetic case. The entanglement quality of input states cannot enhance the mutual information of the quantum channel. When the DM interaction is large, the mutual information will be the maximum value 2 for a non-entangled input state, but it is 1 for a maximally entangled input one. It is also shown that the swap operation can be implemented for some kinds of DM coupling. The conditions of the DM coupling under which the swap operation is feasible are established.

id: 0808.2697
title: Adiabatic approximation with exponential accuracy for many-body systems and quantum computation
authors: D.A. Lidar, A.T. Rezakhani, A. Hamma
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures. Supersedes arXiv:0804.0604. v2: some corrections, new remarks, and a new subsection on the adiabatic theorem for open systems. v3: additional corrections
journal: J. Math. Phys 50, 102106 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2697
abstract: We derive a version of the adiabatic theorem that is especially suited for applications in adiabatic quantum computation, where it is reasonable to assume that the adiabatic interpolation between the initial and final Hamiltonians is controllable. Assuming that the Hamiltonian is analytic in a finite strip around the real time axis, that some number of its time-derivatives vanish at the initial and final times, and that the target adiabatic eigenstate is non-degenerate and separated by a gap from the rest of the spectrum, we show that one can obtain an error between the final adiabatic eigenstate and the actual time-evolved state which is exponentially small in the evolution time, where this time itself scales as the square of the norm of the time-derivative of the Hamiltonian, divided by the cube of the minimal gap.

id: 0808.2701
title: Getting Information on Independently Prepared Quantum States -- When Are Individual Measurements as Powerful as Joint Measurements?
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, H. F. Chau
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062308 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2701
abstract: Given a composite quantum system in which the states of the subsystems are independently (but not necessarily identically) prepared, we construct separate measurements on the subsystems from any given joint measurement such that the former always give at least as large information as the latter. This construction offers new insights into the understanding of measurements on this type of composite systems. Moreover, this construction essentially proves the intuition that separate measurements on the subsystems are sufficient to extract the maximal information about the separately prepared subsystems, thus making a joint measurement unnecessary. Furthermore, our result implies that individual attacks are as powerful as collective attacks in obtaining information on the raw key in quantum key distribution.

id: 0808.2732
title: Collective generation of quantum states of light by entangled atoms
authors: D. Porras, J. I. Cirac
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2732
abstract: We present a theoretical framework to describe the collective emission of light by entangled atomic states. Our theory applies to the low excitation regime, where most of the atoms are initially in the ground state, and relies on a bosonic description of the atomic excitations. In this way, the problem of light emission by an ensemble of atoms can be solved exactly, including dipole-dipole interactions and multiple light scattering. Explicit expressions for the emitted photonic states are obtained in several situations, such as those of atoms in regular lattices and atomic vapors. We determine the directionality of the photonic beam, the purity of the photonic state, and the renormalization of the emission rates. We also show how to observe collective phenomena with ultracold atoms in optical lattices, and how to use these ideas to generate photonic states that are useful in the context of quantum information.

id: 0808.2774
title: How classical is the quantum universe?
authors: Maurice de Gosson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2774
abstract: We discuss two topics that are usually considered to be exclusively "quantum": the Schroedinger equation, and the uncertainty principle. We show (or rather recall) that the Schroedinger equation can be derived from Hamilton's equations using the metaplectic representation. We also show that the uncertainty principle, stated in the form of the Robertson-Schroedinger-Heisenberg inequalities can be formulated in perfectly classical terms using the topological notion of symplectic capacity.

id: 0808.2775
title: Parallel approximation of non-interactive zero-sum quantum games
authors: Rahul Jain, John Watrous
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2775
abstract: This paper studies a simple class of zero-sum games played by two competing quantum players: each player sends a mixed quantum state to a referee, who performs a joint measurement on the two states to determine the players' payoffs. We prove that an equilibrium point of any such game can be approximated by means of an efficient parallel algorithm, which implies that one-turn quantum refereed games, wherein the referee is specified by a quantum circuit, can be simulated in polynomial space.

id: 0808.2786
title: An interesting result concerning the lower bound to the energy in the Heisenberg picture
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 9 pages
journal: Apeiron, Vol.16 no. 2, (April, 2009) 191-202.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2786
abstract: In quantum theory it is generally assumed that there exists a special state called the vacuum state and that this state is a lower bound to the energy. However it has recently been demonstrated that this is not necessarily the case for some situations [5]. In order to clarify the situation we will consider a "very simple" field theory in the Heisenberg picture consisting of a quanitized fermion field with zero mass pariticles in 1-1D space-time interacting with a classical electrical potential. It will be shown that for this example there is no lower bound to the energy.

id: 0808.2829
title: Optimal fidelity of teleportation of coherent states and entanglement
authors: Andrea Mari, David Vitali
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062340 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2829
abstract: We study the Braunstein-Kimble protocol for the continuous variable teleportation of a coherent state. We determine lower and upper bounds for the optimal fidelity of teleportation, maximized over all local Gaussian operations for a given entanglement of the two-mode Gaussian state shared by the sender (Alice) and the receiver (Bob). We also determine the optimal local transformations at Alice and Bob sites and the corresponding maximum fidelity when one restricts to local trace-preserving Gaussian completely positive maps.

id: 0808.2869
title: On the Power of Quantum Encryption Keys
authors: Akinori Kawachi, Christopher Portmann
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: In Post-Quantum Cryptography, volume 5299 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 165-180. Springer, October 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2869
abstract: The standard definition of quantum state randomization, which is the quantum analog of the classical one-time pad, consists in applying some transformation to the quantum message conditioned on a classical secret key $k$. We investigate encryption schemes in which this transformation is conditioned on a quantum encryption key state $\rho_k$ instead of a classical string, and extend this symmetric-key scheme to an asymmetric-key model in which copies of the same encryption key $\rho_k$ may be held by several different people, but maintaining information-theoretical security. We find bounds on the message size and the number of copies of the encryption key which can be safely created in these two models in terms of the entropy of the decryption key, and show that the optimal bound can be asymptotically reached by a scheme using classical encryption keys. This means that the use of quantum states as encryption keys does not allow more of these to be created and shared, nor encrypt larger messages, than if these keys are purely classical.

id: 0808.2874
title: Implementation of many-qubit Grover search by cavity QED
authors: H. Q. Fan, W. L. Yang, X. R. Huang, M. Feng
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2874
abstract: We study the possibility of an implementation of N-qubit (N>3) Grover search in cavity QED, based on a fast operation of N-qubit controlled phase-flip with atoms in resonance with the cavity mode. We demonstrate both analytically and numerically that, our scheme could be achieved efficiently to find a marked state with high fidelity and high success probability. As cavity decay is involved in our quantum trajectory treatment, we could analytically understand the implementation of a Grover search subject to dissipation, which would be very helpful for relevant experiments.

id: 0808.2926
title: Relation between Fresnel transform of input light field and Radon transform of Wigner function of the field
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Li-yun Hu
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2926
abstract: We prove a new theorem about the relationship between optical field Wigner function's Radon transform and optical Fresnel transform of the field, i.e., when an input field Phi(x') propagates through an optical [D(-B)(-C)A] system, the energy density of the output field is equal to the Radon transform of the Wigner function of the input field, where the Radon transform parameters are D,B. We prove this theorem in both spatial-domain and frequency-domain.

id: 0808.2930
title: Chaos in a one-dimensional integrable quantum system
authors: Petr Seba, Daniel Vasata
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2930
abstract: We study a simple one-dimensional quantum system on a circle with n scale free point interactions. The spectrum of this system is discrete and expressible as a solution of an explicit secular equation. However, its statistical properties are nontrivial. The level spacing distribution between its neighboring odd and even levels displays a surprising agreement with the prediction obtained for the Gaussian Orthogonal Ensemble of random matrices.

id: 0808.2938
title: Locally undetermined states, generalized Schmidt decomposition, and an application in distributed computing
authors: Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Comments are welcomed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2938
abstract: Multipartite quantum states that cannot be uniquely determined by their reduced states of all proper subsets of the parties exhibit some inherit `high-order' correlation. This paper elaborates this issue by giving necessary and sufficient conditions for a pure multipartite state to be locally undetermined, and moreover, characterizing precisely all the pure states sharing the same set of reduced states with it. Interestingly, local determinability of pure states is closely related to a generalized notion of Schmidt decomposition. Furthermore, we find that locally undetermined states have some applications to the well-known consensus problem in distributed computation. To be specific, given some physically separated agents, when communication between them, either classical or quantum, is unreliable and they are not allowed to use local ancillary quantum systems, then there exists a totally correct and completely fault-tolerant protocol for them to reach a consensus if and only if they share a priori a locally undetermined quantum state.

id: 0808.2947
title: The Frame Potential, on Average
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson, Helena Granstrom
comments: 15 pages. Major mistake corrected in version 2
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 16 (2009) 145
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2947
abstract: A SIC consists of N^2 equiangular unit vectors in an N dimensional Hilbert space. The frame potential is a function of N^2 unit vectors. It has a unique global minimum if the vectors form a SIC, and this property has been made use of in numerical searches for SICs. When the vectors form an orbit of the Heisenberg group the frame potential becomes a function of a single fiducial vector. We analytically compute the average of this function over Hilbert space. We also compute averages when the fiducial vector is placed in certain special subspaces defined by the Clifford group.

id: 0808.2963
title: A High Phase-Space-Density Gas of Polar Molecules
authors: K.-K. Ni, S. Ospelkaus, M. H. G. de Miranda, A. Pe'er, B. Neyenhuis, J. J. Zirbel, S. Kotochigova, P. S. Julienne, D. S. Jin, J. Ye
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: Science 322, 231-235 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2963
abstract: A quantum gas of ultracold polar molecules, with long-range and anisotropic interactions, would not only enable explorations of a large class of many-body physics phenomena, but could also be used for quantum information processing. We report on the creation of an ultracold dense gas of 40K87Rb polar molecules. Using a single step of STIRAP (STImulated Raman Adiabatic Passage) via two-frequency laser irradiation, we coherently transfer extremely weakly bound KRb molecules to the rovibrational ground state of either the triplet or the singlet electronic ground molecular potential. The polar molecular gas has a peak density of 10^12 cm^-3, and an expansion-determined translational temperature of 350 nK. The polar molecules have a permanent electric dipole moment, which we measure via Stark spectroscopy to be 0.052(2) Debye for the triplet rovibrational ground state and 0.566(17) Debye for the singlet rovibrational ground state. (1 Debye= 3.336*10^-30 C m)

id: 0808.2972
title: Multistage Entanglement Swapping
authors: Alexander M. Goebel, Claudia Wagenknecht, Qiang Zhang, Yu-Ao Chen, Kai Chen, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 080403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2972
abstract: We report an experimental demonstration of entanglement swapping over two quantum stages. By successful realizations of two cascaded photonic entanglement swapping processes, entanglement is generated and distributed between two photons, that originate from independent sources and do not share any common past. In the experiment we use three pairs of polarization entangled photons and conduct two Bell-state measurements (BSMs) one between the first and second pair, and one between the second and third pair. This results in projecting the remaining two outgoing photons from pair 1 and 3 into an entangled state, as characterized by an entanglement witness. The experiment represents an important step towards a full quantum repeater where multiple entanglement swapping is a key ingredient.

id: 0808.2989
title: Multiparty quantum states stabilized by the diagonal subgroup of the local unitary group
authors: David W. Lyons, Scott N. Walck
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Version 2 has numerous small changes and corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042314 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2989
abstract: We classify, up to local unitary equivalence, the set of $n$-qubit states that is stabilized by the diagonal subgroup of the local unitary group. We exhibit a basis for this set, parameterized by diagrams of nonintersecting chords connecting pairs of points on a circle, and give a criterion for when the stabilizer is precisely the diagonal subgroup and not larger. This investigation is part of a larger program to partially classify entanglement type (local unitary equivalence class) via analysis of stabilizer structure.

id: 0808.3027
title: Quantum computation with the Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Hiroo Azuma
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures, latex2e; v2: Figure 1 and its caption are modified; v3: one new section is added; v4: experimental setups are completely rewritten; v5: minor corrections; v6: two references added; v7: 18 peges, 11 eps figures, PTPTeX, LaTeX2e, Section 4 is rewritten
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 126 (2011), 369-385
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3027
abstract: In this paper, we propose a method for building a two-qubit gate with the Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM). In our scheme, we construct a qubit from a pair of optical paths where a photon is running. Generating Knill, Laflamme and Milburn's nonlinear sign-shift gate by the JCM, we construct the conditional sign-flip gate, which works with small error probability in principle. We also discuss two experimental setups for realizing our scheme. In the first experimental setup, we make use of coherent lights to examine whether or not our scheme works. In the second experimental setup, an optical loop circuit made out of the polarizing beam splitter and the Pockels cell takes an important role in the cavity.

id: 0808.3034
title: Detecting quantum-coherent nanomechanical oscillations using the current-noise spectrum of a double quantum dot
authors: Neill Lambert, Franco Nori
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 214302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3034
abstract: We consider a nanomechanical resonator coupled to a double quantum dot. We demonstrate how the finite-frequency current noise spectrum through the double quantum dot can be used to distinguish classical and quantum behaviour in the nearby nano-electromechanical resonator. We also show how the full frequency current noise spectrum gives important information on the combined double quantum dot-resonator energy spectrum. Finally, we point out regimes where the quantum state of the resonator becomes squeezed, and also examine the cross-correlated electron-phonon current noise.

id: 0808.3060
title: Bohmian Mechanics at Space-Time Singularities. II. Spacelike Singularities
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 42 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2 shortened and minor changes
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav.42:303-346,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3060
abstract: We develop an extension of Bohmian mechanics by defining Bohm-like trajectories for quantum particles in a curved background space-time containing a spacelike singularity. As an example of such a metric we use the Schwarzschild metric, which contains two spacelike singularities, one in the past and one in the future. Since the particle world lines are everywhere timelike or lightlike, particles can be annihilated but not created at a future spacelike singularity, and created but not annihilated at a past spacelike singularity. It is argued that in the presence of future (past) spacelike singularities, there is a unique natural Bohm-like evolution law directed to the future (past). This law differs from the one in non-singular space-times mainly in two ways: it involves Fock space since the particle number is not conserved, and the wave function is replaced by a density matrix. In particular, we determine the evolution equation for the density matrix, a pure-to-mixed evolution equation of a quasi-Lindblad form. We have to leave open whether a curvature cut-off needs to be introduced for this equation to be well defined.

id: 0808.3083
title: Identical particles are indistinguishable but..
authors: Alberto C. de la Torre, Hector O. Martin
comments: 
journal: Eur. J. Phys.30 (2009) 467-475
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3083
abstract: It is shown that quantum systems of identical particles can be treated as if they were different when they are in well differentiated states. This simplifying assumption allows the consideration of quantum systems isolated from the rest of the universe and justifies many intuitive statements about identical systems. However, it is shown that this simplification may lead to wrong results in the calculation of the entropy. Keywords: quantum mechanics, identical systems, entropy

id: 0808.3086
title: Nonbinary Codeword Stabilized Quantum Codes
authors: Xie Chen, Bei Zeng, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062315 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3086
abstract: The codeword stabilized (CWS) quantum codes formalism presents a unifying approach to both additive and nonadditive quantum error-correcting codes (arXiv:0708.1021 [quant-ph]), but only for binary states. Here we generalize the CWS framework to the nonbinary case (of both prime and nonprime dimension) and map the search for nonbinary quantum codes to a corresponding search problem for classical nonbinary codes with specific error patterns. We show that while the additivity properties of nonbinary CWS codes are similar to the binary case, the structural properties of the nonbinary codes differ substantially from the binary case, even for prime dimensions. In particular, we identify specific structure patterns of stabilizer groups, based on which efficient constructions might be possible for codes that encode more dimensions than any stabilizer codes of the same length and distance; similar methods cannot be applied in the binary case. Understanding of these structural properties can help prune the search space and facilitate the identification of good nonbinary CWS codes.

id: 0808.3135
title: Can a Matter-Wave Interferometer Detect Translational Speed?
authors: Ruyong Wang, Yi Zheng, Aiping Yao
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Added a reference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3135
abstract: Based only on the Galilean addition of velocities and the de Broglie relation, it is deduced that in a matter-wave interferometer with slow-speed particles, a moving segment of deltaL with a velocity V contributes deltaPhi = (2Pi/vlamda)VdotdeltaL to the total phase difference of the interferometer, where v is the speed of the particles and lamda is the wavelength.. This expression is exactly the same as the generalized Sagnac effect for light waves found by experiments except that v is replaced by c. For a rotational motion, it leads to the Sagnac effect. Additionally, the scientific value of this relationship is also to explore the possibility of detecting translation speeds by a matter-wave interferometer. Two configurations of the experimental setup have been indicated and the key element is that the paths of the interfering beams constitute a loop with an opening. If the possibility is confirmed by experiments, the conclusions will be that there is a preferred reference frame for matter waves and a speedometer with a very high sensitivity is possible.

id: 0808.3176
title: On the EPR-type Entanglement in the Experiments of Scully et Al. I. The Micromaser Case and Delayed-choice Quantum Erasure
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: Latex2e, no figures, this manuscript is the first part of a study in two parts
journal: Found. Phys. 38 (2008) 1046-1064
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3176
abstract: Delayed-choice erasure is investigated in two-photon two-slit experiments that are generalizations of the micromaser experiment of Scully et al. [Scully, M. O. et al. Nature 351, 111-116 (1991)]. Applying quantum mechanics to the localization detector, it is shown that erasure with delayed choice in the sense of Scully, has an analogous structure as simple erasure. The description goes beyond probabilities. The EPR-type disentanglement, consisting in two mutually incompatible distant measurements, is used as a general framework in both parts of this study. Two simple coherence cases are shown to emerge naturally, and they are precisely the two experiments of Scully et al. The treatment seems to require the relative-reality-of-unitarily-evolving-state (RRUES) approach. Besides insight in the exoeriments, this study has also the goal of insight in quantum mechanics. The question is if it can be more than just a "book-keeping device" for calculating probabilities as Scully et al. modestly and cautiously claim.

id: 0808.3177
title: On EPR-type Entanglement in the Experiments of Scully et Al. II. Insight in the Real Random Delayed-choice Erasure Experiment
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: Latex2e; one black figure; second part of a two-parts study; improved presentation
journal: Found. Phys. (2010) 40: 301-312
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3177
abstract: It was pointed out in the first part of this study that EPR-type entanglement is defined by the possibility of performing any of two mutually incompatible distant, i. e.,direct-interaction-free, measurements. They go together under the term 'EPR-type disentanglement'. In this second part, quantum-mechanical insight is gained in the real random delayed-choice erasure experiment of Kim et al. [Kim et al.: Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 1-5 (2000)] by a relative-reality-of- unitarily-evolving-state (RRUES) approach (explained in the first part). Finally, it is shown that this remarkable experiment, which performs, by random choice, two incompatible measurements at the same time, is actually an EPR-type disentanglement experiment, closely related to the micromaser experiment discussed in the first part.

id: 0808.3178
title: Exact decoherence dynamics of a single-mode optical field
authors: Jun-Hong An, Ye Yeo, C. H. Oh
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Accepted by Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 324, 1737 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3178
abstract: We apply the influence-functional method of Feynman and Vernon to the study of a single-mode optical field that interacts with an environment at zero temperature. Using the coherent-state formalism of the path integral, we derive a generalized master equation for the single-mode optical field. Our analysis explicitly shows how non-Markovian effects manifest in the exact decoherence dynamics for different environmental correlation time scales. Remarkably, when these are equal to or greater than the time scale for significant change in the system, the interplay between the backaction-induced coherent oscillation and the dissipative effect of the environment causes the non-Markovian effect to have a significant impact not only on the short-time behavior but also on the long-time steady-state behavior of the system.

id: 0808.3212
title: Quantum Control via Geometry: An explicit example
authors: Mile Gu, Andrew Doherty, Michael Nielsen
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. accepted into PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3212
abstract: We explicitly compute the optimal cost for a class of example problems in geometric quantum control. These problems are defined by a Cartan decomposition of $su(2^n)$ into orthogonal subspaces $\mathfrak{l}$ and $\mathfrak{p}$ such that $[\mathfrak{l},\mathfrak{l}] \subseteq \mathfrak{p}, [\mathfrak{p},\mathfrak{l}] = \mathfrak{p}, [\mathfrak{p},\mathfrak{p}] \subseteq \mathfrak{l}$. Motion in the $\mathfrak{l}$ direction are assumed to have negligible cost, where motion in the $\mathfrak{p}$ direction do not. In the special case of two qubits, our results correspond to the minimal interaction cost of a given unitary.

id: 0808.3237
title: The role of Dirac equations in the classical mechanics of the relativistic top
authors: Enrico Santamato
comments: A new improved version of this paper was posed on july 15 2011. The new abstract is above
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3237
abstract: A rigorous \textit{ab initio} derivation of the (square of) Dirac's equation for a single particle with spin is presented. The general Hamilton-Jacobi equation for the particle expressed in terms of a background Weyl's conformal geometry is found to be linearized, exactly and in closed form, by an \textit{ansatz} solution that can be straightforwardly interpreted as the "quantum wave function" $\psi_4$ of the 4-spinor Dirac's equation. In particular, all quantum features of the model arise from a subtle interplay between the conformal curvature of the configuration space acting as a potential and Weyl's "pre-potential" closely related to $\psi_4$, which acts on the particle trajectory. The theory, carried out here by assuming a Minkowsky metric, can be easily extended to arbitrary space-time Riemann metric, e.g. the one adopted in the context of General Relativity. This novel theoretical scenario, referred to as "Affine Quantum Mechanics", appears to be of general application and is expected to open a promising perspective in the modern endeavor aimed at the unification of the natural forces with gravitation.

id: 0808.3243
title: How complex is the quantum motion?
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, new figure added
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 025201(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3243
abstract: In classical mechanics the complexity of a dynamical system is characterized by the rate of local exponential instability which effaces the memory of initial conditions and leads to practical irreversibility. In striking contrast, quantum mechanics appears to exhibit strong memory of the initial state. Here we introduce a notion of complexity for a quantum system and relate it to its stability and reversibility properties.

id: 0808.3270
title: Experimental entanglement distillation using Schmidt projection on multiple qubits
authors: Taehyun Kim, Franco N. C. Wong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3270
abstract: Entanglement distillation is a procedure for extracting from one or more pairs of entangled qubits a smaller number of pairs with a higher degree of entanglement that is essential for many applications in quantum information science. Schmidt projection is a unique distillation method that can be applied to more than two pairs of entangled qubits at the same time with high efficiency. We implement the Schmidt projection protocol by applying single-photon two-qubit quantum logic to a partially hyperentangled four-qubit input state. The basic elements of the procedure are characterized and we confirm that the output of Schmidt projection is always maximally entangled independent of the input entanglement quality and that the measured distillation efficiency agrees with theoretical predictions. We show that our implementation strategy can be applied to other quantum systems such as trapped atoms and trapped ions.

id: 0808.3298
title: On classes of local unitary transformations
authors: Naihuan Jing
comments: 10 pages. Added Figure and modified Ex
journal: Alg. Colloq. 19, No. 2 (2012) 283--292
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3298
abstract: We give a one-to-one correspondence between classes of density matrices under local unitary invariance and the double cosets of unitary groups. We show that the interrelationship among classes of local unitary equivalent multi-partite mixed states is independent from the actual values of the eigenvalues and only depends on the multiplicities of the eigenvalues. The interpretation in terms of homogeneous spaces of unitary groups is also discussed.

id: 0808.3300
title: Exploring the limits of single emitter detection in fluorescence and extinction
authors: Gert Wrigge, Jaesuk Hwang, Ilja Gerhardt, Gert Zumofen, Vahid Sandoghdar
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 16, Issue 22, pp. 17358-17365 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3300
abstract: We present an experimental comparison and a theoretical analysis of the signal-to-noise ratios in fluorescence and extinction spectroscopy of a single emitter. We show that extinction measurements can be advantageous if the emitter is weakly excited. Furthermore, we discuss the potential of this method for the detection and spectroscopy of weakly emitting systems such as rare earth ions.

id: 0808.3316
title: Testing spooky action at a distance
authors: D. Salart, A. Baas, C. Branciard, N. Gisin, H. Zbinden
comments: Preliminary version of Nature 454, 861-864 (14 August 2008). 5 pages and 5 figures
journal: Nature 454, 861-864 (14 August 2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3316
abstract: In science, one observes correlations and invents theoretical models that describe them. In all sciences, besides quantum physics, all correlations are described by either of two mechanisms. Either a first event influences a second one by sending some information encoded in bosons or molecules or other physical carriers, depending on the particular science. Or the correlated events have some common causes in their common past. Interestingly, quantum physics predicts an entirely different kind of cause for some correlations, named entanglement. This new kind of cause reveals itself, e.g., in correlations that violate Bell inequalities (hence cannot be described by common causes) between space-like separated events (hence cannot be described by classical communication). Einstein branded it as spooky action at a distance. A real spooky action at a distance would require a faster than light influence defined in some hypothetical universally privileged reference frame. Here we put stringent experimental bounds on the speed of all such hypothetical influences. We performed a Bell test during more than 24 hours between two villages separated by 18 km and approximately east-west oriented, with the source located precisely in the middle. We continuously observed 2-photon interferences well above the Bell inequality threshold. Taking advantage of the Earth's rotation, the configuration of our experiment allowed us to determine, for any hypothetically privileged frame, a lower bound for the speed of this spooky influence. For instance, if such a privileged reference frame exists and is such that the Earth's speed in this frame is less than 10^-3 that of the speed of light, then the speed of this spooky influence would have to exceed that of light by at least 4 orders of magnitude.

id: 0808.3317
title: A Limit on Non-Locality Distillation
authors: Dejan D. Dukaric, Stefan Wolf
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures, added reference and paragraph (non-locality section)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3317
abstract: Non-local correlations are not only a fascinating feature of quantum theory, but an interesting resource for information processing, for instance in communication-complexity theory or cryptography. An important question in this context is whether the resource can be distilled: Given a large amount of weak non-local correlations, is there a method to obtain strong non-locality using local operations and shared randomness? We partly answer this question by no: CHSH-type non-locality, the only possible non-locality of binary systems, which is not super-strong, but achievable by measurements on certain quantum states, has at best very limited distillability by any non-interactive classical method. This strongly extends and generalizes what was previously known, namely that there are two limits that cannot be overstepped: The Bell and Tsirelson bounds. Moreover, our results imply that there must be an infinite number of such bounds. A noticeable feature of our proof of this purely classical statement is that it is quantum mechanical in the sense that (both novel and known) facts from quantum theory are used in a crucial way to obtain the claimed results. One of these results, of independent interest, is that certain mixed entangled states cannot be distilled without communication. Weaker statements, namely limited distillability, have been known for Werner states.

id: 0808.3324
title: On the Weak Measurement of Velocity in Bohmian Mechanics
authors: Detlef Duerr, Sheldon Goldstein, Nino Zanghi
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3324
abstract: In a recent article (New Journal of Physics 9, 165, 2007), Wiseman has proposed the use of so-called weak measurements for the determination of the velocity of a quantum particle at a given position, and has shown that according to quantum mechanics the result of such a procedure is the Bohmian velocity of the particle. Although Bohmian mechanics is empirically equivalent to variants based on velocity formulas different from the Bohmian one, and although it has been proven that the velocity in Bohmian mechanics is not measurable, we argue here for the somewhat paradoxical conclusion that Wiseman's weak measurement procedure indeed constitutes a genuine measurement of velocity in Bohmian mechanics. We reconcile the apparent contradictions and elaborate on some of the different senses of measurement at play here.

id: 0808.3325
title: Shannon dimensionality of quantum channels and its application to photon entanglement
authors: J.B. Pors, S.S.R. Oemrawsingh, A. Aiello, M.P. van Exter, E.R. Eliel, G. W. 't Hooft, J.P. Woerdman
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, accepted for Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3325
abstract: We introduce the concept of Shannon dimensionality D as a new way to quantify bipartite entanglement as measured in an experiment. This is applied to orbital-angular-momentum entanglement of two photons, using two state analyzers composed of a rotatable angular-sector phase plate that is lens-coupled to a single-mode fiber. We can deduce the value of D directly from the observed two-photon coincidence fringe. In our experiment, D varies between 2 and 6, depending on the experimental conditions. We predict how the Shannon dimensionality evolves when the number of angular sectors imprinted in the phase plate is increased and anticipate that D = 50 is experimentally within reach.

id: 0808.3403
title: Reexamination of decoherence in quantum walks on the hypercube
authors: Frederick W. Strauch
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, revised title and text for PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3403
abstract: The effect of decoherence on the continuous-time quantum walk on the hypercube is revisited. Previously, an exact solution was found for a decoherence model that preserved the effective tensor-product form of the dynamics. Here a new model is presented, inspired by perfect quantum state transfer in qubit networks. A perturbative solution is found for the dynamics of this model which is not of a tensor-product form. In contrast to previous results, the hitting probability has a lower bound that is independent of the hypercube dimension.

id: 0808.3432
title: Comment on "Discrepancies in the resonance-fluorescence spectrum calculated with two methods"
authors: Z. Ficek
comments: Comments on the comment are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3432
abstract: There are two alternative methods used in literature to calculate the incoherent part of the spectrum of light scattered by an atomic system. In the first, one calculates the spectrum of the total light scattered by the system and obtains the incoherent part by subtracting the coherent part. In the second method, one introduces the fluctuation operators and obtains the incoherent part of the spectrum by taking the Fourier transform of the two time correlation function of the fluctuation operators. These two methods have been recognized for years as two completely equivalent for evaluating the incoherent part of the spectrum. In a recent paper Qing Xu et al. [Phys. Rev. A 78, 013407 (2008)] have shown that there are discrepancies between the incoherent parts of the stationary spectrum of a three-level Lambda-type system calculated with these two methods. The predicted discrepancies can be severe that over a wide rage of the Rabi frequencies and atomic decay rates, the spectrum calculated with the variance method can have negative values. This is obviously unphysical result since the fluorescence spectrum is a positively defined quantity. It represents the frequency distribution of light incoherently scattered by the atomic system. Therefore, the calculated spectrum should be positive for all frequencies independent of values of the Rabi frequencies and the damping rates. In this comment, we show that there are no discrepancies between these two methods. The equivalence of these two alternative methods leads to the same incoherent spectra that are positive for all frequencies independent of values of the parameters involved. The analytical analysis is supported by simple numerical calculations.

id: 0808.3537
title: State Preparation by Optical Pumping in Erbium Doped Solids using Stimulated Emission and Spin Mixing
authors: B. Lauritzen, S. R. Hastings-Simon, H. de Riedmatten, M. Afzelius, N. Gisin
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 043402 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3537
abstract: Erbium doped solids are potential candidates for the realization of a quantum memory for photons at telecommunication wavelengths. The implementation of quantum memory proposals in rare earth ion doped solids require spectral tailoring of the inhomogeneous absorption profile by efficient population transfer between ground state levels (spin polarization) using optical pumping. In this article we investigate the limiting factors of efficient optical pumping between ground state Zeeman levels in an erbium doped Y2SiO5 crystal. We introduce two methods to overcome these limiting factors: stimulated emission using a second laser and spin mixing using radio frequency excitation. Both methods significantly improve the degree of spin polarization. Population transfer between two Zeeman levels with less than 10 % of the total population in the initial ground state is achieved, corresponding to a spin polarization greater than 90 %. In addition, we demonstrate spectral tailoring by isolating a narrow absorption peak within a large transparency window.

id: 0808.3538
title: Long-distance atom-photon entanglement
authors: W. Rosenfeld, F. Hocke, F. Henkel, M. Krug, J. Volz, M. Weber, H. Weinfurter
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3538
abstract: We report the observation of entanglement between a single trapped atom and a single photon at remote locations. The degree of coherence of the entangled atom-photon pair is verified via appropriate local correlation measurements, after communicating the photon via an optical fiber link of 300 m length. In addition we measured the temporal evolution of the atomic density matrix after projecting the atom via a state measurement of the photon onto several well defined spin states. We find that the state of the single atom dephases on a timescale of 150 $\mu$s, which represents an important step toward long-distance quantum networking with individual neutral atoms.

id: 0808.3539
title: On the Thermodynamic Origin of the Quantum Potential
authors: Gerhard Groessing
comments: 32 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physica A 388 (2009) 811-823
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3539
abstract: The quantum potential is shown to result from the presence of a subtle thermal vacuum energy distributed across the whole domain of an experimental setup. Explicitly, its form is demonstrated to be exactly identical to the heat distribution derived from the defining equation for classical diffusion-wave fields. For a single free particle path, this thermal energy does not significantly affect particle motion. However, in between different paths, or at interfaces, the accumulation-depletion law for diffusion waves provides an immediate new understanding of the quantum potential's main features.

id: 0808.3581
title: Supersonic quantum communication
authors: J. Eisert, D. Gross
comments: 4+3 pages, 1 figure, some material added, typographic error fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 240501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3581
abstract: When locally exciting a quantum lattice model, the excitation will propagate through the lattice. The effect is responsible for a wealth of non-equilibrium phenomena, and has been exploited to transmit quantum information through spin chains. It is a commonly expressed belief that for local Hamiltonians, any such propagation happens at a finite "speed of sound". Indeed, the Lieb-Robinson theorem states that in spin models, all effects caused by a perturbation are limited to a causal cone defined by a constant speed, up to exponentially small corrections. In this work we show that for translationally invariant bosonic models with nearest-neighbor interactions, this belief is incorrect: We prove that one can encounter excitations which accelerate under the natural dynamics of the lattice and allow for reliable transmission of information faster than any finite speed of sound. The effect is only limited by the model's range of validity (eventually by relativity). It also implies that in non-equilibrium dynamics of strongly correlated bosonic models far-away regions may become quickly entangled, suggesting that their simulation may be much harder than that of spin chains even in the low energy sector.

id: 0808.3597
title: Generalized Circulant Densities and a Sufficient Condition for Separability
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Arthur O. Pittenger
comments: 15 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 385301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3597
abstract: In a series of papers with Kossakowski, the first author has examined properties of densities for which the positive partial transpositrionm (PPT) property can be readily checked. These densities were also investigated from a different perspective by Baumgartner, Hiesmayr and Narnhofer. In this paper we show how the support of such densities can be expressed in terms of lines in a finite geometry and how that same structure lends itself to checking the necessary PPT condition and to a novel sufficient condition for separability.

id: 0808.3603
title: Heralded single-magnon quantum memory for photon polarization states
authors: Haruka Tanji, Saikat Ghosh, Jonathan Simon, Benjamin Bloom, Vladan Vuleti?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3603
abstract: We demonstrate a heralded quantum memory based on mapping of a photon polarization state onto a single collective-spin excitation (magnon) shared between two spatially overlapped atomic ensembles. The polarization fidelity is measured by quantum state tomography to be above 90(2)% for any input polarization, which far exceeds the classical limit of 2/3. The process also constitutes a quantum non-destructive probe that detects and regenerates a photon without touching its - potentially undetermined - polarization.

id: 0808.3618
title: A standard Hamiltonian formulation for the dynamical Casimir effect
authors: Toru Kawakubo, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3618
abstract: We present a quantum description of photon creation via dynamical Casimir effect based on the standard Hamiltonian formulation. The particle representation is constructed in the expansion of field operators fixed with the initial modes. The Hamiltonian is presented in terms of the creation and annihilation operators with the time-varying couplings which originate from the external properties such as an oscillating boundary or a plasma mirror of a semiconductor slab. Some consideration is also made for the experimental realization with a semiconductor plasma mirror.

id: 0808.3638
title: Incoherence induced sign change in noise cross-correlations: A case study in the full counting statistics of a pure spin pump
authors: Colin Benjamin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3638
abstract: The full counting statistics of a non adiabatic pure spin pump are calculated with particular emphasis on the second and third moments. We show that incoherence can change the sign of spin shot noise cross-correlations from negative to positive, implying entanglement for spin-singlet electronic sources, a truly counterintuitive result. The third moment on the other hand is shown to be much more resilient to incoherence.

id: 0808.3655
title: Entanglement in doped Resonating Valence Bond states
authors: Ravishankar Ramanathan, Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Marcin Wiesniak, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 224513 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3655
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of resonating valence bond states on a two dimensional lattice in the presence of dopants that remove electrons from the lattice creating "holes". The movement of the holes generated by the Hubbard Hamiltonian in the regime of strong Coloumb repulsion in this setting could be responsible for the phenomenon of high temperature superconductivity as hypothesised by Anderson in Science {\bf 235}, 1196, (1987). We argue that there is a particular density of dopants (holes) where the entanglement contained in the lattice attains its maximal value for the nearest-neighbour RVB liquid state.

id: 0808.3678
title: Entanglement control in one-dimensional $s=1/2$ random XY spin chain
authors: C. J. Shan, W. W. Cheng, T. K. Liu, Y. X. Huang, H. Li
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chinese Physics B 2008 17(3): 0794-07
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3678
abstract: The entanglement in one-dimensional random XY spin systems where the impurities of exchange couplings and the external magnetic fields are considered as random variables is investigated by solving the different spin-spin correlation functions and the average magnetization per spin. The entanglement dynamics near particular locations of the system is also studied when the exchange couplings (or the external magnetic fields) satisfy three different distributions(the Gaussian distribution, double-Gaussian distribution, and bimodal distribution). We find that the entanglement can be controlled by varying the strength of external magnetic field and the different distributions of impurities. Moreover, the entanglement of some nearest-neighboring qubits can be increased for certain parameter values of the three different distributions.

id: 0808.3682
title: The entanglement in one-dimensional random XY spin chain with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction
authors: C.J.Shan, W.W.Cheng, T.K.Liu, Y.X.Huang, H.Li
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: CHIN.PHYS.LETT. 2008 25(3): 817
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3682
abstract: The impurities of exchange couplings, external magnetic fields and Dzyaloshinskii--Moriya (DM) interaction considered as Gaussian distribution, the entanglement in one-dimensional random $XY$ spin systems is investigated by the method of solving the different spin-spin correlation functions and the average magnetization per spin. The entanglement dynamics at central locations of ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic chains have been studied by varying the three impurities and the strength of DM interaction. (i) For ferromagnetic spin chain, the weak DM interaction can improve the amount of entanglement to a large value, and the impurities have the opposite effect on the entanglement below and above critical DM interaction. (ii) For antiferromagnetic spin chain, DM interaction can enhance the entanglement to a steady value. Our results imply that DM interaction strength, the impurity and exchange couplings (or magnetic field) play competing roles in enhancing quantum entanglement.

id: 0808.3686
title: Entanglement and quantum phase transition in alternating XY spin chain with next-nearest neighbour interactions
authors: C. J. Shan, W. W. Cheng, T. K. Liu, Y. X. Huang, H. Li
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures,. accepted by Chinese Physics B 2008 11 (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3686
abstract: By using the method of density-matrix renormalization-group to solve the different spin-spin correlation functions, the nearest-neighbouring entanglement(NNE) and next-nearest-neighbouring entanglement(NNNE) of one-dimensional alternating Heisenberg XY spin chain is investigated in the presence of alternating nearest neighbour interactions of exchange couplings, external magnetic fields and next-nearest neighbouring interactions. For dimerized ferromagnetic spin chain, NNNE appears only above the critical dimerized interaction, meanwhile, the dimerized interaction effects quantum phase transition point and improves NNNE to a large value. We also study the effect of ferromagnetic or antiferromagnetic next-nearest neighboring (NNN) interactions on the dynamics of NNE and NNNE. The ferromagnetic NNN interaction increases and shrinks NNE below and above critical frustrated interaction respectively, while the antiferromagnetic NNN interaction always decreases NNE. The antiferromagnetic NNN interaction results to a larger value of NNNE in comparison to the case when the NNN interaction is ferromagnetic.

id: 0808.3690
title: Entanglement dynamics of two-qubit system in different types of noisy channels
authors: C. J. Shan, J. B. Liu, W. W. Cheng, T. K. Liu, Y. X. Huang, H. Li
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3690
abstract: In this paper, we study entanglement dynamics of a two-qubit extended Werner-like state locally interacting with independent noisy channels, i.e., amplitude damping, phase damping and depolarizing channels. We show that the purity of initial entangled state has direct impacts on the entanglement robustness in each noisy channel. That is, if the initial entangled state is prepared in mixed instead of pure form, the state may exhibit entanglement sudden death (ESD) and/or be decreased for the critical probability at which the entanglement disappear.

id: 0808.3699
title: Difficulties with Collapse Interpretations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3699
abstract: Quantum mechanics gives many versions of reality but we perceive only one. One potential explanation for this, the one considered here, is that the wave function collapses down to just one version. The experimental situation is briefly reviewed, with no evidence found for collapse. The theoretical position is also reviewed and found wanting. Collapse-by-observation schemes are logically untenable. A mathematical theory of collapse must be nonlinear, a significant departure from current quantum theory. In addition, the primary candidate theory, the GRW-Pearle model, requires instantaneous, non-local transmission of information. It also requires transmission of information across versions of reality, which is forbidden in current quantum mechanics. And there is no apparent physical quantity, such as particle number, that can provide the mechanism for collapse in all cases. Further, these aspects, which are in disagreement with current theory, seem to be necessary for any mathematical theory of collapse. The conclusion is that the outlook for mathematical collapse schemes is not encouraging.

id: 0808.3709
title: Entanglement dynamics and Bell Violations of two atoms in Tavis-Cummings model with phase decoherence
authors: C. J. Shan, W. W. Cheng, T. K. Liu, D. J. Guo, Y. J. Xia
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures
journal: Commun.Theor.Phys. 49(1) 2008 1505-1514
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3709
abstract: Considering the dipole-dipole coupling intensity between two atoms and the field in the Fock state, the entanglement dynamics between two atoms that are initially entangled in the system of two two-level atoms coupled to a single mode cavity in the presence of phase decoherence has been investigated. The two-atom entanglement appears with periodicity without considering phase decoherence, however, the phase decoherence causes the decay of entanglement between two atoms, with the increasing of the phase decoherence coefficient, the entanglement will quickly become a constant value, which is affected by the two-atom initial state, Meanwhile the two-atom quantum state will forever stay in the maximal entangled state when the initial state is proper even in the presence of phase decoherence. On the other hand, the Bell violation and the entanglement does not satisfy the monotonous relation, a large Bell violation implies the presence of a large amount of entanglement under certain conditions, while a large Bell violation corresponding to a little amount of entanglement in certain situations. However, the violation of Bell-CHSH inequality can reach the maximal value if two atoms are in the maximal entangled state, or vice versa.

id: 0808.3720
title: Light-matter excitations in the ultra-strong coupling regime
authors: Aji A. Anappara, Simone De Liberato, Alessandro Tredicucci, Cristiano Ciuti, Giorgio Biasiol, Lucia Sorba, Fabio Beltram
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 79 (2009) 201303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3720
abstract: In a microcavity, light-matter coupling is quantified by the vacuum Rabi frequency $\Omega_R$. When $\Omega_R$ is larger than radiative and non-radiative loss rates, the system eigenstates (polaritons) are linear superposition of photonic and electronic excitations, a condition actively investigated in diverse physical implementations. Recently, a quantum electrodynamic regime (ultra-strong coupling) was predicted when $\Omega_R$ becomes comparable to the transition frequency. Here we report unambiguous signatures of this regime in a quantum-well intersubband microcavity. Measuring the cavity-polariton dispersion in a room-temperature linear optical experiment, we directly observe the anti-resonant light-matter coupling and the photon-energy renormalization of the vacuum field.

id: 0808.3754
title: Thermal Casimir effect in ideal metal rectangular boxes
authors: B. Geyer, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Europ. Phys. J. C
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C57:823-834,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3754
abstract: The thermal Casimir effect in ideal metal rectangular boxes is considered using the method of zeta functional regularization. The renormalization procedure is suggested which provides the finite expression for the Casimir free energy in any restricted quantization volume. This expression satisfies the classical limit at high temperature and leads to zero thermal Casimir force for systems with infinite characteristic dimensions. In the case of two parallel ideal metal planes the results, as derived previously using thermal quantum field theory in Matsubara formulation and other methods, are reproduced starting from the obtained expression. It is shown that for rectangular boxes the temperature-dependent contribution to the electromagnetic Casimir force can be both positive and negative depending on side lengths. The numerical computations of the scalar and electromagnetic Casimir free energy and force are performed for cubes

id: 0808.3758
title: Parameters of Pseudo-Random Quantum Circuits
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, Winton G. Brown, Lorenza Viola
comments: 17 pages, 14 figures, 2 Appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052332 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3758
abstract: Pseudorandom circuits generate quantum states and unitary operators which are approximately distributed according to the unitarily invariant Haar measure. We explore how several design parameters affect the efficiency of pseudo-random circuits, with the goal of identifying relevant trade-offs and optimizing convergence. The parameters we explore include the choice of single- and two-qubit gates, the topology of the underlying physical qubit architecture, the probabilistic application of two-qubit gates, as well as circuit size, initialization, and the effect of control constraints. Building on the equivalence between pseudo-random circuits and approximate $t$-designs, a Markov matrix approach is employed to analyze asymptotic convergence properties of pseudo-random second-order moments to a 2-design. Quantitative results on the convergence rate as a function of the circuit size are presented for qubit topologies with a sufficient degree of symmetry. Our results may be theoretically and practically useful to optimize the efficiency of random state and operator generation.

id: 0808.3773
title: Area laws for the entanglement entropy - a review
authors: J. Eisert, M. Cramer, M.B. Plenio
comments: 28 pages, 2 figures, final version
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 82, 277 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3773
abstract: Physical interactions in quantum many-body systems are typically local: Individual constituents interact mainly with their few nearest neighbors. This locality of interactions is inherited by a decay of correlation functions, but also reflected by scaling laws of a quite profound quantity: The entanglement entropy of ground states. This entropy of the reduced state of a subregion often merely grows like the boundary area of the subregion, and not like its volume, in sharp contrast with an expected extensive behavior. Such "area laws" for the entanglement entropy and related quantities have received considerable attention in recent years. They emerge in several seemingly unrelated fields, in the context of black hole physics, quantum information science, and quantum many-body physics where they have important implications on the numerical simulation of lattice models. In this Colloquium we review the current status of area laws in these fields. Center stage is taken by rigorous results on lattice models in one and higher spatial dimensions. The differences and similarities between bosonic and fermionic models are stressed, area laws are related to the velocity of information propagation, and disordered systems, non-equilibrium situations, classical correlation concepts, and topological entanglement entropies are discussed. A significant proportion of the article is devoted to the quantitative connection between the entanglement content of states and the possibility of their efficient numerical simulation. We discuss matrix-product states, higher-dimensional analogues, and states from entanglement renormalization and conclude by highlighting the implications of area laws on quantifying the effective degrees of freedom that need to be considered in simulations.

id: 0808.3819
title: Towards a definition of quantum integrability
authors: J. Clemente-Gallardo, G. Marmo
comments: 37 pages, AmsLatex, 1 figure
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.6:129-172,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3819
abstract: We briefly review the most relevant aspects of complete integrability for classical systems and identify those aspects which should be present in a definition of quantum integrability. We show that a naive extension of classical concepts to the quantum framework would not work because all infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces are unitarily isomorphic and, as a consequence, it would not be easy to define degrees of freedom. We argue that a geometrical formulation of quantum mechanics might provide a way out.

id: 0808.3824
title: Scaling law and stability for a noisy quantum system
authors: Mark Sadgrove, Sandro Wimberger, Scott Parkins, Rainer Leonhardt
comments: Published in Physical Review E (Rapid Comm.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3824
abstract: We show that a scaling law exists for the near resonant dynamics of cold kicked atoms in the presence of a randomly fluctuating pulse amplitude. Analysis of a quasi-classical phase-space representation of the quantum system with noise allows a new scaling law to be deduced. The scaling law and associated stability are confirmed by comparison with quantum simulations and experimental data.

id: 0808.3844
title: Optimal State Discrimination in General Probabilistic Theories
authors: Gen Kimura, Takayuki Miyadera, Hideki Imai
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062306 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3844
abstract: We investigate a state discrimination problem in operationally the most general framework to use a probability, including both classical, quantum theories, and more. In this wide framework, introducing closely related family of ensembles (which we call a {\it Helstrom family of ensembles}) with the problem, we provide a geometrical method to find an optimal measurement for state discrimination by means of Bayesian strategy. We illustrate our method in 2-level quantum systems and in a probabilistic model with square-state space to reproduce e.g., the optimal success probabilities for binary state discrimination and $N$ numbers of symmetric quantum states. The existences of families of ensembles in binary cases are shown both in classical and quantum theories in any generic cases.

id: 0808.3849
title: Three-Qubit Operators, the Split Cayley Hexagon of Order Two and Black Holes
authors: Peter Levay, Metod Saniga, Peter Vrana
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables; Version 2: an equation and a short paragraph added (Sec. 6), notation and nomenclature slightly polished
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:124022,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3849
abstract: The set of 63 real generalized Pauli matrices of three-qubits can be factored into two subsets of 35 symmetric and 28 antisymmetric elements. This splitting is shown to be completely embodied in the properties of the Fano plane; the elements of the former set being in a bijective correspondence with the 7 points, 7 lines and 21 flags, whereas those of the latter set having their counterparts in 28 anti-flags of the plane. This representation naturally extends to the one in terms of the split Cayley hexagon of order two. 63 points of the hexagon split into 9 orbits of 7 points (operators) each under the action of an automorphism of order 7. 63 lines of the hexagon carry three points each and represent the triples of operators such that the product of any two gives, up to a sign, the third one. Since this hexagon admits a full embedding in a projective 5-space over GF(2), the 35 symmetric operators are also found to answer to the points of a Klein quadric in such space. The 28 antisymmetric matrices can be associated with the 28 vertices of the Coxeter graph, one of two distinguished subgraphs of the hexagon. The PSL_{2}(7) subgroup of the automorphism group of the hexagon is discussed in detail and the Coxeter sub-geometry is found to be intricately related to the E_7-symmetric black-hole entropy formula in string theory. It is also conjectured that the full geometry/symmetry of the hexagon should manifest itself in the corresponding black-hole solutions. Finally, an intriguing analogy with the case of Hopf sphere fibrations and a link with coding theory are briefly mentioned.

id: 0808.3851
title: Repeatable quantum memory channels
authors: Tomas Rybar, M¨¢rio Ziman
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052114 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3851
abstract: Within the framework of quantum memory channels we introduce the notion of repeatability of quantum channels. In particular, a quantum channel is called repeatable if there exist a memory device implementing the same channel on each individual input. We show that random unitary channels can be implemented in a repeatable fashion, whereas the nonunital channels cannot.

id: 0808.3858
title: Hyperbolic Deformation on Quantum Lattice Hamiltonians
authors: Hiroshi Ueda, Tomotoshi Nishino
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Phys.Soc.Jap.78:014001,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3858
abstract: A group of non-uniform quantum lattice Hamiltonians in one dimension is introduced, which is related to the hyperbolic $1 + 1$-dimensional space. The Hamiltonians contain only nearest neighbor interactions whose strength is proportional to $\cosh j \lambda$, where $j$ is the lattice index and where $\lambda \ge 0$ is a deformation parameter. In the limit $\lambda \to 0$ the Hamiltonians become uniform. Spacial translation of the deformed Hamiltonians is induced by the corner Hamiltonians. As a simple example, we investigate the ground state of the deformed $S = 1/2$ Heisenberg spin chain by use of the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) method. It is shown that the ground state is dimerized when $\lambda$ is finite. Spin correlation function show exponential decay, and the boundary effect decreases with increasing $\lambda$.

id: 0808.3862
title: Multipartite Entanglement and Global Information
authors: C. Kruszynska, B. Kraus
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3862
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of pure quantum states describing $n$ qubits. We characterize all multipartite states which can be maximally entangled to local auxiliary systems using controlled operations. A state has this property iff one can construct out of it an orthonormal basis by applying independent local unitary operations. This implies that those states can be used to encode locally the maximum amount of $n$ bits. Examples of these states are the so--called stabilizer states, which are used for quantum error correction and one--way quantum computing. We give a simple characterization of these states and construct a complete set of commuting unitary observables which characterize the state uniquely. Furthermore we show how these states can be prepared and discuss their applications.

id: 0808.3880
title: The security of Ping-Pong protocol
authors: Jian-Chuan Tan, An Min Wang
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3880
abstract: Ping-Pong protocol is a type of quantum key distribution which makes use of two entangled photons in the EPR state. Its security is based on the randomization of the operations that Alice performs on the travel photon (qubit), and on the anti-correlation between the two photons in the EPR state. In this paper, we study the security of this protocol against some known quantum attacks, and present a scheme that may enhance its security to some degree.

id: 0808.3911
title: Simulability and regularity of complex quantum systems
authors: Hannah Venzl, Andrew J. Daley, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3911
abstract: We show that the transition from regular to chaotic spectral statistics in interacting many-body quantum systems has an unambiguous signature in the distribution of Schmidt coefficients dynamically generated from a generic initial state, and thus limits the efficiency of the t-DMRG algorithm.

id: 0808.3931
title: Radio-frequency induced ground state degeneracy in a Chromium Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Q. Beaufils, T. Zanon, R. Chicireanu, B. Laburthe-Tolra, E. Marechal, L. Vernac, J.-C. Keller, O. Gorceix
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3931
abstract: We study the effect of strong radio-frequency (rf) fields on a chromium Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC), in a regime where the rf frequency is much larger than the Larmor frequency. We use the modification of the Land\'{e} factor by the rf field to bring all Zeeman states to degeneracy, despite the presence of a static magnetic field of up to 100 mG. This is demonstrated by analyzing the trajectories of the atoms under the influence of dressed magnetic potentials in the strong field regime. We investigate the problem of adiabaticity of the rf dressing process, and relate it to how close the dressed states are to degeneracy. Finally, we measure the lifetime of the rf dressed BECs, and identify a new rf-assisted two-body loss process induced by dipole-dipole interactions.

id: 0808.3932
title: Nonlinear transmission through a tapered fiber in rubidium vapor
authors: S.M. Hendrickson, T.B. Pittman, J.D. Franson
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: JOSA B 26, 267 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3932
abstract: Sub-wavelength diameter tapered optical fibers surrounded by rubidium vapor can undergo a substantial decrease in transmission at high atomic densities due to the accumulation of rubidium atoms on the surface of the fiber. Here we demonstrate the ability to control these changes in transmission using light guided within the taper. We observe transmission through a tapered fiber that is a nonlinear function of the incident power. This effect can also allow a strong control beam to change the transmission of a weak probe beam.

id: 0808.3960
title: A lower bound on the dimension of a quantum system given measured data
authors: Stephanie Wehner, Matthias Christandl, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 8 pages, revtex, v2: improved presentation. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 78, 062112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3960
abstract: We imagine an experiment on an unknown quantum mechanical system in which the system is prepared in various ways and a range of measurements are performed. For each measurement M and preparation rho the experimenter can determine, given enough time, the probability of a given outcome a: p(a|M,rho). How large does the Hilbert space of the quantum system have to be in order to allow us to find density matrices and measurement operators that will reproduce the given probability distribution? In this note, we prove a simple lower bound for the dimension of the Hilbert space. The main insight is to relate this problem to the construction of quantum random access codes, for which interesting bounds on Hilbert space dimension already exist. We discuss several applications of our result to hidden variable, or ontological models, to Bell inequalities and to properties of the smooth min-entropy.

id: 0808.3966
title: On the Direction of Casimir Forces
authors: Martin Schaden
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 102, 060402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3966
abstract: The Casimir force due to a massless scalar field satisfying Dirichlet boundary conditions may attract or repel a piston in the neck of a flask-like container. Using the world-line formalism this behavior is related to the competing contribution to the interaction energy of two types of Brownian bridges. It qualitatively is also expected from attractive long-range two-body forces between constituents of the boundary. A geometric subtraction scheme is presented that avoids divergent contributions to the interaction energy and classifies the Brownian bridges that contribute to the force. These are all of finite length and the Casimir force can be analyzed and in principle accurately computed without resorting to regularization or analytic continuation. The world-line analysis is robust with respect to variations in the shape of the piston and the flask and the analogy with long-range forces suggests that neutral atoms and particles are also drawn into open-ended pipes (or nano-tubes) by Casimir forces of electromagnetic origin.

id: 0808.3973
title: Randomized benchmarking of single and multi-qubit control in liquid-state NMR quantum information processing
authors: C. A. Ryan, M. Laforest, R. Laflamme
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, submitted version
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 013034
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3973
abstract: Being able to quantify the level of coherent control in a proposed device implementing a quantum information processor (QIP) is an important task for both comparing different devices and assessing a device's prospects with regards to achieving fault-tolerant quantum control. We implement in a liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance QIP the randomized benchmarking protocol presented by Knill et al (PRA 77: 012307 (2008)). We report an error per randomized $\frac{\pi}{2}$ pulse of $1.3 \pm 0.1 \times 10^{-4}$ with a single qubit QIP and show an experimentally relevant error model where the randomized benchmarking gives a signature fidelity decay which is not possible to interpret as a single error per gate. We explore and experimentally investigate multi-qubit extensions of this protocol and report an average error rate for one and two qubit gates of $4.7 \pm 0.3 \times 10^{-3}$ for a three qubit QIP. We estimate that these error rates are still not decoherence limited and thus can be improved with modifications to the control hardware and software.

id: 0808.3976
title: Interacting particles in two dimensions: numerical solution of the four-dimensional Schr?dinger equation in a hypercube
authors: Andras Vanyolos, Gabor Varga
comments: 44 pages, 28 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3976
abstract: We study numerically the Coulomb interacting two-particle stationary states of the Schr\"odinger equation, where the particles are confined in a two-dimensional infinite square well. Inside the domain the particles are subjected to a steeply increasing isotropic harmonic potential, resembling that in a nucleus. For these circumstances we have developed a fully discretized finite difference method of the Numerov-type that approximates the four-dimensional Laplace operator, and thus the whole Schr\"odinger equation, with a local truncation error of $\mathcal{O}(h^6)$, with $h$ being the uniform step size. The method is built on a 89-point central difference scheme in the four-dimensional grid. As expected from the general theorem by Keller [Num.\ Math. \textbf{7}, 412 (1965)], the error of eigenvalues so obtained are found to be the same order of magnitude which we have proved analytically as well.

id: 0808.4000
title: Precision and Casimir Force Measurements in Superfluid and Vacuum with Silicon Nitride Membranes
authors: Steve Lamoreaux
comments: six pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.4000
abstract: The recent discovery that silicon nitride membranes can be used as extremely high Q mechanical resonators makes possible a number of novel experiments, which include improved long range vacuum Casimir force measurements, and measurments of the properties of liquid helium below the lambda point. It is noted that in the thermal correction to the Casimir force, the phase velocity of the excitations does not enter, with the force per unit area between parallel plates depending only on the temperature and distance between the plates. Thus it appears as possible to measure the phonon analog of the finite temperature Casimir force in liquid helium.

id: 0808.4045
title: Role of Three-Qubit Mixed-States Entanglement in Teleportation Scheme
authors: DaeKil Park, Sayatnova Tamaryan, Jin-Woo Son
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.4045
abstract: The bipartite quantum teleportation with a three-qubit mixture of GHZ and W states as a quantum channel is discussed. When the quantum channel is a mixed state consisting of the GHZ state plus small perturbed W state, the entanglement of the channel becomes zero when the average fidelity $\bar{F}_{GHZ}$ is less than 0.775. This means that the mixed state cannot play an any role as a quantum channel at $\bar{F}_{GHZ} \leq 0.775$. For the case of the mixed state consisting of the W state plus small perturbed GHZ state it turn out that this mixed state cannot play a role as a quantum channel at $\bar{F}_W \leq 0.833$.

id: 0808.4098
title: State reduction dynamics in a simplified QED model
authors: D. J. Bedingham
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.4098
abstract: A simplified model of quantum electrodynamics involving a charged two-state system interacting with an electromagnetic field mode is examined. By extending the Schrodinger equation to include stochastic and nonlinear terms the dynamical process of quantum state reduction can be represented. A specific choice of modified Schrodinger dynamics is shown to result in stable coherent field states. The two-state system undergoes an induced state reduction to a generalised current state due to its interaction with the field mode. Numerical results are presented demonstrating state reduction dynamics for an initial superposition of two current states. An induced reduction time-scale for the two-state system is derived and confirmed by the numerics.

id: 0808.4140
title: Fidelity approach to the disordered quantum XY model
authors: Silvano Garnerone, N. Tobias Jacobson, Stephan Haas, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 057205 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.4140
abstract: We study the random XY spin chain in a transverse field by analyzing the susceptibility of the ground state fidelity, numerically evaluated through a standard mapping of the model onto quasi-free fermions. It is found that the fidelity susceptibility and its scaling properties provide useful information about the phase diagram. In particular it is possible to determine the Ising critical line and the Griffiths phase regions, in agreement with previous analytical and numerical results.

id: 0808.0112
title: Mathematical Structure of Quantum Decision Theory
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: 40 pages
journal: Advances in Complex Systems 13, 659-698 (2010)
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0112
abstract: One of the most complex systems is the human brain whose formalized functioning is characterized by decision theory. We present a "Quantum Decision Theory" of decision making, based on the mathematical theory of separable Hilbert spaces. This mathematical structure captures the effect of superposition of composite prospects, including many incorporated intentions, which allows us to explain a variety of interesting fallacies and anomalies that have been reported to particularize the decision making of real human beings. The theory describes entangled decision making, non-commutativity of subsequent decisions, and intention interference of composite prospects. We demonstrate how the violation of the Savage's sure-thing principle (disjunction effect) can be explained as a result of the interference of intentions, when making decisions under uncertainty. The conjunction fallacy is also explained by the presence of the interference terms. We demonstrate that all known anomalies and paradoxes, documented in the context of classical decision theory, are reducible to just a few mathematical archetypes, all of which finding straightforward explanations in the frame of the developed quantum approach.

id: 0808.0402
title: Space versus Time: Unimodular versus Non-Unimodular Projective Ring Geometries?
authors: Metod Saniga, Petr Pracna
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, 3 tables; presented at "The Clock and the Quantum: Time in Quantum Foundations", held at the Perimeter Institute (Waterloo, Canada), September 28 - October 2, 2008; v2 - version to appear in the Journal of Cosmology
journal: Journal of Cosmology 4 (2010) 719-735
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0402
abstract: Finite projective (lattice) geometries defined over rings instead of fields have recently been recognized to be of great importance for quantum information theory. We believe that there is much more potential hidden in these geometries to be unleashed for physics. There exist specific rings over which the projective spaces feature two principally distinct kinds of basic constituents (points and/or higher-rank linear subspaces), intricately interwoven with each other -- unimodular and non-unimodular. We conjecture that these two projective "degrees of freedom" can rudimentary be associated with spatial and temporal dimensions of physics, respectively. Our hypothesis is illustrated on the projective line over the smallest ring of ternions. Both the fundamental difference and intricate connection between time and space are demonstrated, and even the ring geometrical germs of the observed macroscopic dimensionality (3+1) of space-time and the arrow of time are outlined. Some other conceptual implications of this speculative model (like a hierarchical structure of physical systems) are also mentioned.

id: 0808.0575
title: Exceptional points in quantum and classical dynamics
authors: A.V. Smilga
comments: References added. Final version to be published in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A42:095301,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0575
abstract: We notice that, when a quantum system involves exceptional points, i.e. the special values of parameters where the Hamiltonian loses its self-adjointness and acquires the Jordan block structure, the corresponding classical system also exhibits a singular behaviour associated with restructuring of classical trajectories. The system with the crypto-Hermitian Hamiltonian H = (p^2+z^2)/2 -igz^5 and hyper-ellictic classical dynamics is studied in details. Analogies with supersymmetric Yang-Mills dynamics are elucidated.

id: 0808.0666
title: Density Matrix Renormalization Group in the Heisenberg Picture
authors: Michael J. Hartmann, Javier Prior, Stephen R. Clark, Martin B. Plenio
comments: version to appear in PRL, acronyms in title and abstract expanded, new improved numerical examples
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 057202 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0666
abstract: In some cases the state of a quantum system with a large number of subsystems can be approximated efficiently by the density matrix renormalization group, which makes use of redundancies in the description of the state. Here we show that the achievable efficiency can be much better when performing density matrix renormalization group calculations in the Heisenberg picture, as only the observable of interest but not the entire state is considered. In some non-trivial cases, this approach can even be exact for finite bond dimensions.

id: 0808.0722
title: Insufficiency of the Quantum State for Deducing Observational Probabilities
authors: Don N. Page
comments: 4 pages, LaTeX, minor changes made in response to the referee's comments
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0722
abstract: It is usually assumed that the quantum state is sufficient for deducing all probabilities for a system. This may be true when there is a single observer, but it is not true in a universe large enough that there are many copies of an observer. Then the probability of an observation cannot be deduced simply from the quantum state (say as the expectation value of the projection operator for the observation, as in traditional quantum theory). One needs additional rules to get the probabilities. What these rules are is not logically deducible from the quantum state, so the quantum state itself is insufficient for deducing observational probabilities. This is the measure problem of cosmology.

id: 0808.0815
title: Quantum response to time-dependent external fields
authors: Seiji Miyashita, Shu Tanaka, Hans De Raedt, Bernard Barbara
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, Proceedings of International Workshop on Statistical-Mechanical Informatics 2008
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 143 012005 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0815
abstract: Recently, explicit real time dynamics has been studied in various systems. These quantum mechanical dynamics could provide new recipes in information processing. We study quantum dynamics under time dependent external fields, and explore how to control the quantum state, and also how to bring the state into a target state. Here, we investigate a pure quantum mechanical dynamics, dynamics in quantum Monte Carlo simulation and also in quantum master equation. For the control magnetic states, operators which do not commute with magnetization are important. We study case of the transverse Ising model, in which we compare natures of thermal and quantum fluctuations. We also study the cases of the Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction, where we find a peculiar energy level structure. Moreover we study the case of itinerant magnetic state, where we study the change from the Mott insulator to the Nagaoka ferromagnetic state. Effects of dissipation are also discussed.

id: 0808.0862
title: Four-Wave Mixing in Ultracold Atoms using Intermediate Rydberg States
authors: E. Brekke, J. O. Day, T. G. Walker
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063830 (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0862
abstract: Ultracold Rb atoms were used to demonstrate non-degenerate four-wave mixing through a Rydberg state. Continuous 5S-5P-nD two-photon excitation to the Rydberg state was combined with an nD-6P tuned laser in a phase matched geometry. The angular dependence, spatial profile, and dependence on detuning were investigated, showing good agreement with theory. Under optimum conditions 50 percent of the radiation was emitted into the phase-matched direction.

id: 0808.0937
title: Derivation of effective field theories
authors: Dimo I. Uzunov
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. E78 (2008) 041122.
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0937
abstract: A general self-consistency approach allows a thorough treatment of the corrections to the mean-field approximation (MFA). The natural extension of standard MFA with the help of a cumulant expansion leads to a new point of view on the effective field theories. The proposed approach can be used for a systematic treatment of fluctuation effects of various length scales and, perhaps, for the development of a new coarse graining procedure. We outline and justify our method by some preliminary calculations. Results are given for the critical temperature and the Landau parameters of the $\phi^4$-theory -- the field counterpart of the Ising model. An important unresolved problem of the modern theory of phase transitions -- the problem for the calculation of the true critical temperature, is considered within the framework of the present approach. A comprehensive description of the ground state properties of many-body systems is also demonstrated.

id: 0808.0939
title: On the phase diagrams of the ferromagnetic superconductors ZrZn2 and UGe2
authors: Michael G. Cottam, Diana V. Shopova, Dimo I. Uzunov
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; typos and minor mistakes has been removed
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373 (2008) 152-155
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0939
abstract: A general phenomenological theory is presented for the phase behavior of ferromagnetic superconductors with spin-triplet electron Cooper pairing. The theory accounts in detail for the temperature-pressure phase diagram of ZrZn$_2$, while the main features of the diagram for UGe$_2$ are also described. Quantitative criteria are deduced for the U-type (type I) and Zr-type (type II) unconventional ferromagnetic superconductors with spin-triplet Cooper electron pairing. Some basic properties of quantum phase transitions are also elucidated.

id: 0808.1035
title: Global One-Dimensionality conjecture within Quantum General Relativity
authors: L. A. Glinka
comments: 16 pages, no figures, to appear in Gravitation and Cosmology
journal: Grav. Cosmol.16:7-15,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1035
abstract: The simple quantum gravity model, based on a new conjecture within the canonically quantized 3+1 general relativity, is presented. The conjecture states that matter fields are functionals of an embedding volume form only, and reduces the quantum geometrodynamics. By dimensional reduction the resulting theory is presented in the form of the Dirac equation, and application of the Fock quantization with the diagonalization procedure yields construction of the appropriate quantum field theory. The 1D wave function is derived, the corresponding 3-dimensional manifolds are discussed, and physical scales are associated with quantum correlations.

id: 0808.1079
title: Chern-Simons theory, exactly solvable models and free fermions at finite temperature
authors: Miguel Tierz
comments: 19 pages, v2: references added
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A24:3157-3171,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1079
abstract: We show that matrix models in Chern-Simons theory admit an interpretation as 1D exactly solvable models, paralleling the relationship between the Gaussian matrix model and the Calogero model. We compute the corresponding Hamiltonians, ground-state wavefunctions and ground-state energies and point out that the models can be interpreted as quasi-1D Coulomb plasmas. We also study the relationship between Chern-Simons theory on $S^3$ and a system of N one-dimensional fermions at finite temperature with harmonic confinement. In particular we show that the Chern-Simons partition function can be described by the density matrix of the free fermions in a very particular, crystalline, configuration. For this, we both use the Brownian motion and the matrix model description of Chern-Simons theory and find several common features with c=1 theory at finite temperature. Finally, using the exactly solvable model result, we show that the finite temperature effect can be described with a specific two-body interaction term in the Hamiltonian, with 1D Coulombic behavior at large separations.

id: 0808.1169
title: Fano-like Anti-resonances in Nanomechanical and Optomechanical Systems
authors: D. A. Rodrigues
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Ref. Lett., 102, 067202 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1169
abstract: We study a resonator coupled to a generic detector and calculate the noise spectra of the two sub-systems. We describe the coupled system by a closed, linear, set of Langevin equations and derive a general form for the finite frequency noise of both the resonator and the detector. The resonator spectrum is the well-known thermal form with an effective damping, frequency shift and diffusion term. In contrast, the detector noise shows a rather striking Fano-like resonance, i.e. there is a resonance at the renormalized frequency, and an anti-resonance at the bare resonator frequency. As examples of this effect, we calculate the spectrum of a normal state single electron transistor coupled capacitively to a resonator and of a cavity coupled parametrically to a resonator.

id: 0808.1260
title: From Inference to Physics
authors: Ariel Caticha
comments: Presented at MaxEnt 2008, the 28th International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering (July 8-13, 2008, Boraceia Beach, Sao Paulo, Brazil)
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1260
abstract: Entropic dynamics, a program that aims at deriving the laws of physics from standard probabilistic and entropic rules for processing information, is developed further. We calculate the probability for an arbitrary path followed by a system as it moves from given initial to final states. For an appropriately chosen configuration space the path of maximum probability reproduces Newtonian dynamics.

id: 0808.1261
title: Spacetime Foam and Dark Energy
authors: Y. Jack Ng
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX, talk given at the Fourth International Workshop on the Dark Side of the Universe in Cairo (June 1-5, 2008), to appear in the Proceedings
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.1115:74-79,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1261
abstract: Due to quantum fluctuations, spacetime is foamy on small scales. The degree of foaminess is found to be consistent with the holographic principle. One way to detect spacetime foam is to look for halos in the images of distant quasars. Applying the holographic foam model to cosmology we "predict" that the cosmic energy density takes on the critical value; and basing only on existing archived data on active galactic nuclei from the Hubble Space Telescope, we also "predict" the existence of dark energy which, we argue, is composed of an enormous number of inert "particles" of extremely long wavelength. We speculate that these "particles" obey infinite statistics.

id: 0808.1355
title: Composition law for polarizers
authors: J. Lages, R. Giust, J.-M. Vigoureux
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 033810 (2008)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1355
abstract: The polarization process when polarizers act on an optical field is studied. We give examples for two kinds of polarizers. The first kind presents an anisotropic absorption - as in a polaroid film - and the second one is based on total reflection at the interface with a birefringent medium. Using the Stokes vector representation, we determine explicitly the trajectories of the wave light polarization during the polarization process. We find that such trajectories are not always geodesics of the Poincar\'e sphere as it is usually thought. Using the analogy between light polarization and special relativity, we find that the action of successive polarizers on the light wave polarization is equivalent to the action of a single resulting polarizer followed by a rotation achieved for example by a device with optical activity. We find a composition law for polarizers similar to the composition law for noncollinear velocities in special relativity. We define an angle equivalent to the relativistic Wigner angle which can be used to quantify the quality of two composed polarizers.

id: 0808.1417
title: The finite harmonic oscillator and its associated sequences
authors: Shamgar Gurevich, Ronny Hadani, Nir Sochen
comments: Published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (Communicated by Joseph Bernstein, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel)
journal: PNAS, July 22, 2008 vol. 105 no. 29 9869-9873 http://www.pnas.org/content/105/29/9869.abstract
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Number Theory (math.NT); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Representation Theory (math.RT); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1417
abstract: A system of functions (signals) on the finite line, called the oscillator system, is described and studied. Applications of this system for discrete radar and digital communication theory are explained. Keywords: Weil representation, commutative subgroups, eigenfunctions, random behavior, deterministic construction

id: 0808.1562
title: Persistence of zero modes in a gauged Dirac model for bilayer graphene
authors: R. Jackiw, S.-Y. Pi
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1562
abstract: A recently constructed model for low lying excitations in bilayer graphene exhibits mid-gap, zero energy modes in its Dirac-like spectrum, when a scalar order parameter takes a vortex profile. We show that these modes persist when the dynamics is extended by a gauge field interaction, which also renders finite the vortex energy. The effect of the gauge field on the zero energy wave function is to shift the phase of the (damped) oscillatory component of the wave function in the absence of the gauge field.

id: 0808.1632
title: Networks of quantum nanorings: programmable spintronic devices
authors: Peter Foldi, Orsolya Kalman, Mihaly G. Benedict, F. M. Peeters
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, accepted by Nano Letters
journal: Nano Lett. 8 (8), 2556 (2008).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1632
abstract: An array of quantum rings with local (ring by ring) modulation of the spin orbit interaction (SOI) can lead to novel effects in spin state transformation of electrons. It is shown that already small (3x3, 5x5) networks are remarkably versatile from this point of view: Working in a given network geometry, the input current can be directed to any of the output ports, simply by changing the SOI strengths by external gate voltages. Additionally, the same network with different SOI strengths can be completely analogous to the Stern-Gerlach device, exhibiting spatial-spin entanglement.

id: 0808.1642
title: Exactly Solvable Potentials and Romanovski Polynomials in Quantum Mechanics
authors: D. E. Alvarez-Castillo
comments: 72 pages, 45 figures, Master Thesis, March 2007. v2) Typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1642
abstract: Orthogonal Polynomials in Quantum Mechanics. Exact solutions of the Schrodinger equation with the hyperbolic Scarf potential (Scarf II) in terms of Romanovski polynomials. Among the applications included is the solution of the problem of an electron within a particular potential leading to the definition of new non-spherical angular functions.

id: 0808.1664
title: The Weil Representation in Characteristic Two
authors: Shamgar Gurevich, Ronny Hadani
comments: This paper was submitted for publication May 1, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Representation Theory (math.RT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Category Theory (math.CT); Group Theory (math.GR); Number Theory (math.NT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1664
abstract: In this paper we construct a new variant of the Weil representation, associated with a symplectic vector space V defined over a finite field of characteristic two. Our variant is a representation of a bigger group than that of Weil. In the course, we develop the formalism of canonical vector spaces, which enables us to realize the bigger symmetry group and the representation in a transparent manner.

id: 0808.1831
title: Geometry of effective Hamiltonians
authors: Simen Kvaal
comments: 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.C78:044330,2008
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1831
abstract: We give a complete geometrical description of the effective Hamiltonians common in nuclear shell model calculations. By recasting the theory in a manifestly geometric form, we reinterpret and clarify several points. Some of these results are hitherto unknown or unpublished. In particular, commuting observables and symmetries are discussed in detail. Simple and explicit proofs are given, and numerical algorithms are proposed, that improve and stabilize common methods used today.

id: 0808.1840
title: Beyond bilinear controllability : applications to quantum control
authors: Gabriel Turinici
comments: 
journal: Optimal Control of Coupled Systems of PDE, Oberwolfach : Allemagne (2005)
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1840
abstract: Quantum control is traditionally expressed through bilinear models and their associated Lie algebra controllability criteria. But, the first order approximation are not always sufficient and higher order developpements are used in recent works. Motivated by these applications, we give in this paper a criterion that applies to situations where the evolution operator is expressed as sum of possibly non-linear real functionals of the control that multiplies some time independent (coupling) operators.

id: 0808.1957
title: Relationship between spin squeezing and single-particle coherence in two-component Bose-Einstein condensates with Josephson coupling
authors: G. R. Jin, C. K. Law
comments: 4 figures, revtex4, new refs. are added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 063620 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1957
abstract: We investigate spin squeezing of a two-mode boson system with a Josephson coupling. An exact relation between the squeezing and the single-particle coherence at the maximal-squeezing time is discovered, which provides a more direct way to measure the squeezing by readout the coherence in atomic interference experiments. We prove explicitly that the strongest squeezing is along the $J_z$ axis, indicating the appearance of atom number-squeezed state. Power laws of the strongest squeezing and the optimal coupling with particle number $N$ are obtained based upon a wide range of numerical simulations.

id: 0808.1976
title: Deformed quantum mechanics and q-Hermitian operators
authors: A. Lavagno
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 244014
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1976
abstract: Starting on the basis of the non-commutative q-differential calculus, we introduce a generalized q-deformed Schr\"odinger equation. It can be viewed as the quantum stochastic counterpart of a generalized classical kinetic equation, which reproduces at the equilibrium the well-known q-deformed exponential stationary distribution. In this framework, q-deformed adjoint of an operator and q-hermitian operator properties occur in a natural way in order to satisfy the basic quantum mechanics assumptions.

id: 0808.1979
title: $¦Ð$-junction qubit in monolayer graphene
authors: Colin Benjamin, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, Manuscript revised, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 155431 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1979
abstract: We propose to combine the advantages of graphene, such as easy tunability and long coherence times, with Josephson physics to manufacture qubits. If these qubits are built around a 0 and $\pi$ junction they can be controlled by an external flux. Alternatively, a d-wave Josephson junction can itself be tuned via a gate voltage to create superpositions between macroscopically degenerate states. We show that ferromagnets are not required for realizing $\pi$ junction in graphene, thus considerably simplifying its physical implementation. We demonstrate how one qubit gates, such as arbitrary phase rotations and the exchange gate, can be implemented.

id: 0808.2038
title: Resonant nonlinear optics of backward waves in negative-index metamaterials
authors: Alexander K. Popov, Sergei A. Myslivets, Vladimir M. Shalaev
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Applied Physics B, Volume 96, Issue 2-3, pp. 315-323; on-line 13 Feb. (2009)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2038
abstract: The extraordinary properties of resonant four-wave mixing of backward waves in doped negative-index materials are investigated. The feasibility of independent engineering of negative refractive index and nonlinear optical response as well as quantum control of the nonlinear propagation process in such composites is shown due to the coherent energy transfer from the control to the signal field. Laser-induced transparency, quantum switching, frequency-tunable narrow-band filtering, amplification, and realizing a miniature mirrorless optical parametric generator of the entangled backward and ordinary waves are among the possible applications of the investigated processes.

id: 0808.2096
title: Fast Scramblers
authors: Yasuhiro Sekino, Leonard Susskind
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: JHEP 0810:065,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2096
abstract: We consider the problem of how fast a quantum system can scramble (thermalize) information, given that the interactions are between bounded clusters of degrees of freedom; pairwise interactions would be an example. Based on previous work, we conjecture: 1) The most rapid scramblers take a time logarithmic in the number of degrees of freedom. 2) Matrix quantum mechanics (systems whose degrees of freedom are n by n matrices) saturate the bound. 3) Black holes are the fastest scramblers in nature. The conjectures are based on two sources, one from quantum information theory, and the other from the study of black holes in String Theory.

id: 0808.2351
title: Ricci flow, quantum mechanics and gravity
authors: J.M. Isidro, J.L.G. Santander, P. Fernandez de Cordoba
comments: 8 pages
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.6:505-512,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2351
abstract: It has been argued that, underlying any given quantum-mechanical model, there exists at least one deterministic system that reproduces, after prequantisation, the given quantum dynamics. For a quantum mechanics with a complex d-dimensional Hilbert space, the Lie group SU(d) represents classical canonical transformations on the projective space CP^{d-1} of quantum states. Let R stand for the Ricci flow of the manifold SU(d-1) down to one point, and let P denote the projection from the Hopf bundle onto its base CP^{d-1}. Then the underlying deterministic model we propose here is the Lie group SU(d), acted on by the operation PR. Finally we comment on some possible consequences that our model may have on a quantum theory of gravity.

id: 0808.2533
title: Quantum tetrahedron and its classical limit
authors: Daniel R. Terno
comments: Discussion of the tetraheron refinment is rewritten. Statistical analysis and asymptotics discussions are expanded
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.26:035010,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2533
abstract: We present an asymptotically optimal generalized measurement for the Classical information that is retrieved from a quantum tetrahedron is intrinsically fuzzy. We present an asymptotically optimal generalized measurement for the extraction of classical information from a quantum tetrahedron. For a single tetrahedron the optimal uncertainty in dihedral angles is shown to scale as an inverse of the surface area. Having commutative observables allows to show how the clustering of many small tetrahedra leads to a faster convergence to a classical geometry.

id: 0808.2717
title: A note on the quantum-mechanical Ricci flow
authors: J.M. Isidro, J.L.G. Santander, P. Fernandez de Cordoba
comments: 8 pages, minor corrections, discussion expanded
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A24:4999-5006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2717
abstract: We obtain Schroedinger quantum mechanics from Perelman's functional and from the Ricci flow equations of a conformally flat Riemannian metric on a closed 2-dimensional configuration space. We explore links with the recently discussed "emergent quantum mechanics".

id: 0808.2828
title: Impact of the Meissner effect on magnetic micro traps for neutral atoms near superconducting thin films
authors: D. Cano, B. Kasch, H. Hattermann, D. Koelle, R. Kleiner, C. Zimmermann, J. Fort¨¢gh
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063408 (2008)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2828
abstract: We theoretically evaluate changes in the magnetic potential arising from the magnetic field near superconducting thin films. An example of an atom chip based on a three-wire configuration has been simulated in the superconducting and the normal conducting state. Inhomogeneous current densities within the superconducting wires were calculated using an energy-minimization routine based on the London theory. The Meissner effect causes changes to both trap position and oscillation frequencies at short distances from the superconducting surface. Superconducting wires produce much shallower micro traps than normal conducting wires. The results presented in this paper demonstrate the importance of taking the Meissner effect into account when designing and carrying out experiments on magnetically trapped neutral atoms near superconducting surfaces.

id: 0808.2906
title: Enhanced quantum entanglement in the non-Markovian dynamics of biomolecular excitons
authors: Michael Thorwart, Jens Eckel, John H. Reina, Peter Nalbach, Stephan Weiss
comments: online-published version, minor modifications
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 478, 234 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2906
abstract: We show that quantum coherence of biomolecular excitons is maintained over exceedingly long times due to the constructive role of their non-Markovian protein-solvent environment. Using a numerically exact approach, we demonstrate that a slow quantum bath helps to sustain quantum entanglement of two pairs of Forster coupled excitons, in contrast to a Markovian environment. We consider the crossover from a fast to a slow bath and from weak to strong dissipation and show that a slow bath can generate robust entanglement. This persists to surprisingly high temperatures, even higher than the excitonic gap and is absent for a Markovian bath.

id: 0808.2911
title: Meissner effect in superconducting microtraps
authors: D. Cano, B. Kasch, H. Hattermann, R. Kleiner, C. Zimmermann, D. Koelle, J. Fort¨¢gh
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2911
abstract: We report on the realization and characterization of a magnetic microtrap for ultra cold atoms near a straight superconducting Nb wire with circular cross section. The trapped atoms are used to probe the magnetic field outside the superconducting wire. The Meissner effect shortens the distance between the trap and the wire, reduces the radial magnetic-field gradients and lowers the trap depth. Measurements of the trap position reveal a complete exclusion of the magnetic field from the superconducting wire for temperatures lower than 6K. As the temperature is further increased, the magnetic field partially penetrates the superconducting wire; hence the microtrap position is shifted towards the position expected for a normal-conducting wire.

id: 0808.3368
title: Numerical evaluation of the Casimir interaction between cylinders
authors: F.C. Lombardo, F.D. Mazzitelli, P.I. Villar
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures. Minor changes, version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:085009,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3368
abstract: We numerically evaluate the Casimir interaction energy for configurations involving two perfectly conducting eccentric cylinders and a cylinder in front of a plane. We consider in detail several special cases. For quasi-concentric cylinders, we analyze the convergence of a perturbative evaluation based on sparse matrices. For concentric cylinders, we obtain analytically the corrections to the proximity force approximation up to second order, and we present an improved numerical procedure to evaluate the interaction energy at very small distances. Finally, we consider the configuration of a cylinder in front of a plane. We first show numerically that, in the appropriate limit, the Casimir energy for this configuration can be obtained from that of two eccentric cylinders. Then we compute the interaction energy at small distances, and compare the numerical results with the analytic predictions for the first order corrections to the proximity force approximation.

id: 0808.3435
title: Symmetry operators and separability of massive Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations in the general 5-dimensional Kerr-(anti-)de Sitter black hole background
authors: Shuang-Qing Wu
comments: 24 pages, iopart.cls. Published version with references updated
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.26:055001,2009; Erratum-ibid.26:189801,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3435
abstract: It is shown that the Dirac equation is separable by variables in a five-dimensional rotating Kerr-(anti-)de Sitter black hole with two independent angular momenta. A first order symmetry operator that commutes with the Dirac operator is constructed in terms of a rank-three Killing-Yano tensor whose square is a second order symmetric Stackel-Killing tensor admitted by the five-dimensional Kerr-(anti-)de Sitter spacetime. We highlight the construction procedure of such a symmetry operator. In addition, the first law of black hole thermodynamics has been extended to the case that the cosmological constant can be viewed as a thermodynamical variable.

id: 0808.3574
title: Classical Knowledge for Quantum Security
authors: Ellie D'Hondt, Mehrnoosh Sadrzadeh
comments: extended abstract, 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3574
abstract: We propose a decision procedure for analysing security of quantum cryptographic protocols, combining a classical algebraic rewrite system for knowledge with an operational semantics for quantum distributed computing. As a test case, we use our procedure to reason about security properties of a recently developed quantum secret sharing protocol that uses graph states. We analyze three different scenarios based on the safety assumptions of the classical and quantum channels and discover the path of an attack in the presence of an adversary. The epistemic analysis that leads to this and similar types of attacks is purely based on our classical notion of knowledge.

id: 0808.3891
title: Coupled two-component atomic gas in an optical lattice
authors: Jonas Larson, Jani-Petri Martikainen
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 78, 063618 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3891
abstract: We present an ab initio study of the ground state of an ideal coupled two-component gas of ultracold atoms in a one dimensional optical lattice, either bosons or fermions. Due to the internal two-level structure of the atoms, the Brillouin zone is twice as large as imposed by the periodicity of the lattice potential. This is reflected in the Bloch dispersion curves, where the energy bands regularly possess several local minima. As a consequence, when the system parameters are tuned across a resonance condition, a non-zero temperature phase transition occurs which arises from an interplay between internal and kinetic atomic energies. For fermions, this phase transition is of topological character since the structure of the Fermi surface is changed across the critical value. It is shown that these phenomena are also expected to occur for two and three dimensional optical lattices.

id: 0808.4137
title: Effect of Induced Spin-Orbit Coupling for Atoms via Laser Fields
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Mario F. Borunda, Xin Liu, Jairo Sinova
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 046402 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.4137
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to study spin-orbit coupling effects in a of two-dimensional (2D) Fermi atomic gas cloud by coupling its internal electronic states (pseudospins) to radiation in a delta configuration. The induced spin-orbit coupling can be of the Dresselhaus and Rashba type with and without a Zeeman term. We show that the optically induced spin-orbit coupling can lead to a spin-dependent effective mass under appropriate condition, with one of them able to be tuned between positive and negative effective mass. As a direct observable we show that in the expansion dynamics of the atomic cloud the initial atomic cloud splits into two clouds for the positive effective mass case regime, and into four clouds for the negative effective mass regime.

id: 0808.3803
title: Casimir effect in toroidally compactified de Sitter spacetime
authors: A. A. Saharian
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, talk presented at the 7th Alexander Friedmann International Seminar on Gravitation and Cosmology, 29 June - 5 July, 2008, Joao Pessoa, Brazil
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A24:1813-1820,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3803
abstract: Vacuum energy density and stresses are investigated for a scalar field with general curvature coupling parameter in (D+1)-dimensional de Sitter spacetime with an arbitrary number of toroidally compactified spatial dimensions. The corresponding expectation values are presented in the form of the sum of the vacuum expectation values in uncompactified dS spacetime and the part induced by the non-trivial topology. In the early stages of the cosmological evolution the topological parts dominate. In this limit the behavior of the Casimir densities does not depend on the curvature coupling parameter and coincides with that for a conformally coupled massless field. At late stages of the cosmological expansion the expectation values are dominated by the part corresponding to uncompactified dS spacetime. The vanishing of the topological parts is monotonic or oscillatory in dependence of the mass and the curvature coupling parameter of the field.

id: 0808.3380
title: Space-time sensors using multiple-wave atom levitation
authors: F. Impens, Ch. J. Bord¨¦
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures.Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 031602(R) (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3380
abstract: The best clocks to date control the atomic motion by trapping the sample in an optical lattice and then interrogate the atomic transition by shining on these atoms a distinct laser of controlled frequency. In order to perform both tasks simultaneously and with the same laser field, we propose to use instead the levitation of a Bose-Einstein condensate through multiple-wave atomic interferences. The levitating condensate experiences a coherent localization in momentum and a controlled diffusion in altitude. The sample levitation is bound to resonance conditions used either for frequency or for acceleration measurements. The chosen vertical geometry solves the limitations imposed by the sample free fall in previous optical clocks using also atomic interferences. This configuration yields multiple-wave interferences enabling levitation and enhancing the measurement sensitivity. This setup, analogous to an atomic resonator in momentum space, constitutes an attractive alternative to existing atomic clocks and gravimeters.

id: 0808.3679
title: Mean-field dynamics of a two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate subject to noise and dissipation
authors: F. Trimborn, D. Witthaut, S. Wimberger
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 (2008) 171001
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3679
abstract: We discuss the dynamics of an open two-mode Bose-Hubbard system subject to phase noise and particle dissipation. Starting from the full many-body dynamics described by a master equation the mean-field limit is derived resulting in an effective non-hermitian (discrete) Gross-Pitaevskii equation which has been introduced only phenomenologically up to now. The familiar mean-field phase space structure is substantially altered by the dissipation. Especially the character of the fixed points shows an abrupt transition from elliptic or hyperbolic to attractiv or repulsive, respectively. This reflects the metastable behaviour of the corresponding many-body system which surprisingly also leads to a significant increase of the purity of the condensate. A comparison of the mean-field approximation to simulations of the full master equation using the Monte Carlo wave function method shows an excellent agreement for wide parameter ranges.

id: 0808.1088
title: Nonlinear resonances in ¦Ä-kicked Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: T. S. Monteiro, A Rancon, J. Ruostekoski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 102 (2009) 014102
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.1088
abstract: We investigate the Quantum Resonance (QR) regime of a periodically kicked atomic Bose-Einstein condensate. We find that the clearest indicator of the nonlinear dynamics is a surprisingly abrupt cut-off which appears on the main "Talbot time" QR. We show that this is due and excitation path combining both Beliaev and Landau processes, with some analogies to nonlinear self-trapping. Investigation of dynamical instability reveals further symptoms of nonlinearity such as a regime of exponential oscillations.

id: 0808.2783
title: Bounds on variation of spectral subspaces under J-self-adjoint perturbations
authors: S. Albeverio, A. K. Motovilov, A. A. Shkalikov
comments: 
journal: Integral Equations and Operator Theory 64 (2009), 455--486
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.2783
abstract: Let $A$ be a self-adjoint operator on a Hilbert space $\fH$. Assume that the spectrum of $A$ consists of two disjoint components $\sigma_0$ and $\sigma_1$. Let $V$ be a bounded operator on $\fH$, off-diagonal and $J$-self-adjoint with respect to the orthogonal decomposition $\fH=\fH_0\oplus\fH_1$ where $\fH_0$ and $\fH_1$ are the spectral subspaces of $A$ associated with the spectral sets $\sigma_0$ and $\sigma_1$, respectively. We find (optimal) conditions on $V$ guaranteeing that the perturbed operator $L=A+V$ is similar to a self-adjoint operator. Moreover, we prove a number of (sharp) norm bounds on variation of the spectral subspaces of $A$ under the perturbation $V$. Some of the results obtained are reformulated in terms of the Krein space theory. As an example, the quantum harmonic oscillator under a PT-symmetric perturbation is discussed.

id: 0808.3050
title: How Well a Chaotic Quantum System Can Retain Memory of Its Initial State?
authors: Valentin V. Sokolov, Oleg V. Zhirov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: EPL, 84 (2008) 30001
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3050
abstract: In classical mechanics the local exponential instability effaces the memory of initial conditions and leads to practical irreversibility. In striking contrast, quantum mechanics appears to exhibit strong memory of the initial state. We relate the latter fact to the low (at most linear) rate with which the system's Wigner function gets during evolution more and more complicated structure and establish existence of a critical strength of external influence below which such a memory still survives.

id: 0808.3779
title: Probing local relaxation of cold atoms in optical superlattices
authors: A. Flesch, M. Cramer, I.P. McCulloch, U. Schollwoeck, J. Eisert
comments: 18 pages RevTex, 20 figures, final version (problem with figures resolved)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 033608 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.3779
abstract: In the study of relaxation processes in coherent non-equilibrium dynamics of quenched quantum systems, ultracold atoms in optical superlattices with periodicity two provide a very fruitful test ground. In this work, we consider the dynamics of a particular, experimentally accessible initial state prepared in a superlattice structure evolving under a Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian in the entire range of interaction strengths, further investigating the issues raised in Ref. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 063001 (2008)]. We investigate the relaxation dynamics analytically in the non interacting and hard core bosonic limits, deriving explicit expressions for the dynamics of certain correlation functions, and numerically for finite interaction strengths using the time-dependent density-matrix renormalization (t-DMRG) approach. We can identify signatures of local relaxation that can be accessed experimentally with present technology. While the global system preserves the information about the initial condition, locally the system relaxes to the state having maximum entropy respecting the constraints of the initial condition. For finite interaction strengths and finite times, the relaxation dynamics contains signatures of the relaxation dynamics of both the non-interacting and hard core bosonic limits.

id: 0808.4090
title: Reduced and projected two-particle entanglement at finite temperatures
authors: P. Samuelsson, I. Neder, M. Buttiker
comments: Published version (with minor extensions)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 106804 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.4090
abstract: We present a theory for two-particle entanglement production and detection in mesoscopic conductors at finite temperature. In contrast to the zero temperature limit, the entanglement of the density matrix projected out of the emitted many-body state is different from the entanglement of the reduced density matrix, detectable by current correlation measurements. We show that under very general conditions the reduced entanglement constitutes a lower bound for the projected entanglement. Applying the theory to the recent experiment [Neder et al, Nature 448 333 (2007)] on a fermionic Hanbury Brown Twiss two-particle interferometer we find that despite an appreciable entanglement production in the experiment, the detectable entanglement is close to zero.

id: 0808.0208
title: Electric-field control of a hydrogenic donor's spin in a semiconductor
authors: A. De, Craig E. Pryor, Michael E. Flatt¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0808.0208
abstract: An AC electric field applied to a donor-bound electron in a semiconductor modulates the orbital character of its wave function, which affects the electron's spin dynamics via the spin-orbit interaction. Numerical calculations of the spin dynamics of a hydrogenic donor (Si) embedded in GaAs, using a real-space multi-band k.p formalism, show the high symmetry of the hydrogenic donor state results in strongly nonlinear dependences of the electronic g tensor on applied fields. A nontrivial consequence is that the most rapid Rabi oscillations occur for electric fields modulated at a subharmonic of the Larmor frequency.

