id: 0809.0008
title: On the Theoretical Possibility of Quantum Visual Information Transfer to the Human Brain
authors: V. Salari, M. Rahnama, J. A. Tuszynski
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0008
abstract: The feasibility of wave function collapse in the human brain has been the subject of vigorous scientific debates since the advent of quantum theory. Scientists like Von Neumann, London, Bauer and Wigner (initially) believed that wave function collapse occurs in the brain or is caused by the mind of the observer. It is a legitimate question to ask how human brain can receive subtle external visual quantum information intact when it must pass through very noisy and complex pathways from the eye to the brain? There are several approaches to investigate information processing in the brain, each of which presents a different set of conclusions. Penrose and Hameroff have hypothesized that there is quantum information processing inside the human brain whose material substrate involves microtubules and consciousness is the result of a collective wavefunction collapse occurring in these structures. Conversely, Tegmark stated that owing to thermal decoherence there cannot be any quantum processing in neurons of the brain and processing in the brain must be classical for cognitive processes. However, Rosa and Faber presented an argument for a middle way which shows that none of the previous authors are completely right and despite the presence of decoherence, it is still possible to consider the brain to be a quantum system. Additionally, Thaheld, has concluded that quantum states of photons do collapse in the human eye and there is no possibility for collapse of visual quantum states in the brain and thus there is no possibility for the quantum state reduction in the brain. In this paper we conclude that if we accept the main essence of the above approaches taken together, each of them can provide a different part of a teleportation mechanism.

id: 0809.0034
title: Quantum random walks without walking
authors: K Manouchehri, J.B. Wang
comments: 12 manuscript pages, 3 figures
journal: K. Manouchehri and J. B. Wang, Phys. Rev. A 80, 060304(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0034
abstract: Quantum random walks have received much interest due to their non-intuitive dynamics, which may hold the key to a new generation of quantum algorithms. What remains a major challenge is a physical realization that is experimentally viable and not limited to special connectivity criteria. We present a scheme for walking on arbitrarily complex graphs, which can be realized using a variety of quantum systems such as a BEC trapped inside an optical lattice. This scheme is particularly elegant since the walker is not required to physically step between the nodes; only flipping coins is sufficient.

id: 0809.0039
title: Decoherence of coherent electronic excited state in the reaction center of the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides
authors: Xian-Ting Liang, Wei-Min Zhang, Yi-Zhong Zhuo
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 011906 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0039
abstract: In this paper, we present a theoretical description to the quantum coherence and decoherence phenomena of energy transfer in photosynthesis observed in a recent experiment [see Science 316, 1462 (2007)]. As a successive two-color laser pulses with selected frequencies cast on a sample of the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rb. sphaeroides two resonant excitations of electrons in chromophores can be generated. However, this effective two-level subsystem will interact with its protein environment and decoherence is inevitable. We describe this subsystem coupled with its environment as a dynamical spin-boson model. The non-Markovian decoherence dynamics is described using a quasi-adiabatic propagator path integral (QUAPI) approach. With the photon-induced effective time-dependent level splitting energy and level flip coupling coefficient between the two excited states and the environment-induced non-Markovian decoherence dynamics, our theoretical result is in good agreement with the experimental data.

id: 0809.0061
title: Ultracold Molecules in the Ro-Vibrational Triplet Ground State
authors: F. Lang, K. Winkler, C. Strauss, R. Grimm, J. Hecker Denschlag
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Phys. Rev. Lett. accepted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0061
abstract: We report here on the production of an ultracold gas of tightly bound Rb2 molecules in the ro-vibrational triplet ground state, close to quantum degeneracy. This is achieved by optically transferring weakly bound Rb2 molecules to the absolute lowest level of the ground triplet potential with a transfer efficiency of about 90%. The transfer takes place in a 3D optical lattice which traps a sizeable fraction of the tightly bound molecules with a lifetime exceeding 200 ms.

id: 0809.0067
title: Entanglement and Mixed ness of Locally Cloned Non - Maximal W - State
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, Sovik Roy, Nirman Ganguly, Binayak S. Choudhury
comments: 12 pages, no figures, Accepted for publication in IJTP
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics 48, 6 1833--1840 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0067
abstract: In this work we describe a protocol by which two of three parties generate two bipartite entangled state among themselves without involving third party, from a non maximal W state or W - type state $|X>=\alpha|001>_{123}+\beta|010>_{123}+\gamma|100>_{123}, \alpha^{2} + \beta^{2} + \gamma^{2} = 1$ shared by three distant partners. Also we have considered the case $\beta=\gamma$, to obtain a range for $\alpha^2$, for which the local output states are separable and non local output states are inseparable. We also find out the dependence of the mixed ness of inseparable states with their amount of inseparability, for that range of $\alpha^2$.

id: 0809.0071
title: Tailored photon-pair generation in optical fibers
authors: Offir Cohen, Jeff S. Lundeen, Brian J. Smith, Graciana Puentes, Peter J. Mosley, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102 123603 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0071
abstract: We experimentally control the spectral structure of photon pairs created via spontaneous four-wave mixing in microstructured fibers. By fabricating fibers with designed dispersion, one can manipulate the photons' wavelengths, joint spectrum, and, thus, entanglement. As an example, we produce photon-pairs with no spectral correlations, allowing direct heralding of single photons in pure-state wave packets without filtering. We achieve an experimental purity of $85.9\pm1.6%$, while theoretical analysis and preliminary tests suggest 94.5% purity is possible with a much longer fiber.

id: 0809.0072
title: Comment on: Nonlocal Realistic Leggett Models Can be Considered Refuted by the Before-Before Experiment
authors: Marek Zukowski
comments: comment submitted to Found. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0072
abstract: It is shown here that Suarez [Found. Phys. 38, 583 (2008)] wrongly presents the assumptions behind the Leggett's inequalities, and their modified form used by Groeblacher et al. [Nature 446, 871 (2007)] for an experimental falsification of a certain class of non-local hidden variable models.

id: 0809.0073
title: Languages recognized with unbounded error by quantum finite automata
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz, A. C. Cem Say
comments: This paper has been superseded by arXiv:1007.3624
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0073
abstract: This paper has been superseded by arXiv:1007.3624

id: 0809.0078
title: Additive invariants on quantum channels and applications to regularized minimum entropy
authors: Shmuel Friedland
comments: 14 pages, a few typo corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0078
abstract: We introduce two additive invariants of output quantum channels. If the value of one these invariants is less than 1 then the logarithm of the inverse of its value is a positive lower bound for the regularized minimum entropy of an output quantum channel. We give a few examples in which one of these invariants is less than 1. We also study the special cases where the above both invariants are equal to 1.

id: 0809.0115
title: Unexpected reemergence of von Neumann theorem
authors: Marek Zukowski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0115
abstract: Is is shown here that the "simple test of quantumness for a single system" of arXiv:0704.1962 (for a recent experimental realization see arXiv:0804.1646) has exactly the same relation to the discussion of to the problem of describing the quantum system via a classical probabilistic scheme (that is in terms of hidden variables, or within a realistic theory) as the von Neumann theorem (1932). The latter one was shown by Bell (1966) to stem from an assumption that the hidden variable values for a sum of two non-commuting observables (which is an observable too) have to be, for each individual system, equal to sums of eigenvalues of the two operators. One cannot find a physical justification for such an assumption to hold for non-commeasurable variables. On the positive side. the criterion may be useful in rejecting models which are based on stochastic classical fields. Nevertheless the example used by the Authors has a classical optical realization.

id: 0809.0232
title: Proof of the Orthogonal Measurement Conjecture for Qubit States
authors: Andreas Keil
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0232
abstract: The accessible information of general signal states is obtained by performing a generalized measurement. In the case that the signal alphabet consists of two states of a qubit system, it is proved that a von Neumann (orthogonal) measurement is sufficient to reach the accessible information.

id: 0809.0243
title: Dispersion compensation in atom interferometry by a Sagnac phase
authors: Marion Jacquey, Alain Miffre, G¨¦rard Tr¨¦nec, Matthias B¨¹chner, Jacques Vigu¨¦, Alexander Cronin
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 78 (2008) 013638
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0243
abstract: We reanalyzed our atom interferometer measurement of the electric polarizability of lithium now accounting for the Sagnac effect due to Earth rotation. The resulting correction to the polarizability is very small but the visibility as a function of the applied phase shift is now better explained. The fact that the Sagnac and polarizability phase shifts are both proportional to $v^{-1}$, where $v$ is the atom velocity, suggests that a phase shift of the Sagnac type could be used as a counterphase to compensate the electric polarizability phase shift. This exact compensation opens the way to higher accuracy measurements of atomic polarizabilities and we discuss how this can be practically done and the final limitations of the proposed technique.

id: 0809.0254
title: The Casimir effect in the nanoworld
authors: Cyriaque Genet, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, contribution to CEWQO 2007 proceedings
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 160, 183 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0254
abstract: The Casimir effect is a force arising in the macroscopic world as a result of radiation pressure of vacuum fluctuations. It thus plays a key role in the emerging domain of nano-electro-mechanical systems (NEMS). This role is reviewed in the present paper, with discussions of the influence of the material properties of the mirrors, as well as the geometry dependence of the Casimir effect between corrugated mirrors. In particular, the lateral component of the Casimir force and restoring torque between metal plates with misaligned corrugations are evaluated.

id: 0809.0288
title: Dynamic optical lattices: two-dimensional rotating and accordion lattices for ultracold atoms
authors: R. A. Williams, J. D. Pillet, S. Al-Assam, B. Fletcher, M. Shotter, C. J. Foot
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, final version
journal: Optics Express Vol 16, 21, 16977-16983 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0288
abstract: We demonstrate a novel experimental arrangement which rotates a 2D optical lattice at frequencies up to several kilohertz. Ultracold atoms in such a rotating lattice can be used for the direct quantum simulation of strongly correlated systems under large effective magnetic fields, allowing investigation of phenomena such as the fractional quantum Hall effect. Our arrangement also allows the periodicity of a 2D optical lattice to be varied dynamically, producing a 2D accordion lattice.

id: 0809.0321
title: Entanglement of formation for an arbitrary two-mode Gaussian state
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: Corrected typos
journal: Physical Review Letters 101, 220403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0321
abstract: We write the optimal pure-state decomposition of any two-mode Gaussian state and show that its entanglement of formation coincides with the Gaussian one. This enables us to develop an insightful approach of evaluating the exact entanglement of formation. Its additivity is finally proven.

id: 0809.0326
title: Nondeterministic Noiseless Linear Amplification of Quantum Systems
authors: T.C.Ralph, A.P.Lund
comments: 
journal: Quantum Communication Measurement and Computing Proceedings of 9th International Conference, Ed. A.Lvovsky, 155-160 (AIP, New York 2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0326
abstract: We introduce the concept of non-deterministic noiseless linear amplification. We propose a linear optical realization of this transformation that could be built with current technology. We discuss two applications; ideal probabilistic cloning of coherent states and distillation of continuous variable entanglement. For the latter example we demonstrate that highly pure entanglement can be distilled from transmission over a lossy channel.

id: 0809.0336
title: Ancilla-Assisted Discrimination of Quantum Gates
authors: Jianxin Chen, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0336
abstract: The intrinsic idea of superdense coding is to find as many gates as possible such that they can be perfectly discriminated. In this paper, we consider a new scheme of discrimination of quantum gates, called ancilla-assisted discrimination, in which a set of quantum gates on a $d-$dimensional system are perfectly discriminated with assistance from an $r-$dimensional ancilla system. The main contribution of the present paper is two-fold: (1) The number of quantum gates that can be discriminated in this scheme is evaluated. We prove that any $rd+1$ quantum gates cannot be perfectly discriminated with assistance from the ancilla, and there exist $rd$ quantum gates which can be perfectly discriminated with assistance from the ancilla. (2) The dimensionality of the minimal ancilla system is estimated. We prove that there exists a constant positive number $c$ such that for any $k\leq cr$ quantum gates, if they are $d$-assisted discriminable, then they are also $r$-assisted discriminable, and there are $c^{\prime}r\textrm{}(c^{\prime}>c)$ different quantum gates which can be discriminated with a $d-$dimensional ancilla, but they cannot be discriminated if the ancilla is reduced to an $r-$dimensional system. Thus, the order $O(r)$ of the number of quantum gates that can be discriminated with assistance from an $r-$dimensional ancilla is optimal. The results reported in this paper represent a preliminary step toward understanding the role ancilla system plays in discrimination of quantum gates as well as the power and limit of superdense coding.

id: 0809.0340
title: Radio frequency association of heteronuclear Feshbach molecules
authors: C. Klempt, T. Henninger, O. Topic, M. Scherer, L.Kattner, E. Tiemann, W. Ertmer, J. Arlt
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 061602(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0340
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of the production efficiency of weakly bound heteronuclear KRb-Feshbach molecules using radio frequency association in a harmonic trap. The efficiency was measured in a wide range of temperatures, binding energies and radio frequencies. A comprehensive analytical model is presented, explaining the observed asymmetric spectra and achieving good quantitative agreement with the measured production rates. This model provides a deep understanding of the molecule association process and paves the way for future experiments which rely on Feshbach molecules e.g. for the production of deeply bound molecules.

id: 0809.0356
title: Heisenberg chains cannot mirror a state
authors: Marcin Wiesniak
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0356
abstract: Faithful exchange of quantum information can in future become a key part of many computational algorithms. Some Authors suggest to use chains of mutually coupled spins as channels for quantum communication. One can divide these proposals into the groups of assisted protocols, which require some additional action from the users, and natural ones, based on the concept of state mirroring. We show that mirror is fundamentally not the feature chains of spins-1/2 coupled by the Heisenberg interaction, but without local magnetic fields. This fact has certain consequences in terms of the natural state transfer.

id: 0809.0424
title: Semispectral measures as convolutions and their moment operators
authors: Jukka Kiukas, Pekka Lahti, Kari Ylinen
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0424
abstract: The moment operators of a semispectral measure having the structure of the convolution of a positive measure and a semispectral measure are studied, with paying attention to the natural domains of these unbounded operators. The results are then applied to conveniently determine the moment operators of the Cartesian margins of the phase space observables.

id: 0809.0430
title: Universality of state-independent violation of correlation inequalities for noncontextual theories
authors: Piotr Badziag, Ingemar Bengtsson, Adan Cabello, Itamar Pitowsky
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 (2009) 050401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0430
abstract: We show that the state-independent violation of inequalities for noncontextual hidden variable theories introduced in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 210401 (2008)] is universal, i.e., occurs for any quantum mechanical system in which noncontextuality is meaningful. We describe a method to obtain state-independent violations for any system of dimension d > 2. This universality proves that, according to quantum mechanics, there are no "classical" states.

id: 0809.0444
title: Quantum classification
authors: S¨¦bastien Gambs
comments: Preliminary version, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0444
abstract: Quantum classification is defined as the task of predicting the associated class of an unknown quantum state drawn from an ensemble of pure states given a finite number of copies of this state. By recasting the state discrimination problem within the framework of Machine Learning (ML), we can use the notion of learning reduction coming from classical ML to solve different variants of the classification task, such as the weighted binary and the multiclass versions.

id: 0809.0474
title: Contractions of product density operators of systems of identical fermions and bosons
authors: Wiktor Radzki
comments: 20 pages. The manuscript has been shortened. A few typos corrected
journal: International Journal of Mathematics and Mathematical Sciences, vol. 2010, Article ID 890523, 26 pages, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0474
abstract: Recurrence and explicit formulae for contractions (partial traces) of antisymmetric and symmetric products of identical trace class operators are derived. Contractions of product density operators of systems of identical fermions and bosons are proved to be asymptotically equivalent to, respectively, antisymmetric and symmetric products of density operators of a single particle, multiplied by a normalization integer. The asymptotic equivalence relation is defined in terms of the thermodynamic limit of expectation values of observables in the states represented by given density operators. For some weaker relation of asymptotic equivalence, concerning the thermodynamic limit of expectation values of product observables, normalized antisymmetric and symmetric products of density operators of a single particle are shown to be equivalent to tensor products of density operators of a single particle. This paper presents the results of a part of the author's thesis [W. Radzki, "Kummer contractions of product density matrices of systems of $n$ fermions and $n$ bosons" (Polish), MS thesis, Institute of Physics, Nicolaus Copernicus University, Toru\'{n}, 1999].

id: 0809.0530
title: Proposal For Testing Bell's Conjecture
authors: Luiz Carlos Ryff
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0530
abstract: A simple nonlocal mechanism for Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) correlations inspired by Bell's conjecture (according to which "behind the scenes something is going faster than light") is suggested, and an experimental test is proposed.

id: 0809.0545
title: Frequency Locking of an Optical Cavity using LQG Integral Control
authors: S. Z. Sayed Hassen, M. Heurs, E. H. Huntington, I. R. Petersen
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics, vol. 42, 175501, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0545
abstract: This paper considers the application of integral Linear Quadratic Gaussian (LQG) optimal control theory to a problem of cavity locking in quantum optics. The cavity locking problem involves controlling the error between the laser frequency and the resonant frequency of the cavity. A model for the cavity system, which comprises a piezo-electric actuator and an optical cavity is experimentally determined using a subspace identification method. An LQG controller which includes integral action is synthesized to stabilize the frequency of the cavity to the laser frequency and to reject low frequency noise. The controller is successfully implemented in the laboratory using a dSpace DSP board.

id: 0809.0554
title: Exact convergence times for generation of random bipartite entanglement
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 5 pages; v2.: few typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032324 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0554
abstract: We calculate exact convergence times to reach random bipartite entanglement for various random protocols. The eigenproblem of a Markovian chain governing the process is mapped to a spin chain, thereby obtaining exact expression for the gap of the Markov chain for any number of qubits. For protocols coupling nearest neighbor qubits and CNOT gate the mapping goes to XYZ model while for U(4) gate it goes to an integrable XY model. For coupling between a random pair of qubits the mapping is to an integrable Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model. In all cases the gap scales inversely with the number of qubits, thereby improving on a recent bound in [Phys.Rev.Lett. 98, 130502 (2007)].

id: 0809.0572
title: Observation of nonadditive mixed state phases with polarized neutrons
authors: J. Klepp, S. Sponar, S. Filipp, M. Lettner, G. Badurek, Y. Hasegawa
comments: RevTex, 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted by PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0572
abstract: In a neutron polarimetry experiment the mixed state relative phases between spin eigenstates are determined from the maxima and minima of measured intensity oscillations. We consider evolutions leading to purely geometric, purely dynamical and combined phases. It is experimentally demonstrated that the sum of the individually determined geometric and dynamical phases is not equal to the associated total phase which is obtained from a single measurement, unless the system is in a pure state.

id: 0809.0573
title: Kinetic description of quantum Brownian motion
authors: Bassano Vacchini, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics vol. 159, pp. 135-141 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0573
abstract: We stress the relevance of the two features of translational invariance and atomic nature of the gas in the quantum description of the motion of a massive test particle in a gas, corresponding to the original picture of Einstein used in the characterization of Brownian motion. The master equation describing the reduced dynamics of the test particle is of Lindblad form and complies with the requirement of covariance under translations.

id: 0809.0579
title: Teleportation of geometric structures in 3D
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor, Lukasz Orlowski
comments: typos corrected, one plot removed
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 135307 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0579
abstract: Simplest quantum teleportation algorithms can be represented in geometric terms in spaces of dimensions 3 (for real state-vectors) and 4 (for complex state-vectors). The geometric representation is based on geometric-algebra coding, a geometric alternative to the tensor-product coding typical of quantum mechanics. We discuss all the elementary ingredients of the geometric version of the algorithm: Geometric analogs of states and controlled Pauli gates. Fully geometric presentation is possible if one employs a nonstandard representation of directed magnitudes, formulated in terms of colors defined via stereographic projection of a color wheel, and not by means of directed volumes.

id: 0809.0589
title: Quantum simulation of a system with competing two- and three-body interactions
authors: Xinhua Peng, Jingfu Zhang, Jiangfeng Du, Dieter Suter
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters, 103(14):140501, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0589
abstract: Quantum phase transitions occur at zero temperature, when the ground state of a Hamiltonian undergoes a qualitative change as a function of a control parameter. We consider a particularly interesting system with competing one-, two- and three-body interactions. Depending on the relative strength of these interactions, the ground state of the system can be a product state, or it can exhibit genuine tripartite entanglement. We experimentally simulate such a system in an NMR quantum simulator and observe the different ground states. By adiabatically changing the strength of one coupling constant, we push the system from one ground state to a qualitatively different ground state. We show that these ground states can be distinguished and the transitions between them observed by measuring correlations between the spins or the expectation values of suitable entanglement witnesses.

id: 0809.0600
title: No-signaling, intractability and entanglement
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0600
abstract: We consider the problem of deriving the no-signaling condition from the assumption that, as seen from a complexity theoretic perspective, the universe is not an exponential place. A fact that disallows such a derivation is the existence of {\em polynomial superluminal} gates, hypothetical primitive operations that enable superluminal signaling but not the efficient solution of intractable problems. It therefore follows, if this assumption is a basic principle of physics, either that it must be supplemented with additional assumptions to prohibit such gates, or, improbably, that no-signaling is not a universal condition. Yet, a gate of this kind is possibly implicit, though not recognized as such, in a decade-old quantum optical experiment involving position-momentum entangled photons. Here we describe a feasible modified version experiment that appears to explicitly demonstrate the action of this gate. Some obvious counter-claims are shown to be invalid. We believe that the unexpected possibility of polynomial superluminal operations arises because some practically measured quantum optical quantities are not describable as standard quantum mechanical observables.

id: 0809.0613
title: Analysis and synthesis of attractive quantum Markovian dynamics
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Lorenza Viola
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Automatica 45: 2002-2009 , 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0613
abstract: We propose a general framework for investigating a large class of stabilization problems in Markovian quantum systems. Building on the notions of invariant and attractive quantum subsystem, we characterize attractive subspaces by exploring the structure of the invariant sets for the dynamics. Our general analysis results are exploited to assess the ability of open-loop Hamiltonian and output-feedback control strategies to synthesize Markovian generators which stabilize a target subsystem, subspace, or pure-state. In particular, we provide an algebraic characterization of the manifold of stabilizable pure states in arbitrary finite-dimensional Markovian systems, that leads to a constructive strategy for designing the relevant controllers. Implications for stabilization of entangled pure states are addressed by example.

id: 0809.0616
title: Event-by-event simulation of double-slit experiments with single photons
authors: F. Jin, S. Yuan, H. De Raedt, K. Michielsen
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0616
abstract: We present a computer simulation model that reproduces, event-by-event, the wave mechanical results of double-slit and two-beam interference experiments. The same model also simulates a one-to-one copy of a single-photon interference experiment with a Fresnel biprism (Jacques V. et al., Eur. Phys. J. D, 35 (2005) 561). The model satisfies Einstein's criterion of local causality and is solely based on experimental facts, comprising the apparatuses used in the experiment and the observation of individual detector clicks. Our results prove that it is possible to give a particle-only description of single-photon double-slit experiments.

id: 0809.0664
title: A Non-Oracle Quantum Search Algorithm and Its Experimental Implementation
authors: Nanyang Xu, Jin Zhu, Xinhua Peng, Xianyi Zhou, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0664
abstract: Grover's algorithm has achieved great success. But quantum search algorithms still are not complete algorithms because of Grover's Oracle. We concerned on this problem and present a new quantum search algorithm in adiabatic model without Oracle. We analyze the general difficulties in quantum search algorithms and show how to solve them in the present algorithm. As well this algorithm could deal with both single-solution and multi-solution searches without modification. We also implement this algorithm on NMR quantum computer. It is the first experiment which perform a real quantum database search rather than a marked-state search.

id: 0809.0731
title: Observable Topological Effects of Mobius Molecular Devices
authors: Nan Zhao, H. Dong, Shuo Yang, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: PRB 79, 125440 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0731
abstract: We study the topological properties of quantum states for the spinless particle hopping in a Mobius ladder. This system can be regarded as a molecular device possibly engineered from the aromatic Mobius annulenes, which enjoys a pseudo-spin orbital interaction described by a non-Abelian gauge structure. It results from the nontrivial topology of configuration space, and results in various observable effects, such as optical spectral splitting. The transmission spectrum through the Mobius molecular device is calculated to demonstrate a topological effect as a destructive interferences in the conduction band. The induced interaction also leads to an entanglement between the transverse and longitudinal modes for any locally factorized state.

id: 0809.0749
title: Entangling two superconducting LC coherent modes via a superconducting flux qubit
authors: Mei-Yu Chen, Matisse W.Y. Tu, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B80, 214538 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0749
abstract: Based on a pure solid-state device consisting of two superconducting LC circuits coupled to a superconducting flux qubit, we propose in this paper that the maximally entangled coherent states of the two LC modes can be generated for arbitrary coherent states through flux qubit controls.

id: 0809.0763
title: Low temperature Casimir-Lifshitz free energy and entropy: the case of poor conductors
authors: Simen A. ?dn?y Ellingsen, Iver Brevik, Johan S. H?ye, Kimball A. Milton
comments: Contributions to Proceedings of "60 Years of Casimir Effect" Brasilia, June 2008
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series, 161, 012010 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0763
abstract: The controversy concerning the temperature correction to the Casimir force has been ongoing for almost a decade with no view to a solution and has recently been extended to include semiconducting materials. We review some theoretical aspects of formal violations of Nernst's heat theorem in the context of Casimir Lifshitz thermodynamics and the role of the exponent of the leading term of the dielectric permittivity with respect to imaginary frequency. A general formalism for calculating the temperature corrections to free energy at low temperatures is developed for systems which do not exhibit such anomalies, and the low temperature behaviour of the free energy in a gap between half-spaces of poorly conducting materials modelled with a Drude type permittivity is calculated.

id: 0809.0827
title: Multipartite separability of Laplacian matrices of graphs
authors: Chai Wah Wu
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: The Electronic Journal of Combinatorics, vol. 16, no.1, R61, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0827
abstract: Recently, Braunstein et al. [1] introduced normalized Laplacian matrices of graphs as density matrices in quantum mechanics and studied the relationships between quantum physical properties and graph theoretical properties of the underlying graphs. We provide further results on the multipartite separability of Laplacian matrices of graphs. In particular, we identify complete bipartite graphs whose normalized Laplacian matrix is multipartite entangled under any vertex labeling. Furthermore, we give conditions on the vertex degrees such that there is a vertex labeling under which the normalized Laplacian matrix is entangled. These results address an open question raised in [1]. Finally, we extend some of the results in [1,2] to the multipartite case and show that the Laplacian matrix of any product of graphs (strong, Cartesian, tensor, categorical, etc.) is multipartite separable.

id: 0809.0843
title: The augmented message-matrix approach to deterministic dense coding theory
authors: E. Gerjuoy, H. T. Williams, P. S. Bourdon
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0843
abstract: A method is presented for producing analytical results applicable to the standard two-party deterministic dense coding protocol, wherein communication of K perfectly distinguishable messages is attainable with the aid of K selected local unitary operations on one qudit from a pair of entangled qudits of equal dimension d in a pure state. The method utilizes the properties of a (d^2)x(d^2) unitary matrix whose initial columns represent message states of the system used for communication, augmented by sufficiently many additional orthonormal column vectors so that the resulting matrix is unitary. Using the unitarity properties of this augmented message-matrix, we produce simple proofs of previously established results including (i) an upper bound on the value of the square of the largest Schmidt coefficient, given by d/K, and (ii) the impossibility of finding a pure state that can enable transmission of K=d^2-1 messages but not d^2. Additional results obtained using the method include proofs that when K=d+1 the upper bound on the square of the largest Schmidt coefficient (i) always reduces to at least (1/2)[1+sqrt{(d-2)/(d+2)}], and (ii) reduces to (d-1)/d in the special case that the identity and shift operators are two of the selected local unitaries.

id: 0809.0847
title: Instantaneous Quantum Computation
authors: Dan Shepherd, Michael J. Bremner
comments: Significantly rewritten for clarity, more explanation added
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 465, 1413-1439 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0847
abstract: We examine theoretic architectures and an abstract model for a restricted class of quantum computation, called here instantaneous quantum computation because it allows for essentially no temporal structure within the quantum dynamics. Using the theory of binary matroids, we argue that the paradigm is rich enough to enable sampling from probability distributions that cannot, classically, be sampled from efficiently and accurately. This paradigm also admits simple interactive proof games that may convince a skeptic of the existence of truly quantum effects. Furthermore, these effects can be created using significantly fewer qubits than are required for running Shor's Algorithm.

id: 0809.0867
title: Bipartite entanglement purification with neutral atoms
authors: P. Xue, X.-F. Zhou
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 372, 6325 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0867
abstract: We theoretically study bipartite entanglement purification with neutral atoms via cavity-assistant interaction and linear optical elements. We focus on entanglement distillation and the recurrence protocol, whose performances under idealized and realistic conditions are discussed. The implementation of these purification protocols has been tested with numerical simulations. We analyze the performance and stability of all required operations and emphasize that all techniques are feasible with current experimental technology.

id: 0809.0909
title: The Schroedinger equation as the time evolution of a deterministic and reversible process
authors: Gabriele Carcassi
comments: 5 pages, no figures, submitted to AJP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0909
abstract: In this paper we derive the Schroedinger equation by assuming it describes the time evolution of a deterministic and reversible process that leaves at each moment in time a different observable well defined; that is, it allows an accurate prediction for it. We also derive an expression for the well defined observable and apply this expression to the cases of spin precession and a free particle.

id: 0809.0923
title: Comparison between continuous wave and pulsed laser EQKD systems
authors: Patrick Rice, Israel J. Owens
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0923
abstract: Advances in quantum physics and computational complexity threaten the security of present day cryptographic systems and have driven the development of quantum key distribution (QKD). Entangled quantum key distribution (EQKD) is a secure protocol that is based on fundamental quantum mechanics and is not vulnerable to these threats. The primary figure of merit for QKD systems is ability to generate secret bits. However, to date, methods that have been developed to simulate the secret bit rate generation for EQKD systems have been limited by techniques that do not provide a complete description of the quantum state produced by the source. In this paper, we provide a complete description and comparison of the secret bit rate for continuous-wave and pulsed laser EQKD systems. In particular, we highlight the relevant Poissonian and thermal photon statistics that affect the EQKD secret bit rate and use practical system parameters and configurations to show regimes where one expects optimal performance for each case.

id: 0809.0929
title: Symmetric collective attacks for the eavesdropping of symmetric quantum key distribution
authors: Stefano Pirandola
comments: Proceeding of the conference "Noise Information and Complexity at Quantum Scale" (Erice, Italy, 2007)
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 6, 765 - 771 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0929
abstract: We consider the collective eavesdropping of the BB84 and six-state protocols. Since these protocols are symmetric in the eigenstates of conjugate bases, we consider collective attacks having the same kind of symmetry. We then show how these symmetric collective attacks are sufficiently strong in order to minimize the Devetak-Winter rates. In fact, it is quite easy to construct simple examples able to reach the unconditionally-secure key-rates of these protocols.

id: 0809.0932
title: Applications of Multi-Valued Quantum Algorithms
authors: Yale Fan
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures; updated version of paper for ISMVL 2007; contains new proof of multi-valued Grover algorithm time complexity, with typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0932
abstract: This paper generalizes both the binary Deutsch-Jozsa and Grover algorithms to $n$-valued logic using the quantum Fourier transform. Our extended Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm is not only able to distinguish between constant and balanced Boolean functions in a single query, but can also find closed expressions for classes of affine logical functions in quantum oracles, accurate to a constant term. Furthermore, our multi-valued extension of the Grover algorithm for quantum database search requires fewer qudits and hence a substantially smaller memory register, as well as fewer wasted information states, to implement. We note several applications of these algorithms and their advantages over the binary cases.

id: 0809.0940
title: Correlation effects in a discrete quantum random walk
authors: J. B. Stang, A. T. Rezakhani, B. C. Sanders
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 175304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0940
abstract: We introduce history-dependent discrete-time quantum random walk models by adding uncorrelated memory terms and also by modifying Hamiltonian of the walker to include couplings with memory-keeping agents. We next numerically study the correlation effects in these models. We also propose a correlation exponent as a relevant and promising tool for investigation of correlation or memory (hence non-Markovian) effects. Our analysis can easily be applied to more realistic models in which different regimes may emerge because of competition between different underlying physical mechanisms.

id: 0809.1022
title: Separability of Tripartite Quantum Systems
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 8 pages
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 6, 859-866(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1022
abstract: We investigate the separability of arbitrary dimensional tripartite sys- tems. By introducing a new operator related to transformations on the subsystems a necessary condition for the separability of tripartite systems is presented.

id: 0809.1049
title: Multiple Quantum NMR and Entanglement Dynamics in Dipolar Coupling Spin
authors: G. B. Furman, V.M.Meerovich, V.L.Sokolovsky
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures. accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1049
abstract: We investigate numerically the time dependence of the multiple quantum coherences and entanglement in linear chains up to nine nuclear spins of 1/2 coupled by the dipole-dipole interactions. Two models are considered: (1) a spin chain with nearest-neighbor dipole -dipole interactions; (2) a more realistic model with interactions between all spins. It is shown that the entangled states appear between remote particles which do not interact directly (model 1), while the interaction between all spins (model 2) not always results in entanglement between remote spins.

id: 0809.1064
title: Reconstruction of non-classical cavity field states with snapshots of their decoherence
authors: Samuel Deleglise, Igor Dotsenko, Clement Sayrin, Julien Bernu, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 455, pp. 510-514 (25 September 2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1064
abstract: The state of a microscopic system encodes its complete quantum description, from which the probabilities of all measurement outcomes are inferred. Being a statistical concept, the state cannot be obtained from a single system realization. It can be reconstructed from an ensemble of copies, by performing measurements on different realizations. Reconstructing the state of a set of trapped particles shielded from their environment is an important step for the investigation of the quantum to classical boundary. While trapped atom state reconstructions have been achieved, it is challenging to perform similar experiments with trapped photons which require cavities storing light for very long times. Here, we report the complete reconstruction and pictorial representation of a variety of radiation states trapped in a cavity in which several photons survive long enough to be repeatedly measured. Information is extracted from the field by atoms crossing the cavity one by one. We exhibit a gallery of pictures featuring coherent states, Fock states with a definite photon number and Schrodinger cat states which are superpositions of coherent states with different phases. These states are equivalently represented by their density matrices in the photon-number basis or by their Wigner functions, which are distributions of the field complex amplitude. Quasi-classical coherent states have a Gaussian-shaped Wigner function while Fock and Schrodinger cat Wigner functions show oscillations and negativities revealing quantum interferences. Cavity damping induces decoherence which quickly washes out the Wigner functions oscillations. We observe this process and realize movies of decoherence by reconstructing snapshots of Schrodinger cat states at successive times.

id: 0809.1082
title: Microwave-Driven Atoms: From Anderson Localization to Einstein's Photoeffect
authors: Alexej Schelle, Dominique Delande, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 183001 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1082
abstract: We study the counterpart of Anderson localization in driven one-electron Rydberg atoms. By changing the initial Rydberg state at fixed microwave frequency and interaction time, we numerically monitor the crossover from Anderson localization to the photo effect in the atomic ionization signal.

id: 0809.1154
title: Assisted tunneling of a wave packet between square barriers
authors: G. Kalbermann
comments: Physical Review C. In press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1154
abstract: The assisted tunneling of a wave packet between square one dimensional barriers is treated analytically. The tunneling rate is calculated exactly for a potential mimicking a constant electric field with arbitrary time dependence. The pole spectrum of the barriers determines the decay time. The tunneling probability is enhanced by the perturbation. The results are exemplified for a simplified model of nuclear $\ds \alpha$ decay.

id: 0809.1170
title: Density functional theory and quantum computation
authors: Frank Gaitan, Franco Nori
comments: 17 pages; RevTex; final version; to appear in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B vol. 79, 205117 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1170
abstract: This paper establishes the applicability of density functional theory methods to quantum computing systems. We show that ground-state and time-dependent density functional theory can be applied to quantum computing systems by proving the Hohenberg-Kohn and Runge-Gross theorems for a fermionic representation of an N qubit system. As a first demonstration of this approach, time-dependent density functional theory is used to determine the minimum energy gap Delta(N) arising when the quantum adiabatic evolution algorithm is used to solve instances of the NP-Complete problem MAXCUT. It is known that the computational efficiency of this algorithm is largely determined by the large-N scaling behavior of Delta(N), and so determining this behavior is of fundamental significance. As density functional theory has been used to study quantum systems with N ~ 1000 interacting degrees of freedom, the approach introduced in this paper raises the realistic prospect of evaluating the gap Delta(N) for systems with N ~ 1000 qubits. Although the calculation of Delta(N) serves to illustrate how density functional theory methods can be applied to problems in quantum computing, the approach has a much broader range and shows promise as a means for determining the properties of very large quantum computing systems.

id: 0809.1259
title: Robustness of Heisenberg-limited interferometry with balanced Fock states
authors: D. Meiser, M. J. Holland
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures; high-resolution version can be obtained from authors
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 073014 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1259
abstract: Interferometry with Heisenberg limited phase resolution may play an important role in the next generation of atomic clocks, gravitational wave detectors, and in quantum information science. For experimental implementations the robustness of the phase resolution is crucial since any experimental realization will be subject to imperfections. In this article we study the robustness of phase reconstruction with two number states as input subject to fluctuations in the state preparation. We find that the phase resolution is insensitive to fluctuations in the total number of particles and robust against noise in the number difference at the input. The phase resolution depends on the uncertainty in the number difference in a universal way that has a clear physical interpretation: Fundamental noise due to the Heisenberg limit and noise due to state preparation imperfection contribute essentially independently to the total uncertainty in the phase. For number difference uncertainties less than one the first noise source is dominant and the phase resolution is essentially Heisenberg limited. For number difference uncertainties greater than one the noise due to state preparation imperfection is dominant and the phase resolution deteriorates linearly with the number difference uncertainty.

id: 0809.1279
title: Lehmann-Symanzik-Zimmermann Reduction Approach to Multi-Photon Scattering in Coupled-Resonator Arrays
authors: T. Shi, C. P. Sun
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 205111 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1279
abstract: We present a quantum field theoretical approach based on the Lehmann-Symanzik-Zimmermann reduction for the multi-photon scattering process in a nano-architecture consisting of the coupled resonator arrays (CRA), which are also coupled to some artificial atoms as the controlling quantum node. By making use of this approach, we find the bound states of single photon for an elementary unit, the T-type CRA, and explicitly obtain its multi-photon scattering S-matrix in various situations. We also use this method to calculate the multi-photon S-matrices for the more complex quantum network constructed with main T-type CRA's, such as a H-type CRA waveguide.

id: 0809.1290
title: Generalized Schmidt decomposition based on injective tensor norm
authors: Levon Tamaryan, DaeKil Park, Sayatnova Tamaryan
comments: rewritten as a regular paper, necessary and sufficient conditions are derived for the existence of completely mixed subsystems, six possible expressions of the injective norm are written down explicitly, a reference is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1290
abstract: We present a generalized Schmidt decomposition for a pure system with any number of two-level subsystems. The basis is symmetric under the permutation of the parties and is derived from the product state defining the injective tensor norm of the state. The largest coefficient quantifies the quantum correlation of the state. Other coefficients have a lot of information such as the unentangled particles as well as the particles whose reduced states are completely mixed. The decomposition clearly distinguishes the states entangled in inequivalent ways and have an information on the applicability to the teleportation and superdense coding when the given quantum state is used as a quantum channel.

id: 0809.1414
title: Optimal control of entangling operations for trapped ion quantum computing
authors: V. Nebendahl, H. Haffner, C. F. Roos
comments: Slightly revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012312 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1414
abstract: Optimal control techniques are applied for the decomposition of unitary quantum operations into a sequence of single-qubit gates and entangling operations. To this end, we modify a gradient-ascent algorithm developed for systems of coupled nuclear spins in molecules to make it suitable for trapped ion quantum computing. We decompose unitary operations into entangling gates that are based on a nonlinear collective spin operator and complemented by global spinflip and local light shift gates. Among others, we provide explicit decompositions of controlled-NOT and Toffoli gates, and a simple quantum error correction protocol.

id: 0809.1446
title: Decoherence and Irreversibility: the role of the reservoir effective Hilbert space size
authors: Adelcio C. Oliveira, A. R. Bosco de Magalhaes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1446
abstract: We show that decoherence is determined by the effective Hilbert space size, and demonstrate that a few degrees of freedom system can simulate a "N" degrees of freedom environment if they have the same effective Hilbert space. The effective Hilbert space size of the environment also determines its long time efficiency as generator of irreversible coherence loss.

id: 0809.1466
title: Metastable Quasimolecules in Excited Gases
authors: V. N. Malnev, R. A. Naryshkin
comments: 6 pages, no figures, 1 table
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, 50 N4 (2005) 333--339
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1466
abstract: Quasimolecules, which consist of two differently excited atoms in a resonantly excited gas, are considered. The energy of dissociation and typical sizes of such molecules are calculated in the first order of quantum-mechanical perturbation theory with the help of the dipole-dipole interaction operator. It is shown that there exist metastable quasimolecules, whose dipole radiative transition to the ground state (two non-excited atoms) is forbidden. The lifetime of such molecules is estimated and it is shown that quasimolecules may considerably affect the transport processes in a resonantly excited gas.

id: 0809.1478
title: Value of interparticle interaction potential as a variable in solving many-body Schr?dinger equation
authors: V.M.Tapilin
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1478
abstract: A many-body wave function is approximated by a product of two functions: the wave function $\phi$ depending on the particle coordinates and the function $\chi$ depending only on the value of interparticle interaction potential. For the given $\phi$ an ordinary linear differential equation for $\chi$ is derived by averaging the Hamiltonian over the constant interparticle interaction potential surface. Generalized Hartree-Fock equations containing correlation effects are obtained. To test the proposed technique the ground $1^{1}S_0$ and excited $2^{3}S_1$ states of two-electron ions from H$^-$ up to Ne$^{8+}$ are calculated. In all cases the calculated energies are more accurate than those obtained with the Hartree-Fock theory even taking as $\phi$ the symmetrized product of electron wave functions in the Coulomb field of nucleus complitly disregarded the electron-electron interaction. Variation of factors in the one-particle wave function exponents leads to the results close to those of configuration interaction approach.

id: 0809.1501
title: Quantum Semi-Markov Processes
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 4 pages, revtex, no figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101 (2008) 140402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1501
abstract: We construct a large class of non-Markovian master equations that describe the dynamics of open quantum systems featuring strong memory effects, which relies on a quantum generalization of the concept of classical semi-Markov processes. General conditions for the complete positivity of the corresponding quantum dynamical maps are formulated. The resulting non-Markovian quantum processes allow the treatment of a variety of physical systems, as is illustrated by means of various examples and applications, including quantum optical systems and models of quantum transport.

id: 0809.1505
title: On the Generation of X-Ray Photon Pairs: A Verification of the Unruh Effect?
authors: Friedhelm Bell
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1505
abstract: We investigate the production of entangled X-ray photons by incoherent double Compton scattering (IDCS) which seems to be an interesting alternative to coherent double Compton scattering used in earlier work. Very recently it has been proposed to use the Unruh effect as a source for photon pairs (R.Sch\"utzhold et al.,Phys.Rev.Lett. 100, 091301 (2008)). We will discuss this mechanism in comparison with inverse IDCS.

id: 0809.1511
title: Process tomography of field damping and measurement of Fock state lifetimes by quantum non-demolition photon counting in a cavity
authors: M. Brune, J. Bernu, C. Guerlin, S. Deleglise, C. Sayrin, S. Gleyzes, S. Kuhr, I. Dotsenko, J. M. Raimond, S. Haroche
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1511
abstract: The relaxation of a quantum field stored in a high-$Q$ superconducting cavity is monitored by non-resonant Rydberg atoms. The field, subjected to repetitive quantum non-demolition (QND) photon counting, undergoes jumps between photon number states. We select ensembles of field realizations evolving from a given Fock state and reconstruct the subsequent evolution of their photon number distributions. We realize in this way a tomography of the photon number relaxation process yielding all the jump rates between Fock states. The damping rates of the $n$ photon states ($0\leq n \leq 7$) are found to increase linearly with $n$. The results are in excellent agreement with theory including a small thermal contribution.

id: 0809.1513
title: Compact Toffoli gate using weighted graph states
authors: M. S. Tame, S. K. Ozdemir, M. Koashi, N. Imoto, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4; Accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 020302(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1513
abstract: We introduce three compact graph states that can be used to perform a measurement-based Toffoli gate. Given a weighted graph of six, seven or eight qubits, we show that success probabilities of 1/4, 1/2 and 1 respectively can be achieved. Our study puts a measurement-based version of this important quantum logic gate within the reach of current experiments. As the graphs are setup-independent, they could be realized in a variety of systems, including linear optics and ion-traps.

id: 0809.1537
title: On the quantum dynamics of a point particle in conical space
authors: C. Filgueiras, F. Moraes
comments: To appear in Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1537
abstract: A quantum neutral particle, constrained to move on a conical surface, is used as a toy model to explore bound states due to both a inverse squared distance potential and a $\delta$-function potential, which appear naturally in the model. These pathological potentials are treated with the self-adjoint extension method which yields the correct boundary condition (not necessarily a null wavefunction) at the origin. We show that the usual boundary condition requiring that the wavefunction vanishes at the origin is arbitrary and drastically reduces the number of bound states if used. The situation studied here is closely related to the problem of a dipole moving in conical space.

id: 0809.1538
title: Asymptotic Quantum Search and a Quantum Algorithm for Calculation of a Lower Bound of the Probability of Finding a Diophantine Equation That Accepts Integer Solutions
authors: R. V. Ramos, J. L. de Oliveira
comments: Eleven pages, two figures. A complexity analysis is included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1538
abstract: Several mathematical problems can be modeled as a search in a database. An example is the problem of finding the minimum of a function. Quantum algorithms for solving this problem have been proposed and all of them use the quantum search algorithm as a subroutine and several intermediate measurements are realized. In this work, it is proposed a new quantum algorithm for finding the minimum of a function in which quantum search is not used as a subroutine and only one measurement is needed. This is also named asymptotic quantum search. As an example, we propose a quantum algorithm based on asymptotic quantum search and quantum counting able to calculate a lower bound of the probability of finding a Diophantine equation with integer solution.

id: 0809.1540
title: Transferring and bounding single photon in waveguide controlled by quantum node based on atomic ensemble
authors: Jing Lu, H. Dong, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1540
abstract: We study the scattering process of photons confined in a one dimensional optical waveguide by a laser controlled atomic ensemble. The investigation leads to an alternative setup of quantum node controlling the coherent transfer of single photon in such one dimensional continuum. To exactly solve the effective scattering equations by using the discrete coordinate approach, we simulate the linear waveguide as a coupled resonator array at the high energy limit. We generally calculate the transmission coefficients and its vanishing at resonace reflects the good controllability of our scheme. We also show that there exist two bound states to describe the localize photons around the cavity.

id: 0809.1556
title: Classification of Bipartite and Tripartite Qutrit Entanglement under SLOCC
authors: Xin-Gang Yang, Zhi-Xi Wang, Xiao-Hong Wang, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 10 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 50(2008) 651-654
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1556
abstract: We classify biqutrit and triqutrit pure states under stochastic local operations and classical communication. By investigating the right singular vector spaces of the coefficient matrices of the states, we obtain explicitly two equivalent classes of biqutrit states and twelve equivalent classes of triqutrit states respectively.

id: 0809.1575
title: Collapse of the Quantum Wavefunction
authors: H?kon Brox, K?re Olaussen, Anh Kiet Nguyen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1575
abstract: We show using a realistic Hamiltonian-type model that definite outcomes of quantum measurements may emerge from quantum evolution of pure states, i.e quantum dynamics provides a deterministic collapse of the wavefunction in a quantum measurement process. The relaxation of the wavefunction into a pointer state with classical properties is driven by the interaction with an environment. The destruction of superpositions, i.e. choosing a preferred attraction basin and thereby a preferred pointer state, is caused by a tiny nonlinearity in the macroscopic measurement apparatus. In more details, we numerically studied the many-body quantum dynamics of a closed Universe consisting of a system spin measured by a ferromagnet embedded in a spin-glass environment. The nonlinear term is the self-induced magnetic field of the ferromagnet. The statistics for the outcomes of this quantum measurement process depends on the size of the attraction basins in the measurement apparatus and are in accordance to Born's rule.

id: 0809.1587
title: Non-Markovian Dynamics and Entanglement in Quantum Brownian Motion
authors: K. Shiokawa
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Jour. Math. Chem. 46, 175 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1587
abstract: Dynamical aspects of quantum Brownian motion in a low temperature environment are investigated. We give a systematic calculation of quantum entanglement among two Brownian oscillators without invoking Born-Markov approximation widely used for the study of open systems. Our approach is suitable to probe short time dynamics at cold temperatures where many experiments on quantum information processing are performed.

id: 0809.1611
title: Broadband amplitude squeezing in a periodically poled KTiOPO_4 waveguide
authors: Matthew Pysher, Russell Bloomer, Olivier Pfister, Christopher M. Kaleva, Tony D. Roberts, Philip Battle
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Optics Letters, 34, 256 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1611
abstract: We generated -2.2 dB of broadband amplitude squeezing at 1064 nm in a periodically poled KTiOPO_4 (PPKTP) waveguide, by coupling of the fundamental and second harmonic continuous-wave fields. This is the largest amount of squeezing obtained to date in a KTP waveguide, limited by propagation losses. This result paves the way for further improvements by use of lower-loss buried ion-exchanged waveguides.

id: 0809.1631
title: Schr?dinger's pure-state steering completed
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 10 pages, Latex2e, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 085202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1631
abstract: Schroedinger investigated entanglement in two-particle state vectors by assuming measurement finding out if the nearby particle is in a given state vector or not. Without interaction with the distant particle, just on account of the entanglement, the distant particle is steered into a certain state vector. In Schroedinger's finite-dimensional case thus any distant-particle state vector can be reached. This theory was extended to infinite-dimensional spaces by the author. The present article completes the extension by throwing light on the fine structure of steering.

id: 0809.1660
title: Thermalization process in bare and dressed coordinate approaches
authors: G.Flores-Hidalgo, A.P.C. Malbouisson, J.M.C. Malbouisson, Y.W. Milla, A.E. Santana
comments: Revtex, 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1660
abstract: We consider a particle in the approximation of a harmonic oscillator, coupled linearly to a field modeling an environment. The field is described by an infinite set of harmonic oscillators, and the system (particle--field) is considered in a cavity at thermal equilibrium. We employ the notions of bare and dressed coordinates to study the time evolution of the occupation number. With dressed coordinates no renormalization procedure is required, leading directly to a finite result. In particular, for a large time, the occupation number of the particle becomes independent of its initial value. So we have a Markovian process, describing the particle thermalization with the environment.

id: 0809.1673
title: Optical Spin Initialization and Non-Destructive Measurement in a Quantum Dot Molecule
authors: Danny Kim, Sophia E. Economou, Stefan C. Badescu, Michael Scheibner, Allan S. Bracker, Mark Bashkansky, Thomas L. Reinecke, Daniel Gammon
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1673
abstract: The spin of an electron in a self-assembled InAs/GaAs quantum dot molecule is optically prepared and measured through the trion triplet states. A longitudinal magnetic field is used to tune two of the trion states into resonance, forming a superposition state through asymmetric spin exchange. As a result, spin-flip Raman transitions can be used for optical spin initialization, while separate trion states enable cycling transitions for non-destructive measurement. With two-laser transmission spectroscopy we demonstrate both operations simultaneously, something not previously accomplished in a single quantum dot.

id: 0809.1676
title: Dynamical phases for the evolution of the entanglement between two oscillators coupled to the same environment
authors: Juan Pablo Paz, Augusto J. Roncaglia
comments: 18 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1676
abstract: We study the dynamics of the entanglement between two oscillators that are initially prepared in a general two-mode Gaussian state and evolve while coupled to the same environment. In a previous paper we showed that there are three qualitatively different dynamical phases for the entanglement in the long time limit: sudden death, sudden death and revival and no-sudden death [Paz & Roncaglia, Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 220401 (2008)]. Here we generalize and extend those results along several directions: We analyze the fate of entanglement for an environment with a general spectral density providing a complete characterization of the corresponding phase diagrams for ohmic and sub--ohmic environments (we also analyze the super-ohmic case showing that for such environment the expected behavior is rather different). We also generalize previous studies by considering two different models for the interaction between the system and the environment (first we analyze the case when the coupling is through position and then we examine the case where the coupling is symmetric in position and momentum). Finally, we analyze (both numerically and analytically) the case of non-resonant oscillators. In that case we show that the final entanglement is independent of the initial state and may be non-zero at very low temperatures. We provide a natural interpretation of our results in terms of a simple quantum optics model.

id: 0809.1684
title: Coherent states approach to Penning trap
authors: David J Fernandez C, Mercedes Velazquez
comments: 10 pages, small changes, one reference added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 085304 (9pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1684
abstract: By using a matrix technique, which allows to identify directly the ladder operators, the Penning trap coherent states are derived as eigenstates of the appropriate annihilation operators. These states are compared with the ones obtained through the displacement operator. The associated wave functions and mean values for some relevant operators in these states are also evaluated. It turns out that the Penning trap coherent states minimize the Heisenberg uncertainty relation.

id: 0809.1705
title: Implementation of holonomic quantum gates by an isospectral deformation of an Ising dimer chain
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Masamitsu Bando, Yasusi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052315 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1705
abstract: We exactly construct one- and two-qubit holonomic quantum gates in terms of isospectral deformations of an Ising model Hamiltonian. A single logical qubit is constructed out of two spin-1/2 particles; the qubit is a dimer. We find that the holonomic gates obtained are discrete but dense in the unitary group. Therefore an approximate gate for a desired one can be constructed with arbitrary accuracy.

id: 0809.1713
title: Tight Correlation-Function Bell Inequality for Multipartite $d$-Dimensional System
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Dong-Ling Deng
comments: 4 pages; Accepted by PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1713
abstract: We generalize the correlation functions of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality to multipartite d-dimensional systems. All the Bell inequalities based on this generalization take the same simple form as the CHSH inequality. For small systems, numerical results show that the new inequalities are tight and we believe this is also valid for higher dimensional systems. Moreover, the new inequalities are relevant to the previous ones and for bipartite system, our inequality is equivalent to the Collins-Gisin-Linden-Masser-Popescu (CGLMP) inequality.

id: 0809.1714
title: Heisenberg's uncertainty principle for simultaneous measurement of positive-operator-valued measures
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Hideki Imai
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052119 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1714
abstract: A limitation on simultaneous measurement of two arbitrary positive operator valued measures is discussed. In general, simultaneous measurement of two noncommutative observables is only approximately possible. Following Werner's formulation, we introduce a distance between observables to quantify an accuracy of measurement. We derive an inequality that relates the achievable accuracy with noncommutativity between two observables. As a byproduct a necessary condition for two positive operator valued measures to be simultaneously measurable is obtained.

id: 0809.1746
title: Understanding entanglement sudden death through multipartite entanglement and quantum correlations
authors: Jared H. Cole
comments: Significantly rewritten and slightly shifted focus. Added calculation of entanglement hierarchies and quantum discord. Removed erroneous perturbation calculation and added more discussion and figures. 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 135301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1746
abstract: The effect of Entanglement Sudden Death (ESD) can arise when entangling interactions convert purely bipartite entangled states into more generally entangled states. As a result, ESD can also be seen as a function of partitioning of the system, not just of time, as the system partitioning defines different (multipartite) entanglement classes. Computing both geometric entanglement hierarchies and the generalization of concurrence allows one to demonstrate that different methods of analysing quantum correlations provide both qualitative and quantitatively different descriptions of two commonly cited examples of ESD. These results follow directly from the inequivalence of entanglement and quantum correlations, the later of which can exist in a state without the former.

id: 0809.1759
title: A conjugate for the Bargmann representation
authors: A. D. Ribeiro, F. Parisio, M. A. M. de Aguiar
comments: 15 pages
journal: J. Phys. A42 (2009) 105301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1759
abstract: In the Bargmann representation of quantum mechanics, physical states are mapped into entire functions of a complex variable z*, whereas the creation and annihilation operators $\hat{a}^\dagger$ and $\hat{a}$ play the role of multiplication and differentiation with respect to z*, respectively. In this paper we propose an alternative representation of quantum states, conjugate to the Bargmann representation, where the roles of $\hat{a}^\dagger$ and $\hat{a}$ are reversed, much like the roles of the position and momentum operators in their respective representations. We derive expressions for the inner product that maintain the usual notion of distance between states in the Hilbert space. Applications to simple systems and to the calculation of semiclassical propagators are presented.

id: 0809.1766
title: Single-photon excitation of surface plasmon polaritons
authors: M. S. Tame, C. Lee, J. Lee, D. Ballester, M. Paternostro, A. V. Zayats, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4; Accepted version (Phys. Rev. Lett.)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 190504 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1766
abstract: We provide the quantum mechanical description of the excitation of surface plasmon polaritons on metal surfaces by single-photons. An attenuated-reflection setup is described for the quantum excitation process in which we find remarkably efficient photon-to-surface plasmon wavepacket-transfer. Using a fully quantized treatment of the fields, we introduce the Hamiltonian for their interaction and study the quantum statistics during transfer with and without losses in the metal.

id: 0809.1786
title: Geometric interpretation for A-fidelity and its relation with Bures fidelity
authors: Zhihao Ma, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 064305 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1786
abstract: A geometric interpretation for the A-fidelity between two states of a qubit system is presented, which leads to an upper bound of the Bures fidelity. The metrics defined based on the A-fidelity are studied by numerical method. An alternative generalization of the A-fidelity, which has the same geometric picture, to a $N$-state quantum system is also discussed.

id: 0809.1813
title: Spatial decoherence factor via the qubit-field interaction
authors: A. Vaglica, G. Vetri
comments: title changed, minor revisions, references added
journal: Eur.Phys.J D 54, 9-19 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1813
abstract: We analyze the time evolution of an initial spatial coherence for a two level atom whose internal degrees of freedom interact with a single mode of a cavity field. When the qubit-field subsystem is taken as an environment, the translational dynamics experiences a decoherence process which may be encoded in a decoherence factor D. We find that the field statistics affects D through the alternative paths the system-environment may follow along their entanglement, while eventual field phase properties give rise to an imaginary part of D which is related to the atomic translation. From the decoherence perspective, we analyze the relation between the atomic momentum and the imaginary part of the atomic spatial density matrix, and some considerations on its asymptotic behavior are brought into question at the conclusion of the paper.

id: 0809.1851
title: Quantum Density Fluctuations in Classical Liquids
authors: L.H. Ford, N.F. Svaiter
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:030602,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1851
abstract: We discuss the density fluctuations of a fluid due to zero point motion. These can be regarded as density fluctuations in the phonon vacuum state. We assume a linear dispersion relation with a fixed speed of sound and calculate the density correlation function. We note that this function has the same form as the correlation function for the time derivative of a relativistic massless scalar field, but with the speed of light replaced by the speed of sound. As a result, the study of density fluctuations in a fluid can be a useful analog model for better understanding fluctuations in relativistic quantum field theory. We next calculate the differential cross section for light scattering by the zero point density fluctuations, and find a result proportional to the fifth power of the light frequency. This can be understood as the product of fourth power dependence of the usual Rayleigh cross section with the linear frequency dependence of the spectrum of zero point density fluctuations. We give some estimates of the relative magnitude of this effect compared to the scattering by thermal density fluctuations, and find that it can be of order 0.5% for water at room temperature and optical frequencies. This relative magnitude is proportional to frequency and inversely proportional to temperature. Although the scattering by zero point density fluctuation is small, it may be observable.

id: 0809.1857
title: Entanglement of Solitons in the Frenkel-Kontorova Model
authors: Samuel Marcovitch, Benni Reznik
comments: 16 pages, 22 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1857
abstract: We investigate entanglement of solitons in the continuum-limit of the nonlinear Frenkel-Kontorova chain. We find that the entanglement of solitons manifests particle-like behavior as they are characterized by localization of entanglement. The von-Neumann entropy of solitons mixes critical with noncritical behaviors. Inside the core of the soliton the logarithmic increase of the entropy is faster than the universal increase of a critical field, whereas outside the core the entropy decreases and saturates the constant value of the corresponding massive noncritical field. In addition, two solitons manifest long-range entanglement that decreases with the separation of the solitons more slowly than the universal decrease of the critical field. Interestingly, in the noncritical regime of the Frenkel-Kontorova model, entanglement can even increase with the separation of the solitons. We show that most of the entanglement of the so-called internal modes of the solitons is saturated by local degrees of freedom inside the core, and therefore we suggest using the internal modes as carriers of quantum information.

id: 0809.1907
title: Quantum Connectivity of Space-Time and Gravitationally Induced Decorrelation of Entanglement
authors: T.C.Ralph, G.J.Milburn, T.Downes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1907
abstract: We discuss an alternative formulation of the problem of quantum optical fields in a curved space-time using localized operators. We contrast the new formulation with the standard approach and find observable differences for entangled states. We propose an experiment in which an entangled pair of optical pulses are propagated through non-uniform gravitational fields and find that the new formulation predicts de-correlation of the optical entanglement under experimentally realistic conditions.

id: 0809.1912
title: On the dynamics of maximum extractable entanglement for open systems
authors: E. Isasi, D. Mundarain, J. Stephany
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1912
abstract: In this work we study the dynamics of the maximum extractable entanglement for a system composed of two qubits interacting either with two independent thermal baths, a common thermal bath or a common squeezed bath. The states with maximum entanglement are found applying filtering operations which transform each state to a state in Bell diagonal form. We observe a revival of the maximum extractable entanglement for common baths. It is also shown that for some particular states in two independent baths at zero temperature, one can partially recover the initial entanglement at any time.

id: 0809.1929
title: Two-dimensional relativistic hydrogenic atoms: A complete set of constants of motion
authors: A. Poszwa, A. Rutkowski
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1929
abstract: The complete set of operators commuting with the Dirac Hamiltonian and exact analytic solution of the Dirac equation for the two-dimensional Coulomb potential is presented. Beyond the eigenvalue $\mu$ of the operator $j_{z}$, two quantum numbers $\eta$ and $\kappa$ are introduced as eigenvalues of hermitian operators $P=\beta\sigma_{z}'$ and $K=\beta(\sigma_{z}'l_{z}+1/2)$, respectively. The classification of states according to the full set of constants of motion without referring to the non-relativistic limit is proposed. The linear Paschen-Back effect is analyzed using exact field-free wave-functions as a zero-order approximation.

id: 0809.1932
title: Entanglement Measures for Intermediate Separability of Quantum States
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Toshihiko Sasaki, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A79 (2009) 052307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1932
abstract: We present a family of entanglement measures R_m which act as indicators for separability of n-qubit quantum states into m subsystems for arbitrary 2 \leq m \leq n. The measure R_m vanishes if the state is separable into m subsystems, and for m = n it gives the Meyer-Wallach measure while for m = 2 it reduces, in effect, to the one introduced recently by Love et al. The measures R_m are evaluated explicitly for the GHZ state and the W state (and its modifications, the W_k states) to show that these globally entangled states exhibit rather distinct behaviors under the measures, indicating the utility of the measures R_m for characterizing globally entangled states as well.

id: 0809.1934
title: Quantum Private Queries: security analysis
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, 56 3465 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1934
abstract: We present a security analysis of the recently introduced Quantum Private Query (QPQ) protocol. It is a cheat sensitive quantum protocol to perform a private search on a classical database. It allows a user to retrieve an item from the database without revealing which item was retrieved, and at the same time it ensures data privacy of the database (the information that the user can retrieve in a query is bounded and does not depend on the size of the database). The security analysis is based on information-disturbance tradeoffs which show that whenever the provider tries to obtain information on the query, the query (encoded into a quantum system) is disturbed so that the person querying the database can detect the privacy violation.

id: 0809.1945
title: Encryption via Entangled states belonging to Mutually Unbiased Bases
authors: M. Revzen, F. C. Khanna
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1945
abstract: We consider particular entanglement of two particles whose state vectors are in bases that are mutually unbiased (MUB), i.e. "that exhibit maximum degree of incompatibility" (J.Schwinger,Nat. Ac. Sci. (USA), 1960)). We use this link between entanglement and MUB to outline a protocol for secure key distribution among the parties that share these entangled states. The analysis leads to an association of entangled states and states in an MUB set: both carry the same labels.

id: 0809.1951
title: Quantum Covers in Quantum Measure Theory
authors: Sumati Surya, Petros Wallden
comments: Abstract shortened and made clearer. A section relating our work to the Kochen Specker theorem has been added. Latex2e, 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1951
abstract: In standard measure theory the measure on the base set Omega is normalised to one, which encodes the statement that "Omega happens". Moreover, the rules imply that the measure of any subset A of Omega is strictly positive if and only if A cannot be covered by a collection of subsets of zero measure. In quantum measure theory on the other hand, simple examples suffice to demonstrate that this is no longer true. We propose an appropriate generalisation of a cover to quantum measure theory, the {\sl quantum cover}, which in addition to being a cover of A, satisfies the property that if every one of its elements has zero quantum measure, then so does A. We show that a large class of inextendible antichains in the associated powerset lattice provide quantum covers for Omega, for a quantum measure that derives from a strongly positive decoherence functional. Quantum covers, moreover, give us a new perspective on the Peres-Kochen-Specker theorem and its role in the anhomomorphic logic approach to quantum interpretation.

id: 0809.1967
title: High-probability quantum state transfer among nodes of an open XXZ spin chain
authors: E.B.Fel'dman, A.I.Zenchuk
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A, V. 373 (2009) 1719-1728
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1967
abstract: This paper concerns the problem of the high probability state transfer among $2^s$ symmetrically placed nodes of the $N$-nodes spins 1/2 chain with the ${XXZ}$ Hamiltonian. We consider examples with $(N,s)=(4,4)$, $(N,s)=(6,4)$ and $(N,s)=(8,8)$.

id: 0809.1984
title: Excess noise depletion of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical cavity
authors: G. Szirmai, D. Nagy, P. Domokos
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures included in text
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 080401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1984
abstract: Quantum fluctuations of a cavity field coupled into the motion of ultracold bosons can be strongly amplified by a mechanism analogous to the Petermann excess noise factor in lasers with unstable cavities. For a Bose-Einstein condensate in a stable optical resonator, the excess noise effect amounts to a significant depletion on long timescales.

id: 0809.2007
title: Nonlinear Dynamics of Bose-Einstein Condensates with Long-Range Interactions
authors: G. Wunner, H. Cartarius, T. Fab?i?, P. K?berle, J. Main, T. Schwidder
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, Proceedings of the "7th International Summer School/Conference Llet's Face Chaos Through Nonlinear Dynamics", CAMTP, University of Maribor, Slovenia, 29 June - 13 July 2008
journal: AIP Conf. Proc., Vol. 1076, pp. 282-291 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2007
abstract: The motto of this paper is: Let's face Bose-Einstein condensation through nonlinear dynamics. We do this by choosing variational forms of the condensate wave functions (of given symmetry classes), which convert the Bose-Einstein condensates via the time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii equation into Hamiltonian systems that can be studied using the methods of nonlinear dynamics. We consider in particular cold quantum gases where long-range interactions between the neutral atoms are present, in addition to the conventional short-range contact interaction, viz. gravity-like interactions, and dipole-dipole interactions. The results obtained serve as a useful guide in the search for nonlinear dynamics effects in numerically exact quantum calculations for Bose-Einstein condensates. A main result is the prediction of the existence of stable islands as well as chaotic regions for excited states of dipolar condensates, which could be checked experimentally.

id: 0809.2024
title: Creation of a quantum oscillator by classical control
authors: Stefan Danilishin, Helge M¨¹ller-Ebhardt, Henning Rehbein, Kentaro Somiya, Roman Schnabel, Karsten Danzmann, Thomas Corbitt, Christopher Wipf, Nergis Mavalvala, Yanbei Chen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2024
abstract: As a pure quantum state is being approached via linear feedback, and the occupation number approaches and eventually goes below unity, optimal control becomes crucial. We obtain theoretically the optimal feedback controller that minimizes the uncertainty for a general linear measurement process, and show that even in the absence of classical noise, a pure quantum state is not always achievable via feedback. For Markovian measurements, the deviation from minimum Heisenberg Uncertainty is found to be closely related to the extent to which the device beats the free-mass Standard Quantum Limit for force measurement. We then specialize to optical Markovian measurements, and demonstrate that a slight modification to the usual input-output scheme -- either injecting frequency independent squeezed vacuum or making a homodyne detection at a non-phase quadrature -- allows controlled states of kilogram-scale mirrors in future LIGO interferometers to reach occupation numbers significantly below unity.

id: 0809.2025
title: Collapse and Revival of Entanglement between Qubits Interacting via a Quantum Bus
authors: C. E. A. Jarvis, D. A. Rodrigues, B. L. Gy?rffy, T. P. Spiller, A. J. Short, J. F. Annett
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2025
abstract: We study the dynamics of the Jaynes-Cummings Model for two level systems (or qubits) interacting with a quantized single mode electromagnetic cavity (or `quantum bus'). We show that there is a time in between the collapse and revival of Rabi oscillations when the state of the qubit sub-system, $| \psi\_{attractor} $, is largely independent of its initial state. This generalizes to many qubits the discovery by Gea-Banacloche for the one qubit case. The qubits in such `attractor' states are not entangled either with the field or among themselves, even if they were in the initial state. Subsequently the entanglement between the qubits revives. Finally, it is argued that the collapse and revival of entanglement and the persistence of `non-classicality' is a generic feature of multiple qubits interacting via a `quantum bus'.

id: 0809.2037
title: The Efficiency of Quantum Identity Testing of Multiple States
authors: Masaru Kada, Harumichi Nishimura, Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: 13pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 395309
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2037
abstract: We examine two quantum operations, the Permutation Test and the Circle Test, which test the identity of n quantum states. These operations naturally extend the well-studied Swap Test on two quantum states. We first show the optimality of the Permutation Test for any input size n as well as the optimality of the Circle Test for three input states. In particular, when n=3, we present a semi-classical protocol, incorporated with the Swap Test, which approximates the Circle Test efficiently. Furthermore, we show that, with help of classical preprocessing, a single use of the Circle Test can approximate the Permutation Test efficiently for an arbitrary input size n.

id: 0809.2043
title: Can the study of reduction probabilities reveal news about the nature of quantum state reduction?
authors: Garrelt Quandt-Wiese
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2043
abstract: A phenomenological model for the calculation of reduction probabilities of a superposition of several states is presented. The approach bases only the idea that quantum state reduction has its origin in a mutual physical interaction between the states. The model is explicitly worked out for the gravitational reduction hypothesis of Diosi and Penrose. It agrees for typical quantum mechanical experiments with the projection postulate and predicts regimes in which other behavior could be observed. An outlook is given, how the new effects can possibly become of interest for biology. For verification a feasible quantum optical experiment is proposed. The approach is analyzed from the view point of quantum non-locality in concrete its consequences for signalling.

id: 0809.2055
title: Classification of qubit entanglement: SL(2,C) versus SU(2) invariance
authors: A. Osterloh
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, revtex4
journal: Appl. Phys. B 98, 609 (2010). The final publication is available at www.springerlink.com.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2055
abstract: The role of SU(2) invariants for the classification of multiparty entanglement is discussed and exemplified for the Kempe invariant I_5 of pure three-qubit states. It is found to being an independent invariant only in presence of both W-type entanglement and threetangle. In this case, constant I_5 admits for a wide range of both threetangle and concurrences. Furthermore, the present analysis indicates that an SL^3 orbit of states with equal tangles but continuously varying I_5 must exist. This means that I_5 provides no information on the entanglement in the system in addition to that contained in the tangles (concurrences and threetangle) themselves. Together with the numerical evidence that I_5 is an entanglement monotone this implies that SU(2) invariance or the monotone property are too weak requirements for the characterization and quantification of entanglement for systems of three qubits, and that SL(2,C) invariance is required. This conclusion can be extended to general multipartite systems (including higher local dimension) because the entanglement classes of three-qubit systems appear as subclasses.

id: 0809.2133
title: High speed quantum gates with cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: Chun-Hsu Su, Andrew D. Greentree, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062336 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2133
abstract: Cavity quantum electrodynamic schemes for quantum gates are amongst the earliest quantum computing proposals. Despite continued progress, and the dramatic recent demonstration of photon blockade, there are still issues with optimal coupling and gate operation involving high-quality cavities. Here we show dynamic control techniques that allow scalable cavity-QED based quantum gates, that use the full bandwidth of the cavities. When applied to quantum gates, these techniques allow an order of magnitude increase in operating speed, and two orders of magnitude reduction in cavity Q, over passive cavity-QED architectures. Our methods exploit Stark shift based Q-switching, and are ideally suited to solid-state integrated optical approaches to quantum computing.

id: 0809.2155
title: Hyperentanglement witness
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Raino Ceccarelli, Francesco De Martini, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, RevTex. v2: new title, minor changes in the explanation of the witness for hyperentangled states, more comments in the conclusions section
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062305 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2155
abstract: A new criterium to detect the entanglement present in a {\it hyperentangled state}, based on the evaluation of an entanglement witness, is presented. We show how some witnesses recently introduced for graph states, measured by only two local settings, can be used in this case. We also define a new witness $W_3$ that improves the resistance to noise by increasing the number of local measurements.

id: 0809.2243
title: A de Finetti representation theorem for infinite dimensional quantum systems and applications to quantum cryptography
authors: Renato Renner, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 11 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 110504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2243
abstract: According to the quantum de Finetti theorem, if the state of an N-partite system is invariant under permutations of the subsystems then it can be approximated by a state where almost all subsystems are identical copies of each other, provided N is sufficiently large compared to the dimension of the subsystems. The de Finetti theorem has various applications in physics and information theory, where it is for instance used to prove the security of quantum cryptographic schemes. Here, we extend de Finetti's theorem, showing that the approximation also holds for infinite dimensional systems, as long as the state satisfies certain experimentally verifiable conditions. This is relevant for applications such as quantum key distribution (QKD), where it is often hard - or even impossible - to bound the dimension of the information carriers (which may be corrupted by an adversary). In particular, our result can be applied to prove the security of QKD based on weak coherent states or Gaussian states against general attacks.

id: 0809.2247
title: Control of entanglement and two-qubit quantum gates with atoms crossing a detuned optical cavity
authors: D. Gonta, S. Fritzsche
comments: IOP file; 17 pages, 5 figures, J. Phys. B accepted
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 (2009) 145508
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2247
abstract: A scheme is proposed to generate an entangled state between two (Lambda-type) four-level atoms that interact effectively by means of a detuned optical cavity and a laser beam that acts perpendicularly to the cavity axis. It is shown how the degree of entanglement for two atoms passing through the cavity can be controlled by manipulating their velocity and the (initial) distance between the atoms. In addition, three realistic schemes are suggested to implement the two-qubit gates within the framework of the suggested atom-cavity-laser setup, namely, the i-swap gate, controlled-Z gate and the controlled-NOT gate. For all these schemes, we analyze and discuss the atomic velocities and inter-atomic distances for which these gates are realized most reliably.

id: 0809.2252
title: Unconditional security of continuous-variable quantum key distribution
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Evgueni Karpov, Philippe Grangier, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. The approach investigated in this preprint fails for the following reason: for a fixed $n$, the $\epsilon$-smooth min-entropy is a continuous function of $\epsilon$ for a given $n$-mode state but the Lipschitz constant of the function increases with $n$. As a consequence, one cannot interchange the limits $\epsilon$ tending to 0 with $n$ tending to infinity. Note, however, that an unconditional security proof of continuous-variable quantum key distribution was established in Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 110504 (2009) (preprint arXiv:0809.2243)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2252
abstract: The unconditional security of continuous-variable quantum key distribution is established for all schemes based on the estimation of the channel loss and excess noise. It is proved that, in the limit of large keys, Gaussian attacks are asymptotically optimal among the most general (coherent) attacks, where the transmission is tapped using arbitrary ancillas and stored in a quantum memory as a whole. Then, it is shown that the previously derived bounds on the achievable secret key rates against collective attacks remain asymptotically valid for arbitrary coherent attacks.

id: 0809.2264
title: Entanglement Cost of Nonlocal Measurements
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Gilles Brassard, Shelby Kimmel, William K. Wootters
comments: 14 pages; new result in v4: cost of an arbitrary measurement invariant under local Pauli operations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012313 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2264
abstract: For certain joint measurements on a pair of spatially separated particles, we ask how much entanglement is needed to carry out the measurement exactly. For a class of orthogonal measurements on two qubits with partially entangled eigenstates, we present upper and lower bounds on the entanglement cost. The upper bound is based on a recent result by D. Berry [Phys. Rev. A 75, 032349 (2007)]. The lower bound, based on the entanglement production capacity of the measurement, implies that for almost all measurements in the class we consider, the entanglement required to perform the measurement is strictly greater than the average entanglement of its eigenstates. On the other hand, we show that for any complete measurement in d x d dimensions that is invariant under all local Pauli operations, the cost of the measurement is exactly equal to the average entanglement of the states associated with the outcomes.

id: 0809.2307
title: Quantum Computation Beyond the Circuit Model
authors: Stephen P. Jordan
comments: Ph.D. thesis. MIT, May 2008. 144 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2307
abstract: The quantum circuit model is the most widely used model of quantum computation. It provides both a framework for formulating quantum algorithms and an architecture for the physical construction of quantum computers. However, several other models of quantum computation exist which provide useful alternative frameworks for both discovering new quantum algorithms and devising new physical implementations of quantum computers. In this thesis, I first present necessary background material for a general physics audience and discuss existing models of quantum computation. Then, I present three results relating to various models of quantum computation: a scheme for improving the intrinsic fault tolerance of adiabatic quantum computers using quantum error detecting codes, a proof that a certain problem of estimating Jones polynomials is complete for the one clean qubit complexity class, and a generalization of perturbative gadgets which allows k-body interactions to be directly simulated using 2-body interactions. Lastly, I discuss general principles regarding quantum computation that I learned in the course of my research, and using these principles I propose directions for future research.

id: 0809.2311
title: Reply to Comment on "Exposed-key weakness of $¦Á¦Ç$"
authors: Charlene Ahn, Kevin Birnbaum
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2311
abstract: We address criticism of the Letter "Exposed-Key Weakness of $\alpha \eta$" in the Comment by Nair and Yuen. The Comment claims that the Letter does not show insecurity of $\alpha \eta$ because our approximation for the eavesdropper's entropy on the encrypted key is invalid. We present simulations which show that, on the contrary, our estimate is in close agreement with numerical calculations of the actual entropy over the applicable domain. We additionally discuss some ways in which our views on security requirements differ from the views given in the Comment.

id: 0809.2321
title: All Pure Two-Qudit Entangled States Can be Generated via a Universal Yang--Baxter Matrix Assisted by Local Unitary Transformations
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Kang Xue, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Chinese Physics Letters 26, 080306 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2321
abstract: We show that all pure entangled states of two $d$-dimensional quantum systems (i.e., two qudits) can be generated from an initial separable state via a universal Yang--Baxter matrix if one is assisted by local unitary transformations.

id: 0809.2332
title: Entanglement of a mixed state of two qubit system
authors: Levan Chotorlishvili
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2332
abstract: Interaction with environment may lead to the transition of quantum system from pure state to the mixed one. In this case, the problem of definition of entanglement may arise. In particular, quantitative measure of entanglement concurrence is introduced differently for pure and mixed states. To solve this problem, alternative definition of concurrence of mixed states is introduced in present work. In particular, concurrence of mixed states is determined as an average of pure states concurrences. Averaging is carried out over the quantum ensemble, corresponding to all possible realization of random variable.

id: 0809.2336
title: DDMF: An Efficient Decision Diagram Structure for Design Verification of Quantum Circuits under a Practical Restriction
authors: Shigeru Yamashita, Shin-ichi Minato, D. Michael Miller
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures, to appear IEICE Trans. Fundamentals, Vol. E91-A, No.12
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2336
abstract: Recently much attention has been paid to quantum circuit design to prepare for the future "quantum computation era." Like the conventional logic synthesis, it should be important to verify and analyze the functionalities of generated quantum circuits. For that purpose, we propose an efficient verification method for quantum circuits under a practical restriction. Thanks to the restriction, we can introduce an efficient verification scheme based on decision diagrams called Decision Diagrams for Matrix Functions (DDMFs). Then, we show analytically the advantages of our approach based on DDMFs over the previous verification techniques. In order to introduce DDMFs, we also introduce new concepts, quantum functions and matrix functions, which may also be interesting and useful on their own for designing quantum circuits.

id: 0809.2338
title: Purity sieve for models with factorizable interactions
authors: Oleg Lychkovskiy
comments: presented at the Fourth International Workshop DICE-2008, Castiglioncello (Tuscany), September 22-26
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 174, 012030 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2338
abstract: Evolution of purity in case of factorizable interaction between an open system and an environment is investigated. We derive a simple expression for purity decrease at the first instants of evolution (when purity is close to unity). We find that purity at very small times is maximal when an initial state of an open system coincides with one of the eigenstates of the interaction operator, no matter how weak the interaction is. On the other hand it is widely known that in general eigenstates of the interaction are not pointer states. Therefore the procedure of selecting pointer states by purity maximization (known as "purity sieve") should not rely on short-time purity behavior. We propose a modification of the purity sieve criterion which approximately takes into account purity evolution at longer times. As an example of its applicability we recover known results for pointer states of a particle undergoing quantum Brownian motion; we point out that the criterion is not applicable for some other models, however. It is argued that the proposed modified purity sieve may be used for selecting pointer states of a particle undergoing decoherence through collisions.

id: 0809.2376
title: Quantum State Tomography: 'the best' is the enemy of 'good enough'
authors: Max S. Kaznady, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 12 pages, 3 tables, 9 figures. Files: 9 PDF figures and 1 TEX file, all in ZIP archive
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2376
abstract: In this paper, we examine a variety of strategies for numerical quantum-state estimation from data of the sort commonly measured in experiments involving quantum state tomography. We find that, in some important circumstances, an elaborate and time-consuming numerical optimization to obtain 'the best' density matrix corresponding to a given data set is not necessary, and that cruder, faster numerical techniques may well be 'good enough'.

id: 0809.2445
title: Finding conjugate stabilizer subgroups in PSL(2; q) and related groups
authors: Aaron Denney, Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 10 pages, added details of representation theory for non-prime q
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2445
abstract: We reduce a case of the hidden subgroup problem (HSP) in SL(2; q), PSL(2; q), and PGL(2; q), three related families of finite groups of Lie type, to efficiently solvable HSPs in the affine group AGL(1; q). These groups act on projective space in an almost 3-transitive way, and we use this fact in each group to distinguish conjugates of its Borel (upper triangular) subgroup, which is also the stabilizer subgroup of an element of projective space. Our observation is mainly group-theoretic, and as such breaks little new ground in quantum algorithms. Nonetheless, these appear to be the first positive results on the HSP in finite simple groups such as PSL(2; q).

id: 0809.2485
title: Improved analytical approximation to arbitrary l-state solutions of the Schrodinger equation for the hyperbolical potentials
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 17 pages
journal: Ann. Phys.(Berlin) 18, 189(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2485
abstract: A new approximation scheme to the centrifugal term is proposed to obtain the $l\neq 0$ bound-state solutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for an exponential-type potential in the framework of the hypergeometric method. The corresponding normalized wave functions are also found in terms of the Jacobi polynomials. To show the accuracy of the new proposed approximation scheme, we calculate the energy eigenvalues numerically for arbitrary quantum numbers $n$ and $l$ with two different values of the potential parameter $\sigma_{\text{0}}.$ Our numerical results are of high accuracy like the other numerical results obtained by using program based on a numerical integration procedure for short-range and long-range potentials. The energy bound-state solutions for the s-wave ($l=0$) and $\sigma_{0}=1$ cases are given.

id: 0809.2510
title: Probing optomechanical correlations between two optical beams down to the quantum level
authors: P. Verlot, A. Tavernarakis, T. Briant, P. -F. Cohadon, A. Heidmann
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters102:103601, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2510
abstract: Quantum effects of radiation pressure are expected to limit the sensitivity of second-generation gravitational-wave interferometers. Though ubiquitous, such effects are so weak that they haven't been experimentally demonstrated yet. Using a high-finesse optical cavity and a classical intensity noise, we have demonstrated radiation-pressure induced correlations between two optical beams sent into the same moving mirror cavity. Our scheme can be extended down to the quantum level and has applications both in high-sensitivity measurements and in quantum optics.

id: 0809.2520
title: To the Theory of Unstable States
authors: Sergei G. Matinyan, Mark E. Perel'man
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 372 (2008) 6733
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2520
abstract: Deviations of the decay law from exponents are discussing for a long time, however, experimental proofs of such deviations are absent. Here in the general form is shown that the conclusions about non-exponential contributions are due to the disregarding of advanced interactions, i.e. at principally non-relativistic considerations. We consider decay processes in the frame of interactions duration of the quantum field theory. We show that at this basis the usual exponential decay has place.

id: 0809.2527
title: Optical Spectroscopy of Ultracold Atoms on an Atom Chip
authors: A. G¨¹nther, H. Bender, A. Stibor, J. Fort¨¢gh, C. Zimmermann
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2527
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate optical spectroscopy of magnetically trapped atoms on an atom chip. High resolution optical spectra of individual trapped clouds are recorded within a few hundred milliseconds. Detection sensitivities close to the single atom level are obtained by photoionization of the excited atoms and subsequent ion detection with a channel electron multiplier. Temperature and decay rates of the trapped atomic cloud can be monitored in real time for several seconds with only little detection losses. The spectrometer can be used for investigations of ultracold atomic mixtures and for the development of interferometric quantum sensors on atom chips.

id: 0809.2588
title: Experimental high-intensity three-photon entangled source
authors: Huai-Xin Lu, Jun Zhang, Xiao-Qin Wang, Ying-De Li, Chun-Yan Wang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 033819 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2588
abstract: We experimentally realize a high-intensity three-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) entanglement source directly following the proposal by Rarity and Tapster [J. G. Rarity and P. R. Tapster, Phys. Rev. A 59, R35 (1999)]. The threefold coincidence rate can be more than 200 Hz with a fidelity of 0.811, and the intensity can be further improved with moderate fidelity degradation. The GHZ entanglement is characterized by testing the Bell-Mermin inequality and using an entanglement witness operator. To optimize the polarization-entangled source, we theoretically analyze the relationship between the mean photon number of the single-photon source and the probability of parametric down-conversion.

id: 0809.2622
title: No purification for two copies of a noisy entangled state
authors: Anthony J. Short
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2622
abstract: We consider whether two copies of a noisy entangled state can be transformed into a single copy of greater purity using local operations and classical communication. We show that it is never possible to achieve such a purification with certainty when the family of noisy states is twirlable (i.e. when there exists a local transformation that maps all states into the family, yet leaves the family itself invariant). This implies that two copies of a Werner state cannot be deterministically purified. Furthermore, due to the construction of the proof, it will hold not only in quantum theory, but in any generalised probabilistic theory. We use this to show that two copies of a noisy PR-box (a hypothetical device more non-local than is allowed by quantum theory) cannot be purified.

id: 0809.2642
title: Second Quantized Kolmogorov Complexity
authors: Caroline Rogers, Vlatko Vedral, Rajagopal Nagarajan
comments: 14 pages, 0 figures
journal: Volume No. 06, Issue No. 04 of IJQI, Pg 907 - 928, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2642
abstract: The Kolmogorov complexity of a string is the length of its shortest description. We define a second quantised Kolmogorov complexity where the length of a description is defined to be the average length of its superposition. We discuss this complexity's basic properties. We define the corresponding prefix complexity and show that the inequalities obeyed by this prefix complexity are also obeyed by von Neumann entropy.

id: 0809.2671
title: Quantum entanglement and interference from classical statistics
authors: C. Wetterich
comments: 6 pages, small modifications, new references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2671
abstract: Quantum mechanics for a four-state-system is derived from classical statistics. Entanglement, interference, the difference between identical fermions or bosons and the unitary time evolution find an interpretation within a classical statistical ensemble. Quantum systems are subsystems of larger classical statistical systems, which include the environment or the vacuum. They are characterized by incomplete statistics in the sense that the classical correlation function cannot be used for sequences of measurements in the subsystem.

id: 0809.2683
title: Apply current exponential de Finetti theorem to realistic quantum key distribution
authors: Yi-Bo Zhao, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, detailed version, applications added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2683
abstract: In the realistic quantum key distribution (QKD), Alice and Bob respectively get a quantum state from an unknown channel, whose dimension may be unknown. However, while discussing the security, sometime we need to know exact dimension, since current exponential de Finetti theorem, crucial to the information-theoretical security proof, is deeply related with the dimension and can only be applied to finite dimensional case. Here we address this problem in detail. We show that if POVM elements corresponding to Alice and Bob's measured results can be well described in a finite dimensional subspace with sufficiently small error, then dimensions of Alice and Bob's states can be almost regarded as finite. Since the security is well defined by the smooth entropy, which is continuous with the density matrix, the small error of state actually means small change of security. Then the security of unknown-dimensional system can be solved. Finally we prove that for heterodyne detection continuous variable QKD and differential phase shift QKD, the collective attack is optimal under the infinite key size case.

id: 0809.2694
title: Dynamical symmetry of Dirac hydrogen atom with spin symmetry and its connection with Ginocchio's oscillator
authors: Fu-Lin Zhang, Bo Fu, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 3 pages,Accepted by PRA as a Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 040101(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2694
abstract: The Dirac hydrogen atom with spin symmetry is shown has a SO(4) symmetry. The generators are derived, and the corresponding Casimir operator leads to the energy spectrum naturally. This type hydrogen atom is connected to a four-dimensional Dirac system with equal scalar and vector harmonic oscillator potential, by the Kustaanheimo-Stiefel transformation with a constraint.

id: 0809.2705
title: Preparing ground states of quantum many-body systems on a quantum computer
authors: David Poulin, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:130503,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2705
abstract: Preparing the ground state of a system of interacting classical particles is an NP-hard problem. Thus, there is in general no better algorithm to solve this problem than exhaustively going through all N configurations of the system to determine the one with lowest energy, requiring a running time proportional to N. A quantum computer, if it could be built, could solve this problem in time sqrt(N). Here, we present a powerful extension of this result to the case of interacting quantum particles, demonstrating that a quantum computer can prepare the ground state of a quantum system as efficiently as it does for classical systems.

id: 0809.2760
title: Supersymmetric partners of the trigonometric Poschl-Teller potentials
authors: Alonso Contreras-Astorga, David J Fernandez C
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 475303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2760
abstract: The first and second-order supersymmetry transformations are used to generate Hamiltonians with known spectra departing from the trigonometric Poschl-Teller potentials. The several possibilities of manipulating the initial spectrum are fully explored, and it is shown how to modify one or two levels, or even to leave the spectrum unaffected. The behavior of the new potentials at the boundaries of the domain is studied.

id: 0809.2824
title: A Two-Dimensional Lattice Ion Trap for Quantum Simulation
authors: Robert J. Clark, Tongyan Lin, Kenneth R. Brown, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 8 pages, 11 pdf figures, submitted to J. Appl. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2824
abstract: Quantum simulations of spin systems could enable the solution of problems which otherwise require infeasible classical resources. Such a simulation may be implemented using a well-controlled system of effective spins, such as a two-dimensional lattice of locally interacting ions. We propose here a layered planar rf trap design that can be used to create arbitrary two-dimensional lattices of ions. The design also leads naturally to ease of microfabrication. As a first experimental demonstration, we confine strontium-88 ions in a mm-scale lattice trap and verify numerical models of the trap by measuring the motional frequencies. We also confine 440 nm diameter charged microspheres and observe ion-ion repulsion between ions in neighboring lattice sites. Our design, when scaled to smaller ion-ion distances, is appropriate for quantum simulation schemes, e.g. that of Porras and Cirac (PRL 92 207901 (2004)). We note, however, that in practical realizations of the trap, an increase in the secular frequency with decreasing ion spacing may make a coupling rate that is large relative to the decoherence rate in such a trap difficult to achieve.

id: 0809.2847
title: Exchange interaction and correlations radically change behaviour of a quantum particle in a classically forbidden region
authors: V.V. Flambaum
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2847
abstract: Exchange interaction strongly influences the long-range behaviour of localised electron orbitals and quantum tunneling amplitudes. It violates the oscillation theorem (creates extra nodes) and produces a power-law decay instead of the usual exponential decrease at large distances. For inner orbitals inside molecules decay is $r^{-2}$, for macroscopic systems $\cos{(k_f r)} r^{-\nu}$, where $k_f$ is the Fermi momentum and $\nu=3$ for 1D, $\nu=$3.5 for 2D and $\nu=$4 for 3D crystal. Correlation corrections do not change these conclusions. Slow decay increases the exchange interaction between localized spins and the under-barrier tunneling amplitude. The under-barrier transmission coefficients in solids (e.g. for point contacts) become temperature-dependent.

id: 0809.2860
title: Geometrical Rabi transitions between decoupled quantum states
authors: Xingxiang Zhou, Ari Mizel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2860
abstract: A periodic perturbation such as a laser field cannot induce transitions between two decoupled states for which the transition matrix element vanishes. We show, however, that if in addition some system parameters are varied adiabatically, such transitions become possible via adiabatic-change-induced excitations to other states. We demonstrate that full amplitude transfer between the two decoupled states can be achieved, and more significantly, the evolution of the system only depends on its path in parameter space. Our technique then provides a valuable means of studying nontrivial geometrical dynamics via auxiliary states with large energy splittings.

id: 0809.2874
title: Time-dependent version of cryptohermitian quantum theory
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 14 pp
journal: Phys. Rev. D 78, 085003 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2874
abstract: For many quantum models an apparent non-Hermiticity of observables corresponds to their hidden Hermiticity in another, physical Hilbert space. For these models we show that the existence of observables which are manifestly time-dependent may require the use of a manifestly time-dependent representation of the physical Hilbert space of states.

id: 0809.2904
title: Quantum discreteness is an illusion
authors: H. D. Zeh
comments: 18 pages. v2: Some text and two references added. v3: Minor changes, one reference added. v4: 21 pages. Submitted to AmJP (not accepted). v5: Minor changes (mainly formulations). v6: Accepted by Found.Phys. Final version is available at this http URL
journal: Found.Phys.40:1476-1493, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2904
abstract: I review arguments demonstrating how the concept of "particle" numbers arises in the form of equidistant energy eigenvalues of coupled harmonic oscillators representing free fields. Their quantum numbers (numbers of nodes of the wave functions) can be interpreted as occupation numbers for objects with a formal mass (defined by the field equation) and spatial wave number ("momentum") characterizing classical field modes. A superposition of different oscillator eigenstates, all consisting of n modes having one node, while all others have none, defines a nondegenerate "n-particle wave function". Other discrete properties and phenomena (such as particle positions and "events") can be understood by means of the fast but smooth process of decoherence: the irreversible dislocalization of superpositions. Any wave-particle dualism thus becomes obsolete. The observation of individual outcomes of this decoherence process in measurements requires either a subsequent collapse of the wave function or a "branching observer" in accordance with the Schr\"odinger equation - both possibilities applying clearly after the decoherence process. Any probability interpretation of the wave function in terms of local elements of reality, such as particles or other classical concepts, would open a Pandora's box of paradoxes, as is illustrated by various misnomers that have become popular in quantum theory.

id: 0809.2909
title: Cavity-QED based on collective magnetic dipole coupling: spin ensembles as hybrid two-level systems
authors: Atac Imamoglu
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:083602,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2909
abstract: We analyze the magnetic dipole coupling of an ensemble of spins to a superconducting microwave stripline structure, incorporating a Josephson junction based transmon qubit. We show that this system is described by an embedded Jaynes-Cummings model: in the strong coupling regime, collective spin-wave excitations of the ensemble of electrons pick up the nonlinearity of the cavity mode, such that the two lowest eigenstates of the coupled spin-wave + microwave-cavity + Josephson-junction system define a hybrid two-level system. The proposal described here enables the use of spin ensembles as qubits which can be coherently manipulated and coupled using the same nonlinear-cavity. Possibility of strong-coupling cavity-QED with magnetic-dipole transitions opens up the possibility of extending previously proposed quantum information processing protocols to spins in silicon or graphene, without the need for single-electron confinement.

id: 0809.2961
title: Novel binding mechanism for ultra-long range molecules
authors: V. Bendkowsky, B. Butscher, J. Nipper, J. P. Shaffer, R. Loew, T. Pfau
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2961
abstract: Molecular bonds can be divided into four primary types: ionic, covalent, van der Waals and hydrogen bonds. At ultralow temperatures a novel binding type emerges paving the way for novel molecules and ultracold chemistry [1,2]. The underlying mechanism for this new type of chemical bond is low-energy electron scattering of Rydberg electrons from polarisable ground state atoms [3]. This quantum scattering process can generate an attractive potential that is able to bind the ground state atom to the Rydberg atom at a well localized position within the Rydberg electron wave function. The resulting giant molecules can have an internuclear separation of several thousand Bohr radii, which places them among the largest known molecules to date. Their binding energies are much smaller than the Kepler frequencies of the Rydberg electrons i.e. the atomic Rydberg electron state is essentially unchanged by the bound ground state atom. Ultracold and dense samples of atoms enable the creation of these molecules via Rydberg excitation. In this paper we present spectroscopic evidence for the vibrational ground and first excited state of a Rubidium dimer Rb(5S)-Rb(nS). We apply a Born-Oppenheimer model to explain the measured binding energies for principal quantum numbers n between 34 and 40 and extract the s-wave scattering length for electron-Rb(5S) scattering in the relevant low energy regime Ekin < 100 meV. We also determine the lifetimes and the polarisabilities of these molecules. P-wave bound states [2], Trimer states [4] as well as bound states for large angular momentum of the Rydberg electron - socalled trilobite molecules [1] - are within reach in the near future and will further refine our conceptual understanding of the chemical bond.

id: 0809.2993
title: Engineering Giant Nonlinearities in Quantum Nanosystems
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Andrew Landahl
comments: 4 pages, retex4; v2: published version, improved and compactified presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 067201 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2993
abstract: We describe a method to engineer giant nonlinearities in, and probes to measure nonlinear observables of, mesoscopic quantum resonators. This involves tailoring the Hamiltonian of a simple auxiliary system perturbatively coupled to the resonator, and has the potential to engineer a wide range of nonlinearities to high accuracy. We give a number of explicit examples, including a readily realizable two-qubit auxiliary system that creates an x^4 potential and a Chi^(3) (Kerr) nonlinearity, valid to fifth-order in the perturbative coupling.

id: 0809.3019
title: Post-selection technique for quantum channels with applications to quantum cryptography
authors: Matthias Christandl, Robert Koenig, Renato Renner
comments: 3.5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 020504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3019
abstract: We propose a general method for studying properties of quantum channels acting on an n-partite system, whose action is invariant under permutations of the subsystems. Our main result is that, in order to prove that a certain property holds for any arbitrary input, it is sufficient to consider the special case where the input is a particular de Finetti-type state, i.e., a state which consists of n identical and independent copies of an (unknown) state on a single subsystem. A similar statement holds for more general channels which are covariant with respect to the action of an arbitrary finite or locally compact group. Our technique can be applied to the analysis of information-theoretic problems. For example, in quantum cryptography, we get a simple proof for the fact that security of a discrete-variable quantum key distribution protocol against collective attacks implies security of the protocol against the most general attacks. The resulting security bounds are tighter than previously known bounds obtained by proofs relying on the exponential de Finetti theorem [Renner, Nature Physics 3,645(2007)].

id: 0809.3034
title: Nonclassicality of states and measurements by breaking classical bounds on statistics
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Alfredo Luis
comments: 13 pages, 3 figure, minor changes, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3034
abstract: We derive exceedingly simple practical procedures revealing the quantum nature of states and measurements by the violation of classical upper bounds on the statistics of arbitrary measurements. Data analysis is minimum and definite conclusions are obtained without evaluation of moments, or any other more sophisticated procedures. These nonclassical tests are independent of other typical quantum signatures such as sub-Poissonian statistics, quadrature squeezing, or oscillatory statistics. This approach can be equally well applied to very diverse situations such as single- and two-mode fields, observables with continuous and discrete spectra, finite- and infinite-dimensional systems, and ideal and noisy measurements.

id: 0809.3053
title: Implementation of many-qubit Grover search with trapped ultracold ions
authors: Wan-Li Yang, Hua Wei, Chang-Yong Chen, Mang Feng
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, accepted by J. Opt. Soc. Am. B
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 25 1720 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3053
abstract: We propose a potentially practical scheme for realization of an n-qubit (n>2) conditional phase flip (CPF) gate and implementation of Grover search algorithm in the ion-trap system. We demonstrate both analytically and numerically that, our scheme could be achieved efficiently to find a marked state with high fidelity and high success probability. We also show the merits of the proposal that the increase of the ion number can improve the fidelity and the success probability of the CPF gate. The required operations for Grover search are very close to the capabilities of current ion-trap techniques.

id: 0809.3056
title: Bell-state preparation for fullerene based electron spins in distant peapod nanotubes
authors: W. L. Yang, H. Wei, X. L. Zhang, M. Feng
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, minor graphical changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 054301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3056
abstract: We propose a potentially practical scheme, in combination with the Bell-state analyzer [Zhang et al., Phys. Rev. A 73, 014301 (2006)], to generate Bell states for two electron spins confined, respectively, in two distant fullerenes. To this end, we consider the endohedral fullerenes staying in single walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) and employ auxiliary mobile electrons and selective microwave pulses. The application and the experimental feasibility of our scheme are discussed.

id: 0809.3081
title: Undetermined states: how to find them and their applications
authors: Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Wen-Tai Yen, Li-Yi Hsu
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3081
abstract: We investigate the undetermined sets consisting of two-level, multi-partite pure quantum states, whose reduced density matrices give absolutely no information of their original states. Two approached of finding these quantum states are proposed. One is to establish the relation between codewords of the stabilizer quantum error correction codes (SQECCs) and the undetermined states. The other is to study the local complementation rules of the graph states. As an application, the undetermined states can be exploited in the quantum secret sharing scheme. The security is guaranteed by their undetermineness.

id: 0809.3086
title: Resonant Casimir--Polder forces in planar meta-materials
authors: Agnes Sambale, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Ho Trung Dung, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, conference proceedings
journal: Phys. Scripta T 135, 014019 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3086
abstract: We study the resonant Casimir--Polder potential of an excited atom near a half space containing magneto-electric meta-material of various kinds on the basis of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics. Analytical results are obtained in the nonretarded and retarded distance regimes and numerical examples are given. We compare our findings with the potential of an excited atom near a left-handed superlens.

id: 0809.3095
title: Gate fidelity of arbitrary single-qubit gates constrained by conservation laws
authors: Tokishiro Karasawa, Julio Gea-Banacloche, Masanao Ozawa
comments: Title changed; to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor.; 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3095
abstract: Recent investigations show that conservation laws limit the accuracy of gate operations in quantum computing. The inevitable error under the angular momentum conservation law has been evaluated so far for the CNOT, Hadamard, and NOT gates for spin 1/2 qubits, while the SWAP gate has no constraint. Here, we extend the above results to general single-qubit gates. We obtain an upper bound of the gate fidelity of arbitrary single-qubit gates implemented under arbitrary conservation laws, determined by the geometry of the conservation law and the gate operation on the Bloch sphere as well as the size of the ancilla.

id: 0809.3126
title: Spontaneous emission of atomic systems in the presence of incident fields
authors: Peter G. Brooke
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 55 (2008) 2359-2370
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3126
abstract: We characterise the spontaneous emission time and direction from small numbers of dipole-coupled two-level atoms (2LAs) in the presence of incident fields. We show how to use adiabatic passage to admit population transfer between states in the one-quantum subspace for two and three 2LAs. Our method is a multi-atom generalisation of stimulated-Raman-adiabatic-passage (STIRAP) for a single multi-level atom. We use numerical results to justify an ansatz that enables us to give analytical expressions for the directional emission which depends on the incident fields. Our results admit a characterisation of the efficacy of population transfer in small numbers of dipole-coupled 2LAs, and are applicable to proof-of-principle experiments involving dipole-coupled 2LAs.

id: 0809.3150
title: Molecular orientation entanglement and temporal Bell-type inequalities
authors: P. Milman, A. Keller, E. Charron, O. Atabek
comments: 10 pages and 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3150
abstract: We detail and extend the results of [Milman {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 99}, 130405 (2007)] on Bell-type inequalities based on correlations between measurements of continuous observables performed on trapped molecular systems. We show that for some observables with a continuous spectrum which is bounded, one is able to construct non-locality tests sharing common properties with those for two-level systems. The specific observable studied here is molecular spatial orientation, and it can be experimentally measured for single molecules, as required in our protocol. We also provide some useful general properties of the derived inequalities and study their robustness to noise. Finally, we detail possible experimental scenarii and analyze the role played by different experimental parameters.

id: 0809.3173
title: Distilling Non-Locality
authors: Manuel Forster, Severin Winkler, Stefan Wolf
comments: Revised abstract, introduction and conclusion. Accepted by PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 120401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3173
abstract: Two parts of an entangled quantum state can have a correlation in their joint behavior under measurements that is unexplainable by shared classical information. Such correlations are called non-local and have proven to be an interesting resource for information processing. Since non-local correlations are more useful if they are stronger, it is natural to ask whether weak non-locality can be amplified. We give an affirmative answer by presenting the first protocol for distilling non-locality in the framework of generalized non-signaling theories. Our protocol works for both quantum and non-quantum correlations. This shows that in many contexts, the extent to which a single instance of a correlation can violate a CHSH inequality is not a good measure for the usefulness of non-locality. A more meaningful measure follows from our results.

id: 0809.3183
title: Energy Optimal Interpolation in Quantum Evolution
authors: Xiao Ge, Zhan Xu
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3183
abstract: We introduce the concept of interpolation in quantum evolution and present a general framework to find the energy optimal Hamiltonian for a quantum system evolving among a given set of middle states using variational and geometric methods. A few special cases are carefully studied. The quantum brachistochrone problem is proved as a special case.

id: 0809.3197
title: Verifying continuous-variable entanglement in finite spaces
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052313 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3197
abstract: Starting from arbitrary Hilbert spaces, we reduce the problem to verify entanglement of any bipartite quantum state to finite dimensional subspaces. Hence, entanglement is a finite dimensional property. A generalization for multipartite quantum states is also given.

id: 0809.3207
title: Many-body theory of surface-enhanced Raman scattering
authors: David J. Masiello, George C. Schatz
comments: under review at Physical Review A since June 11, 2008
journal: Physical Review A, 78 042505 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3207
abstract: A many-body Green's function approach to the microscopic theory of surface-enhanced Raman scattering is presented. Interaction effects between a general molecular system and a spatially anisotropic metal particle supporting plasmon excitations in the presence of an external radiation field are systematically included through many-body perturbation theory. Reduction of the exact effects of molecular-electronic correlation to the level of Hartree-Fock mean-field theory is made for practical initial implementation, while description of collective oscillations of conduction electrons in the metal is reduced to that of a classical plasma density; extension of the former to a Kohn-Sham density-functional or second-order M{\o}ller-Plesset perturbation theory is discussed; further specialization of the latter to the random-phase approximation allows for several salient features of the formalism to be highlighted without need for numerical computation. Scattering and linear-response properties of the coupled system subjected to an external perturbing electric field in the electric-dipole interaction approximation are investigated. Both damping and finite-lifetime effects of molecular-electronic excitations as well as the characteristic fourth-power enhancement of the molecular Raman scattering intensity are elucidated from first principles. It is demonstrated that the presented theory reduces to previous models of surface-enhanced Raman scattering and leads naturally to a semiclassical picture of the response of a quantum-mechanical molecular system interacting with a spatially anisotropic classical metal particle with electronic polarization approximated by a discretized collection of electric dipoles.

id: 0809.3213
title: Trap assisted creation of giant molecules and Rydberg-mediated coherent charge transfer in a Penning trap
authors: I. Lesanovsky, M. Mueller, P. Zoller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 010701 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3213
abstract: We study two ions confined in a Penning trap. We show that electronically highly excited states exist in which an electron is delocalized among the two ions forming a giant molecule of several micrometer size. At energies close to the top of the Coulomb barrier these molecular states can be regarded as superpositions of Rydberg states of individual ions. We illuminate the possibility to observe coherent charge transfer between the ions. Beyond a critical principal quantum number the electron can coherently tunnel through the Coulomb barrier to an adjacent doubly charged ion. The tunneling occurs on timescales on which the dynamics of the nuclei can be considered frozen and radiative decay can be neglected.

id: 0809.3228
title: Linear optical Fredkin gate based on partial-SWAP gate
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032317 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3228
abstract: We propose a scheme for linear optical quantum Fredkin gate based on the combination of recently experimentally demonstrated linear optical partial SWAP gate and controlled-Z gates. Both heralded gate and simplified postselected gate operating in the coincidence basis are designed. The suggested setups have a simple structure and require stabilization of only a single Mach-Zehnder interferometer. A proof-of-principle experimental demonstration of the postselected Fredkin gate appears to be feasible and within the reach of current technology.

id: 0809.3248
title: Entanglement genesis under continuous parity measurement
authors: Nathan S. Williams, Andrew N. Jordan
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062322 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3248
abstract: We examine the stochastic dynamics of entanglement for an uncoupled two-qubit system, undergoing continuous parity measurement. Starting with a fully mixed state, the entanglement is zero for a finite amount of time, when it is suddenly created, which we refer to as entanglement genesis. There can be further entanglement sudden death/birth events culminating in the formation of a fully entangled state. We present numerical investigations of this effect together with statistics of the entanglement genesis time in the weak measurement limit as well as the quantum Zeno limit. An analytic treatment of the physics is presented, aided by the derivation of a simple concurrence equation for Bell basis X-states. The probability of entanglement border crossing and mean first passage times are calculated for the case of measurement dynamics alone. We find that states with almost the same probability of entanglement border crossing can have very different average crossing times. Our results provide insights on the optimization of entanglement generation by measurement.

id: 0809.3256
title: Relaxation times in an open interacting two-qubit system
authors: Y. Dubi, M. Di Ventra
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 79, 012328 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3256
abstract: In a two-qubit system the coupling with an environment affects considerably the entanglement dynamics, and usually leads to the loss of entanglement within a finite time. Since entanglement is a key feature in the application of such systems to quantum information processing, it is highly desirable to find a way to prolonging its lifetime. We present a simple model of an interacting two-qubit system in the presence of a thermal Markovian environment. The qubits are modeled as interacting spin-$\half$ particles in a magnetic field and the environment is limited to inducing single spin-flip events. A simple scheme allows us to calculate the relaxation rates for all processes. We show that the relaxation dynamics of the most entangled state exhibit critical slowing down as a function of the magnetic field, where the relaxation rate changes from exponentially small values to finite values in the zero-temperature limit. We study the effect of temperature and magnetic field on all the other relaxation rates and find that they exhibit unusual properties, such as non-monotonic dependence on temperature and a discontinuity as a function of magnetic field. In addition, a simple scheme to include non-Markovian effects is presented and applied to the two-qubit model. We find that the relaxation rates exhibit a sharp, cusp-like resonant structure as a function of the environment memory-time, and that for long memory-times all the different relaxation rates merge into a single one.

id: 0809.3273
title: Direct and Reverse Secret-Key Capacities of a Quantum Channel
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Raul Garcia-Patron, Samuel L. Braunstein, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, REVteX
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 050503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3273
abstract: We define the direct and reverse secret-key capacities of a memoryless quantum channel as the optimal rates that entanglement-based quantum key distribution protocols can reach by using a single forward classical communication (direct reconciliation) or a single feedback classical communication (reverse reconciliation). In particular, the reverse secret-key capacity can be positive for antidegradable channels, where no forward strategy is known to be secure. This property is explicitly shown in the continuous variable framework by considering arbitrary one-mode Gaussian channels.

id: 0809.3302
title: Symplectic-dilation mixed wavelet transform and its correspondence in quantum optics
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Shu-guang Liu, Li-yun Hu
comments: 5 pages, no figure, review4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3302
abstract: The symplectic wavelet transformation [Opt. Lett. 31 (2006) 3432], which is related to quantum optical Fresnel transform, is developed to the symplectic-dilation mixed wavelet transform (SDWT). The SDWT involves both a real-variable dilation-transform and a complex-variable symplectic transform, and possesses well-behaved properties such as Parseval theorem and inversion formula. The entangled-coherent state representation (ESCR) not only underlies the SDWT, but also helps to derive the corresponding quantum transform operator whose counterpart in classical optics is the lens-Fresnel mixed transform [Phys. Lett. A 357 (2006) 163].

id: 0809.3306
title: Simulation of Quantum Error Correcting Code
authors: Peter Nyman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3306
abstract: This study considers implementations of error correction in a simulation language on a classical computer. Error correction will be necessarily in quantum computing and quantum information. We will give some examples of the implementations of some error correction codes. These implementations will be made in a more general quantum simulation language on a classical computer in the language Mathematica. The intention of this research is to develop a programming language that is able to make simulations of all quantum algorithms and error corrections in the same framework. The program code implemented on a classical computer will provide a connection between the mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics and computational methods. This gives us a clear uncomplicated language for the implementations of algorithms.

id: 0809.3308
title: Demonstrating Heisenberg-limited unambiguous phase estimation without adaptive measurements
authors: B. L. Higgins, D. W. Berry, S. D. Bartlett, M. W. Mitchell, H. M. Wiseman, G. J. Pryde
comments: Corrected 2 minor typos in hybrid scheme scaling proof; 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 073023 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3308
abstract: We derive, and experimentally demonstrate, an interferometric scheme for unambiguous phase estimation with precision scaling at the Heisenberg limit that does not require adaptive measurements. That is, with no prior knowledge of the phase, we can obtain an estimate of the phase with a standard deviation that is only a small constant factor larger than the minimum physically allowed value. Our scheme resolves the phase ambiguity that exists when multiple passes through a phase shift, or NOON states, are used to obtain improved phase resolution. Like a recently introduced adaptive technique [Higgins et al 2007 Nature 450 393], our experiment uses multiple applications of the phase shift on single photons. By not requiring adaptive measurements, but rather using a predetermined measurement sequence, the present scheme is both conceptually simpler and significantly easier to implement. Additionally, we demonstrate a simplified adaptive scheme that also surpasses the standard quantum limit for single passes.

id: 0809.3346
title: Homology of Generic Stabilizer States
authors: Klaus Wirthm¨¹ller
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3346
abstract: This work is concerned with multi-party stabilizer states in the sense of quantum information theory. We investigate the homological invariants for states of which each party holds a large equal number N of quantum bits. We show that in many cases there is a generic expected value of the invariants: for large N it is approximated with arbitrarily high probability if a stabilizer state is chosen at random. The result suggests that typical entanglement of stabilizer states involves but the sets comprising just over one half of the parties. Our main tool is the Bruhat decomposition from the theory of finite Chevalley groups.

id: 0809.3359
title: Quantum Tomographic Reconstruction with Error Bars: a Kalman Filter Approach
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert, S. Scheel
comments: published version; overview of method added
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 023028 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3359
abstract: We present a novel quantum tomographic reconstruction method based on Bayesian inference via the Kalman filter update equations. The method not only yields the maximum likelihood/optimal Bayesian reconstruction, but also a covariance matrix expressing the measurement uncertainties in a complete way. From this covariance matrix the error bars on any derived quantity can be easily calculated. This is a first step towards the broader goal of devising an omnibus reconstruction method that could be adapted to any tomographic setup with little effort and that treats measurement uncertainties in a statistically well-founded way. In this first part we restrict ourselves to the important subclass of tomography based on measurements with discrete outcomes (as opposed to continuous ones), and we also ignore any measurement imperfections (dark counts, less than unit detector efficiency, etc.), which will be treated in a follow-up paper. We illustrate our general theory on real tomography experiments of quantum optical information processing elements.

id: 0809.3408
title: Controlling an actively-quenched single photon detector with bright light
authors: Sebastien Sauge, Lars Lydersen, Andrey Anisimov, Johannes Skaar, Vadim Makarov
comments: Expanded discussions, updated references, added a picture of decapsulated APD, reformatted to single-column style. Accepted to Opt. Express. 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Opt. Express 19, 23590 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3408
abstract: We control using bright light an actively-quenched avalanche single-photon detector. Actively-quenched detectors are commonly used for quantum key distribution (QKD) in the visible and near-infrared range. This study shows that these detectors are controllable by the same attack used to hack passively-quenched and gated detectors. This demonstrates the generality of our attack and its possible applicability to eavsdropping the full secret key of all QKD systems using avalanche photodiodes (APDs). Moreover, the commercial detector model we tested (PerkinElmer SPCM-AQR) exhibits two new blinding mechanisms in addition to the previously observed thermal blinding of the APD, namely: malfunctioning of the bias voltage control circuit, and overload of the DC/DC converter biasing the APD. These two new technical loopholes found just in one detector model suggest that this problem must be solved in general, by incorporating generally imperfect detectors into the security proof for QKD.

id: 0809.3466
title: Quantized detector network POVMs and the Franson-Bell experiment
authors: George Jaroszkiewicz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3466
abstract: We present a generalized POVM formalism for the calculation of quantum optics networks of arbitrary complexity and apply it in a detailed analysis of the Franson-Bell experiment. Our analysis suggests that when it comes to observations of quantum processes, laboratory apparatus cannot always be used according to classical principles.

id: 0809.3502
title: On Bell, Suarez-Scarani, and Leggett experiments: Reply to a comment, and proposal for a new experiment
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3502
abstract: It is shown that the before-before (or Suarez-Scarani) experiment refutes hidden variable models with a deterministic ("realistic") nonlocal part, and the experimental violation of Leggett-type inequalities models with a random nonlocal part and a biased random local one. Therefore the claim that Groeblacher et al. present "an experimental test of nonlocal realism" [Nature, 446, 871-875 (2007)] is misleading, and Marek Zukowski's comment [arXiv:0809.0072v1] misses the point. A new experiment is proposed.

id: 0809.3514
title: Aspects of quantum phase transitions
authors: M. K. G. Kruse, H. G. Millerr, A. Plastino, A. R. Plastino
comments: corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3514
abstract: A unified description of i) classical phase transitions and their remnants in finite systems and ii) quantum phase transitions is presented. The ensuing discussion relies on the interplay between, on the one hand, the thermodynamic concepts of temperature and specific heat and on the other, the quantal ones of coupling strengths in the Hamiltonian. Our considerations are illustrated in an exactly solvable model of Plastino and Moszkowski [Il Nuovo Cimento {\bf 47}, 470 (1978)].

id: 0809.3576
title: Comment on "Anomalies in electrostatic calibration for the measurement of the Casimir force in a sphere-plane geometry"
authors: R. S. Decca, E. Fischbach, G. L. Klimchitskaya, D. E. Krause, D. L¨®pez, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v.79, 026101 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3576
abstract: Recently W. J. Kim, M. Brown-Hayes, D. A. R. Dalvit, J. H. Brownell, and R. Onofrio [Phys. Rev. A, v.78, 036102(R) (2008)] performed electrostatic calibrations for a plane plate above a centimeter-size spherical lens at separations down to 20-30 nm and observed "anomalous behavior". It was found that the gradient of the electrostatic force does not depend on separation as predicted on the basis of a pure Coulombian contribution. Some hypotheses which could potentially explain the deviation from the expected behavior were considered, and qualitative arguments in favor of the influence of patch surface potentials were presented. We demonstrate that for the large lenses at separations of a few tens nanometers from the plate, the electrostatic force law used by the authors is not applicable due to possible deviations of the mechanically polished and ground lens surface from a perfect spherical shape. A model is proposed which explains the observed "anomalous behavior" using the standard Coulombian force.

id: 0809.3583
title: Teleportation-Based Controlled-NOT Gate for Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation
authors: Alexander M. Goebel, Claudia Wagenknecht, Qiang Zhang, Yu-Ao Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3583
abstract: Quantum computers promise dramatic speed ups for many computational tasks. For large-scale quantum computation however, the inevitable coupling of physical qubits to the noisy environment imposes a major challenge for a real-life implementation. A scheme introduced by Gottesmann and Chuang can help to overcome this difficulty by performing universal quantum gates in a fault-tolerant manner. Here, we report a non-trivial demonstration of this architecture by performing a teleportation-based two-qubit controlled-NOT gate through linear optics with a high-fidelity six-photon interferometer. The obtained results clearly prove the involved working principles and the entangling capability of the gate. Our experiment represents an important step towards the feasibility of realistic quantum computers and could trigger many further applications in linear optics quantum information processing.

id: 0809.3607
title: Versatile Digital GHz Phase Lock for External Cavity Diode Lasers
authors: J¨¹rgen Appel, Andrew MacRae, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 4.5 pages, 5 figures v3: fixed error in schematic: R10 connects to other end of C4
journal: Measur.Sci.Tech.20:055302,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3607
abstract: We present a versatile, inexpensive and simple optical phase lock for applications in atomic physics experiments. Thanks to all-digital phase detection and implementation of beat frequency pre-scaling, the apparatus requires no microwave-range reference input, and permits phase locking at frequency differences ranging from sub-MHz to 7 GHz (and with minor extension, to 12 GHz). The locking range thus covers ground state hyperfine splittings of all alkali metals, which makes this system a universal tool for many experiments on coherent interaction between light and atoms.

id: 0809.3628
title: Fidelity, fidelity susceptibility and von Neumann entropy to characterize the phase diagram of an extended Harper model
authors: Longyan Gong, Peiqing Tong
comments: 9 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78,115114(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3628
abstract: For an extended Harper model, the fidelity for two lowest band edge states corresponding to different model parameters, the fidelity susceptibility and the von Neumann entropy of the lowest band edge states, and the spectrum-averaged von Neumann entropy are studied numerically, respectively. The fidelity is near one when parameters are in the same phase or same phase boundary; otherwise it is close to zero. There are drastic changes in fidelity when one parameter is at phase boundaries. For fidelity susceptibility the finite scaling analysis performed, the critical exponents $\alpha$, $\beta$, and $\nu$ depend on system sizes for the metal-metal phase transition, while not for the metal-insulator phase transition. For both phase transitions $\nu/\alpha\approx2$. The von Neumann entropy is near one for the metallic phase, while small for the insulating phase. There are sharp changes in von Neumann entropy at phase boundaries. According to the variation of the fidelity, fidelity susceptibility, and von Neumann entropy with model parameters, the phase diagram, which including two metallic phases and one insulating phase separated by three critical lines with one bicritical point, can be completely characterized, respectively. These numerical results indicate that the three quantities are suited for revealing all the critical phenomena in the model.

id: 0809.3629
title: Quantum Repeater with Encoding
authors: Liang Jiang, Jacob M. Taylor, Kae Nemoto, William J. Munro, Rodney Van Meter, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures (add new section III with an explicit example and new appendix A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032325 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3629
abstract: We propose a new approach to implement quantum repeaters for long distance quantum communication. Our protocol generates a backbone of encoded Bell pairs and uses the procedure of classical error correction during simultaneous entanglement connection. We illustrate that the repeater protocol with simple Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) encoding can significantly extend the communication distance, while still maintaining a fast key generation rate.

id: 0809.3661
title: Long-distance quantum communication with "polarization" maximally entangled states
authors: Fang-Yu Hong, Shi-Jie Xiong, W.H. Tang
comments: 5 pages 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3661
abstract: We propose a scheme for long-distance quantum communication where the elementary entanglement is generated through two-photon interference and quantum swapping is performed through one-photon interference. Local "polarization" maximally entangled states of atomic ensembles are generated by absorbing a single photon from on-demand single-photon sources. This scheme is robust against phase fluctuations in the quantum channels, moreover speeds up long-distance high-fidelity entanglement generation rate.

id: 0809.3689
title: Quantum teleportation and entanglement swapping with linear optics logic gates
authors: Christian Schmid, Nikolai Kiesel, Ulrich K. Weber, Rupert Ursin, Anton Zeilinger, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 2009 New Journal of Physics Vol. 11(3), pp. 033008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3689
abstract: We report on the usage of a linear optics phase gate for distinguishing all four Bell states simultaneously in a quantum teleportation and entanglement swapping protocol. This is demonstrated by full state tomography of the one and two qubit output states of the two protocols, yielding average state fidelities of about 0.83 and 0.77, respectively. In addition, the performance of the teleportation channel is characterised by quantum process tomography. The non classical properties of the entanglement swapping output states are further confirmed by the violation of a CHSH-type Bell inequality of 2.14 on average.

id: 0809.3706
title: Action of the gravitational field on the dynamical Casimir effect
authors: L. C. C¨¦leri, F. Pascoal, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 2 Figures, comments are welcome
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.26:105014,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3706
abstract: In this paper we analyze the action of the gravitational field on the dynamical Casimir effect. We consider a massless scalar field confined in a cuboid cavity placed in a gravitational field described by a static and diagonal metric. With one of the plane mirrors of the cavity allowed to move, we compute the average number of particles created inside the cavity by means of the Bogoliubov coefficients computed through perturbative expansions. We apply our result to the case of an oscillatory motion of the mirror, assuming a weak gravitational field described by the Schwarzschild metric. The regime of parametric amplification is analyzed in detail, demonstrating that our computed result for the mean number of particles created agrees with specific associated cases in the literature. Our results, obtained in the framework of the perturbation theory, are restricted, under resonant conditions, to a short-time limit.

id: 0809.3712
title: Entanglement Resonance in Driven Spin Chains
authors: Fernando Galve, David Zueco, Sigmund Kohler, Eric Lutz, Peter H?nggi
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032332 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3712
abstract: We consider a spin-1/2 anisotropic XY model with time-dependent spin-spin coupling as means of creating long-distance entanglement. We predict the emergence of significant entanglement between the first and the last spin whenever the ac part of the coupling has a frequency matching the Zeeman splitting. In particular, we find that the concurrence assumes its maximum with a vanishing dc part. Mapping the time-dependent Hamiltonian within a rotating-wave approximation to an effective static model provides qualitative and quantitative understanding of this entanglement resonance. Numerical results for the duration of the entanglement creation and its length dependence substantiate the effective static picture.

id: 0809.3764
title: Locality and the classical limit of quantum mechanics
authors: T.Banks
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3764
abstract: I argue that conventional estimates of the criterion for classical behavior of a macroscopic body are incorrect, because they do not take into account the locality of interactions, which characterizes the behavior of all systems described approximately by local quantum field theory. Black holes are the only localized objects which do not have such a description. The deviations from classical behavior of a macroscopic body, except for those which can be described as classical uncertainties in the initial values of macroscopic variables,are {\it exponentially} small as a function of the volume of the macro-system in microscopic units.

id: 0809.3779
title: Efimov Trimer Formation via Ultracold Four-body Recombination
authors: Yujun Wang, B. D. Esry
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 133201 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3779
abstract: We discuss the collisional formation of Efimov trimers via ultracold four-body recombination. In particular, we consider the reaction A+A+A+B->A3+B with A and B ultracold atoms. We obtain expressions for the four-body recombination rate and show that it reflects the three-body Efimov physics either as a function of collision energy or as a function of the two-body s-wave scattering length between A atoms. In addition, we briefly discuss issues important for experimentally observing this interesting and relatively unexplored process.

id: 0809.3856
title: Density-functional fidelity approach to quantum phase transitions
authors: Shi-Jian Gu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Chin. Phys. Lett
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 26, 026401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3856
abstract: We propose a new approach to quantum phase transitions in terms of the density-functional fidelity, which measures the similarity between density distributions of two ground states in parameter space. The key feature of the approach, as we will show, is that the density-functional fidelity can be measured easily in experiments. Both the validity and versatility of the approach are checked by the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model and the one-dimensional Hubbard model.

id: 0809.3858
title: No anomalous scaling in electrostatic calibrations for Casimir force measurements
authors: S. de Man, K. Heeck, D. Iannuzzi
comments: Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A79, 024102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3858
abstract: In a recent paper (Phys.Rev.A78, 020101(R) (2008)), Kim at al. have reported a large anomaly in the scaling law of the electrostatic interaction between a sphere and a plate, which was observed during the calibration of their Casimir force set-up. Here we experimentally demonstrate that in proper electrostatic calibrations the scaling law follows the behavior expected from elementary electrostatic arguments, even when the electrostatic voltage that one must apply to minimize the force (typically ascribed to contact potentials) depends on the separation between the surfaces.

id: 0809.3882
title: Analysis of complete positivity conditions for quantum qutrit channels
authors: A. Checinska, K. Wodkiewicz
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures (.eps), minor changes in the text and formulas
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3882
abstract: We present an analysis of complete positivity (CP) constraints on qutrit quantum channels that have a form of affine transformations of generalized Bloch vector. For diagonal (damping) channels we derive conditions analogous to the ones that in qubit case produce tetrahedron structure in the channel parameter space.

id: 0809.3889
title: Decoherence of a Macroscopic Quantum Superposition
authors: Francesco De Martini, Fabio Sciarrino, Nicolo' Spagnolo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3889
abstract: The high resilience to de-coherence shown by a recently discovered Macroscopic Quantum Superposition (MQS) involving a number of photons in excess of 5 x 10^4 motivates the present theoretical and numerical investigation. The results are placed in close comparison with the properties of the well known MQS based on |alpha> states. The very critical decoherence properties of the latter MQS are found to be fully accounted for, in a direct a simple way, by a unique "universal" function: indeed a new property of the quantum "coherent states".

id: 0809.3891
title: Entanglement in the adiabatic limit of a two-atom Tavis-Cummings model
authors: C. Lazarou, B. M. Garraway
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, Submitted to Physica Scripta as part of the Proceedings of the 15th CEWQO 2008
journal: Physica Scripta T135 014016 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3891
abstract: We study the adiabatic limit for the sequential passage of atoms through a high-Q cavity, in the presence of frequency chirps. Despite the fact that the adiabatic approximation might be expected to fail, we were able to show that for proper choice of Stark-pulses this is not the case. Instead, a connection to the resonant limit is established, where the robust creation of entanglement is demonstrated. Recent developments in the fabrication of high-Q cavities allow fidelities for a maximally entangled state up to 97%.

id: 0809.3913
title: Fast-Light in a Photorefractive Crystal for Gravitational Wave Detection
authors: H.N. Yum, M. Salit, G.S. Pati, S. Tseng, P.R. Hemmer, M.S.Shahriar
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3913
abstract: We demonstrate superluminal light propagation using two frequency multiplexed pump beams to produce a gain doublet in a photorefractive crystal of Ce:BaTiO3. The two gain lines are obtained by two-wave mixing between a probe field and two individual pump fields. The angular frequencies of the pumps are symmetrically tuned from the frequency of the probe. The frequency difference between the pumps corresponds to the separation of the two gain lines; as it increases, the crystal gradually converts from normal dispersion without detuning to an anomalously dispersive medium. The time advance is measured as 0.28 sec for a pulse propagating through a medium with a 2Hz gain separation, compared to the same pulse propagating through empty space. We also demonstrate directly anomalous dispersion profile using a modfied experimental configuration. Finally, we discuss how anomalous dispersion produced this way in a faster photorefractive crystal (such as SPS: Sn2P2S6) could be employed to enhance the sensitivity-bandwidth product of a LIGO type gravitational wave detector augmented by a White Light Cavity.

id: 0809.3928
title: Efficient Long-distance Quantum Communication Using Microtoroidal Resonators
authors: Fang-Yu Hong, Shi-Jie Xiong
comments: 4 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3928
abstract: Based on the interaction between a three-level system and a microtoroidal resonator, we present a scheme for long-distance quantum communication in which entanglement generation with near 0.5 success probability and swaps can be implemented by accurate state detection via measuring about 100 photons. With this scheme the average time of successful entanglement distribution over 2500 km with high fidelity can be decreased to only about 30 ms, by 7 orders of magnitude smaller compared with famous Duan-Lukin-Cirac-Zoller (DLCZ) protocol [L.-M. Duan {\it et al.} Nature (London) {\bf414}, 413 (2001)].

id: 0809.3972
title: A Counterexample to Additivity of Minimum Output Entropy
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 4 pages, 5 lemmas; minor typos fixed, minor changes to intro; additional typos fixed, minor clarifications; version in press, with minor additional typos fixed
journal: Nature Physics 5, 255 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3972
abstract: We present a random construction of a pair of channels which gives, with non-zero probability for sufficiently large dimensions, a counterexample to the minimum output entropy conjecture. As shown by Shor, this implies a violation of the additivity conjecture for the classical capacity of quantum channels. The violation of the minimum output entropy conjecture is relatively small.

id: 0809.3975
title: Van-der-Waals potentials of paramagnetic atoms
authors: Hassan Safari, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Physical Review A 78 (6), 069201 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3975
abstract: We study single- and two-atom van der Waals interactions of ground-state atoms which are both polarizable and paramagnetizable in the presence of magneto-electric bodies within the framework of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics. Starting from an interaction Hamiltonian that includes particle spins, we use leading-order perturbation theory for the van der Waals potentials expressed in terms of the polarizability and magnetizability of the atom(s). To allow for atoms embedded in media, we also include local-field corrections via the real-cavity model. The general theory is applied to the potential of a single atom near a half space and that of two atoms embedded in a bulk medium or placed near a sphere, respectively.

id: 0809.3979
title: Counterfactual Quantum Cryptography
authors: Tae-Gon Noh
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure; a little ambiguity in the version 1 removed; abstract, text, references, and appendix revised; suggestions and comments are highly appreciated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3979
abstract: Quantum cryptography allows one to distribute a secret key between two remote parties using the fundamental principles of quantum mechanics. The well-known established paradigm for the quantum key distribution relies on the actual transmission of signal particle through a quantum channel. This paper shows that the task of a secret key distribution can be accomplished even though a particle carrying secret information is not in fact transmitted through the quantum channel. The proposed protocols can be implemented with current technologies and provide practical security advantages by eliminating the possibility that an eavesdropper can directly access the entire quantum system of each signal particle.

id: 0809.3991
title: High-fidelity entanglement swapping with fully independent sources
authors: Rainer Kaltenbaek, Robert Prevedel, Markus Aspelmeyer, Anton Zeilinger
comments: added technical details and extended introduction and conclusion, slightly modified the abstract, corrected a mistake in the affiliations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 040302(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3991
abstract: Entanglement swapping allows to establish entanglement between independent particles that never interacted nor share any common past. This feature makes it an integral constituent of quantum repeaters. Here, we demonstrate entanglement swapping with time-synchronized independent sources with a fidelity high enough to violate a Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality by more than four standard deviations. The fact that both entangled pairs are created by fully independent, only electronically connected sources ensures that this technique is suitable for future long-distance quantum communication experiments as well as for novel tests on the foundations of quantum physics.

id: 0809.4000
title: A Criticism of the article "An experimental test of non-local realism"
authors: Daniel Victor Tausk
comments: 6 pages, 16 references, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4000
abstract: I make some critical comments on the article "An experimental test of non-local realism", by S. Groblacher, T. Paterek, R. Kaltenbaek, C. Brukner, M. Zukowski, M. Aspelmeyer, & A. Zeilinger, Nature 446, p. 871-875 (2007). This article makes incorrect claims concerning Bell's theorem. Moreover, I point to the fact that a hypothesis referred to as "realism" in the article (Groblacher et al.) is not used in the deduction of Leggett's inequality.

id: 0809.4018
title: Megabits secure key rate quantum key distribution
authors: Q. Zhang, H. Takesue, T. Honjo, K. Wen, T. Hirohata, M. Suyama, Y. Takiguchi, H. Kamada, Y. Tokura, O. Tadanaga, Y. Nishida, M. Asobe, Y. Yamamoto
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 No 4 (April 2009) 045010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4018
abstract: Quantum cryptography (QC) can provide unconditional secure communication between two authorized parties based on the basic principles of quantum mechanics. However, imperfect practical conditions limit its transmission distance and communication speed. Here we implemented the differential phase shift (DPS) quantum key distribution (QKD) with up-conversion assisted hybrid photon detector (HPD) and achieved 1.3 M bits per second secure key rate over a 10-km fiber, which is tolerant against the photon number splitting (PNS) attack, general collective attacks on individual photons, and any other known sequential unambiguous state discrimination (USD) attacks.

id: 0809.4060
title: Convex Trace Functions on Quantum Channels and the Additivity Conjecture
authors: Markus Mueller
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052332 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4060
abstract: We study a natural generalization of the additivity problem in quantum information theory: given a pair of quantum channels, then what is the set of convex trace functions that attain their maximum on unentangled inputs, if they are applied to the corresponding output state? We prove several results on the structure of the set of those convex functions that are "additive" in this more general sense. In particular, we show that all operator convex functions are additive for the Werner-Holevo channel in 3x3 dimensions, which contains the well-known additivity results for this channel as special cases.

id: 0809.4063
title: Quantum super-cavity with atomic mirrors
authors: Lan Zhou, H. Dong, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 063827 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4063
abstract: We study single-photon transport in an array of coupled microcavities where two two-level atomic systems are embedded in two separate cavities of the array. We find that a single-photon can be totally reflected by a single two-level system. However, two separate two-level systems can also create, between them, single-photon quasi-bound states. Therefore, a single two-level system in the cavity array can act as a mirror while a different type of cavity can be formed by using two two-level systems, acting as tunable "mirrors", inside two separate cavities in the array. In analogy with superlattices in solid state, we call this new "cavity inside a coupled-cavity array" a super-cavity. This supercavity is the quantum analog of Fabry-Perot interferometers. Moreover, we show that the physical properties of this quantum super-cavity can be adjusted by changing the frequencies of these two-level systems.

id: 0809.4073
title: Knots and Links in Physical Systems
authors: Roman V. Buniy, Martha J. Holmes, Thomas W. Kephart
comments: Presented by TWK at "Knots and soft-matter physics", YITP, Kyoto, August, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4073
abstract: Few physical systems with topologies more complicated than simple gaussian linking have been explored in detail. Here we focus on examples with higher topologies in non-relativistic quantum mechanics and in QCD.

id: 0809.4088
title: Exact Solutions of the Klein-Gordon Equation for the Rosen-Morse type Potentials via Nikiforov-Uvarov Method
authors: A. Rezaei Akbariyeh, H. Motavali
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4088
abstract: The exact solutions of the one-dimensional Klein-Gordon equation for the Rosen-Morse type potential with equal scalar and vector potentials are presented. First we briefly review Nikiforov-Uvarov mathematical method. Using this method, wave-functions and corresponding exact energy equation are obtained for the s-wave bound state. It has been shown that the results for Rosen-Morse type potentials reduce to standard Rosen-Morse well and Eckart potentials in the special case. The PT-symmetry for these potentials is also considered.

id: 0809.4090
title: Matter Coupling to Strong Electromagnetic Fields in Two-Level Quantum Systems with Broken Inversion Symmetry
authors: O.V. Kibis, G.Ya. Slepyan, S.A. Maksimenko, A. Hoffmann
comments: Journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 023601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4090
abstract: We demonstrate theoretically the parametric oscillator behavior of a two-level quantum system with broken inversion symmetry exposed to a strong electromagnetic field. A multitude of resonance frequencies and additional harmonics in the scattered light spectrum as well as altered Rabi frequency are predicted to be inherent to such systems. In particular, dipole radiation at the Rabi frequency appears to be possible. Since the Rabi frequency is controlled by the strength of coupling electromagnetic field, the effect can serve for the frequency-tuned parametric amplification and generation of electromagnetic waves. Manifestation of the effect is discussed for III-nitride quantum dots with strong build-in electric field breaking the inversion symmetry. Terahertz emission from arrays of such quantum dots is shown to be experimentally observable.

id: 0809.4098
title: Minimal Energy Cost for Thermodynamic Information Processing: Measurement and Information Erasure
authors: Takahiro Sagawa, Masahito Ueda
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 250602 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4098
abstract: The fundamental lower bounds of the thermodynamic energy cost (work) needed for the measurement and the erasure of information are found. The lower bound for the erasure vindicates the "Landauer's principle" for a special case, but otherwise implies its breakdown, indicating that no unique relationship exists between logical reversibility and physical one. Our results constitute the second law of "information thermodynamics", in which the information content and thermodynamic variables are treated on an equal footing.

id: 0809.4100
title: Subvacuum effects of the quantum field on the dynamics of a test particle
authors: Tai-Hung Wu, Jen-Tsung Hsiang, Da-Shin Lee
comments: 30 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4100
abstract: We study the effects of the electromagnetic subvacuum fluctuations on the dynamics of a nonrelativistic charged particle in a wavepacket. The influence from the quantum field is expected to give an additional effect to the velocity uncertainty of the particle. In the case of a static wavepacket, the observed velocity dispersion is smaller in the electromagnetic squeezed vacuum background than in the normal vacuum background. This leads to the subvacuum effect. The extent of reduction in velocity dispersion associated with this subvacuum effect is further studied by introducing a switching function. It is shown that the slow switching process may make this subvacuum effect insignificant. We also point out that when the center of the wavepacket undergoes non-inertial motion, reduction in the velocity dispersion becomes less effective with its evolution, no matter how we manipulate the nonstationary quantum noise via the choice of the squeeze parameters. The role of the underlying fluctuation-dissipation relation is discussed.

id: 0809.4105
title: Nonspreading wave packets in a general potential V(x,t) in one dimension
authors: Chyi-Lung Lin, Meng-Jie Huang, Te-Chih Hsiung
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4105
abstract: We discuss nonspreading wave packets in one dimensional Schr\"{o}dinger equation. We derive general rules for constructing nonspreading wave packets from a general potential $\textmd{V}(x,t)$. The essential ingredients of a nonspreading wave packet, the shape function $f(x)$, the motion $d(t)$, the phase function $\phi(x,t)$ are derived. Since the form of the shape of a nonspreading wave packet does not change in time, the shape equation should be time independent. We show that the shape function $f(x)$ is the eigenfunction of the time independent Schr\"{o}dinger equation with an effective potential $V_{\textmd{eff}}$ and an energy $E_{\textmd{eff}}$. We derive nonspreading wave packets found by Schr\"{o}dinger, Senitzky, and Berry and Balazs as examples. We show that most stationary potentials can only support stationary nonspreading wave packets. We show how to construct moving nonspreading wave packets from time dependent potentials, which drive nonspreading wave packets into an arbitrary motion.

id: 0809.4118
title: Quantum Interfaces Using Nanoscale Surface Plasmons
authors: Fang-Yu Hong, Shi-Jie Xiong
comments: 4 pages 3 figures 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4118
abstract: The strong coupling between individual optical emitters and propagating surface plasmons confined to a conducting nanotip make this system act as an ideal interface for quantum networks, through which a stationary qubit and a flying photon (surface plasmon) qubit can be interconverted via a Raman process. This quantum interface paves the way for many essential functions of a quantum network, including sending, receiving, transferring, swapping, and entangling qubits at distributed quantum nodes as well as a deterministic source and an efficient detector of a single-photon. Numerical simulation shows that this scheme is robust against experimental imperfections and has high fidelity. Furthermore, being smaller this interface would significantly facilitate the scalability of quantum computers.

id: 0809.4167
title: Signal-to-noise ratio of Gaussian-state ghost imaging
authors: Baris I. Erkmen, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. This version incorporates additional references and a new analysis of the nonclassical case that, for the first time, includes the complete transition to the classical signal-to-noise ratio asymptote at high source brightness
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4167
abstract: The signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) of three Gaussian-state ghost imaging configurations--distinguished by the nature of their light sources--are derived. Two use classical-state light, specifically a joint signal-reference field state that has either the maximum phase-insensitive or the maximum phase-sensitive cross correlation consistent with having a proper $P$ representation. The third uses nonclassical light, in particular an entangled signal-reference field state with the maximum phase-sensitive cross correlation permitted by quantum mechanics. Analytic SNR expressions are developed for the near-field and far-field regimes, within which simple asymptotic approximations are presented for low-brightness and high-brightness sources. A high-brightness thermal-state (classical phase-insensitive state) source will typically achieve a higher SNR than a biphoton-state (low-brightness, low-flux limit of the entangled-state) source, when all other system parameters are equal for the two systems. With high efficiency photon-number resolving detectors, a low-brightness, high-flux entangled-state source may achieve a higher SNR than that obtained with a high-brightness thermal-state source.

id: 0809.4180
title: Decay of fidelity in terms of correlation functions
authors: Robert Alicki, Mark Fannes
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4180
abstract: We consider, within the algebraic formalism, the time dependence of fidelity for qubits encoded into an open physical system. We relate the decay of fidelity to the evolution of correlation functions and, in the particular case of a Markovian dynamics, to the spectral gap of the generator of the semigroup. The results are applicable to the analysis of models of quantum memories.

id: 0809.4213
title: Enhancement of Sensitivity-Bandwidth Product of Interferometric GW Detectors using White Light Cavities
authors: M. Salit, M.S. Shahriar
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4213
abstract: The effect of gravitational waves (GWs) has been observed indirectly, by monitoring the change in the orbital frequency of neutron stars in a binary system as they lose energy via gravitational radiation. However, GWs have not yet been observed directly. The initial LIGO apparatus has not yet observed GWs. The Advanced LIGO (AdLIGO) will use a combination of improved techniques in order to increase the sensitivity. Along with power recycling and a higher power laser source, the AdLIGO will employ signal recycling (SR). While SR would increase sensitivity, it would also reduce the bandwidth significantly. Previously, we and others have investigated, theoretically and experimentally, the feasibility of using a White Light Cavity (WLC) to circumvent this constraint. However, in the previous work, it was not clear how one would incorporate the white light cavity effect. Here, we first develop a general model for Michelson-Interferometer based GW detectors that can be easily adapted to include the effects of incorporating a WLC into the design. We then describe a concrete design of a WLC constructed as a compound mirror, to replace the signal recycling mirror. This design is simple, robust, completely non-invasive, and can be added to the AdLIGO system without changing any other optical elements. We show a choice of parameters for which the signal sensitivity as well as the bandwidth are enhanced significantly over what is planned for the AdLIGO, covering the entire spectrum of interest for gravitational waves.

id: 0809.4227
title: Effects of phase transitions in devices actuated by the electromagnetic vacuum force
authors: A. Benassi, C.Calandra
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 84 (2008) 11002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4227
abstract: We study the influence of the electromagnetic vacuum force on the behaviour of a model device based on materials, like germanium tellurides, that undergo fast and reversible metal-insulator transitions on passing from the crystalline to the amorphous phase. The calculations are performed at finite temperature and fully accounting for the behaviour of the material dielectric functions. The results show that the transition can be exploited to extend the distance and energy ranges under which the device can be operated without undergoing stiction phenomena. We discuss the approximation involved in adopting the Casimir expression in simulating nano- and micro- devices at finite temperature.

id: 0809.4276
title: Entanglement properties of topological color codes
authors: Mehdi Kargarian
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062312 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4276
abstract: The entanglement properties of a class of topological stabilizer states, the so called \emph{topological color codes} defined on a two-dimensional lattice or \emph{2-colex}, are calculated. The topological entropy is used to measure the entanglement of different bipartitions of the 2-colex. The dependency of the ground state degeneracy on the genus of the surface shows that the color code can support a topological order, and the contribution of the color in its structure makes it interesting to compare with the Kitaev's toric code. While a qubit is maximally entangled with rest of the system, two qubits are no longer entangled showing that the color code is genuinely multipartite entangled. For a convex region, it is found that entanglement entropy depends only on the degrees of freedom living on the boundary of two subsystems. The boundary scaling of entropy is supplemented with a topological subleading term which for a color code defined on a compact surface is twice than the toric code. From the entanglement entropy we construct a set of bipartitions in which the diverging term arising from the boundary term is washed out, and the remaining non-vanishing term will have a topological nature. Besides the color code on the compact surface, we also analyze the entanglement properties of a version of color code with border, i.e \emph{triangular color code}.

id: 0809.4277
title: Experimental demonstration of a hyper-entangled ten-qubit Schr?dinger cat state
authors: Wei-Bo Gao, Chao-Yang Lu, Xing-Can Yao, Ping Xu, Otfried G¨¹hne, Alexander Goebel, Yu-Ao Chen, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, comments welcome
journal: Nature Physics, 6, 331 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4277
abstract: Coherent manipulation of an increasing number of qubits for the generation of entangled states has been an important goal and benchmark in the emerging field of quantum information science. The multiparticle entangled states serve as physical resources for measurement-based quantum computing and high-precision quantum metrology. However, their experimental preparation has proved extremely challenging. To date, entangled states up to six, eight atoms, or six photonic qubits have been demonstrated. Here, by exploiting both the photons' polarization and momentum degrees of freedom, we report the creation of hyper-entangled six-, eight-, and ten-qubit Schr\"odinger cat states. We characterize the cat states by evaluating their fidelities and detecting the presence of genuine multi-partite entanglement. Small modifications of the experimental setup will allow the generation of various graph states up to ten qubits. Our method provides a shortcut to expand the effective Hilbert space, opening up interesting applications such as quantum-enhanced super-resolving phase measurement, graph-state generation for anyonic simulation and topological error correction, and novel tests of nonlocality with hyper-entanglement.

id: 0809.4280
title: Variational Formulation for Quaternionic Quantum Mechanics
authors: C. A. M. de Melo, B. M. Pimentel
comments: Talk given at ICCA*, May 26-30 of 2008, Campinas, SP, Brazil. 18 pages, no figure
journal: Adv.Appl.Clifford Algebras 20:745-763,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4280
abstract: A quaternionic version of Quantum Mechanics is constructed using the Schwinger's formulation based on measurements and a Variational Principle. Commutation relations and evolution equations are provided, and the results are compared with other formulations.

id: 0809.4287
title: Manipulating the quantum information of the radial modes of trapped ions: Linear phononics, entanglement generation, quantum state transmission and non-locality tests
authors: A. Serafini, A. Retzker, M. B. Plenio
comments: 21 pages; this paper, presenting a far more extensive and detailed analysis, completely supersedes arXiv:0708.0851
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 023007 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4287
abstract: We present a detailed study on the possibility of manipulating quantum information encoded in the "radial" modes of arrays of trapped ions (i.e., in the ions' oscillations orthogonal to the trap's main axis). In such systems, because of the tightness of transverse confinement, the radial modes pertaining to different ions can be addressed individually. In the first part of the paper we show that, if local control of the radial trapping frequencies is available, any linear optical and squeezing operation on the locally defined modes - on single as well as on many modes - can be reproduced by manipulating the frequencies. Then, we proceed to describe schemes apt to generate unprecedented degrees of bipartite and multipartite continuous variable entanglement under realistic noisy working conditions, and even restricting only to a global control of the trapping frequencies. Furthermore, we consider the transmission of the quantum information encoded in the radial modes along the array of ions, and show it to be possible to a remarkable degree of accuracy, for both finite-dimensional and continuous variable quantum states. Finally, as an application, we show that the states which can be generated in this setting allow for the violation of multipartite non-locality tests, by feasible displaced parity measurements. Such a demonstration would be a first test of quantum non-locality for "massive" degrees of freedom (i.e., for degrees of freedom describing the motion of massive particles).

id: 0809.4317
title: On the Effect of Quantum Interaction Distance on Quantum Addition Circuits
authors: Byung-Soo Choi, Rodney Van Meter
comments: accepted for ACM Journal on Emerging Technologies in Computing Systems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Hardware Architecture (cs.AR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4317
abstract: We investigate the theoretical limits of the effect of the quantum interaction distance on the speed of exact quantum addition circuits. For this study, we exploit graph embedding for quantum circuit analysis. We study a logical mapping of qubits and gates of any $\Omega(\log n)$-depth quantum adder circuit for two $n$-qubit registers onto a practical architecture, which limits interaction distance to the nearest neighbors only and supports only one- and two-qubit logical gates. Unfortunately, on the chosen $k$-dimensional practical architecture, we prove that the depth lower bound of any exact quantum addition circuits is no longer $\Omega(\log {n})$, but $\Omega(\sqrt[k]{n})$. This result, the first application of graph embedding to quantum circuits and devices, provides a new tool for compiler development, emphasizes the impact of quantum computer architecture on performance, and acts as a cautionary note when evaluating the time performance of quantum algorithms.

id: 0809.4334
title: Dynamics of impurity, local and non-local information for two non identical qubits
authors: N. Metwally, M. Abdel-Aty, M.Sebawe Abdall
comments: 
journal: Optics Communications, Volume 282, Issue 9, 1 May 2009, Pages 1930-1938
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4334
abstract: From the separability point of view the problem of two atoms interact with a single cavity mode is investigated. The density matrix is calculated and used to discuss the entanglement and to examine the dynamics of the local and non-local information. Our examination concentrated on the variation in the mean photon number and the ratio of the coupling parameters. Furthermore, we have also assumed that the atomic system is initially in the ground states as well as in the intermediate states. It has been shown that the local information is transferred to non-local information when the impurity of one qubit or both is maximum.

id: 0809.4359
title: Proposed Bell experiment with genuine energy-time entanglement
authors: Adan Cabello, Alessandro Rossi, Giuseppe Vallone, Francesco De Martini, Paolo Mataloni
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102 (2009) 040401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4359
abstract: Franson's Bell experiment with energy-time entanglement [Phys. Rev. Lett. 62, 2205 (1989)] does not rule out all local hidden variable models. This defect can be exploited to compromise the security of Bell inequality-based quantum cryptography. We introduce a novel Bell experiment using genuine energy-time entanglement, based on a novel interferometer, which rules out all local hidden variable models. The scheme is feasible with actual technology.

id: 0809.4368
title: Quantum computing with trapped ions
authors: H. Haeffner, C.F. Roos, R. Blatt
comments: Review article, accepted for publication in Physics Reports, 99pages, 38 Figures, ~2 MByte
journal: Phys. Rep. 469, 155-203 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4368
abstract: Quantum computers hold the promise to solve certain computational task much more efficiently than classical computers. We review the recent experimental advancements towards a quantum computer with trapped ions. In particular, various implementations of qubits, quantum gates and some key experiments are discussed. Furthermore, we review some implementations of quantum algorithms such as a deterministic teleportation of quantum information and an error correction scheme.

id: 0809.4373
title: Quantum resonances in an atom-optical delta-kicked harmonic oscillator
authors: T. P. Billam, S. A. Gardiner
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures. Manuscript revised and extended
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 023414 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4373
abstract: Under certain conditions, the quantum delta-kicked harmonic oscillator displays quantum resonances. We consider an atom-optical realization of the delta-kicked harmonic oscillator, and present a theoretical discussion of the quantum resonances that could be observed in such a system. Having outlined our model of the physical system we derive the values at which quantum resonances occur and relate these to potential experimental parameters. We discuss the observable effects of the quantum resonances, using the results of numerical simulations. We develop a physical explanation for the quantum resonances based on symmetries shared between the classical phase space and the quantum-mechanical time evolution operator. We explore the evolution of coherent states in the system by reformulating the dynamics in terms of a mapping over an infinite, two-dimensional set of coefficients, from which we derive an analytic expression for the evolution of a coherent state at quantum resonance.

id: 0809.4374
title: Polarized thermal emission by thin metal wires
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte, Luca Cappellin, Giovanni Carugno, Giuseppe Ruoso, Daniela Saadeh
comments: 12 pages, 4 encapsulated figures. This new version matches the one published in New. J. Phys.. Improved presentation, more references added, and one new figure included
journal: New J.Phys.11:033014,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4374
abstract: We report new measurements of the linear polarization of thermal radiation emitted by incandescent thin tungsten wires, with thicknesses ranging from five to hundred microns. Our data show very good agreement with theoretical predictions, based on Drude-type fits to measured optical properties of tungsten.

id: 0809.4376
title: The internal-environment model of the Stern-Gerlach experiment
authors: M. Dugic, M. Arsenijevic, J. Jeknic-Dugic
comments: 23 pages, one .eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4376
abstract: The standard interpretation of the Stern-Gerlach experiment assumes that the atomic center-of-mass plays the role of "quantum apparatus" for the atomic spin. Following a recent, decoherence-based, model fitting with this interpretation, we investigate whether or not such model can be constructed. Our conclusions are somewhat surprising: only if the screen capturing the atoms in the experiment brings the information about the atomic-nucleus center-of-mass, one may construct the model desired. The nucleus $CM$ system is monitored by the nucleus "relative system ($R$)". There appear the effective (the electrons-mediated) interaction between $CM$ and $R$ that is possibly responsible for decoherence. For larger atoms, the interaction scales as $Z^2$ ($Z$ is the "atomic number"), being totally independent on the atomic mass. The interaction selects the $CM$-wave-packet states as the approximate pointer basis. Interestingly enough, the model stems nonoccurrence of decoherence due to the internal environment for the larger systems (such as the macromolecules and the macroscopic systems). Certainly, disproving this model (e.g. in an experiment) stems the active role of the screen, which becomes responsible for the "$CM$ + spin"-state "reduction" ("collapse"), i.e. for the irreversible retrieval of the classical information from the quantum world.

id: 0809.4385
title: Accurate numerical solution to the finite-size Dicke model
authors: Qing-Hu Chen, Yu-Yu Zhang, Tao Liu, Ke-Lin Wang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. Phys. Rev. A (in press, a Rapid Communication)
journal: Phys. Rev. A78, 051801(R)(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4385
abstract: By using extended bosonic coherent states, a new technique to solve the Dicke model exactly is proposed in the numerical sense. The accessible system size is two orders of magnitude higher than that reported in literature. Finite-size scaling for several observables, such as the ground-state energy, Berry phase, and concurrence are analyzed. The existing discrepancy for the scaling exponent of the concurrence is reconciled.

id: 0809.4388
title: Freezing a Coherent Field Growth in a Cavity by Quantum Zeno Effect
authors: Julien Bernu, Samuel Del¨¦glise, Cl¨¦ment Sayrin, Stefan Kuhr, Igor Dotsenko, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4388
abstract: We have frozen the coherent evolution of a field in a cavity by repeated measurements of its photon number. We use circular Rydberg atoms dispersively coupled to the cavity mode for an absorption-free photon counting. These measurements inhibit the growth of a Field injected in the cavity by a classical source. This manifestation of the Quantum Zeno effect illustrates the back action of the photon number determination onto the Field phase. The residual growth of the Field can be seen as a random walk of its amplitude in the two-dimensional phase space. This experiment sheds light onto the measurement process and opens perspectives for active quantum feedback.

id: 0809.4394
title: N-Qubit W States are Determined by their Bipartite Marginals
authors: Preeti Parashar, Swapan Rana
comments: RevTeX, 4+ pages, 2 figures, journal version includes an Appendix and slightly enlarged introduction and conclusions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012319 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4394
abstract: We prove that the most general W class of N-qubit states are uniquely determined among arbitrary states (pure or mixed) by just their bipartite reduced density matrices. Moreover, if we consider only pure states, then (N-1) of them are shown to be sufficient.

id: 0809.4401
title: Unambiguous comparison of unitary channels
authors: Michal Sedlak, Mario Ziman
comments: Version published in PRA, 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4401
abstract: We address the problem of unambiguous comparison of a pair of unknown qudit unitary channels. Using the framework of process positive operator valued measures (PPOVM) we characterize all solutions and identify the optimal ones. We prove that the entanglement is the key ingredient in designing the optimal experiment for comparison of unitary channels. Without entanglement the optimality can not be achieved. The proposed scheme is also experimentally feasible.

id: 0809.4403
title: Introduction to dissipation and decoherence in quantum systems
authors: Florian Marquardt, Annett P¨¹ttmann
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures, Lecture Notes Langeoog October 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4403
abstract: These lecture notes address an audience of physicists or mathematicians who have been exposed to a first course in quantum mechanics. We start with a brief discussion of the general "system-bath" paradigm of quantum dissipative systems, analyze in some detail the simplest example of "pure dephasing" of a two-level system, and review the basic concept of the density matrix. We then treat the general dissipative time-evolution, introducing completely positive maps, their relation to entanglement theory, and their Kraus decomposition. Restricting ourselves to Markovian evolution, we discuss the Lindblad form of master equations. The notes conclude with an overview of topics of current interest that go beyond Lindblad Markov master equations. (These notes were prepared for lectures delivered by F. Marquardt in October 2007 at the Langeoog workshop of the SFB/TR 12, "Symmetries and Universality in Mesoscopic Systems")

id: 0809.4416
title: Shor's factorization algorithm with a single control qubit and imperfections
authors: Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Klaus M. Frahm, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: 9 pages 5 figures, and 1 table. Research at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062323 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4416
abstract: We formulate and numerically simulate the single control qubit Shor algorithm for the case of static imperfections induced by residual couplings between qubits. This allows us to study the accuracy of Shor's algorithm with respect to these imperfections using numerical simulations of realistic quantum computations with up to $n_q=18$ computational qubits allowing to factor numbers up to N=205193. We confirm that the algorithm remains operational up to a critical coupling strength $\epsilon_c$ which drops only polynomially with $\log_2 N$. The obtained numerical dependence of $\epsilon_c$ on $\log_2 N$ is in a good agreement with the analytical estimates that allows to obtain the scaling for functionality of Shor's algorithm on realistic quantum computers with a large number of qubits.

id: 0809.4422
title: Testing Many-Worlds Quantum Theory By Measuring Pattern Convergence Rates
authors: Frank J. Tipler
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4422
abstract: The Born Interpretation of the wave function gives only the relative frequencies as the number of observations approaches infinity. Using the Many-Worlds Interpretation of quantum mechanics, specifically the fact that there must exist other versions of ourselves in the multiverse, I show that the observed frequencies should approach the Born frequencies as 1/N, where N is the number of observations. In the body of the paper I state this convergence rate precisely as AN EASILY TESTABLE FORMULA. We can therefore test the central claim of the MWI by measuring the convergence rate to the final Born frequency. Conversely, the MWI allows us to calculate this convergence rate.

id: 0809.4445
title: Asymptotic Entanglement Dynamics and Geometry of Quantum States
authors: Raphael Campos Drumond, Marcelo de Oliveira Terra Cunha
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; revised version accepted for publication in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 285308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4445
abstract: A given dynamics for a composite quantum system can exhibit several distinct properties for the asymptotic entanglement behavior, like entanglement sudden death, asymptotic death of entanglement, sudden birth of entanglement, etc. A classification of the possible situations was given in [M. O. Terra Cunha, {\emph{New J. Phys}} {\bf{9}}, 237 (2007)] but for some classes there were no known examples. In this work we give a better classification for the possibile relaxing dynamics at the light of the geometry of their set of asymptotic states and give explicit examples for all the classes. Although the classification is completely general, in the search of examples it is sufficient to use two qubits with dynamics given by differential equations in Lindblad form (some of them non-autonomous). We also investigate, in each case, the probabilities to find each possible behavior for random initial states.

id: 0809.4456
title: Feynman disentangling method and group theory
authors: V.S.Popov, M.A.Trusov
comments: 4 pages, LaTeX2e. To be published in the Proceedings of the XIII International Conference "Selected problems of modern theoretical physics", Dubna, Russia, June 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4456
abstract: The subject of this work is to apply the modified Feynman disentangling approach to a problem of transitions in a non-quadratic quantum-mechanical system: a singular oscillator with a time-dependent frequency.

id: 0809.4459
title: Ground state cooling of nanomechanical resonator via parametric linear coupling
authors: L. Tian
comments: references added, 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 193407 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4459
abstract: We present a ground state cooling scheme for a nanomechanical resonator linearly coupled with a LC oscillator. The linear coupling, when periodically modulated at red detuning, up-converts the low-frequency nanomechanical mode to the high-frequency LC oscillator mode and generates backaction force that can cool the resonator to its ground state in the resolved-sideband regime. We also study the effect of the quantum backaction noise on the cooling due to the counter rotating term in the linear coupling. The scheme can be compared with laser cooling for the atomic systems and can be realized in superconducting circuits.

id: 0809.4461
title: Towards fast quantum key distribution with quantum frames
authors: Itzel Lucio Martinez, Philip Chan, Xiaofan Mo, Steve Hosier, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. To be presented at the SECOQC International Conference in Vienna, October 8-10,2008. Added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4461
abstract: We propose and investigate a fibre-based quantum key distribution system, which employs polarization qubits encoded into faint laser pulses. As a novel feature, it allows sending of classical framing information via sequences of strong laser pulses that precede the quantum data. This allows synchronization, sender and receiver identification, and compensation of time-varying birefringence in the communication channel. Furthermore, this method also provides a platform to communicate implementation specific information such as encoding and protocol in view of future optical quantum networks. All optical components can be operated at Gbps rates, which is a first requirement for Mbps secret key rates.

id: 0809.4466
title: A term-rewriting system for computer quantum algebra
authors: J. J. Hudson
comments: 16 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4466
abstract: Existing computer algebra packages do not fully support quantum mechanics calculations in Dirac's notation. I present the foundation for building such support: a mathematical system for the symbolic manipulation of expressions used in the invariant formalism of quantum mechanics. I first describe the essential mathematical features of the Hilbert-space invariant formalism. This is followed by a formal characterisation of all possible algebraic expressions in this formalism. This characterisation is provided in the form of a set of terms. Rewrite rules over this set of terms are then developed that correspond to allowed manipulations of the algebraic expressions. This approach is contrasted with current attempts to build invariant quantum mechanics calculations into computer algebra systems.

id: 0809.4469
title: On Global Effects Caused by Locally Noneffective Unitary Operations
authors: Sevag Gharibian, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bruss
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation (2009), vol. 9, pp. 1013-1029
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4469
abstract: Given a bipartite quantum state rho with subsystems A and B of arbitrary dimensions, we study the entanglement detecting capabilities of locally noneffective, or cyclic, unitary operations [L. B. Fu, Europhys. Lett., vol. 75, pp. 1-7, 2006]. Local cyclic unitaries have the special property that they leave their target subsystem invariant. We investigate the distance between rho and the global state after local application of such unitaries as a possible indicator of entanglement. To this end, we derive and discuss closed formulae for the maximal such distance achievable for three cases of interest: (pseudo)pure quantum states, Werner states, and two-qubit states. What makes this criterion interesting, as we show here, is that it surprisingly displays behavior similar to recent anomalies observed for non-locality measures in higher dimensions, as well as demonstrates an equivalence to the CHSH inequality for certain classes of two-qubit states. Yet, despite these similarities, the criterion is not itself a non-locality measure. We also consider entanglement detection in bound entangled states.

id: 0809.4499
title: A Possible Approach to Inclusion of Space and Time in Frame Fields of Quantum Representations of Real and Complex Numbers
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: Paper has been greatly revised and shortened to 26 pages, 2 figures, per referees comments
journal: Advances in Mathematical Physics, Vol. 2009, ID 452738
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4499
abstract: This work is based on the field of reference frames based on quantum representations of real and complex numbers described in other work. Here frame domains are expanded to include space and time lattices. Strings of qukits are described as hybrid systems as they are both mathematical and physical systems. As mathematical systems they represent numbers. As physical systems in each frame the strings have a discrete Schrodinger dynamics on the lattices. The frame field has an iterative structure such that the contents of a stage j frame have images in a stage j-1 (parent) frame. A discussion of parent frame images includes the proposal that points of stage j frame lattices have images as hybrid systems in parent frames. The resulting association of energy with images of lattice point locations, as hybrid systems states, is discussed. Representations and images of other physical systems in the different frames are also described.

id: 0809.4528
title: Connection between Coulomb and harmonic oscillator potentials in relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Bo Fu, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4528
abstract: The Levi-Civita transformation is applied in the two-dimensional (2D) Dirac and Klein-Gordon (KG) equations with equal external scalar and vector potentials. The Coulomb and harmonic oscillator problems are connected via the Levi-Civita transformation. These connections lead to an approach to solve the Coulomb problems using the results of the harmonic oscillator potential in the above-mentioned relativistic systems.

id: 0809.4545
title: The quantum speed up as advanced knowledge of the solution
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli
comments: 23 pages, to be published in IJTP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4545
abstract: With reference to a search in a database of size N, Grover states: "What is the reason that one would expect that a quantum mechanical scheme could accomplish the search in O(square root of N) steps? It would be insightful to have a simple two line argument for this without having to describe the details of the search algorithm". The answer provided in this work is: "because any quantum algorithm takes the time taken by a classical algorithm that knows in advance 50% of the information that specifies the solution of the problem". This empirical fact, unnoticed so far, holds for both quadratic and exponential speed ups and is theoretically justified in three steps: (i) once the physical representation is extended to the production of the problem on the part of the oracle and to the final measurement of the computer register, quantum computation is reduction on the solution of the problem under a relation representing problem-solution interdependence, (ii) the speed up is explained by a simple consideration of time symmetry, it is the gain of information about the solution due to backdating, to before running the algorithm, a time-symmetric part of the reduction on the solution; this advanced knowledge of the solution reduces the size of the solution space to be explored by the algorithm, (iii) if I is the information acquired by measuring the content of the computer register at the end of the algorithm, the quantum algorithm takes the time taken by a classical algorithm that knows in advance 50% of I, which brings us to the initial statement.

id: 0809.4575
title: Multi-path entanglement of two photons
authors: A. Rossi, G. Vallone, A. Chiuri, F. De Martini, P. Mataloni
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, revtex, revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 153902 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4575
abstract: We present a novel optical device based on an integrated system of micro-lenses and single mode optical fibers. It allows to collect and direct into many modes two photons generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion. By this device multiqubit entangled states and/or multilevel qu-$d$it states of two photons, encoded in the longitudinal momentum degree of freedom, are created. The multi-path photon entanglement realized by this device is expected to find important applications in modern quantum information technology.

id: 0809.4585
title: A new non-perturbative approach to Quantum Brownian Motion
authors: Subhasis Sinha, P. A. Sreeram
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4585
abstract: Starting from the Caldeira-Leggett (CL) model, we derive the equation describing the Quantum Brownian motion, which has been originally proposed by Dekker purely from phenomenological basis containing extra anomalous diffusion terms. Explicit analytical expressions for the temperature dependence of the diffusion constants are derived. At high temperatures, additional momentum diffusion terms are suppressed and classical Langivin equation can be recovered and at the same time positivity of the density matrix(DM) is satisfied. At low temperatures, the diffusion constants have a finite positive value, however, below a certain critical temperature, the Master Equation(ME) does not satisfy the positivity condition as proposed by Dekker.

id: 0809.4607
title: Perturbative and non-perturbative studies with the delta function potential
authors: Nabakumar Bera, Kamal Bhattacharyya, Jayanta K. Bhattacharjee
comments: 19 pages, 2 tables
journal: Am. J. Phys. 76(3), March 2008, 250-257
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4607
abstract: We show that the delta function potential can be exploited along with perturbation theory to yield the result of certain infinite series. The idea is that any exactly soluble potential if coupled with a delta function potential remains exactly soluble. We use the strength of the delta function as an expansion parameter and express the second-order energy shift as an infinite sum in perturbation theory. The analytical solution is used to determine the second-order energy shift and hence the sum of an infinite series. By an appropriate choice of the unperturbed system, we can show the importance of the continuum in the energy shift of bound states.

id: 0809.4616
title: Low-resolution measurements induced classicality
authors: R. M. Angelo
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4616
abstract: The classical limit of quantum mechanics is discussed for closed quantum systems in terms of observational aspects. Initially, the failure of the limit h->0 is explicitly demonstrated in a model of two quantum mechanically interacting oscillators by showing that neither quantum expectations reduce to Newtonian trajectories nor entanglement vanishes. This result suggests that the quantum-to-classical transition occurs only at an approximative level, which is regulated by the low accuracy of the measurements. In order to verify the consistence of these ideas we take into account the experimental resolution of physical measurements by introducing a discretized formulation for the quantum structure of wave functions. As a result, in the low-resolution limit the quasi-determinism is recovered and hence the quantum-to-classical transition is shown to occur adequately. Other puzzling problems, such as the classical limit of quantum superpositions and nonlocal correlations, are naturally address as well.

id: 0809.4626
title: Laser Induced Selective Alignment of Water Spin Isomers
authors: E. Gershnabel, I.Sh. Averbukh
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4626
abstract: We consider laser alignment of ortho and para spin isomers of water molecules by using strong and short off-resonance laser pulses. A single pulse is found to create a distinct transient alignment and antialignment of the isomeric species. We suggest selective alignment of one isomeric species (leaving the other species randomly aligned) by a pair of two laser pulses.

id: 0809.4721
title: Quantum optical coherence tomography of a biological sample
authors: Magued B. Nasr, Darryl P. Goode, Nam Nguyen, Guoxin Rong, Linglu Yang, Bjorn M. Reinhard, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 16 Pages, 6 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4721
abstract: Quantum optical coherence tomography (QOCT) makes use of an entangled-photon light source to carry out dispersion-immune axial optical sectioning. We present the first experimental QOCT images of a biological sample: an onion-skin tissue coated with gold nanoparticles. 3D images are presented in the form of 2D sections of different orientations.

id: 0809.4736
title: Entanglement generation in double-$¦«$ system
authors: Ling Zhou, Yong Hong Ma, Xin Yu Zhao
comments: 
journal: J Phys. B 41, 215501(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4736
abstract: In this paper, we study the generation of entanglement in a double-$\Lambda $ system. Employing standard method of laser theory, we deduce the dynamic evolution equation of the two-mode field. We analyze the available entanglement criterion for double-$\Lambda $ system and the condition of entanglement existence. Our results show that under proper parameters, the two-mode field can entangled and amlified.

id: 0809.4740
title: Thermal states of the Kitaev honeycomb model: a Bures metric analysis
authors: Damian F. Abasto, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012321 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4740
abstract: We analyze the Bures metric over the canonical thermal states for the Kitaev honeycomb mode. In this way the effects of finite temperature on topological phase transitions can be studied. Different regions in the parameter space of the model can be clearly identified in terms of different temperature scaling behavior of the Bures metric tensor. Furthermore, we show a simple relation between the metric elements and the crossover temperature between the quasi-critical and the quasi-classical regions. These results extend the ones of [29,30] to finite temperatures.

id: 0809.4833
title: Information propagation through quantum chains with fluctuating disorder
authors: Christian K. Burrell, Jens Eisert, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052319 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4833
abstract: We investigate the propagation of information through one-dimensional quantum chains in fluctuating external fields. We find that information propagation is suppressed, but in a quite different way compared to the situation with static disorder. We study two settings: (i) a general model where an unobservable fluctuating field acts as a source of decoherence; (ii) the XX model with both observable and unobservable fluctuating fields. In the first setting we establish a noise threshold below which information can propagate ballistically and above which information is localised. In the second setting we find localisation for all levels of unobservable noise, whilst an observable field can yield diffusive propagation of information.

id: 0809.4843
title: Magnetic Charge of the Stark States of Hydrogen Atoms
authors: T. Pradhan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4843
abstract: It is conjectured that Stark states of excited hydrogen atom posses magnetic charge for which the quantum mechanical operator is $${\cal G}_{op} = {e\over \hbar} (\vec\sigma\cdot\vec A)$$ where $\vec A$ is the Runge-Lenz vector. The expectation value $g$ of this operator for Stark states is found to be $$ g = e(n_1-n_2)$$ which obeys a Dirac-Saha type quantization formula $${eg\over c} = (n_1-n_2)\alpha$$ where $\alpha$ is the fine structure constant and $n_1$ and $n_2$ are parabolic quantum numbers. An experimental arrangement is outlined to test this conjecture.

id: 0809.4847
title: Quantum States and Measures on the Spectral Presheaf
authors: A. Doering
comments: 13 pages, no figures; invited contribution for Special Issue of Adv. Sci. Lett. on "Quantum Gravity, Cosmology and Black Holes", ed. M. Bojowald
journal: Adv. Sci. Lett. 2, Number 2, Special Issue on Quantum Gravity, Cosmology and Black Holes, Hrsg. Martin Bojowald, 291--301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4847
abstract: After a brief introduction to the spectral presheaf, which serves as an analogue of state space in the topos approach to quantum theory, we show that every state of the von Neumann algebra of physical quantities of a quantum system determines a certain measure on the spectral presheaf of the system. The so-called clopen subobjects of the spectral presheaf play the role of measurable sets. Measures on the spectral presheaf can be characterised abstractly, and the main result is that every abstract measure induces a unique state of the von Neumann algebra. Finally, we show how quantum-theoretical expectation values can be calculated from measures associated to quantum states.

id: 0809.4848
title: Feshbach projection-operator formalism to resonance scattering on Bargmann-type potentials
authors: Varvara V. Shamshutdinova, Konstantin N. Pichugin, Ingrid Rotter, Boris F. Samsonov
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78 (2008) 062712
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4848
abstract: The projection-operator formalism of Feshbach is applied to resonance scattering in a single-channel case. The method is based on the division of the full function space into two segments, internal (localized) and external (infinitely extended). The spectroscopic information on the resonances is obtained from the non-Hermitian effective Hamilton operator $H_{\rm eff}$ appearing in the internal part due to the coupling to the external part. As well known, additional so-called cut-off poles of the $S$-matrix appear, generally, due to the truncation of the potential. We study the question of spurious $S$ matrix poles in the framework of the Feshbach formalism. The numerical analysis is performed for exactly solvable potentials with a finite number of resonance states. These potentials represent a generalization of Bargmann-type potentials to accept resonance states. Our calculations demonstrate that the poles of the $S$ matrix obtained by using the Feshbach projection-operator formalism coincide with both the complex energies of the physical resonances and the cut-off poles of the $S$-matrix.

id: 0809.4859
title: Control of state and state entanglement with a single auxiliary subsystem
authors: R. Rossi Jr., A. R. Bosco de Magalh?es, J.G. Peixoto de Faria, M. C. Nemes
comments: 
journal: Physical Review. A, v. 79, p. 012103, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4859
abstract: We present a strategy to control the evolution of a quantum system. The novel aspect of this protocol is the use of a \emph{single auxiliary subsystem}. Two applications are given, one which allows for state preservation and another which controls the degree of entanglement of a given initial state.

id: 0809.4884
title: Optimum unambiguous identification of d unknown pure qudit states
authors: Ulrike Herzog, Janos A. Bergou
comments: A reference has been included and a sign error has been corrected that propagated and affected the final result and is unfortunately also present in the printed journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032320 (2008), Erratum: Phys. Rev. A 78, 069902 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4884
abstract: We address the problem of unambiguously identifying the state of a probe qudit with the state of one of d reference qudits. The reference states are assumed pure and linearly independent but we have no knowledge of them. The state of the probe qudit is assumed to coincide equally likely with either one of the d unknown reference states. We derive the optimum measurement strategy that maximizes the success probability of unambiguous identification and find that the optimum strategy is a generalized measurement. We give both the measurement operators and the optimum success probability explicitly. Technically, the problem we solve amounts to the optimum unambiguous discrimination of d known mixed quantum states.

id: 0809.4898
title: Fidelity susceptibility for SU(2)-invariant states
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Shi-Jiang Gu
comments: Four pages and one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4898
abstract: We study the fidelity susceptibility of two SU(2)-invariant reduced density matrices. Due to the commuting property of these matrices, analytical results for reduced fidelity susceptibility are obtained and can be applied to study quantum phase transitions in SU(2)-invariant systems. As an example, we analyze the quantum criticality of the spin-one bilinear-biquadratic model via the fidelity approach.

id: 0809.4906
title: Dynamic entanglement in oscillating molecules and potential biological implications
authors: Jianming Cai, Sandu Popescu, Hans J. Briegel
comments: Extended version, including supplementary information. 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 021921 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4906
abstract: We demonstrate that entanglement can persistently recur in an oscillating two-spin molecule that is coupled to a hot and noisy environment, in which no static entanglement can survive. The system represents a non-equilibrium quantum system which, driven through the oscillatory motion, is prevented from reaching its (separable) thermal equilibrium state. Environmental noise, together with the driven motion, plays a constructive role by periodically resetting the system, even though it will destroy entanglement as usual. As a building block, the present simple mechanism supports the perspective that entanglement can exist also in systems which are exposed to a hot environment and to high levels of de-coherence, which we expect e.g. for biological systems. Our results furthermore suggest that entanglement plays a role in the heat exchange between molecular machines and environment. Experimental simulation of our model with trapped ions is within reach of the current state-of-the-art quantum technologies.

id: 0809.4909
title: Spectral conditions for positive maps
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 14 pages
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 290, 1051 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4909
abstract: We provide a partial classification of positive linear maps in matrix algebras which is based on a family of spectral conditions. This construction generalizes celebrated Choi example of a map which is positive but not completely positive. It is shown how the spectral conditions enable one to construct linear maps on tensor products of matrix algebras which are positive but only on a convex subset of separable elements. Such maps provide basic tools to study quantum entanglement in multipartite systems.

id: 0809.4953
title: Demonstration of near-Optimal Discrimination of Optical Coherent States
authors: C. Wittmann, M. Takeoka, K. N. Cassemiro, M. Sasaki, G. Leuchs, U. L. Andersen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4953
abstract: The optimal discrimination of non-orthogonal quantum states with minimum error probability is a fundamental task in quantum measurement theory as well as an important primitive in optical communication. In this work, we propose and experimentally realize a new and simple quantum measurement strategy capable of discriminating two coherent states with smaller error probabilities than can be obtained using the standard measurement devices; the Kennedy receiver and the homodyne receiver.

id: 0809.4995
title: Discrete coherent states for n qubits
authors: C. Munoz, A. B. Klimov, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, G. Bjork
comments: 8 pages. 1 color figure. To appear in Int. J. Quantum Inf
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 7 (2009) 17
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4995
abstract: Discrete coherent states for a system of $n$ qubits are introduced in terms of eigenstates of the finite Fourier transform. The properties of these states are pictured in phase space by resorting to the discrete Wigner function

id: 0809.5038
title: Role of Post-Selection in Two-Photon Interferometer Tests of Bell's Inequality
authors: J.D. Franson
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5038
abstract: Experimental tests of Bell's inequality based on two-photon interferometry consider only those coincidence events in which both photons arrive at the detectors at the same time. In a recent paper, Cabello et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 040401 (2009)] proposed a local model that is consistent with some aspects of these experiments. It is shown here that the model proposed by Cabello et al. is local but not realistic, and the role of post-selection in experiments of this kind is discussed.

id: 0809.5039
title: Robust strategies for lossy quantum interferometry
authors: Lorenzo Maccone, Giovanni De Cillis
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5039
abstract: We give a simple multiround strategy that permits to beat the shot noise limit when performing interferometric measurements even in the presence of loss. In terms of the average photon number employed, our procedure can achieve twice the sensitivity of conventional interferometric ones in the noiseless case. In addition, it is more precise than the (recently proposed) optimal two-mode strategy even in the presence of loss.

id: 0809.5063
title: The Fibonacci scheme for fault-tolerant quantum computation
authors: Panos Aliferis, John Preskill
comments: 24 pages, 10 figures; supersedes arXiv:0709.3603. (v2): Additional discussion about the overhead cost
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012332 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5063
abstract: We rigorously analyze Knill's Fibonacci scheme for fault-tolerant quantum computation, which is based on the recursive preparation of Bell states protected by a concatenated error-detecting code. We prove lower bounds on the threshold fault rate of .67\times 10^{-3} for adversarial local stochastic noise, and 1.25\times 10^{-3} for independent depolarizing noise. In contrast to other schemes with comparable proved accuracy thresholds, the Fibonacci scheme has a significantly reduced overhead cost because it uses postselection far more sparingly.

id: 0809.5078
title: Entanglement and control operations in Ising interactions of bipartite qubits
authors: Francisco Delgado
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5078
abstract: Entanglement generated by Ising model has been studied for several authors in order to understand the relation between it and magnetic properties of materials, principally using one or two dimensional models for two or more particles. In this work, Ising model evolution is solved in three dimensions for two parts including an inhomogeneous magnetic field, giving an detailed study of the entanglement properties derived from interaction. Some relations between entanglement and energy or spin are developed specifically to stablish candidates for entanglement witness. Finally, some basic quantum control operations are prescripted for this model as to preserve the properties of the system as for transfer information between the two parts. These last schemes of control are useful when initial state is completely known, to gain domain on the system. It prevents to introduce more sophisticated control schemes which normally are necessary when initial state is at least partially unknown.

id: 0809.5085
title: Thermal entanglement in a molecular chain
authors: P¨¦rola Milman, Arne Keller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5085
abstract: We investigate entanglement in a linear chain of $N$ polar molecules coupled by dipole interaction. In our model, nearest neighbour interaction predominate, and we compute entanglement with the help of a two-party correlation entanglement measure. We find that, in this system, only excited states are entangled. Moreover, when an electrostatic field is applied, energy levels crossings occur, changing significantly the system's entanglement properties. We make a systematic study of the entanglement dependency on the inter molecular distance separating pairs of molecules, different partitions of the chain and physical parameters as the temperature and the electrostatic field's intensity, showing that it persists for relatively high temperatures and changes its nature with varying field.

id: 0809.5101
title: Probability and complex quantum trajectories
authors: Moncy V. John
comments: Accepted for publication in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals Phys.324:220-231,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5101
abstract: It is shown that in the complex trajectory representation of quantum mechanics, the Born's Psi^{\star}\Psi probability density can be obtained from the imaginary part of the velocity field of particles on the real axis. Extending this probability axiom to the complex plane, we first attempt to find a probability density by solving an appropriate conservation equation. The characteristic curves of this conservation equation are found to be the same as the complex paths of particles in the new representation. The boundary condition in this case is that the extended probability density should agree with the quantum probability rule along the real line. For the simple, time-independent, one-dimensional problems worked out here, we find that a conserved probability density can be derived from the velocity field of particles, except in regions where the trajectories were previously suspected to be nonviable. An alternative method to find this probability density in terms of a trajectory integral, which is easier to implement on a computer and useful for single particle solutions, is also presented. Most importantly, we show, by using the complex extension of Schrodinger equation, that the desired conservation equation can be derived from this definition of probability density.

id: 0809.5139
title: On Kohn-Sham models with LDA and GGA exchange-correlation functionals
authors: Arnaud Anantharaman, Eric Canc¨¨s
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5139
abstract: This article is concerned with the mathematical analysis of the Kohn-Sham and extended Kohn-Sham models, in the local density approximation (LDA) and generalized gradient approximation (GGA) frameworks. After recalling the mathematical derivation of the Kohn-Sham and extended Kohn-Sham LDA and GGA models from the Schr\"odinger equation, we prove that the extended Kohn-Sham LDA model has a solution for neutral and positively charged systems. We then prove a similar result for the spin-unpolarized Kohn-Sham GGA model for two-electron systems, by means of a concentration-compactness argument.

id: 0809.5147
title: Characterization of entanglement in multiqubit systems via spin squeezing
authors: M. S. Uma
comments: Ph.D. thesis (127 pages, 2 figures, Latex), Bangalore University, India. Advisor: A. R. Usha Devi. The main results are also available in arXiv:quant-ph/0509015, arXiv:quant-ph/0509056 and arXiv:quant-ph/0601035
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5147
abstract: Quantum entanglement reflects itself through non-local correlations among the subsystems of a quantum system. This thesis focuses on constructing a complete set of local invariants characterizing symmetric two qubit systems and analyzing the pairwise entanglement properties like collective spin squeezing - exhibited by multiqubits - in terms of two qubit entanglement invariants. Further, the collective pairwise entanglement properties of symmetric multiqubit states are shown to be captured entirely by the off diagonal block of the covariance matrix.

id: 0809.5152
title: Tailoring PDC speckle structure
authors: G.Brida, M.Genovese, A.Meda, I.Ruo-Berchera, E. Predazzi
comments: 
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 56 (2009)201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5152
abstract: Speckle structure of parametric down conversion light has recently received a large attention due to relevance in view of applications to quantum imaging The possibility of tailoring the speckle size by acting on the pump properties is an interesting tool for the applications to quantum imaging and in particular to the detection of weak object under shot-noise limit. Here we present a systematic detailed experimental study of the speckle structure produced in type II PDC with particular attention to its variation with pump beam properties.

id: 0809.5161
title: A perturbative approach to inelastic collisions in a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: R. B. Mann, M. B. Young, I. Fuentes-Schuller
comments: I. F-S published previously under Fuentes-Guridi
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5161
abstract: It has recently been discovered that for certain rates of mode-exchange collisions analytic solutions can be found for a Hamiltonian describing the two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate. We proceed to study the behavior of the system using perturbation theory if the coupling constants only approximately match these parameter constraints. We find that the model is robust to such perturbations. We study the effects of degeneracy on the perturbations and find that the induced changes differ greatly from the non-degenerate case. We also model inelastic collisions that result in particle loss or condensate decay as external perturbations and use this formalism to examine the effects of three-body recombination and background collisions.

id: 0809.5184
title: Emergence of classicality in small number entangled systems
authors: Eduardo Mascarenhas, Marcelo Fran?a Santos
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 79, 023836 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5184
abstract: We show the transition from a fully quantized interaction to a semiclassical one in entangled small number quantum systems using the quantum trajectories approach. In particular, we simulate the microwave Ramsey zones used in Rydberg atom interferometry, filling in the gap between the strongly entangling Jaynes Cummings evolution and the semiclassical rotation of the atomic internal states. We also correlate the information flowing with leaking photons to the entanglement generation between cavity field and flying atom and detail the roles played by the strong dissipation and the external driving force in preserving atomic coherence through the interaction.

id: 0809.5193
title: Testing the Kochen-Specker theorem with Josephson qubits
authors: L. F. Wei, K. Maruyama, X.-B. Wang, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5193
abstract: We propose an experimental approach to {\it macro}scopically test the Kochen-Specker theorem (KST) with superconducting qubits. This theorem, which has been experimentally tested with single photons or neutrons, concerns the conflict between the contextuality of quantum mechnaics (QM) and the noncontextuality of hidden-variable theories (HVTs). We first show that two Josephson charge qubits can be controllably coupled by using a two-level data bus produced by a Josephson phase qubit. Next, by introducing an approach to perform the expected joint quantum measurements of two separated Josephson qubits, we show that the proposed quantum circuits could demonstrate quantum contextuality by testing the KST at a macroscopic level.

id: 0809.5222
title: Entangled light from Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: H. T. Ng, S. Bose
comments: 5 pages and 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 043009 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5222
abstract: We propose a method to generate entangled light with a Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in a cavity, a system realized in recent experiments. The atoms of the condensate are trapped in a periodic potential generated by a cavity mode. The condensate is continuously pumped by a laser and spontaneously emits a pair of photons of different frequencies in two distinct cavity modes. In this way, the condensate mediates entanglement between two cavity modes which leak out and can be separated and exhibit continuous variable entanglement. The scheme exploits the experimentally demonstrated strong, steady and collective coupling of condensate atoms to a cavity field.

id: 0809.5229
title: Lifshitz theory of atom-wall interaction with applications to quantum reflection
authors: V. B. Bezerra, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, C. Romero
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures; Phys. Rev. A, accepted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v.78, N4, 042901-(1-11) (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5229
abstract: The Casimir-Polder interaction of an atom with a metallic wall is investigated in the framework of the Lifshitz theory. It is demonstrated that in some temperature (separation) region the Casimir-Polder entropy takes negative values and goes to zero when the temperature vanishes. This result is obtained both for an ideal metal wall and for real metal walls. Simple analytical representations for the Casimir-Polder free energy and force are also obtained. These results are used to make a comparison between the phenomenological potential used in the theoretical description of quantum reflection and exact atom-wall interaction energy, as given by the Lifshitz theory. Computations are performed for the atom of metastable He${}^{\ast}$ interacting with metal (Au) and dielectric (Si) walls. It is shown that the relative differences between the exact and phenomenological interaction energies are smaller in the case of a metallic wall. This is explained by the effect of negative entropy which occurs only for a metal wall. More accurate atom-wall interaction energies computed here can be used for the interpretation of measurement data in the experiments on quantum reflection.

id: 0809.5253
title: Simple unified derivation and solution of Coulomb, Eckart and Rosen-Morse potentials in prepotential approach
authors: Choon-Lin Ho
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5253
abstract: The four exactly-solvable models related to non-sinusoidal coordinates, namely, the Coulomb, Eckart, Rosen-Morse type I and II models are normally being treated separately, despite the similarity of the functional forms of the potentials, their eigenvalues and eigenfunctions. Based on an extension of the prepotential approach to exactly and quasi-exactly solvable models proposed previously, we show how these models can be derived and solved in a simple and unified way.

id: 0809.5264
title: High speed coherent one-way quantum key distribution prototype
authors: Damien Stucki, Claudio Barreiro, Sylvain Fasel, Jean-Daniel Gautier, Olivier Gay, Nicolas Gisin, Rob Thew, Yann Thoma, Patrick Trinkler, Fabien Vannel, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 9 pages 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17, Issue 16, pp. 13326-13334 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5264
abstract: We report the first real world implementation of a Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) system over a 43dB-loss transmission line in the Swisscom fibre optic network. The QKD system is capable of continuous and autonomous operation and uses the coherent one-way (COW) protocol. This system brings together three key concepts for future QKD systems: a simple high-speed protocol; high performance detection; and integration, both at the component level as well for connectivity with standard fibre networks. Here, we show laboratory and field trial results for this system. The full prototype version uses InGaAs/InP avalanche photodiodes (APDs) and was laboratory tested up to 150km, with a 10-hour exchange averaging around 2kbps of real-time distilled secret bits over 100km. In the field trials, we obtained average distribution rates, during 3 hours, of 2.5bps over a 43dB-loss line of 150km, when using superconducting single photon detectors (SSPDs).

id: 0809.0003
title: Electron Spin Dephasing due to Hyperfine Interactions with a Nuclear Spin Bath
authors: L. Cywinski, W.M. Witzel, S. Das Sarma
comments: Published version, new title suggested by the PRL editor
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 057601 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0003
abstract: We investigate pure dephasing decoherence (free induction decay and spin echo) of a spin qubit interacting with a nuclear spin bath. While for infinite magnetic field B the only decoherence mechanism is spectral diffusion due to dipolar flip-flops of nuclear spins, with decreasing B the hyperfine-mediated interactions between the nuclear spins become important. We give a theory of decoherence due to these interactions which takes advantage of their long-range nature. For a thermal uncorrelated bath we show that our theory is applicable down to B~10 mT, allowing for comparison with recent experiments in GaAs quantum dots.

id: 0809.0051
title: Topological states and braiding statistics using quantum circuits
authors: J. Q. You, Xiao-Feng Shi, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 014505 (2010); an enlarged version
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0051
abstract: Using superconducting quantum circuits, we propose an approach to construct a Kitaev lattice, i.e., an anisotropic spin model on a honeycomb lattice with three types of nearest-neighbor interactions. We study two particular cases to demonstrate topological states (i.e., the vortex and bond states) and show how the braiding statistics can be revealed. Our approach provides an experimentally realizable many-body system for demonstrating exotic properties of topological phases.

id: 0809.0151
title: More Really is Different
authors: Mile Gu, Christian Weedbrook, Alvaro Perales, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physica D 238 (2009) 835-839
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0151
abstract: In 1972, P.W.Anderson suggested that `More is Different', meaning that complex physical systems may exhibit behavior that cannot be understood only in terms of the laws governing their microscopic constituents. We strengthen this claim by proving that many macroscopic observable properties of a simple class of physical systems (the infinite periodic Ising lattice) cannot in general be derived from a microscopic description. This provides evidence that emergent behavior occurs in such systems, and indicates that even if a `theory of everything' governing all microscopic interactions were discovered, the understanding of macroscopic order is likely to require additional insights.

id: 0809.0165
title: Reduced Dynamics from the Unitary Group to Some Flag Manifolds : Interacting Matrix Riccati Equations
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Hiroshi Oike
comments: Latex ; 13 pages ; no figure
journal: Int. J. Geom. Meth. Mod. Phys. 6(2009) 573-581
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0165
abstract: In this paper we treat the time evolution of unitary elements in the N level system and consider the reduced dynamics from the unitary group U(N) to flag manifolds of the second type (in our terminology). Then we derive a set of differential equations of matrix Riccati types interacting with one another and present an important problem on a nonlinear superposition formula that the Riccati equation satisfies. Our result is a natural generalization of the paper {\bf Chaturvedi et al} (arXiv : 0706.0964 [quant-ph]).

id: 0809.0182
title: Second Renormalization of Tensor-Network States
authors: Z. Y. Xie, H. C. Jiang, Q. N. Chen, Z. Y. Weng, T. Xiang
comments: 5 figures, 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:160601,2009
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0182
abstract: We propose a second renormalization group method to handle the tensor-network states or models. This method reduces dramatically the truncation error of the tensor renormalization group. It allows physical quantities of classical tensor-network models or tensor-network ground states of quantum systems to be accurately and efficiently determined.

id: 0809.0602
title: Almost commuting unitaries with spectral gap are near commuting unitaries
authors: Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0602
abstract: Let M_n be the collection of n x n complex matrices equipped with operator norm. Suppose U, V \in M_n are two unitary matrices, each possessing a gap larger than \Delta in their spectrum, which satisfy ||UV-VU|| \le \epsilon. Then it is shown that there are two unitary operators X and Y satisfying XY-YX = 0 and ||U-X|| + ||V-Y|| \le E(\Delta^2/\epsilon) (\epsilon/\Delta^2)^(1/6), where E(x) is a function growing slower than x^(1/k) for any positive integer k.

id: 0809.0659
title: Effects and Propositions
authors: William Demopoulos
comments: Presented to the 2007 conference, New Directions in the Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0659
abstract: The quantum logical and quantum information-theoretic traditions have exerted an especially powerful influence on Bub's thinking about the conceptual foundations of quantum mechanics. This paper discusses both the quantum logical and information-theoretic traditions from the point of view of their representational frameworks. I argue that it is at this level, at the level of its framework, that the quantum logical tradition has retained its centrality to Bub's thought. It is further argued that there is implicit in the quantum information-theoretic tradition a set of ideas that mark a genuinely new alternative to the framework of quantum logic. These ideas are of considerable interest for the philosophy of quantum mechanics, a claim which I defend with an extended discussion of their application to our understanding of the philosophical significance of the no hidden variable theorem of Kochen and Specker.

id: 0809.0768
title: Coherent control of dressed matter waves
authors: Alessandro Zenesini, Hans Lignier, Donatella Ciampini, Oliver Morsch, Ennio Arimondo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0768
abstract: By moving the pivot of a pendulum rapidly up and down one can create a stable position with the pendulum's bob above the pivot rather than below it. This surprising and counterintuitive phenomenon is a widespread feature of driven systems and carries over into the quantum world. Even when the static properties of a quantum system are known, its response to an explicitly time-dependent variation of its parameters may be highly nontrivial, and qualitatively new states can appear that were absent in the original system. In quantum mechanics the archetype for this kind of behaviour is an atom in a radiation field, which exhibits a number of fundamental phenomena such as the modification of its g-factor in a radio-frequency field and the dipole force acting on an atom moving in a spatially varying light field. These effects can be successfully described in the so-called dressed atom picture. Here we show that the concept of dressing can also be applied to macroscopic matter waves, and that the quantum states of "dressed matter waves" can be coherently controlled. In our experiments we use Bose-Einstein condensates in driven optical lattices and demonstrate that the many-body state of this system can be adiabatically and reversibly changed between a superfluid and a Mott insulating state by varying the amplitude of the driving. Our setup represents a versatile testing ground for driven quantum systems, and our results indicate the direction towards new quantum control schemes for matter waves.

id: 0809.0807
title: Readout of a single electron spin in a double quantum dot using a quantum point contact
authors: Jian-Ping Zhang, Shi-Hua Ouyang, Chi-Hang Lam, J. Q. You
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 20, 395206 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0807
abstract: We study the dynamics of a single electron spin in a double quantum dot (DQD) and its readout via a quantum point contact (QPC). We model the system microscopically and derive rate equations for the reduced electron density matrix of the DQD. Two cases with one and two electrons in the DQD are studied. In the one-electron case, with different Zeeman splittings in the two dots, the electron spin states are distinctly characterized by a constant and an oscillatory current through the QPC. In the two-electron case, the readout of the spin state of the electron in one of the dots called the qubit dot is essentially similar after considering hyperfine interactions between the electrons and the nuclear spins of the host materials and a uniform magnetic field applied to the DQD. Moreover, to ensure that an electron is properly injected into the qubit dot, we propose to determine the success of the electron injection from the variations of the QPC current after applying an oscillating magnetic field to the qubit dot.

id: 0809.0858
title: Effects of Sample Specific Variations and Fluctuations of Thermal Occupancy on Fluctuations of Thermodynamic Quantities
authors: R. A. Serota
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.0858
abstract: Standard results for the fluctuations of thermodynamic quantities are derived under the assumption of sampling identical systems that are in different, not fully equilibrated states. These results apply to fluctuations with time in a particular macroscopic body and can be traced to the fluctuations of thermal occupancy. When many identically prepared - but not identical - systems are studied, mesoscopic fluctuations due to variations from sample to sample contribute to the fluctuations of thermodynamic quantities. We study the combined effect of mesoscopic fluctuations and fluctuations of thermal occupancy. In particular, we evaluate the total particle number and specific heat fluctuations in a two-dimensional, non-interacting electron gas in classically integrable and chaotic circumstances.

id: 0809.1054
title: Matter-wave cavity gravimeter
authors: F. Impens, P. Bouyer, Ch. J. Bord¨¦
comments: 15 pages, 6 Figures. The expression for the atomic mirror focal length has been corrected. Other minor corrections and actualizations to the previously published version
journal: Appl. Phys. B: Laser and Optics 84, 603 (2006)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1054
abstract: We propose a gravimeter based on a matter-wave resonant cavity loaded with a Bose-Einstein condensate and closed with a sequence of periodic Raman pulses. The gravimeter sensitivity increases quickly with the number of cycles experienced by the condensate inside the cavity. The matter wave is refocused thanks to a spherical wave-front of the Raman pulses. This provides a transverse confinement of the condensate which is discussed in terms of a stability analysis. We develop the analogy of this device with a resonator in momentum space for matter waves.

id: 0809.1059
title: Matrix reduction and Lagrangian submodules
authors: Olivier Albouy
comments: 39 pages; this work constitutes a part of the PhD Thesis by the author
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1059
abstract: This paper deals with three technical ingredients of geometry for quantum information. Firstly, we give an algorithm to obtain diagonal basis matrices for submodules of the Z_{d}-module Z_{d}^{n} and we describe the suitable computational basis. This algorithm is set along with the mathematical properties and tools that are needed for symplectic diagonalisation. Secondly, with only symplectic computational bases allowed, we get an explicit description of the Lagrangian submodules of Z_{d}^{2n}. Thirdly, we introduce the notion of a fringe of a Gram matrix and provide an explicit algorithm using it in order to obtain a diagonal basis matrix with respect to a symplectic computational basis whenever possible. If it is possible, we call the corresponding submodule nearly symplectic. We also give an algebraic property in order to single out symplectic submodules from nearly symplectic ones.

id: 0809.1090
title: Temperature measurements of a Bose--Einstein condensate by ultra--intense light pulses
authors: Abel Camacho, Luis F. Barragan, Alfredo Macias
comments: Four pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1090
abstract: Experimentally the temperature in a Bose--Einstein condensate is always deduced resorting to the comparison between the Maxwell--Boltzmann velocity distribution function and the density profile in momentum space. Though a successful method it is an approximation, since it also implies the use of classical statistical mechanics at temperatures close to the condensation temperature where quantal effects play a relevant role. The present work puts forward a new method in which we use an ultra--intense light pulse and a nonlinear optical material as detectors for differences in times--of--flight. This experimental value shall be compared against the result here calculated, using the Bose--Einstein distribution function, which is a temperature--dependent variable, and in this way the temperature of the condensate is obtained.

id: 0809.1166
title: Information geometry in vapour-liquid equilibrium
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Daniel W. Hook
comments: A short survey article. 38 Pages, 7 Figures
journal: J.Phys.A42:023001,2008
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1166
abstract: Using the square-root map p-->\sqrt{p} a probability density function p can be represented as a point of the unit sphere S in the Hilbert space of square-integrable functions. If the density function depends smoothly on a set of parameters, the image of the map forms a Riemannian submanifold M in S. The metric on M induced by the ambient spherical geometry of S is the Fisher information matrix. Statistical properties of the system modelled by a parametric density function p can then be expressed in terms of information geometry. An elementary introduction to information geometry is presented, followed by a precise geometric characterisation of the family of Gaussian density functions. When the parametric density function describes the equilibrium state of a physical system, certain physical characteristics can be identified with geometric features of the associated information manifold M. Applying this idea, the properties of vapour-liquid phase transitions are elucidated in geometrical terms. For an ideal gas, phase transitions are absent and the geometry of M is flat. In this case, the solutions to the geodesic equations yield the adiabatic equations of state. For a van der Waals gas, the associated geometry of M is highly nontrivial. The scalar curvature of M diverges along the spinodal boundary which envelopes the unphysical region in the phase diagram. The curvature is thus closely related to the stability of the system.

id: 0809.1487
title: Dynamics and statistical mechanics of ultra-cold Bose gases using c-field techniques
authors: P. B. Blakie, A. S. Bradley, M. J. Davis, R. J. Ballagh, C. W. Gardiner
comments: 110 pages, 32 figures. Updated to address referee comments. To appear in Advances in Physics
journal: Advances in Physics, 57, 363 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1487
abstract: We review phase space techniques based on the Wigner representation that provide an approximate description of dilute ultra-cold Bose gases. In this approach the quantum field evolution can be represented using equations of motion of a similar form to the Gross-Pitaevskii equation but with stochastic modifications that include quantum effects in a controlled degree of approximation. These techniques provide a practical quantitative description of both equilibrium and dynamical properties of Bose gas systems. We develop versions of the formalism appropriate at zero temperature, where quantum fluctuations can be important, and at finite temperature where thermal fluctuations dominate. The numerical techniques necessary for implementing the formalism are discussed in detail, together with methods for extracting observables of interest. Numerous applications to a wide range of phenomena are presented.

id: 0809.1553
title: Perturbative approach to an exactly solved problem: the Kitaev honeycomb model
authors: J. Vidal, K. P. Schmidt, S. Dusuel
comments: 28 pages, 25 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 245121 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1553
abstract: We analyze the gapped phase of the Kitaev honeycomb model perturbatively in the isolated-dimer limit. Our analysis is based on the continuous unitary transformations method which allows one to compute the spectrum as well as matrix elements of operators between eigenstates, at high order. The starting point of our study consists in an exact mapping of the original honeycomb spin system onto a square-lattice model involving an effective spin and a hardcore boson. We then derive the low-energy effective Hamiltonian up to order 10 which is found to describe an interacting-anyon system, contrary to the order 4 result which predicts a free theory. These results give the ground-state energy in any vortex sector and thus also the vortex gap, which is relevant for experiments. Furthermore, we show that the elementary excitations are emerging free fermions composed of a hardcore boson with an attached spin- and phase- operator string. We also focus on observables and compute, in particular, the spin-spin correlation functions. We show that they admit a multi-plaquette expansion that we derive up to order 6. Finally, we study the creation and manipulation of anyons with local operators, show that they also create fermions, and discuss the relevance of our findings for experiments in optical lattices.

id: 0809.1776
title: Dissipation induced coherence of a two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: D. Witthaut, F. Trimborn, S. Wimberger
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 200402 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1776
abstract: We discuss the dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well trap subject to phase noise and particle loss. The phase coherence of a weakly-interacting condensate as well as the response to an external driving show a pronounced stochastic resonance effect: Both quantities become maximal for a finite value of the dissipation rate matching the intrinsic time scales of the system. Even stronger effects are observed when dissipation acts in concurrence with strong inter-particle interactions, restoring the purity of the condensate almost completely and increasing the phase coherence significantly.

id: 0809.1914
title: Nanomechanical-resonator-assisted induced transparency in a Cooper-pair-box system
authors: Xiao-Zhong Yuan, Hsi-Sheng Goan, Chien-Hung Lin, Ka-Di Zhu, Yi-Wen Jiang
comments: To appear in New Journal of Physics: Special Issue "Mechanical Systems at the Quantum Limit"
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 095016.
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1914
abstract: We propose a scheme to demonstrate the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in a system of a superconducting Cooper-pair box coupled to a nanomechanical resonator. In this scheme, the nanomechanical resonator plays an important role to contribute additional auxiliary energy levels to the Cooper-pair box so that the EIT phenomenon could be realized in such a system. We call it here resonator-assisted induced transparency (RAIT). This RAIT technique provides a detection scheme in a real experiment to measure physical properties, such as the vibration frequency and the decay rate, of the coupled nanomechanical resonator.

id: 0809.2029
title: Hyperfine structure of Sc@C82 from ESR and DFT
authors: G. W. Morley, B. J. Herbert, S. M. Lee, K. Porfyrakis, T. J. S. Dennis, D. Nguyen-Manh, R. Scipioni, J. van Tol, A. P. Horsfield, A. Ardavan, D. G. Pettifor, J. C. Green, G. A. D. Briggs
comments: 
journal: Nanotechnology 16, 2469 (2005)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2029
abstract: The electron spin g- and hyperfine tensors of the endohedral metallofullerene Sc@C82 are anisotropic. Using electron spin resonance (ESR) and density functional theory (DFT), we can relate their principal axes to the coordinate frame of the molecule, finding that the g-tensor is not axially symmetric. The Sc bond with the cage is partly covalent and partly ionic. Most of the electron spin density is distributed around the carbon cage, but 5% is associated with the scandium d_yz orbital, and this drives the observed anisotropy.

id: 0809.2393
title: Explicit tensor network representation for the ground states of string-net models
authors: O. Buerschaper, M. Aguado, G. Vidal
comments: 5 pages, pdf figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 085119 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2393
abstract: The structure of string-net lattice models, relevant as examples of topological phases, leads to a remarkably simple way of expressing their ground states as a tensor network constructed from the basic data of the underlying tensor categories. The construction highlights the importance of the fat lattice to understand these models.

id: 0809.2564
title: Recent Developments in the Casimir Effect
authors: K. A. Milton
comments: 29 pages, 14 figures, uses jpconf.cls style. Invited opening talk at "60 Years of the Casimir Effect," Brasilia, June 21-29, 2008
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.161:012001,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2564
abstract: In this talk I review various developments in the past year concerning quantum vacuum energy, the Casimir effect. In particular, there has been continuing controversy surrounding the temperature correction to the Lifshitz formula for the Casimir force between real materials, be they metals or semiconductors. Consensus has emerged as to how Casimir energy accelerates in a weak gravitational field; quantum vacuum energy, including the divergent parts which renormalize the masses of the Casimir plates, accelerates indeed according to the equivalence principle. Significant development has been forthcoming in applying the multiple scattering formalism to describe the interaction between nontrivial objects. In weak coupling, closed-form expressions for the Casimir force between the bodies, which for example reveal significant discrepancies from the naive proximity force approximation, can be achieved in many cases.

id: 0809.2831
title: Dynamical non-ergodic scaling in continuous finite-order quantum phase transitions
authors: Shusa Deng, Gerardo Ortiz, Lorenza Viola
comments: 6 pages, 4 eps color figures
journal: EPL, 84 (2008) 67008
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2831
abstract: We investigate the emergence of universal dynamical scaling in quantum critical spin systems adiabatically driven out of equilibrium, with emphasis on quench dynamics which involves non-isolated critical points (i.e., critical regions) and cannot be a priori described through standard scaling arguments nor time-dependent perturbative approaches. Comparing to the case of an isolated quantum critical point, we find that non-equilibrium scaling behavior of a large class of physical observables may still be explained in terms of equilibrium critical exponents. However, the latter are in general non-trivially path-dependent, and detailed knowledge about the time-dependent excitation process becomes essential. In particular, we show how multiple level crossings within a gapless phase may completely suppress excitation depending on the control path. Our results typify non-ergodic scaling in continuous finite-order quantum phase transitions.

id: 0809.2854
title: Aharonov-Bohm effect on AdS_2 and nonlinear supersymmetry of reflectionless Poschl-Teller system
authors: Francisco Correa, Vit Jakubsky, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 24 pages; published version
journal: Annals Phys.324:1078-1094,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.2854
abstract: We explain the origin and the nature of a special nonlinear supersymmetry of a reflectionless Poschl-Teller system by the Aharonov-Bohm effect for a nonrelativistic particle on the AdS_2. A key role in the supersymmetric structure appearing after reduction by a compact generator of the AdS_2 isometry is shown to be played by the discrete symmetries related to the space and time reflections in the ambient Minkowski space. We also observe that a correspondence between the two quantum non-relativistic systems is somewhat of the AdS/CFT holography nature.

id: 0809.3199
title: Two-parameter Asymptotics in Magnetic Weyl Calculus
authors: Max Lein
comments: 37 pages (shortened version, fixed typos)
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 51:123519, 2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3199
abstract: This paper is concerned with small parameter asymptotics of magnetic quantum systems. In addition to a semiclassical parameter \eps, the case of small coupling $\lambda$ to the magnetic vector potential naturally occurs in this context. Magnetic Weyl calculus is adapted to incorporate both parameters, at least one of which needs to be small. Of particular interest is the expansion of the Weyl product which can be used to expand the product of operators in a small parameter, a technique which is prominent to obtain perturbation expansions. Three asymptotic expansions for the magnetic Weyl product of two H\"ormander class symbols are proven: (i) \eps \ll 1 and \lambda \ll 1, (ii) \eps \ll 1 and \lambda = 1 as well as (iii) \eps = 1 and \lambda \ll 1. Expansions (i) and (iii) are impossible to obtain with ordinary Weyl calculus. Furthermore, I relate results derived by ordinary Weyl calculus with those obtained with magnetic Weyl calculus by one- and two-parameter expansions. To show the power and versatility of magnetic Weyl calculus, I derive the semirelativistic Pauli equation as a scaling limit from the Dirac equation up to errors of 4th order in 1/c.

id: 0809.3220
title: The isotropic lines of Z_{d}^{2}
authors: Olivier Albouy
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 072001
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3220
abstract: We show that the isotropic lines in the lattice Z_{d}^{2} are the Lagrangian submodules of that lattice and we give their number together with the number of them through a given point of the lattice. The set of isotropic lines decompose into orbits under the action of SL(2,Z_d). We give an explicit description of those orbits as well as their number and their respective cardinalities. We also develop two group actions on the group \Sigma_{D}(M) related to the topic.

id: 0809.3239
title: Discerning Incompressible and Compressible Phases of Cold Atoms in Optical Lattices
authors: V.W. Scarola, L. Pollet, J. Oitmaa, M. Troyer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 135302 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3239
abstract: Experiments with cold atoms trapped in optical lattices offer the potential to realize a variety of novel phases but suffer from severe spatial inhomogeneity that can obscure signatures of new phases of matter and phase boundaries. We use a high temperature series expansion to show that compressibility in the core of a trapped Fermi-Hubbard system is related to measurements of changes in double occupancy. This core compressibility filters out edge effects, offering a direct probe of compressibility independent of inhomogeneity. A comparison with experiments is made.

id: 0809.3316
title: Magnetism, FeS colloids, and Origins of Life
authors: Gargi Mitra-Delmotte, A.N. Mitra
comments: 42 pages, 5 figures, to be published in A.R. Memorial volume, Ed Krishnaswami Alladi, Springer 2010
journal: The Legacy of Alladi Ramakrishnan in the Mathematical Sciences; 2010, Part 4, 529-564
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3316
abstract: A number of features of living systems: reversible interactions and weak bonds underlying motor-dynamics; gel-sol transitions; cellular connected fractal organization; asymmetry in interactions and organization; quantum coherent phenomena; to name some, can have a natural accounting via $physical$ interactions, which we therefore seek to incorporate by expanding the horizons of `chemistry-only' approaches to the origins of life. It is suggested that the magnetic 'face' of the minerals from the inorganic world, recognized to have played a pivotal role in initiating Life, may throw light on some of these issues. A magnetic environment in the form of rocks in the Hadean Ocean could have enabled the accretion and therefore an ordered confinement of super-paramagnetic colloids within a structured phase. A moderate H-field can help magnetic nano-particles to not only overcome thermal fluctuations but also harness them. Such controlled dynamics brings in the possibility of accessing quantum effects, which together with frustrations in magnetic ordering and hysteresis (a natural mechanism for a primitive memory) could throw light on the birth of biological information which, as Abel argues, requires a combination of order and complexity. This scenario gains strength from observations of scale-free framboidal forms of the greigite mineral, with a magnetic basis of assembly. And greigite's metabolic potential plays a key role in the mound scenario of Russell and coworkers-an expansion of which is suggested for including magnetism.

id: 0809.3561
title: Decay of Entanglement for Solid-State Qubits
authors: F. Bodoky, O. G¨¹hne, M. Blaauboer
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Cond. Mat. 21 395602 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3561
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of entanglement under various models of decoherence: A general heuristic model based on local relaxation and dephasing times, and two microscopic models describing decoherence of electron spin qubits in quantum dots due to the hyperfine interaction with the nuclei. For each of the decoherence models, we investigate and compare how long the entanglement can be detected. We also introduce filtered witness operators, which extend the available detection time, and investigate this detection time for various multipartite entangled states. By comparing the time required for detection with the time required for generation and manipulation of entanglement, we estimate for a range of different entangled states how many qubits can be entangled in a one-dimensional array of electron spin qubits.

id: 0809.3783
title: Non-Abelian Berry Phases and BPS Monopoles
authors: Julian Sonner, David Tong
comments: 15 pages. v2: footnotes added to point the reader towards later developments where conjectures made in this paper were subsequently proven. A shortened version of this paper was published in PRL under the title "Scheme for Building a 't Hooft-Polyakov Monopole"
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:191801,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3783
abstract: We study a simple quantum mechanical model of a spinning particle moving on a sphere in the presence of a magnetic field. The system has two ground states. As the magnetic field is varied, the ground states mix through a non-Abelian Berry phase. We show that this Berry phase is the path ordered exponential of the smooth SU(2) 't Hooft-Polyakov monopole. We further show that, by adjusting a potential on the sphere, the monopole becomes BPS and obeys the Bogomolnyi equations. For this choice of potential, it turns out that there is a hidden supersymmetry underlying the system and the Bogomolnyi equations are analogous to the tt* equations of Cecotti and Vafa. We conjecture that the Bogomolnyi equations also govern the Berry phase of N=(2,2) supersymmetric sigma models with other target spaces.

id: 0809.3813
title: Unitary designs and codes
authors: Aidan Roy, A. J. Scott
comments: 25 pages, no figures
journal: Des. Codes Cryptogr. 53, 13-31 (2009)
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3813
abstract: A unitary design is a collection of unitary matrices that approximate the entire unitary group, much like a spherical design approximates the entire unit sphere. In this paper, we use irreducible representations of the unitary group to find a general lower bound on the size of a unitary t-design in U(d), for any d and t. We also introduce the notion of a unitary code - a subset of U(d) in which the trace inner product of any pair of matrices is restricted to only a small number of distinct values - and give an upper bound for the size of a code of degree s in U(d) for any d and s. These bounds can be strengthened when the particular inner product values that occur in the code or design are known. Finally, we describe some constructions of designs: we give an upper bound on the size of the smallest weighted unitary t-design in U(d), and we catalogue some t-designs that arise from finite groups.

id: 0809.3901
title: Application of the Lifshitz theory to poor conductors
authors: Vitaly B. Svetovoy
comments: Accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 163603 (2008)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3901
abstract: The Lifshitz formula for the dispersive forces is generalized to the materials, which cannot be described with the local dielectric response. Principal nonlocality of poor conductors is related with the finite screening length of the penetrating field and the collisional relaxation; at low temperatures the role of collisions plays the Landau damping. The spatial dispersion makes the theory self consistent. Our predictions are compared with the recent experiment. It is demonstrated that at low temperatures the Casimir-Lifshitz entropy disappears as $T$ in the case of degenerate plasma and as $T^2$ for the nondegenerate one.

id: 0809.3920
title: Ultracold Feshbach Molecules
authors: Francesca Ferlaino, Steven Knoop, Rudolf Grimm
comments: Chapter of the book: "Cold Molecules: Theory, Experiment, Applications" edited by R. V. Krems, B. Friedrich and W. C. Stwalley (publication expected in March 2009)
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.3920
abstract: In this Chapter, we give an introduction into experiments with Feshbach molecules and their applications. In particular, we discuss the various creation and detection methods, and the internal-state manipulation of such molecules. We highlight two topics, namely Feshbach molecules in the halo regime and the application of Feshbach molecule to achieve ultracold gases of molecules in the rovibrational ground state. Our illustrative examples are mainly based on work performed at Innsbruck University.

id: 0809.4218
title: Nonquantum Gravity
authors: Stephen Boughn
comments: essentially the same as the version that appears in Foundations of Physics, 39, 331 (2009)
journal: Found.Phys.39:331-351,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4218
abstract: One of the great challenges for 21st century physics is to quantize gravity and generate a theory that will unify gravity with the other three fundamental forces of nature. This paper takes the (heretical) point of view that gravity may be an inherently classical, i.e., nonquantum, phenomenon and investigates the experimental consequences of such a model. At present there is no experimental evidence of the quantum nature of gravity and the liklihood of definitive tests in the future is not at all certain. If gravity is, indeed, a nonquantum phenomenon, then it is suggested that evidence will most likely appear at mesoscopic scales.

id: 0809.4235
title: Conditional probabilities with Dirac observables and the problem of time in quantum gravity
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Rafael Porto, Sebastian Torterolo, Jorge Pullin
comments: 4 pages, no figures, RevTex
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:041501,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4235
abstract: We combine the "evolving constants" approach to the construction of observables in canonical quantum gravity with the Page--Wootters formulation of quantum mechanics with a relational time for generally covariant systems. This overcomes the objections levied by Kucha\v{r} against the latter formalism. The construction is formulated entirely in terms of Dirac observables, avoiding in all cases the physical observation of quantities that do not belong in the physical Hilbert space. We work out explicitly the example of the parameterized particle, including the calculation of the propagator. The resulting theory also predicts a fundamental mechanism of decoherence.

id: 0809.4294
title: Collapse times of dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: C. Ticknor, N.G. Parker, A. Melatos, S.L. Cornish, D.H.J. O'Dell, A.M Martin
comments: 5 pages with 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78. 061607(R) (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4294
abstract: We investigate the time taken for global collapse by a dipolar Bose-Einstein condensate. Two semi-analytical approaches and exact numerical integration of the mean-field dynamics are considered. The semi-analytical approaches are based on a Gaussian ansatz and a Thomas-Fermi solution for the shape of the condensate. The regimes of validity for these two approaches are determined, and their predictions for the collapse time revealed and compared with numerical simulations. The dipolar interactions introduce anisotropy into the collapse dynamics and predominantly lead to collapse in the plane perpendicular to the axis of polarization.

id: 0809.4396
title: Flow Equation for Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Franziska Synatschke, Georg Bergner, Holger Gies, Andreas Wipf
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures, references added, typos corrected
journal: JHEP 0903:028,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4396
abstract: We study supersymmetric quantum mechanics with the functional RG formulated in terms of an exact and manifestly off-shell supersymmetric flow equation for the effective action. We solve the flow equation nonperturbatively in a systematic super-covariant derivative expansion and concentrate on systems with unbroken supersymmetry. Already at next-to-leading order, the energy of the first excited state for convex potentials is accurately determined within a 1% error for a wide range of couplings including deeply nonperturbative regimes.

id: 0809.4533
title: Speckle instability: coherent effects in nonlinear disordered media
authors: Benoit Gremaud, Thomas Wellens
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4533
abstract: We numerically investigate the properties of speckle patterns formed by nonlinear point scatterers. We show that, in the weak localization regime, dynamical instability appears, eventually leading to chaotic behavior of the system. Analysing the statistical properties of the instability thresholds for different values of the system size and disorder strength, a scaling law is emphasized. The later is also found to govern the smallest decay rate of the linear system, putting thus forward the crucial importance of interference effects. This is also underlined by the fact that coherent backscattering is still observed even in the chaotic regime.

id: 0809.4548
title: Entanglement through conformal interfaces
authors: Kazuhiro Sakai, Yuji Satoh
comments: 14 pages, no figures; (v2) a reference added, minor changes; (v3) results and comments on special cases added
journal: JHEP0812:001,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4548
abstract: We consider entanglement through permeable interfaces in the c=1 (1+1)-dimensional conformal field theory. We compute the partition functions with the interfaces inserted. By the replica trick, the entanglement entropy is obtained analytically. The entropy scales logarithmically with respect to the size of the system, similarly to the universal scaling of the ordinary entanglement entropy in (1+1)-dimensional conformal field theory. Its coefficient, however, is not constant but controlled by the permeability, the dependence on which is expressed through the dilogarithm function. The sub-leading term of the entropy counts the winding numbers, showing an analogy to the topological entanglement entropy which characterizes the topological order in (2+1)-dimensional systems.

id: 0809.4685
title: Black Holes, Qubits and Octonions
authors: L. Borsten, D. Dahanayake, M. J. Duff, H. Ebrahim, W. Rubens
comments: Version to appear in Physics Reports, including previously omitted new results on small STU black hole charge orbits and expanded bibliography. 145 pages, 15 figures, 41 tables
journal: Phys.Rep.471:113-219,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4685
abstract: We review the recently established relationships between black hole entropy in string theory and the quantum entanglement of qubits and qutrits in quantum information theory. The first example is provided by the measure of the tripartite entanglement of three qubits, known as the 3-tangle, and the entropy of the 8-charge STU black hole of N=2 supergravity, both of which are given by the [SL(2)]^3 invariant hyperdeterminant, a quantity first introduced by Cayley in 1845. There are further relationships between the attractor mechanism and local distillation protocols. At the microscopic level, the black holes are described by intersecting D3-branes whose wrapping around the six compact dimensions T^6 provides the string-theoretic interpretation of the charges and we associate the three-qubit basis vectors, |ABC> (A,B,C=0 or 1), with the corresponding 8 wrapping cycles. The black hole/qubit correspondence extends to the 56 charge N=8 black holes and the tripartite entanglement of seven qubits where the measure is provided by Cartan's E_7 supset [SL(2)]^7 invariant. The qubits are naturally described by the seven vertices ABCDEFG of the Fano plane, which provides the multiplication table of the seven imaginary octonions, reflecting the fact that E_7 has a natural structure of an O-graded algebra. This in turn provides a novel imaginary octonionic interpretation of the 56=7 x 8 charges of N=8: the 24=3 x 8 NS-NS charges correspond to the three imaginary quaternions and the 32=4 x 8 R-R to the four complementary imaginary octonions. N=8 black holes (or black strings) in five dimensions are also related to the bipartite entanglement of three qutrits (3-state systems), where the analogous measure is Cartan's E_6 supset [SL(3)]^3 invariant.

id: 0809.4689
title: Complexity invariance by replication in the quantum square well
authors: Ricardo Lopez-Ruiz, Jaime Sanudo
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4689
abstract: A new kind of invariance by replication of a statistical measure of complexity is considered. We show that the set of energy eigenstates of the quantum infinite square well displays this particular invariance. Then, this system presents a constant complexity for all the energy eigenstates.

id: 0809.4831
title: Towards a Theory of Entropy Production in the Little and Big Bang
authors: Teiji Kunihiro, Berndt Muller, Akira Ohnishi, Andreas Schafer
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures. One section is added in v2
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.121:555-575,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4831
abstract: We propose a broadly applicable formalism for the description of coarse grained entropy production in quantum mechanical processes. Our formalism is based on the Husimi transform of the quantum state, which encodes the notion that information about any quantum state is limited by the experimental resolution. We show in two analytically tractable cases (the decay of an unstable vacuum state and reheating after cosmic inflation) that the growth rate of the Wehrl entropy associated with the Husimi function approaches the classical Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy. We also discuss various possible applications of our formalism, including the production of entropy in the early stages of a relativistic heavy ion collision.

id: 0809.4942
title: Unitary Representations of the inhomogeneous Lorentz Group and their Significance in Quantum Physics
authors: Norbert Straumann
comments: 20 pages, invited talk at the conference Space and Time 100 Years after Minkowski, 7-12 September 2008, Physikzentrum Bad Honnef, Germany
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4942
abstract: In honor of Minkowski's great contribution to Special Relativity, celebrated at this conference, we first review Wigner's theory of the projective irreducible representations of the inhomogeneous Lorentz group. We also sketch those parts of Mackey's mathematical theory on induced representations which are particularly useful for physicists. As an important application of the Wigner-Mackey theory, we shall describe in a unified manner free classical and quantum fields for arbitrary spin, and demonstrate that locality implies the normal spin-statistics connection.

id: 0809.5113
title: Mutual Information and Boson Radius in c=1 Critical Systems in One Dimension
authors: Shunsuke Furukawa, Vincent Pasquier, Jun'ichi Shiraishi
comments: 4.1 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 170602 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5113
abstract: We study the generic scaling properties of the mutual information between two disjoint intervals, in a class of one-dimensional quantum critical systems described by the c=1 bosonic field theory. A numerical analysis of a spin-chain model reveals that the mutual information is scale-invariant and depends directly on the boson radius. We interpret the results in terms of correlation functions of branch-point twist fields. The present study provides a new way to determine the boson radius, and furthermore demonstrates the power of the mutual information to extract more refined information of conformal field theory than the central charge.

id: 0809.4716
title: Decoherence in Solid State Qubits
authors: Luca Chirolli, Guido Burkard
comments: review article, 66 pages, 10 figures
journal: Advances in Physics 57, 225 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.4716
abstract: Interaction of solid state qubits with environmental degrees of freedom strongly affects the qubit dynamics, and leads to decoherence. In quantum information processing with solid state qubits, decoherence significantly limits the performances of such devices. Therefore, it is necessary to fully understand the mechanisms that lead to decoherence. In this review we discuss how decoherence affects two of the most successful realizations of solid state qubits, namely, spin-qubits and superconducting qubits. In the former, the qubit is encoded in the spin 1/2 of the electron, and it is implemented by confining the electron spin in a semiconductor quantum dot. Superconducting devices show quantum behavior at low temperatures, and the qubit is encoded in the two lowest energy levels of a superconducting circuit. The electron spin in a quantum dot has two main decoherence channels, a (Markovian) phonon-assisted relaxation channel, due to the presence of a spin-orbit interaction, and a (non-Markovian) spin bath constituted by the spins of the nuclei in the quantum dot that interact with the electron spin via the hyperfine interaction. In a superconducting qubit, decoherence takes place as a result of fluctuations in the control parameters, such as bias currents, applied flux, and bias voltages, and via losses in the dissipative circuit elements.

id: 0809.1987
title: Thermodynamic behavior of the XXZ Heisenberg s=1/2 chain around the factorizing magnetic field
authors: J. Abouie, A. Langari, M. Siahatgar
comments: Will be published in JPCM (2010), 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. Condens. Matter 22 (2010) 216008
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.1987
abstract: We have investigated the zero and finite temperature behaviors of the anisotropic antiferromagnetic Heisenberg XXZ spin-1/2 chain in the presence of a transverse magnetic field (h). The attention is concentrated on an interval of magnetic field between the factorizing field (h_f) and the critical one (h_c). The model presents a spin-flop phase for 0<h<h_f with an energy scale which is defined by the long range antiferromagnetic order while it undergoes an entanglement phase transition at h=h_f. The entanglement estimators clearly show that the entanglement is lost exactly at h=h_f which justifies different quantum correlations on both sides of the factorizing field. As a consequence of zero entanglement (at h=h_f) the ground state is known exactly as a product of single particle states which is the starting point for initiating a spin wave theory. The linear spin wave theory is implemented to obtain the specific heat and thermal entanglement of the model in the interested region. A double peak structure is found in the specific heat around h=h_f which manifests the existence of two energy scales in the system as a result of two competing orders before the critical point. These results are confirmed by the low temperature Lanczos data which we have computed.

