id: 0810.0312
title: On the relationship between continuous- and discrete-time quantum walk
authors: Andrew M. Childs
comments: 22 pages. v2: improved presentation, new section on Hamiltonian oracles; v3: published version, with improved analysis of phase estimation
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics 294, 581-603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0312
abstract: Quantum walk is one of the main tools for quantum algorithms. Defined by analogy to classical random walk, a quantum walk is a time-homogeneous quantum process on a graph. Both random and quantum walks can be defined either in continuous or discrete time. But whereas a continuous-time random walk can be obtained as the limit of a sequence of discrete-time random walks, the two types of quantum walk appear fundamentally different, owing to the need for extra degrees of freedom in the discrete-time case. In this article, I describe a precise correspondence between continuous- and discrete-time quantum walks on arbitrary graphs. Using this correspondence, I show that continuous-time quantum walk can be obtained as an appropriate limit of discrete-time quantum walks. The correspondence also leads to a new technique for simulating Hamiltonian dynamics, giving efficient simulations even in cases where the Hamiltonian is not sparse. The complexity of the simulation is linear in the total evolution time, an improvement over simulations based on high-order approximations of the Lie product formula. As applications, I describe a continuous-time quantum walk algorithm for element distinctness and show how to optimally simulate continuous-time query algorithms of a certain form in the conventional quantum query model. Finally, I discuss limitations of the method for simulating Hamiltonians with negative matrix elements, and present two problems that motivate attempting to circumvent these limitations.

id: 0810.0824
title: Coherent transport on Apollonian networks and continuous-time quantum walks
authors: Xinping Xu, Wei Li, Feng Liu
comments: 5 pages, 6 figues. Submitted to Phys. ReV. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78, 052103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0824
abstract: We study the coherent exciton transport on Apollonian networks generated by simple iterative rules. The coherent exciton dynamics is modeled by continuous-time quantum walks and we calculate the transition probabilities between two nodes of the networks. We find that the transport depends on the initial nodes of the excitation. For networks less than the second generation the coherent transport shows perfect revivals when the initial excitation starts at the central node. For networks of higher generation, the transport only shows partial revivals. Moreover, we find that the excitation is most likely to be found at the initial nodes while the coherent transport to other nodes has a very low probability. In the long time limit, the transition probabilities show characteristic patterns with identical values of limiting probabilities. Finally, the dynamics of quantum transport are compared with the classical transport modeled by continuous-time random walks.

id: 0810.1184
title: Dynamics of continuous-time quantum walks in restricted geometries
authors: E. Agliari, A. Blumen, O. Muelken
comments: 25 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 41, 445301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1184
abstract: We study quantum transport on finite discrete structures and we model the process by means of continuous-time quantum walks. A direct and effective comparison between quantum and classical walks can be attained based on the average displacement of the walker as a function of time. Indeed, a fast growth of the average displacement can be advantageously exploited to build up efficient search algorithms. By means of analytical and numerical investigations, we show that the finiteness and the inhomogeneity of the substrate jointly weaken the quantum walk performance. We further highlight the interplay between the quantum-walk dynamics and the underlying topology by studying the temporal evolution of the transfer probability distribution and the lower bound of long time averages.

id: 0810.1556
title: Generic quantum walk using a coin-embedded shift operator
authors: C.M. Chandrashekar
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, Published
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 78, 052309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1556
abstract: The study of quantum walk processes has been widely divided into two standard variants, the discrete-time quantum walk (DTQW) and the continuous-time quantum walk (CTQW). The connection between the two variants has been established by considering the limiting value of the coin operation parameter in the DTQW, and the coin degree of freedom was shown to be unnecessary [26]. But the coin degree of freedom is an additional resource which can be exploited to control the dynamics of the QW process. In this paper we present a generic quantum walk model using a quantum coin-embedded unitary shift operation $U_{C}$. The standard version of the DTQW and the CTQW can be conveniently retrieved from this generic model, retaining the features of the coin degree of freedom in both variants.

id: 0810.2937
title: Quantum Random Access Codes with Shared Randomness
authors: Andris Ambainis, Debbie Leung, Laura Mancinska, Maris Ozols
comments: 51 pages, 33 figures. New sections added: 1.2, 3.5, 3.8.2, 5.4 (paper appears to be shorter because of smaller margins). Submitted as M.Math thesis at University of Waterloo by MO
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2937
abstract: We consider a communication method, where the sender encodes n classical bits into 1 qubit and sends it to the receiver who performs a certain measurement depending on which of the initial bits must be recovered. This procedure is called (n,1,p) quantum random access code (QRAC) where p > 1/2 is its success probability. It is known that (2,1,0.85) and (3,1,0.79) QRACs (with no classical counterparts) exist and that (4,1,p) QRAC with p > 1/2 is not possible. We extend this model with shared randomness (SR) that is accessible to both parties. Then (n,1,p) QRAC with SR and p > 1/2 exists for any n > 0. We give an upper bound on its success probability (the known (2,1,0.85) and (3,1,0.79) QRACs match this upper bound). We discuss some particular constructions for several small values of n. We also study the classical counterpart of this model where n bits are encoded into 1 bit instead of 1 qubit and SR is used. We give an optimal construction for such codes and find their success probability exactly--it is less than in the quantum case. Interactive 3D quantum random access codes are available on-line at this http URL .

id: 0810.4461
title: Hyperentanglement of two photons in three degrees of freedom
authors: G. Vallone, R. Ceccarelli, F. De Martini, P. Mataloni
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 030301(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4461
abstract: A 6-qubit hyperentangled state has been realized by entangling two photons in three degrees of freedom. These correspond to the polarization, the longitudinal momentum and the indistinguishable emission produced by a 2-crystal system operating with Type I phase matching in the spontaneous parametric down conversion regime. The state has been characterized by a chained interferometric apparatus and its complete entangled nature has been tested by a novel witness criterium specifically introduced for hyperentangled states. The experiment represents the first realization of a genuine hyperentangled state with the maximum entanglement between the two particles allowed in the given Hilbert space.

