id: 0810.0016
title: Analysis of Enhanced Two-Photon Absorption in Tapered Optical Fibers
authors: Hao You, S.M. Hendrickson, J.D. Franson
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 053803 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0016
abstract: We analyze the rate of two-photon absorption in tapered optical fibers with diameters less than the wavelength of the incident light. The rate of two-photon absorption is shown to be enhanced due to the small mode volume of the tapered fiber and the relatively large overlap of the evanescent field with an atomic vapor that surrounds the tapered region. The two-photon absorption rate is optimized as a function of the diameter of the tapered region.

id: 0810.0026
title: Entanglement Theory and the Quantum Simulation of Many-Body Physics
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao
comments: 230 pages. PhD thesis, Imperial College London. Chapters 6, 7 and 8 contain unpublished material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0026
abstract: In this thesis we present new results relevant to two important problems in quantum information science: the development of a theory of entanglement and the exploration of the use of controlled quantum systems to the simulation of quantum many-body phenomena. In the first part we introduce a new approach to the study of entanglement by considering its manipulation under operations not capable of generating entanglement and show there is a total order for multipartite quantum states in this framework. We also present new results on hypothesis testing of correlated sources and give further evidence on the existence of NPPT bound entanglement. In the second part, we study the potential as well as the limitations of a quantum computer for calculating properties of many-body systems. First we analyse the usefulness of quantum computation to calculate additive approximations to partition functions and spectral densities of local Hamiltonians. We then show that the determination of ground state energies of local Hamiltonians with an inverse polynomial spectral gap is QCMA-hard. In the third and last part, we approach the problem of quantum simulating many-body systems from a more pragmatic point of view. We analyze the realization of paradigmatic condensed matter Hamiltonians in arrays of coupled microcavities, such as the Bose-Hubbard and the anisotropic Heisenberg models, and discuss the feasibility of an experimental realization with state-of-the-art current technology.

id: 0810.0070
title: Artificial Rydberg Atom
authors: Yong S. Joe, Vanik E. Mkrtchian, Sun H. Lee
comments: 16 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.A 373 (2009) 976
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0070
abstract: We analyze bound states of an electron in the field of a positively charged nanoshell. We find that the binding and excitation energies of the system decrease when the radius of the nanoshell increases. We also show that the ground and the first excited states of this system have remarkably the same properties of the highly excited Rydberg states of a hydrogen-like atom i.e. a high sensitivity to the external perturbations and long radiative lifetimes.

id: 0810.0071
title: Multipartite entanglement purification with quantum nondemolition detectors
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng, Bao-Kui Zhao, Tie-Jun Wang, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. j. D 55, 235-242 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0071
abstract: We present a scheme for multipartite entanglement purification of quantum systems in a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state with quantum nondemolition detectors (QNDs). This scheme does not require the controlled-not gates which cannot be implemented perfectly with linear optical elements at present, but QNDs based on cross-Kerr nonlinearities. It works with two steps, i.e., the bit-flipping error correction and the phase-flipping error correction. These two steps can be iterated perfectly with parity checks and simple single-photon measurements. This scheme does not require the parties to possess sophisticated single photon detectors. These features maybe make this scheme more efficient and feasible than others in practical applications.

id: 0810.0083
title: Comment on "Uncertainty Relations for Positive Operator Valued Measures"
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 2 pages, no figures. Minor grammatical changes. More explanations are given
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0083
abstract: The principal aim of this Comment is to correct those entropic uncertainty relations that are presented in a paper by Massar [arXiv:quant-ph/0703036v2 (current version)], concerning two approaches to a study of the noise produced by POVM's. It is next emphasized that the first of the entropic bounds for POVM obtained by the above author has been already presented in Ref. [8]. Some exposition obscurity with equation (14) of the commented paper is elucidated. Finally, some more specific remarks on the paper content are given.

id: 0810.0148
title: Quantum search by parallel eigenvalue adiabatic passage
authors: D. Daems, S. Gu¨¦rin, N. J. Cerf
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042322 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0148
abstract: We propose a strategy to achieve the Grover search algorithm by adiabatic passage in a very efficient way. An adiabatic process can be characterized by the instantaneous eigenvalues of the pertaining Hamiltonian, some of which form a gap. The key to the efficiency is based on the use of parallel eigenvalues. This allows us to obtain non-adiabatic losses which are exponentially small, independently of the number of items in the database in which the search is performed.

id: 0810.0170
title: Communication Through a Quantum Link
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Daniel Burgarth, Stefano Mancini
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0170
abstract: A chain of interacting spin behaves like a quantum mediator (quantum link) which allows two distant parties that control the ends of the chain to exchange quantum messages. We show that over repeated uses without resetting the study of a quantum link can be connected to correlated quantum channels with finite dimensional environment (finite memory quantum channel). Then, using coding arguments for such kind of channels and results on mixing channels we present a protocol that allows us to achieve perfect information transmission through a quantum link.

id: 0810.0172
title: Photon-Echo Quantum Memory
authors: W. Tittel, M. Afzelius, R. L. Cone, T. Chaneli¨¨re, S. Kr?ll, S. A. Moiseev, M. Sellars
comments: 20 pages including 13 figures and 182 references, review article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0172
abstract: The future of long-distance quantum communication relies on the availability of quantum memory, i.e. devices that allow temporal storage of quantum information. We review research related to quantum state storage based on a photon-echo approach in rare earth ion doped crystals and glasses.

id: 0810.0207
title: The importance of an accurate target wave function in variational calculations for (e^{+}-H_{2}) scattering
authors: J. N. Cooper, E. A. G. Armour, M. Plummer
comments: Changed content in sections 3.1 and 4 to take referee's comments into account
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0207
abstract: Using the complex Kohn method, we have calculated variational values of phase shifts and the annihilation parameter, Z_{eff}, for the elastic scattering of positrons by molecular hydrogen. Our results are sensitive to small changes in the accuracy of the wave function representing the target hydrogen molecule. We have developed a systematic approach to demonstrate that, at low positron energies, there are particular forms of the Kohn trial wave function for which the results of variational calculations are not reliable, even when the target wave function accounts for as much as 96.8% of the correlation energy of H_{2}. We find that reliable results can be recovered if our calculations are extended to admit more sophisticated target wave functions accounting for 99.7% of the correlation energy. Remaining discrepancies between theory and experiment are briefly discussed.

id: 0810.0231
title: Spontaneous Emission in ultra-cold spin-polarised anisotropic Fermi Seas
authors: Brian O'Sullivan, Thomas Busch
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0231
abstract: We examine and explain the spatial emission patterns of ultracold excited fermions in anisotropic trapping potentials in the presence of a spin polarised Fermi sea of ground state atoms. Due to the Pauli principle, the Fermi sea modifies the available phase space for the recoiling atom and thereby modifies its decay rate and the probability of the emitted photon's direction. We show that the spatial anisotropies are due to an intricate interplay between Fermi energies and degeneracy values of specific energy levels and identify a regime in which the emission will become completely directional. Our results are relevant for recent advances in trapping and manipulating cold fermionic samples experimentally and give an example of a conceptually new idea for a directional photon source.

id: 0810.0235
title: Generic tripartite Bell nonlocality sudden death under local phase noise
authors: Kevin Ann, Gregg Jaeger
comments: To appear in Physics Letters A. Submitted on 07/14/2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0235
abstract: We definitively show, using an explicit and broadly applicable model, that local phase noise that is capable of eliminating state coherence only in the infinite-time limit is capable of eliminating nonlocality in finite time in three two-level systems prepared in the Bell-nonlocal tripartite states of the generic entanglement class.

id: 0810.0259
title: The GHZ state in secret sharing and entanglement simulation
authors: Anne Broadbent, Paul Robert Chouha, Alain Tapp
comments: 5 pages
journal: Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Quantum, Nano and Micro Technologies (ICQNM 2009), 2009, pp.59-62
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0259
abstract: In this note, we study some properties of the GHZ state. First, we present a quantum secret sharing scheme in which the participants require only classical channels in order to reconstruct the secret; our protocol is significantly more efficient than the trivial usage of teleportation. Second, we show that the classical simulation of an n-party GHZ state requires at least n log n - 2n bits of communication. Finally, we present a problem simpler than the complete simulation of the multi-party GHZ state, that could lead to a no-go theorem for GHZ state simulation.

id: 0810.0276
title: Can non-private channels transmit quantum information?
authors: Graeme Smith, John Smolin
comments: We both think so. 4 pages and 3 figures explain why
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 010501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0276
abstract: We study the power of quantum channels with little or no capacity for private communication. Because privacy is a necessary condition for quantum communication, one might expect that such channels would be of little use for transmitting quantum states. Nevertheless, we find strong evidence that there are pairs of such channels that, when used together, can transmit far more quantum information than the sum of their individual private capacities. Because quantum transmissions are necessarily private, this would imply a large violation of additivity for the private capacity. Specifically, we present channels which display either (1) A large joint quantum capacity but very small individual private capacities or (2) a severe violation of additivity for the Holevo information.

id: 0810.0309
title: Considerations about the Aharonov-Anandan Phase for Time Independent Hamiltonians
authors: P.-L. Giscard
comments: 8 pages Typos are corrected, part III.b. uses now only one gauge change. Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0309
abstract: We present a method for calculating the Aharonov-Anandan phase for time-independent Hamiltonians that avoids the calculation of evolution operators. We compare the generic method used to calculate the Aharonov-Anandan phase with the method proposed here through four examples; a spin-1/2 particle in a constant magnetic field, an arbitrary infinite-sized Hamiltonian with two known eigenvalues, a Fabry-Perot cavity with one movable mirror and a three mirrors cavity with a slightly transmissive movable middle mirror.

id: 0810.0312
title: On the relationship between continuous- and discrete-time quantum walk
authors: Andrew M. Childs
comments: 22 pages. v2: improved presentation, new section on Hamiltonian oracles; v3: published version, with improved analysis of phase estimation
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics 294, 581-603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0312
abstract: Quantum walk is one of the main tools for quantum algorithms. Defined by analogy to classical random walk, a quantum walk is a time-homogeneous quantum process on a graph. Both random and quantum walks can be defined either in continuous or discrete time. But whereas a continuous-time random walk can be obtained as the limit of a sequence of discrete-time random walks, the two types of quantum walk appear fundamentally different, owing to the need for extra degrees of freedom in the discrete-time case. In this article, I describe a precise correspondence between continuous- and discrete-time quantum walks on arbitrary graphs. Using this correspondence, I show that continuous-time quantum walk can be obtained as an appropriate limit of discrete-time quantum walks. The correspondence also leads to a new technique for simulating Hamiltonian dynamics, giving efficient simulations even in cases where the Hamiltonian is not sparse. The complexity of the simulation is linear in the total evolution time, an improvement over simulations based on high-order approximations of the Lie product formula. As applications, I describe a continuous-time quantum walk algorithm for element distinctness and show how to optimally simulate continuous-time query algorithms of a certain form in the conventional quantum query model. Finally, I discuss limitations of the method for simulating Hamiltonians with negative matrix elements, and present two problems that motivate attempting to circumvent these limitations.

id: 0810.0327
title: Wavelength-Multiplexed Entanglement Distribution over 10 km of Fiber
authors: Han Chuen Lim, Akio Yoshizawa, Hidemi Tsuchida, Kazuro Kikuchi
comments: Presented at European Conference on Optical Communications (ECOC 2008), Brussels, Belgium, 21-25 September, 2008, post-deadline paper Th.3.D.6
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0327
abstract: We report the first experimental demonstration of wavelength-multiplexed entanglement distribution. 44 channels of highly-entangled photon-pairs from one single broadband source are distributed over 10 km of fiber.

id: 0810.0336
title: Efficient photon sorter in a high-dimensional Hilbert space
authors: Warner A. Miller
comments: 10 pages (revtex4), 3 figures (eps), 1 table; Substantial revision, new sections, new figures. published
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 11, No. 3&4 (2011) 0313-0325
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0336
abstract: An increase in the dimension of state space for quantum key distribution (QKD) can decrease its fidelity requirements while also increasing its bandwidth. A significant obstacle for QKD with qudits (d>2) has been an efficient and practical quantum state sorter for photons whose complex fields are modulated in both amplitude and phase. We propose such a sorter based on a multiplexed thick hologram, constructed e.g. from photo-thermal refractive (PTR) glass. We validate this approach using coupled-mode theory with parameters consistent with PTR glass to simulate a holographic sorter. The model assumes a three-dimensional state space spanned by three tilted planewaves. The utility of such a sorter for broader quantum information processing applications can be substantial.

id: 0810.0360
title: Semilinear response for the heating rate of cold atoms in vibrating traps
authors: Alexander Stotland, Doron Cohen, Nir Davidson
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, improved version to be published in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhysics Letters 86, 10004 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0360
abstract: The calculation of the heating rate of cold atoms in vibrating traps requires a theory that goes beyond the Kubo linear response formulation. If a strong "quantum chaos" assumption does not hold, the analysis of transitions shows similarities with a percolation problem in energy space. We show how the texture and the sparsity of the perturbation matrix, as determined by the geometry of the system, dictate the result. An improved sparse random matrix model is introduced: it captures the essential ingredients of the problem, and leads to a generalized variable range hopping picture.

id: 0810.0454
title: Doubly excited ferromagnetic spin-chain as a pair of coupled kicked rotors
authors: T. Boness, K. Kudo, T.S. Monteiro
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures; extended appendix and corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0454
abstract: We show that the dynamics of a doubly-excited 1D Heisenberg ferromagnetic chain, subject to short pulses from a parabolic magnetic field may be analyzed as a pair of quantum kicked rotors. By focusing on the two-magnon dynamics in the kicked XXZ model we investigate how the anisotropy parameter - which controls the strength of the magnon-magnon interaction - changes the nature of the coupling between the two "image" coupled Kicked Rotors. We investigate quantum state transfer possibilities and show that one may control whether the spin excitations are transmitted together, or separate from each other.

id: 0810.0470
title: Critically damped quantum search
authors: Ari Mizel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0470
abstract: Although measurement and unitary processes can accomplish any quantum evolution in principle, thinking in terms of dissipation and damping can be powerful. We propose a modification of Grover's algorithm in which the idea of damping plays a natural role. Remarkably, we have found that there is a critical damping value that divides between the quantum $O(\sqrt{N})$ and classical O(N) search regimes. In addition, by allowing the damping to vary in a fashion we describe, one obtains a fixed-point quantum search algorithm in which ignorance of the number of targets increases the number of oracle queries only by a factor of 1.5.

id: 0810.0483
title: Practical random number generation protocol for entanglement-based quantum key distribution
authors: G. B. Xavier, T. Ferreira da Silva, G. Vilela de Faria, G. P. Temporao, J. P. von der Weid
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 9, 0683-0692, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0483
abstract: A simple protocol which takes advantage of the inherent random times of detections in single photon counting modules is presented for random active basis choices when using entanglement-based protocols for Quantum Key Distribution (QKD). It may also be applicable to the BB84 protocol in certain cases. The scheme presented uses the single photon detectors already present on a QKD setup, working on the same rate as the system is capable of detecting, and is, therefore, not limited by the output rates of quantum random number generators. This protocol only requires small hardware modifications making it an attractive solution. We perform a proof-of-principle experiment employing a spontaneous parametric down-conversion process in a $\chi^{(2)}$ non-linear crystal to demonstrate the feasibility of our scheme, and show that the generated sequence passes randomness tests.

id: 0810.0493
title: Behavior of the current in the asymmetric quantum multibaker map
authors: Leonardo Ermann, Gabriel G. Carlo, Marcos Saraceno
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 056201 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0493
abstract: Recently, a new mechanism leading to purely quantum directed transport in the asymmetric multibaker map has been presented. Here, we show a comprehensive characterization of the finite asymptotic current behavior with respect to the $h$ value, the shape of the initial conditions, and the features of the spectrum. We have considered different degrees of asymmetry in these studies and we have also analyzed the classical and quantum phase space distributions for short times in order to understand the mechanisms behind the generation of the directed current.

id: 0810.0534
title: Quantum Illumination with Gaussian States
authors: Si-Hui Tan, Baris I. Erkmen, Vittorio Giovannetti, Saikat Guha, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Stefano Pirandola, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 253601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0534
abstract: An optical transmitter irradiates a target region containing a bright thermal-noise bath in which a low-reflectivity object might be embedded. The light received from this region is used to decide whether the object is present or absent. The performance achieved using a coherent-state transmitter is compared with that of a quantum illumination transmitter, i.e., one that employs the signal beam obtained from spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC). By making the optimum joint measurement on the light received from the target region together with the retained SPDC idler beam, the quantum illumination system realizes a 6 dB advantage in error probability exponent over the optimum reception coherent-state system. This advantage accrues despite there being no entanglement between the light collected from the target region and the retained idler beam.

id: 0810.0541
title: On the efficiency of nondegenerate quantum error correction codes for Pauli channels
authors: Gunnar Bjork, Jonas Almlof, Isabel Sainz
comments: The new version has small changes and Reference [41] was added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0541
abstract: We examine the efficiency of pure, nondegenerate quantum-error correction-codes for Pauli channels. Specifically, we investigate if correction of multiple errors in a block is more efficient than using a code that only corrects one error per block. Block coding with multiple-error correction cannot increase the efficiency when the qubit error-probability is below a certain value and the code size fixed. More surprisingly, existing multiple-error correction codes with a code length equal or less than 256 qubits have lower efficiency than the optimal single-error correcting codes for any value of the qubit error-probability. We also investigate how efficient various proposed nondegenerate single-error correcting codes are compared to the limit set by the code redundancy and by the necessary conditions for hypothetically existing nondegenerate codes. We find that existing codes are close to optimal.

id: 0810.0550
title: Nonexistence of Entanglement Sudden Death in High NOON States
authors: Asma Al-Qasimi, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0550
abstract: We study the dynamics of entanglement in continuous variable quantum systems (CVQS). Specifically, we study the phenomena of Entanglement Sudden Death (ESD) in general two-mode-N-photon states undergoing pure dephasing. We show that for these states, ESD never occurs. These states are generalizations of the so-called High NOON states, shown to decrease the Rayleigh limit of lambda to lambda/N, which promises great improvement in resolution of interference patterns if states with large N are physically realized. However, we show that in dephasing NOON states, the time to reach V_crit, critical visibility, scales inversely with N^2. On the practical level, this shows that as N increases, the visibility degrades much faster, which is likely to be a considerable drawback for any practical application of these states.

id: 0810.0565
title: Quantum Teleportation of Light
authors: Changsuk Noh, A. Chia, Hyunchul Nha, M. J. Collett, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 230501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0565
abstract: Requirements for the successful teleportation of a beam of light, including its temporal correlations, are discussed. Explicit expressions for the degrees of first- and second-order optical coherence are derived. Teleportation of an antibunched photon stream illustrates our results.

id: 0810.0630
title: A solid state light-matter interface at the single photon level
authors: Hugues de Riedmatten, Mikael Afzelius, Matthias Staudt, Christoph Simon, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, version submitted on June 27 2008
journal: Nature 456, 773 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0630
abstract: Coherent and reversible mapping of quantum information between light and matter is an important experimental challenge in quantum information science. In particular, it is a decisive milestone for the implementation of quantum networks and quantum repeaters. So far, quantum interfaces between light and atoms have been demonstrated with atomic gases, and with single trapped atoms in cavities. Here we demonstrate the coherent and reversible mapping of a light field with less than one photon per pulse onto an ensemble of 10 millions atoms naturally trapped in a solid. This is achieved by coherently absorbing the light field in a suitably prepared solid state atomic medium. The state of the light is mapped onto collective atomic excitations on an optical transition and stored for a pre-programmed time up of to 1 mu s before being released in a well defined spatio-temporal mode as a result of a collective interference. The coherence of the process is verified by performing an interference experiment with two stored weak pulses with a variable phase relation. Visibilities of more than 95% are obtained, which demonstrates the high coherence of the mapping process at the single photon level. In addition, we show experimentally that our interface allows one to store and retrieve light fields in multiple temporal modes. Our results represent the first observation of collective enhancement at the single photon level in a solid and open the way to multimode solid state quantum memories as a promising alternative to atomic gases.

id: 0810.0640
title: Adiabatic entanglement in two-atom cavity QED
authors: C. Lazarou, B.M. Garraway
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 77, 023818 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0640
abstract: We analyse the problem of a single mode field interacting with a pair of two level atoms. The atoms enter and exit the cavity at different times. Instead of using constant coupling, we use time dependent couplings which represent the spatial dependence of the mode. Although the system evolution is adiabatic for most of the time, a previously unstudied energy crossing plays a key role in the system dynamics when the atoms have a time delay. We show that conditional atom-cavity entanglement can be generated, while for large photon numbers the entangled system has a behaviour which can be mapped onto the single atom Jaynes-Cummings model. Exploring the main features of this system we propose simple and fairly robust methods for entangling atoms independently of the cavity, for quantum state mapping, and for implementing SWAP and C-NOT gates with atomic qubits.

id: 0810.0659
title: Why the two-pulse photon echo is not a good quantum memory protocol
authors: J¨¦r?me Ruggiero, Jean-Louis Le Gou?t, Christoph Simon, Thierry Chaneli¨¨re
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 053851 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0659
abstract: We consider in this paper a two-pulse photon echo sequence as a potential quantum light storage protocol. It is widely believed that a two-pulse scheme should lead to very low efficiency and is then not relevant for this specific application. We show experimentally by using a Tm${}^{3+}$:YAG crystal that such a protocol is on contrary very efficient and even too efficient to be considered as a good quantum storage protocol. Our experimental work allows us to point out on one side the real limitations of this scheme and on the other side its benefits which can be a source of inspiration to conceive more promising procedures with rare-earth ion doped crystals.

id: 0810.0662
title: Coherent response to optical excitation in a rare-earth ion doped crystal
authors: J. Ruggiero, T. Chaneli¨¨re, J.-L. Le Gou?t
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, 32-37 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0662
abstract: We investigate coherent propagation through a large optical density Tm$^{3+}$:YAG crystal. Using an ultra-stable laser, fiber filtering and site selection, we investigate the transmitted pulse temporal profile. The plane wave condition is satisfied by selection of the illuminated spot central area. We pay special attention to $\pi$-pulse transmission in the prospect of implementing optical quantum storage protocols.

id: 0810.0670
title: Deterministic entanglement of ions in thermal states of motion
authors: G. Kirchmair, J. Benhelm, F. Z?hringer, R. Gerritsma, C. F. Roos, R. Blatt
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures (author name spelling corrected)
journal: New. J. Phys. 11, 023002 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0670
abstract: We give a detailed description of the implementation of a Molmer-Sorensen gate entangling two Ca+ ions using a bichromatic laser beam near-resonant with a quadrupole transition. By amplitude pulse shaping and compensation of AC-Stark shifts we achieve a fast gate operation without compromising the error rate. Subjecting different input states to concatenations of up to 21 individual gate operations reveals Bell state fidelities above 0.80. In principle, the entangling gate does not require ground state cooling of the ions as long as the Lamb-Dicke criterion is fulfilled. We present the first experimental evidence for this claim and create Bell states with a fidelity of 0.974(1) for ions in a thermal state of motion with a mean phonon number of <n>=20(2) in the mode coupling to the ions' internal states.

id: 0810.0693
title: Oracularization and Two-Prover One-Round Interactive Proofs against Nonlocal Strategies
authors: Tsuyoshi Ito, Hirotada Kobayashi, Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0693
abstract: A central problem in quantum computational complexity is how to prevent entanglement-assisted cheating in multi-prover interactive proof systems. It is well-known that the standard oracularization technique completely fails in some proof systems under the existence of prior entanglement. This paper studies two constructions of two-prover one-round interactive proof systems based on oracularization. First, it is proved that the two-prover one-round interactive proof system for PSPACE by Cai, Condon, and Lipton still achieves exponentially small soundness error in the existence of prior entanglement between dishonest provers (and more strongly, even if dishonest provers are allowed to use arbitrary no-signaling strategies). It follows that, unless the polynomial-time hierarchy collapses to the second level, two-prover systems are still advantageous to single-prover systems even when only malicious provers can use quantum information. Second, it is proved that the two-prover one-round interactive proof system obtained by oracularizing a three-query probabilistically checkable proof system becomes sound in a weak sense even against dishonest entangled provers with the help of a dummy question. As a consequence, every language in NEXP has a two-prover one-round interactive proof system of perfect completeness, albeit with exponentially small gap between completeness and soundness, in which each prover responds with only two bits. In other words, it is NP-hard to approximate within an inverse-polynomial the value of a classical two-prover one-round game, even when provers are entangled and each sends a two-bit answer to a verifier.

id: 0810.0698
title: Dynamically Error-Corrected Gates for Universal Quantum Computation
authors: Kaveh Khodjasteh, Lorenza Viola
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:080501,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0698
abstract: Scalable quantum computation in realistic devices requires that precise control can be implemented efficiently in the presence of decoherence and operational errors. We propose a general constructive procedure for designing robust unitary gates on an open quantum system without encoding or measurement overhead. Our results allow for a low-level error correction strategy solely based on Hamiltonian engineering using realistic bounded-strength controls and may substantially reduce implementation requirements for fault-tolerant quantum computing architectures.

id: 0810.0741
title: High-fidelity universal quantum gates through quantum interference
authors: Ran Li, Frank Gaitan
comments: 5 pages; 3 tables; no figures; discussion of reparameterization of sweeps added
journal: Proceedings of SPIE Vol. 7702 (SPIE, Bellingham, WA, 2010) 7702 OU
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0741
abstract: Twisted rapid passage is a type of non-adiabatic rapid passage that gives rise to controllable quantum interference effects that were first observed experimentally in 2003. We show that twisted rapid passage sweeps can be used to implement a universal set of quantum gates that operate with high-fidelity. For each gate in the universal set, sweep parameter values are provided which simulations indicate will yield a quantum gate with error probability P_{e} < 10**(-4). Note that all gates in this universal set are driven by a **single** type of control field (twisted rapid passage), and the error probability for each gate falls below the rough-and-ready estimate for the accuracy threshold P_{a} ~ 10**(-4). The simulations suggest that the universal gate set produced by twisted rapid passage shows promise for use in a fault-tolerant scheme for quantum computing.

id: 0810.0759
title: Dynamical Casimir effect in oscillating media
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 78, 042109 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0759
abstract: We show that oscillations of a homogeneous medium with constant material coefficients produce pairs of photons. Classical analysis of an oscillating medium reveals regions of parametric resonance where the electromagnetic waves are exponentially amplified. The quantum counterpart of parametric resonance is an exponentially growing number of photons in the same parameter regions. This process may be viewed as another manifestation of the dynamical Casimir effect. However, in contrast to the standard dynamical Casimir effect, photon production here takes place in the entire volume and is not due to time dependence of the boundary conditions or material constants.

id: 0810.0762
title: Approximate Solution of the effective mass Klein-Gordon Equation for the Hulthen Potential with any Angular Momentum
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 12 pages
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48, 945(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0762
abstract: The radial part of the effective mass Klein-Gordon equation for the Hulthen potential is solved by making an approximation to the centrifugal potential. The Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used in the calculations. Energy spectra and the corresponding eigenfunctions are computed. Results are also given for the case of constant mass.

id: 0810.0812
title: A new description of orthogonal bases
authors: Bob Coecke, Dusko Pavlovic, Jamie Vicary
comments: 
journal: Mathematical Structures in Computer Science (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0812
abstract: We show that an orthogonal basis for a finite-dimensional Hilbert space can be equivalently characterised as a commutative dagger-Frobenius monoid in the category FdHilb, which has finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces as objects and continuous linear maps as morphisms, and tensor product for the monoidal structure. The basis is normalised exactly when the corresponding commutative dagger-Frobenius monoid is special. Hence orthogonal and orthonormal bases can be axiomatised in terms of composition of operations and tensor product only, without any explicit reference to the underlying vector spaces. This axiomatisation moreover admits an operational interpretation, as the comultiplication copies the basis vectors and the counit uniformly deletes them. That is, we rely on the distinct ability to clone and delete classical data as compared to quantum data to capture basis vectors. For this reason our result has important implications for categorical quantum mechanics.

id: 0810.0818
title: Ground State H-Atom in Born-Infeld Theory
authors: S. Habib Mazharimousavi, M. Halilsoy
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, final version to appear in Foundation of Physics
journal: Found Phys (2012) 42:524-530
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0818
abstract: Within the context of Born-Infeld (BI) nonlinear electrodynamics (NED) we revisit the non-relativistic, spinless H-atom. The pair potential computed from the Born-Infeld equations is approximated by the Morse type potential with remarkable fit over the critical region where the convergence of both the short and long distance expansions slows down dramatically. The Morse potential is employed to determine both the ground state energy of the electron and the BI parameter.

id: 0810.0823
title: The helium fine-structure controversy
authors: Ingvar Lindgren
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0823
abstract: There is presently disagreement between theory and experiment as well as between different theoretical calculations concerning the fine-structure splitting of the lowest P state of the neutral helium atom. We believe that we have found a minor error in the formulas used by Drake et al. (Can. J. Phys. 80, 1195 (2002)) in their calculations, and we may have an explanation how the error has occurred. To what extent this might resolve (part of) the discrepancy is not known at present.

id: 0810.0824
title: Coherent transport on Apollonian networks and continuous-time quantum walks
authors: Xinping Xu, Wei Li, Feng Liu
comments: 5 pages, 6 figues. Submitted to Phys. ReV. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78, 052103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0824
abstract: We study the coherent exciton transport on Apollonian networks generated by simple iterative rules. The coherent exciton dynamics is modeled by continuous-time quantum walks and we calculate the transition probabilities between two nodes of the networks. We find that the transport depends on the initial nodes of the excitation. For networks less than the second generation the coherent transport shows perfect revivals when the initial excitation starts at the central node. For networks of higher generation, the transport only shows partial revivals. Moreover, we find that the excitation is most likely to be found at the initial nodes while the coherent transport to other nodes has a very low probability. In the long time limit, the transition probabilities show characteristic patterns with identical values of limiting probabilities. Finally, the dynamics of quantum transport are compared with the classical transport modeled by continuous-time random walks.

id: 0810.0826
title: Quantum Law of Motion: Analysis and Extension to Higher Dimensions
authors: A. Bouda, A. Gharbi
comments: 12 pages
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 47 (2008) 1068-1078
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0826
abstract: In this paper, we review the recently formulated quantum laws of motion and provide new observations. We also extend these laws to higher dimensions. By applying in two dimensions the obtained relations to charge submitted to an electric central potential, we decide between these laws. Furthermore, we extend the selected law to the relativistic case in higher dimensions.

id: 0810.0827
title: Sine function with a cosine attitude
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 11 pages, 4 color figures
journal: J. Phys. A 41, 175201 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0827
abstract: We give a revealing expose that addresses an important issue in scattering theory of how to construct two asymptotically sinusoidal solutions of the wave equation with a phase shift using the same basis having the same boundary conditions at the origin. Analytic series representations of these solutions are obtained. In 1D, one of the solutions is an even function that behaves asymptotically as sin(x), whereas the other is an odd function, which is asymptotically cos(x). The latter vanishes at the origin whereas the derivative of the former becomes zero there. Eliminating the lowest N terms of the series makes these functions vanishingly small in an interval around the origin whose size increases with N. We employ the tools of the J-matrix method of scattering in the construction of these solutions in one and three dimensions.

id: 0810.0869
title: Upper bound of the fully entangled fraction
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032332 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0869
abstract: We study the fully entangled fraction of quantum states. An upper bound is obtained for arbitrary dimensional bipartite systems. This bound is shown to be exact for the case of two-qubit systems. An inequality related the fully entangled fraction of two qubits in a three-qubit mixed state has been also presented.

id: 0810.0922
title: Soft-Photons and the entanglement of charged qubtis
authors: E. Martin-Martinez
comments: Master Thesis defended at Universidad Complutense de Madrid (Spain) on September, 2008. Version 3: some misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0922
abstract: In this work, I consider the effect of the unavoidable presence of soft-photons on the spin entanglement of charged qubits, arguing that the spin entanglement is not modified if we consider the effects of the infrared structure of QED on it.

id: 0810.0932
title: Multiparameter entangled state engineering using adaptive optics
authors: C. Bonato, D. Simon, P. Villoresi, A. V. Sergienko
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0932
abstract: We investigate how quantum coincidence interferometry is affected by a controllable manipulation of transverse wave-vectors in type-II parametric down conversion using adaptive optics techniques. In particular, we discuss the possibility of spatial walk-off compensation in quantum interferometry and a new effect of even-order spatial aberration cancellation.

id: 0810.0942
title: Testing a Bell inequality in multi-pair scenarios
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin, Sandu Popescu, Christoph Simon
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures and 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062110 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0942
abstract: To date, most efforts to demonstrate quantum nonlocality have concentrated on systems of two (or very few) particles. It is however difficult in many experiments to address individual particles, making it hard to highlight the presence of nonlocality. We show how a natural setup with no access to individual particles allows one to violate the CHSH inequality with many pairs, including in our analysis effects of noise and losses. We discuss the case of distinguishable and indistinguishable particles. Finally, a comparison of these two situations provides new insight into the complex relation between entanglement and nonlocality.

id: 0810.0959
title: Quantum amplitude amplification algorithm: an explanation of availability bias
authors: Riccardo Franco
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0959
abstract: In this article, I show that a recent family of quantum algorithms, based on the quantum amplitude amplification algorithm, can be used to describe a cognitive heuristic called availability bias. The amplitude amplification algorithm is used to define quantitatively the ease of a memory task, while the quantum amplitude estimation and the quantum counting algorithms to describe cognitive tasks such as estimating probability or approximate counting.

id: 0810.0977
title: Constrained optimization of sequentially generated entangled multiqubit states
authors: Hamed Saberi, Andreas Weichselbaum, Lucas Lamata, David P¨¦rez-Garc¨ªa, Jan von Delft, Enrique Solano
comments: Slightly improved version as published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022334 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0977
abstract: We demonstrate how the matrix-product state formalism provides a flexible structure to solve the constrained optimization problem associated with the sequential generation of entangled multiqubit states under experimental restrictions. We consider a realistic scenario in which an ancillary system with a limited number of levels performs restricted sequential interactions with qubits in a row. The proposed method relies on a suitable local optimization procedure, yielding an efficient recipe for the realistic and approximate sequential generation of any entangled multiqubit state. We give paradigmatic examples that may be of interest for theoretical and experimental developments.

id: 0810.0980
title: Photon-counting optical coherence-domain reflectometry using superconducting single-photon detectors
authors: Nishant Mohan, Olga Minaeva, Gregory N. Goltsman, Magued B. Nasr, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Alexander V. Sergienko, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0980
abstract: We consider the use of single-photon counting detectors in coherence-domain imaging. Detectors operated in this mode exhibit reduced noise, which leads to increased sensitivity for weak light sources and weakly reflecting samples. In particular, we experimentally demonstrate the possibility of using superconducting single-photon detectors (SSPDs) for optical coherence-domain reflectometry (OCDR). These detectors are sensitive over the full spectral range that is useful for carrying out such imaging in biological samples. With counting rates as high as 100 MHz, SSPDs also offer a high rate of data acquisition if the light flux is sufficient.

id: 0810.0983
title: Von Neumann-Lueders projection, and its applicability to EPR experiments
authors: Willem M. de Muynck
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0983
abstract: Notwithstanding it is well known that von Neumann's projection postulate is inapplicable to most realistic measurement procedures, it keeps haunting the foundations of quantum mechanics. In particular its applicability to EPR experiments is often assumed. In the present contribution this problem is considered from the point of view of a quantum mechanical theory of measurement, allowing a treatment of projection in EPR experiments as a special case of conditional preparation. The conditions are spelled out under which the postulate may be applicable.

id: 0810.0985
title: Probabilistic observables, conditional correlations, and quantum physics
authors: C. Wetterich
comments: substantially extended discussion of conditional correlations and probabilistic observables, new references 28 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0985
abstract: We discuss the classical statistics of isolated subsystems. Only a small part of the information contained in the classical probability distribution for the subsystem and its environment is available for the description of the isolated subsystem. The "coarse graining of the information" to micro-states implies probabilistic observables. For two-level probabilistic observables only a probability for finding the values one or minus one can be given for any micro-state, while such observables can be realized as classical observables with sharp values on a substate level. For a continuous family of micro-states parameterized by a sphere all the quantum mechanical laws for a two-state system follow under the assumption that the purity of the ensemble is conserved by the time evolution. The non-commutative correlation functions of quantum mechanics correspond to the use of conditional correlation functions in classical statistics. We further discuss the classical statistical realization of entanglement within a system corresponding to four-state quantum mechanics. We conclude that quantum mechanics can be derived from a classical statistical setting with infinitely many micro-states.

id: 0810.0998
title: Two-Photon Polarization Interference for Pulsed SPDC in a PPKTP Waveguide
authors: Malte Avenhaus, Maria V. Chekhova, Leonid A. Krivitsky, Gerd Leuchs, Christine Silberhorn
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 043836 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0998
abstract: We study the spectral properties of Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion in a periodically poled waveguided structure of KTP crystal pumped by ultra-short pulses. Our theoretical analysis reveals a strongly multimode and asymmetric structure of the two-photon spectral amplitude for type-II SPDC. Experimental evidence, based on Hong-Ou-Mandel polarization interference with narrowband filtering, confirms this result.

id: 0810.1019
title: Classical and Quantum Mechanics via Lie algebras
authors: Arnold Neumaier, Dennis Westra
comments: 502 pages, including 301 references and a large index. Compared to the previous version, there are many small improvements and several new chapters: Chapters 2 and 3 covering simple quantum systems, and Chapters 14-16, covering selected aspects of nonequilibrium thermodynamics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1019
abstract: The goal of this book is to present classical mechanics, quantum mechanics, and statistical mechanics in an almost completely algebraic setting, thereby introducing mathematicians, physicists, and engineers to the ideas relating classical and quantum mechanics with Lie algebras and Lie groups. The book emphasizes the closeness of classical and quantum mechanics, and the material is selected in a way to make this closeness as apparent as possible. Much of the material covered here is not part of standard textbook treatments of classical or quantum mechanics (or is only superficially treated there). For physics students who want to get a broader view of the subject, this book may therefore serve as a useful complement to standard treatments of quantum mechanics. Almost without exception, this book is about precise concepts and exact results in classical mechanics, quantum mechanics, and statistical mechanics. The structural properties of mechanics are discussed independent of computational techniques for obtaining quantitatively correct numbers from the assumptions made. The standard approximation machinery for calculating from first principles explicit thermodynamic properties of materials, or explicit cross sections for high energy experiments can be found in many textbooks and is not repeated here.

id: 0810.1031
title: On A New Formulation of Micro-phenomena: Basic Principles, Stationary Fields And Beyond
authors: Afshin Shafiee
comments: 35 pages, 5 figures, 3 appendices
journal: Journal of Physics, 76, 843-873 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1031
abstract: In a series of essays, beginning with this article, we are going to develop a new formulation of micro-phenomena based on the principles of reality and causality. The new theory provides with us a new depiction of micro-phenomena assuming an unified concept of information, matter and energy. So, we suppose that in a definite micro-physical context (including other interacting particles), each particle is enfolded by a probability field whose existence is contingent upon the existence of the particle, but it can locally affect the physical status of the particle in a context-dependent manner. The dynamics of the whole particle-field system obeys deterministic equations in a manner that when the particle is subjected to a conservative force, the field also experiences a conservative complex force which its form is determined by the dynamics of particle. So, the field is endowed with a given amount of energy, but its value is contingent upon the physical conditions the particle is subjected to. Based on the energy balance of the particle and its associated field, we argue why the field has a probabilistic objective nature. In such a way, the basic elements of this new formulation, its application for some stationary states and its nonlinear generalization for conservative systems are discussed here.

id: 0810.1033
title: On A New Formulation of Micro-phenomena: Quantum Paradoxes And the Measurement Problem
authors: Afshin Shafiee
comments: 20 pages, 1 appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1033
abstract: As a serious attempt for constructing a new foundation for describing micro-incidents from a local causal standpoint, I explained before that each micro-entity can be assumed to be composed of a probability field joined to a particle (called a particle-field or PF system) which is endowed with energy, having an objective character. In this essay, some odd quantum phenomena including the tunneling effect, the measurement problem and the EPR theorem are reexamined in detail from the standpoint of the new theory.

id: 0810.1034
title: On A New Formulation of Micro-phenomena: The Double-slit Experiment
authors: Afshin Shafiee, Abouzar Massoudi, Mohammad Bahrami
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures and 1 appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1034
abstract: Based on the novel view that a micro-entity could be considered as a particle associated with a field partaking of the energy of particle which are both described by deterministic causal equations of motion, we examine the success of our new theory in elucidating the underlying physics of the double-slit experiment. Here, we explain with clear details how each micro-particle scatters from one of the slits at a given time. After the scattering through one of the slits, the particle shares some of its energy with its surrounding field and a particle-field system is again formed which its motion is governed by a deterministic dynamics during its flight towards the detecting screen. The interference pattern is then explained by showing how the final location of each particle-field system at the time of reaching the detecting screen is distributed according to an angular distribution (equal to the what quantum theory predicts for the fringe effects in a two-slit experiment). The probabilistic nature of such a distribution can be explained by considering the variations of the kinetic energy of the particle-field system at different local situations.

id: 0810.1036
title: Memory coherence of a sympathetically cooled trapped-ion qubit
authors: J. P. Home, M. J. McDonnell, D. J. Szwer, B. C. Keitch, D. M. Lucas, D. N. Stacey, A. M. Steane
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 050305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1036
abstract: We demonstrate sympathetic cooling of a 43Ca+ trapped-ion "memory" qubit by a 40Ca+ "coolant" ion near the ground state of both axial motional modes, whilst maintaining coherence of the qubit. This is an essential ingredient in trapped-ion quantum computers. The isotope shifts are sufficient to suppress decoherence and phase shifts of the memory qubit due to the cooling light which illuminates both ions. We measure the qubit coherence during 10 cycles of sideband cooling, finding a coherence loss of 3.3% per cooling cycle. The natural limit of the method is O(0.01%) infidelity per cooling cycle.

id: 0810.1043
title: Dynamical regimes of a quantum swap gate beyond the Fermi Golden Rule
authors: Axel D. Dente, Raul A. Bustos-Marun, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 11 pages 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062116 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1043
abstract: We discuss how the bath's memory affects the dynamics of a swap gate. We present an exactly solvable model that shows various dynamical transitions when treated beyond the Fermi Golden Rule. By moving continuously a single parameter, the unperturbed Rabi frequency, we sweep through different analytic properties of the density of states: I) collapsed resonances that split at an exceptional point in II) two resolved resonances ; III) out-of-band resonances; IV) virtual states; and V) pure point spectrum. We associate them with distinctive dynamical regimes: overdamped, damped oscillations, environment controlled quantum diffusion, anomalous diffusion and localized dynamics respectively. The frequency of the swap gate depends differently on the unperturbed Rabi frequency. In region I) there is no oscillation at all, while in the regions III) and IV) the oscillation frequency is particularly stable because it is determined by environment's band width. The anomalous diffusion could be used as a signature for the presence of the elusive virtual states.

id: 0810.1046
title: Numerical Analysis of some Generalized Casimir Pistons
authors: Martin Schaden
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1046
abstract: The Casimir force due to a scalar field on a piston in a cylinder of radius $r$ with a spherical cap of radius $R>r$ is computed numerically in the world-line approach. A geometrical subtraction scheme gives the finite interaction energy that determines the Casimir force. The spectral function of convex domains is obtained from a probability measure on convex surfaces that is induced by the Wiener measure on Brownian bridges the convex surfaces are the hulls of. The vacuum force on the piston by a scalar field satisfying Dirichlet boundary conditions is attractive in these geometries, but the strength and short-distance behavior of the force depends crucially on the shape of the piston casing. For a cylindrical casing with a hemispherical head, the force for $a/R\sim 0$ does not depend on the dimension of the casing and numerically approaches $\sim - 0.00326(4)\hbar c/a^2$. Semiclassically this asymptotic force is due to short, closed and non-periodic trajectories that reflect once off the piston near its periphery. The semiclassical estimate $-\hbar c/(96\pi a^2)(1+2\sqrt{R^2-r^2}/a)$ for the force when $a/r\ll r/R\leq 1$ reproduces the numerical results within statistical errors.

id: 0810.1069
title: Gigahertz decoy quantum key distribution with 1 Mbit/s secure key rate
authors: A. R. Dixon, Z. L. Yuan, J. F. Dynes, A. W. Sharpe, A. J. Shields
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express 16, 18790 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1069
abstract: We report the first gigahertz clocked decoy-protocol quantum key distribution (QKD). Record key rates have been achieved thanks to the use of self-differencing InGaAs avalanche photodiodes designed specifically for high speed single photon detection. The system is characterized with a secure key rate of 1.02 Mbit/s for a fiber distance of 20 km and 10.1 kbit/s for 100 km. As the present advance relies upon compact non-cryogenic detectors, it opens the door towards practical and low cost QKD systems to secure broadband communication in future.

id: 0810.1157
title: Proposed all-versus-nothing violation of local realism in the Kitaev spin-lattice model
authors: Ming-Guang Hu, Dong-Ling Deng, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Accepted by Phys. Rev. A as a Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 010301(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1157
abstract: We investigate the nonlocal property of the fractional statistics in Kitaev's toric code model. To this end, we construct the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger paradox which builds a direct conflict between the statistics and local realism. It turns out that the fractional statistics in the model is purely a quantum effect and independent of any classical theory.We also discuss a feasible experimental scheme using anyonic interferometry to test this contradiction.

id: 0810.1159
title: Exactly solvable effective mass D-dimensional Schrodinger equation for pseudoharmonic and modified Kratzer problems
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 13 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 20, 361(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1159
abstract: We employ the point canonical transformation (PCT) to solve the D-dimensional Schr\"{o}dinger equation with position-dependent effective mass (PDEM) function for two molecular pseudoharmonic and modified Kratzer (Mie-type) potentials. In mapping the transformed exactly solvable D-dimensional ($D\geq 2$) Schr\"{o}dinger equation with constant mass into the effective mass equation by employing a proper transformation, the exact bound state solutions including the energy eigenvalues and corresponding wave functions are derived. The well-known pseudoharmonic and modified Kratzer exact eigenstates of various dimensionality is manifested.

id: 0810.1165
title: Generating highly squeezed Hybrid Laguerre-Gauss modes in large-Fresnel-number Degenerate Optical Parametric Oscillators
authors: Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel, Eugenio Rold¨¢n
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures and 2 tables
journal: Physical Review A 79, 043820 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1165
abstract: We theoretically describe the quantum properties of a large Fresnel number degenerate optical parametric oscillator with spherical mirrors that is pumped by a Gaussian beam. The resonator is tuned so that the resonance frequency of a given transverse mode family coincides with the down-converted frequency. After demonstrating that only the lower orbital angular momentum (OAM) Laguerre-Gauss modes are amplified above threshold, we focus on the quantum properties of the rest of (classically empty) modes. We find that combinations of opposite OAM (Hybrid Laguerre-Gauss modes) can exhibit arbitrary large quadrature squeezing for the lower OAM non amplified modes.

id: 0810.1169
title: CHSH type Bell inequalities involving a party with two or three local binary settings
authors: Yu-Chun Wu, Piotr Badziag, Marek ?ukowski
comments: 8 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1169
abstract: We construct a simple algorithm to generate any CHSH type Bell inequality involving a party with two local binary measurements from two CHSH type inequalities without this party. The algorithm readily generalizes to situations, where the additional observer uses three measurement settings. There, each inequality involving the additional party is constructed from three inequalities with this party excluded. With this generalization at hand, we construct and analyze new symmetric inequalities for four observers and three experimental settings per observer.

id: 0810.1175
title: Monogamy of Bell's inequality violations in non-signaling theories
authors: Marcin Pawlowski, Caslav Brukner
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 030403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1175
abstract: We derive monogamy relations (tradeoffs) between strengths of violations of Bell's inequalities from the non-signaling condition. Our result applies to general Bell inequalities with an arbitrary large number of partners, outcomes and measurement settings. The method is simple, efficient and does not require linear programming. The results are used to derive optimal fidelity for asymmetric cloning in nonsignaling theories.

id: 0810.1183
title: Orthogonal Evolution and Anticipation
authors: Hans-Rudolf Thomann
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1183
abstract: Quantum states evolving at equidistant steps into a set of mutually orthogonal states of finite or infinite cardinality p exhibit an interesting physical effect. The analysis of the amplitudes of the state at half the step time with the elements of this set (the anticipation amplitudes) shows, that for randomly chosen states measurements of the state at half-step time reveal information about the states at full step time, anticipating future states and reflecting past states with significant probability. For fixed N and p to infinity, the probability to measure a state which is N steps apart in future or past exceeds a constant lower bound. We characterize the spectrum, establish an analog to Plack's relation, define a random sampling scheme, analyze the resulting distribution of the anticipation probabilities and point out applications.

id: 0810.1184
title: Dynamics of continuous-time quantum walks in restricted geometries
authors: E. Agliari, A. Blumen, O. Muelken
comments: 25 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 41, 445301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1184
abstract: We study quantum transport on finite discrete structures and we model the process by means of continuous-time quantum walks. A direct and effective comparison between quantum and classical walks can be attained based on the average displacement of the walker as a function of time. Indeed, a fast growth of the average displacement can be advantageously exploited to build up efficient search algorithms. By means of analytical and numerical investigations, we show that the finiteness and the inhomogeneity of the substrate jointly weaken the quantum walk performance. We further highlight the interplay between the quantum-walk dynamics and the underlying topology by studying the temporal evolution of the transfer probability distribution and the lower bound of long time averages.

id: 0810.1224
title: Noncommutative quantum mechanics: uniqueness of the functional description
authors: F. S. Bemfica, H. O. Girotti
comments: 13 pages
journal: Physical Review D78, 125009 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1224
abstract: The generalized Weyl transform of index $\alpha$ is used to implement the time-slice definition of the phase space path integral yielding the Feynman kernel in the case of noncommutative quantum mechanics. As expected, this representation for the Feynman kernel is not unique but labeled by the real parameter $\alpha$. We succeed in proving that the $\alpha$-dependent contributions disappear at the limit where the time slice goes to zero. This proof of consistency turns out to be intricate because the Hamiltonian involves products of noncommuting operators originating from the non-commutativity. The antisymmetry of the matrix parameterizing the non-commutativity plays a key role in the cancelation mechanism of the $\alpha$-dependent terms.

id: 0810.1240
title: Entanglement and its facets in condensed matter systems
authors: A. Osterloh
comments: 61 pages, 14 figures, submitted as habilitation thesis on June 26th 2007. Error in one formula for the translation into linear framework corrected. Main part in english; acknowledgement and abstract in german. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0703044 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1240
abstract: This thesis poses a selection of recent research of the author in a common context. It starts with a selected review on research concerning the role entanglement might play at quantum phase transitions and introduces measures for entanglement used for this analysis. A selection of results from this research is given and proposed as evidence for the relevance of multipartite entanglement in this context. A constructive method for an SLOCC classification and quantification of multipartite qubit entanglement is outlined and results for convex roof extensions of the resulting measures are briefly discussed on a specific example. At the end, a transformation of antilinear expectation values into linear expectation values is presented which admits an expression of the aforementioned measures of genuine multipartite entanglement in terms of spin correlation function, hence making them experimentally accessible.

id: 0810.1259
title: Is the quantum theory predictably complete?
authors: Marian Kupczynski
comments: 10 pages, talk at CEWQO-2008 Belgrade
journal: 2009 Phys.Scr.T135 014005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1259
abstract: Quantum theory (QT) provides statistical predictions for various physical phenomena. The outcomes of these measurements are in general some numerical time series registered by some macroscopic instruments. The various empirical probability distributions extracted from these time series were shown to be consistent with the probabilistic predictions of QT. However it was not proven that the time series of existing experimental data did not contain some stochastic fine structures, which could have been averaged out by describing them in terms of the empirical probability distributions. In this paper we advocate various statistical tests which could be used to search for such fine structures in the data and to answer the title question of this paper. In our opinion a proper understanding of the statistical character of QT and of its limitations is crucial in the domains such as: quantum optics and quantum information.

id: 0810.1264
title: Field test of a practical secure communication network with decoy-state quantum cryptography
authors: Teng-Yun Chen, Hao Liang, Yang Liu, Wen-Qi Cai, Lei Ju, Wei-Yue Liu, Jian Wang, Hao Yin, Kai Chen, Zeng-Bing Chen, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables, typos corrected
journal: Opt. Express 17, 6540 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1264
abstract: We present a secure network communication system that operated with decoy-state quantum cryptography in a real-world application scenario. The full key exchange and application protocols were performed in real time among three nodes, in which two adjacent nodes were connected by approximate 20 km of commercial telecom optical fiber. The generated quantum keys were immediately employed and demonstrated for communication applications, including unbreakable real-time voice telephone between any two of the three communication nodes, or a broadcast from one node to the other two nodes by using one-time pad encryption.

id: 0810.1310
title: Towards a unified approach to information-disturbance tradeoffs in quantum measurements
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Michal Horodecki
comments: 
journal: OSID 16, 29-48 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1310
abstract: We show that the global balance of information dynamics for general quantum measurements given in [F. Buscemi, M. Hayashi, and M. Horodecki, Phys.Rev.Lett. 100, 210504 (2008)] makes it possible to unify various and generally inequivalent approaches adopted in order to derive information-disturbance tradeoffs in quantum theory. We focus in particular on those tradeoffs, constituting the vast majority of the literature on the subject, where disturbance is defined either in terms of average output fidelity or of entanglement fidelity.

id: 0810.1332
title: Tailored photon pair preparation relying on full group velocity matching in fibre-based spontaneous four wave mixing
authors: Karina Garay-Palmett, Ra¨²l Rangel-Rojo, Alfred B. U'Ren
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. To appear in J. Mod. Opt; PQE-2008 special issue
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1332
abstract: We study photon pair generation through scalar spontaneous four-wave mixing in single-mode fibre and for frequency-degenerate pumps; we concentrate on source geometries which fulfil full group velocity matching (GVM), i.e. where the pump, signal and idler propagate at identical group velocities. We discuss two experimental techniques which permit the attainment of full GVM, and discuss the resulting two-photon state properties. In particular, we show that full GVM can lead to sources which approach phasematching unconstrained by dispersion and therefore with a remarkably large bandwidth. We also discuss the generation of nearly-factorablestates as an application of full GVM.

id: 0810.1333
title: Ultra-broadband photon pair preparation by spontaneous four wave mixing in dispersion-engineered optical fiber
authors: Karina Garay-Palmett, Alfred B. U'Ren, Ra¨²l Rangel-Rojo, Rodger Evans, Santiago Camacho-L¨®pez
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1333
abstract: We present a study of the spectral properties of photon pairs generated through the process of spontaneous four wave mixing (SFWM) in single mode fiber. Our analysis assumes narrowband pumps, which are allowed to be frequency-degenerate or non-degenerate. Based on this analysis, we derive conditions on the pump frequencies and on the fiber dispersion parameters which guarantee the generation of ultra-broadband photon pairs. Such photon pairs are characterized by: i) a very large degree of entanglement, and ii) a very high degree of temporal synchronization between the signal and idler photons. Through a numerical exercise, we find that the use of photonic crystal fiber (PCF) facilitates the fulfilment of the conditions for ultra-broadband photon pair generation; in particular, the spectral region in which emission occurs can be adjusted to particular needs through an appropriate choice of the PCF parameters. In addition, we present a novel quantum interference effect, resulting from indistinguishable pathways to the same outcome, which can occur when pumping a SFWM source with multiple spectral lines.

id: 0810.1336
title: Dispersive regime of circuit QED: photon-dependent qubit dephasing and relaxation rates
authors: Maxime Boissonneault, J. M. Gambetta, Alexandre Blais
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 013819 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1336
abstract: Superconducting electrical circuits can be used to study the physics of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) in new regimes, therefore realizing circuit QED. For quantum information processing and quantum optics, an interesting regime of circuit QED is the dispersive regime, where the detuning between the qubit transition frequency and the resonator frequency is much larger than the interaction strength. In this paper, we investigate how non-linear corrections to the dispersive regime affect the measurement process. We find that in the presence of pure qubit dephasing, photon population of the resonator used for the measurement of the qubit act as an effective heat bath, inducing incoherent relaxation and excitation of the qubit. Measurement thus induces both dephasing and mixing of the qubit, something that can reduce the quantum non-demolition aspect of the readout. Using quantum trajectory theory, we show that this heat bath can induce quantum jumps in the qubit state and reduce the achievable signal-to-noise ratio of a homodyne measurement of the voltage.

id: 0810.1343
title: Graphical description of local Gaussian operations for continuous-variable weighted graph states
authors: Jing Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052307 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1343
abstract: The form of a local Clifford (LC, also called local Gaussian (LG)) operation for the continuous-variable (CV) weighted graph states is presented in this paper, which is the counterpart of the LC operation of local complementation for qubit graph states. The novel property of the CV weighted graph states is shown, which can be expressed by the stabilizer formalism. It is distinctively different from the qubit weighted graph states, which can not be expressed by the stabilizer formalism. The corresponding graph rule, stated in purely graph theoretical terms, is described, which completely characterizes the evolution of CV weighted graph states under this LC operation. This LC operation may be applied repeatedly on a CV weighted graph state, which can generate the infinite LC equivalent graph states of this graph state. This work is an important step to characterize the LC equivalence class of CV weighted graph states.

id: 0810.1361
title: Pseudomodes as an effective description of memory: Non-Markovian dynamics of two-state systems in structured reservoirs
authors: L. Mazzola, S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, K.-A. Suominen, B. Garraway
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. V2: minor changes, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012104 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1361
abstract: We investigate the non-Markovian dynamics of two-state systems in structured reservoirs. We establish a connection between two theoretical quantum approaches, the pseudomodes [B. M. Garraway, Phys. Rev. A 55, 2290 (1997)] and the recently developed non-Markovian quantum jump method [J. Piilo et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 180402 (2008)]. This connection provides a clear physical picture of how the structured reservoir affects the system dynamics, indicating the role of the pseudomodes as an effective description of the environmental memory.

id: 0810.1399
title: Entanglement of Gaussian states using beam splitter
authors: Rabia Tahira, Manzoor Ikram, Hyunchul Nha, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, references added (particularly [19]), more detailed discussions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 023816 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1399
abstract: We study an experimental scheme to generate Gaussian two-mode entangled states via beam splitter. Specifically, we consider a nonclassical Gaussian state (squeezed state) and a thermal state as two input modes, and evaluate the degree of entanglement at the output. Experimental conditions to generate entangled outputs are completely identified and the critical thermal noise to destroy entanglement is analytically obtained. By doing so, we discuss the possibility to link the resistance to noise in entanglement generation with the degree of single-mode nonclassicality.

id: 0810.1414
title: Critical exponents of one-dimensional quantum critical models by means of MERA tensor network
authors: S. Montangero, M. Rizzi, V. Giovannetti, R. Fazio
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 113103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1414
abstract: An algorithm for optimizing the MERA tensor network in an infinite system is presented. Using this technique we compute the critical exponents of Ising and XXZ model.

id: 0810.1417
title: Optimal purification of a generic n-qudit state
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giuliano Strini
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, remarks added
journal: PhysRevA.79, 052301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1417
abstract: We propose a quantum algorithm for the purification of a generic mixed state $\rho$ of a $n$-qudit system by using an ancillary $n$-qudit system. The algorithm is optimal in that (i) the number of ancillary qudits cannot be reduced, (ii) the number of parameters which determine the purification state $|\Psi>$ exactly equals the number of degrees of freedom of $\rho$, and (iii) $|\Psi>$ is easily determined from the density matrix $\rho$. Moreover, we introduce a quantum circuit in which the quantum gates are unitary transformations acting on a $2n$-qudit system. These transformations are determined by parameters that can be tuned to generate, once the ancillary qudits are disregarded, any given mixed $n$-qudit state.

id: 0810.1456
title: Hilbert Space Average Method and adiabatic quantum search
authors: A. Perez
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012314 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1456
abstract: We discuss some aspects related to the so-called Hilbert space Average Method, as an alternative to describe the dynamics of open quantum systems. First we present a derivation of the method which does not make use of the algebra satisfied by the operators involved in the dynamics, and extend the method to systems subject to a Hamiltonian that changes with time. Next we examine the performance of the adiabatic quantum search algorithm with a particular model for the environment. We relate our results to the criteria discussed in the literature for the validity of the above-mentioned method for similar environments.

id: 0810.1457
title: Positive phase space transformation incompatible with classical physics
authors: Wonmin Son, Johannes Kofler, M. S. Kim, Vlatko Vedral, Caslav Brukner
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:110404,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1457
abstract: Bell conjectured that a positive Wigner function does not allow violation of the inequalities imposed by local hidden variable theories. A requirement for this conjecture is "when phase space measurements are performed". We introduce the theory-independent concept of "operationally local transformations" which refers to the change of the switch on a local measurement apparatus. We show that two separated parties, performing only phase space measurements on a composite quantum system with a positive Wigner function and performing only operationally local transformations that preserve this positivity, can nonetheless violate Bell's inequality. Such operationally local transformations are realized using entangled ancillae.

id: 0810.1470
title: Measurement of sub-shot-noise spatial correlations without subtraction of background
authors: Giorgio Brida, Lucia Caspani, Alessandra Gatti, Marco Genovese, Alice Meda, Ivano Ruo Berchera
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 213602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1470
abstract: In this paper we present the first measurement of sub-shot-noise spatial correlations without any subtraction of background, a result opening the way to realize sub-shot-noise imaging of weak objects

id: 0810.1480
title: Multipartite Entanglement Criterion from Uncertainty Relations
authors: J. Gillet, T. Bastin, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1480
abstract: We formulate an entanglement criterion using Peres-Horodecki positive partial transpose operations combined with the Schr\"odinger-Robertson uncertainty relation. We show that any pure entangled bipartite and tripartite state can be detected by experimentally measuring mean values and variances of specific observables. Those observables must satisfy a specific condition in order to be used, and we show their general form in the $2\times 2$ (two qubits) dimension case. The criterion is applied on a variety of physical systems including bipartite and multipartite mixed states and reveals itself to be stronger than the Bell inequalities and other criteria. The criterion also work on continuous variable cat states and angular momentum states of the radiation field.

id: 0810.1496
title: Theory of Cross Phase Modulation for the Vibrational Modes of Trapped Ions
authors: X. Rebecca Nie, Christian F. Roos, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, and 1 table
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, 422 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1496
abstract: We analyze nonlinear coupling between individual vibrational quanta for trapped ions. The nonlinear Coulomb interaction causes a Kerr-type Hamiltonian, for which we derive an analytical expression for the coupling constant. In contrast to a previously published formula [1], our result is in close agreement with experimental data.

id: 0810.1556
title: Generic quantum walk using a coin-embedded shift operator
authors: C.M. Chandrashekar
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, Published
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 78, 052309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1556
abstract: The study of quantum walk processes has been widely divided into two standard variants, the discrete-time quantum walk (DTQW) and the continuous-time quantum walk (CTQW). The connection between the two variants has been established by considering the limiting value of the coin operation parameter in the DTQW, and the coin degree of freedom was shown to be unnecessary [26]. But the coin degree of freedom is an additional resource which can be exploited to control the dynamics of the QW process. In this paper we present a generic quantum walk model using a quantum coin-embedded unitary shift operation $U_{C}$. The standard version of the DTQW and the CTQW can be conveniently retrieved from this generic model, retaining the features of the coin degree of freedom in both variants.

id: 0810.1590
title: Bound states of the Klein-Gordon equation for vector and scalar general Hulthen-type potentials in D-dimension
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1590
abstract: We solve the Klein-Gordon equation in any $D$-dimension for the scalar and vector general Hulth\'{e}n-type potentials with any $l$ by using an approximation scheme for the centrifugal potential. Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used in the calculations. We obtain the bound state energy eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenfunctions of spin-zero particles in terms of Jacobi polynomials. The eigenfunctions are physical and the energy eigenvalues are in good agreement with those results obtained by other methods for D=1 and 3 dimensions. Our results are valid for $q=1$ value when $l\neq 0$ and for any $q$ value when $l=0$ and D=1 or 3. The $s$% -wave ($l=0$) binding energies for a particle of rest mass $m_{0}=1$ are calculated for the three lower-lying states $(n=0,1,2)$ using pure vector and pure scalar potentials.

id: 0810.1615
title: Quantum Bounds on Bell inequalities
authors: K.F. P¨¢l, T. V¨¦rtesi
comments: 12 pages, 4 tables; corrected Table I and modified Table III to comply with Table I; more detailed results are available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022120 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1615
abstract: We have determined the maximum quantum violation of 241 tight bipartite Bell inequalities with up to five two-outcome measurement settings per party by constructing the appropriate measurement operators in up to six-dimensional complex and eight-dimensional real component Hilbert spaces using numerical optimization. Out of these inequalities 129 has been introduced here. In 43 cases higher dimensional component spaces gave larger violation than qubits, and in 3 occasions the maximum was achieved with six-dimensional spaces. We have also calculated upper bounds on these Bell inequalities using a method proposed recently. For all but 20 inequalities the best solution found matched the upper bound. Surprisingly, the simplest inequality of the set examined, with only three measurement settings per party, was not among them, despite the high dimensionality of the Hilbert space considered. We also computed detection threshold efficiencies for the maximally entangled qubit pair. These could be lowered in several instances if degenerate measurements were also allowed.

id: 0810.1720
title: Momentum-space interferometry with trapped ultracold atoms
authors: A. Ruschhaupt, A. del Campo, J. G. Muga
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 023616 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1720
abstract: Quantum interferometers are generally set so that phase differences between paths in coordinate space combine constructive or destructively. Indeed, the interfering paths can also meet in momentum space leading to momentum-space fringes. We propose and analyze a method to produce interference in momentum space by phase-imprinting part of a trapped atomic cloud with a detuned laser. For one-particle wave functions analytical expressions are found for the fringe width and shift versus the phase imprinted. The effects of unsharpness or displacement of the phase jump are also studied, as well as many-body effects to determine the potential applicability of momentum-space interferometry.

id: 0810.1722
title: Effective one-body dynamics in multiple-quantum NMR experiments
authors: E. Rufeil Fiori, C. M. Sanchez, F. Y. Oliva, H. M. Pastawski, P. R. Levstein
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032324 (2009), Virtual Journal of Nanoscale Science & Technology -- March 30, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1722
abstract: A suitable NMR experiment in a one-dimensional dipolar coupled spin system allows one to reduce the natural many-body dynamics into effective one-body dynamics. We verify this in a polycrystalline sample of hydroxyapatite (HAp) by monitoring the excitation of NMR many-body superposition states: the multiple-quantum coherences. The observed effective one-dimensionality of HAp relies on the quasi 1d structure of the dipolar coupled network that, as we show here, is dynamically enhanced by the quantum Zeno effect. Decoherence is also probed through a Loschmidt echo experiment, where the time reversal is implemented on the double-quantum Hamiltonian, I_{i,+}I_{j,+} + I_{i,-}I_{j,-}. We contrast the decoherence of adamantane, a standard 3d system, with that of HAp. While the first shows an abrupt Fermi-type decay, HAp presents a smooth exponential law.

id: 0810.1726
title: How to Maximize the Capacity of General Quantum Noisy Channels
authors: Goren Gordon, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1726
abstract: A general quantum noisy channel is analyzed, wherein the transmitted qubits may experience symmetry-breaking decoherence, along with memory effects. We find the optimal basis not to be fully entangled, but a combination of factorized and partially-entangled states in the presence of memory, asymmetry and the state-bias of the noise. Capacity-maximization is shown to be achievable by combining temporal shaping of the transmitted qubits and optimal basis selection.

id: 0810.1761
title: Unbiased bases (Hadamards) for 6-level systems: Four ways from Fourier
authors: A. J. Skinner, V. A. Newell, R. Sanchez
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1761
abstract: In quantum mechanics some properties are maximally incompatible, such as the position and momentum of a particle or the vertical and horizontal projections of a 2-level spin. Given any definite state of one property the other property is completely random, or unbiased. For N-level systems, the 6-level ones are the smallest for which a tomographically efficient set of N+1 mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) has not been found. To facilitate the search, we numerically extend the classification of unbiased bases, or Hadamards, by incrementally adjusting relative phases in a standard basis. We consider the non-unitarity caused by small adjustments with a second order Taylor expansion, and choose incremental steps within the 4-dimensional nullspace of the curvature. In this way we prescribe a numerical integration of a 4-parameter set of Hadamards of order 6.

id: 0810.1825
title: Hydrodynamic View of Wave-Packet Interference: Quantum Caves
authors: C.-C. Chou, A. S. Sanz, S. Miret-Artes, R. E. Wyatt
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures (major revisions with respect to the previous version have been carried out)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 250401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1825
abstract: Wave-packet interference is investigated within the complex quantum Hamilton-Jacobi formalism using a hydrodynamic description. Quantum interference leads to the formation of the topological structure of quantum caves in space-time Argand plots. These caves consist of the vortical and stagnation tubes originating from the isosurfaces of the amplitude of the wave function and its first derivative. Complex quantum trajectories display counterclockwise helical wrapping around the stagnation tubes and hyperbolic deflection near the vortical tubes. The string of alternating stagnation and vortical tubes is sufficient to generate divergent trajectories. Moreover, the average wrapping time for trajectories and the rotational rate of the nodal line in the complex plane can be used to define the lifetime for interference features.

id: 0810.1839
title: Global entanglement and coherent states in an N-partite system
authors: P. D?m?t?r, M. G. Benedict
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1839
abstract: We consider a quantum system consisting of N parts, each of which is a "quKit" described by a K dimensional Hilbert space. We prove that in the symmetric subspace, S, a pure state is not globally entangled, if and only if it is a coherent state. It is also shown that in the orthogonal complement all states are globally entangled.

id: 0810.1847
title: Quantum interference from remotely trapped ions
authors: S. Gerber, D. Rotter, M. Hennrich, R. Blatt, F. Rohde, C. Schuck, M. Almendros, R. Gehr, F. Dubin, J. Eschner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1847
abstract: We observe quantum interference of photons emitted by two continuously laser-excited single ions, independently trapped in distinct vacuum vessels. High contrast two-photon interference is observed in two experiments with different ion species, calcium and barium. Our experimental findings are quantitatively reproduced by Bloch equation calculations. In particular, we show that the coherence of the individual resonance fluorescence light field is determined from the observed interference.

id: 0810.1919
title: On the conditions for discrimination between quantum states with minimum error
authors: Stephen M. Barnett, Sarah Croke
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1919
abstract: We provide a simple proof for the necessity of conditions for discriminating with minimum error between a known set of quantum states.

id: 0810.1923
title: Simulating quantum systems using real Hilbert spaces
authors: Matthew McKague, Michele Mosca, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 4 pages
journal: PRL 102(2): 020505 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1923
abstract: We develop a means of simulating the evolution and measurement of a multipartite quantum state under discrete or continuous evolution using another quantum system with states and operators lying in a real Hilbert space. This extends previous results which were unable to simulate local evolution and measurements with local operators and was limited to discrete evolution. We also detail applications to Bell inequalities and self-testing of quantum apparatus.

id: 0810.1970
title: Quantum state discrimination
authors: Stephen M. Barnett, Sarah Croke
comments: 43 pages, submitted to Advances in Optics and Photonics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1970
abstract: It is a fundamental consequence of the superposition principle for quantum states that there must exist non-orthogonal states, that is states that, although different, have a non-zero overlap. This finite overlap means that there is no way of determining with certainty in which of two such states a given physical system has been prepared. We review the various strategies that have been devised to discriminate optimally between non-orthogonal states and some of the optical experiments that have been performed to realise these.

id: 0810.1983
title: A no-go theorem for a two-dimensional self-correcting quantum memory based on stabilizer codes
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Barbara Terhal
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures; v2 has more general and simpler proof of the energy barrier result
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 043029
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1983
abstract: We study properties of stabilizer codes that permit a local description on a regular D-dimensional lattice. Specifically, we assume that the stabilizer group of a code (the gauge group for subsystem codes) can be generated by local Pauli operators such that the support of any generator is bounded by a hypercube of constant size. Our first result concerns the optimal scaling of the distance $d$ with the linear size of the lattice $L$. We prove an upper bound $d=O(L^{D-1})$ which is tight for D=1,2. This bound applies to both subspace and subsystem stabilizer codes. Secondly, we analyze the suitability of stabilizer codes for building a self-correcting quantum memory. Any stabilizer code with geometrically local generators can be naturally transformed to a local Hamiltonian penalizing states that violate the stabilizer condition. A degenerate ground-state of this Hamiltonian corresponds to the logical subspace of the code. We prove that for D=1,2 the height of the energy barrier separating different logical states is upper bounded by a constant independent of the lattice size L. The same result holds if there are unused logical qubits that are treated as "gauge qubits". It demonstrates that a self-correcting quantum memory cannot be built using stabilizer codes in dimensions D=1,2. This result is in sharp contrast with the existence of a classical self-correcting memory in the form of a two-dimensional ferromagnet. Our results leave open the possibility for a self-correcting quantum memory based on 2D subsystem codes or on 3D subspace or subsystem codes.

id: 0810.1998
title: Optical Implementation of Non-locality with Coherent Light Fields for Quantum Communication
authors: Kim Fook Lee
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1998
abstract: Polarization correlations of two distant observers are observed by using coherent light fields based on Stapp's formulation of nonlocality. Using a 50/50 beam splitter transformation, a vertically polarized coherent light field is found to be entangled with a horizontally polarized coherent noise field. The superposed light fields at each output port of the beam splitter are sent to two distant observers, where the fields are interfered and manipulated at each observer by using a quarter wave plate and an analyzer. The interference signal contains information of the projection angle of the analyzer, which is hidden by the phase noises. The nonlocal correlations between the projection angles of two distant observers are established by analyzing their data through analog signal multiplication without any post-selection technique. This scheme can be used to implement Ekert's protocol for quantum key distribution.

id: 0810.2011
title: Modified entanglement purification scheme with doubly entangled photon state
authors: Chuan Wang, Yu-Bo Sheng, Xi-Han Li, Fu-Guo Deng, Wei Zhang, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2011
abstract: Recently Xiao et al. proposed a scheme for entanglement purification based on doubly entangled photon states (Phys. Rev. A 77(2008) 042315). We modify their scheme for improving the efficiency of entanglement purification. This modified scheme contains two steps, i.e., the bit-flip error correction and the entanglement purification of phase-flip errors. All the photon pairs in the first step can be kept as all the bit-flip errors are corrected. For purifying the phase-flip errors, a wavelength conversion process is needed. This scheme has the advantage of high efficiency and it requires the original fidelity of the entangled state wanted fay lower than other schemes, which makes it more feasible in a practical application.

id: 0810.2013
title: Quantum Communications with Compressed Decoherence Using Bright Squeezed Light
authors: Fang-Yu Hong, Shi-Jie Xiong
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Mod. Optic. 55 (No.17), 2731 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2013
abstract: We propose a scheme for long-distance distribution of quantum entanglement in which the entanglement between qubits at intermediate stations of the channel is established by using bright light pulses in squeezed states coupled to the qubits in cavities with a weak dispersive interaction. The fidelity of the entanglement between qubits at the neighbor stations (10 km apart from each other) obtained by postselection through the balanced homodyne detection of 7 dB squeezed pulses can reach F=0.99 without using entanglement purification, at same time, the probability of successful generation of entanglement is 0.34.

id: 0810.2020
title: Volume of Separable States for Arbitrary $N$-dimensional System
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2020
abstract: In a celebrated paper ([Phys. Rev. A 58, 883 (1998)]), K. Zyczkowski, P. Horodecki, A. Sanpera,and M. Lewenstein proved for the frst time a very interesting theorem that the volume of separable quantum states is nonzero. Inspired by their ideas, we obtain a general analytical lower bound of the volume of separable states (VOSS) for arbitrary N-dimensional system. Our results give quite simple and computable suffcient conditions for separability. Moreover, for bipartite system, an upper bound of the VOSS is also presented.

id: 0810.2041
title: Entanglement-Enhanced Classical Communication
authors: David A. Herrera-Mart¨ª
comments: M.Sc. Thesis, 103 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2041
abstract: This thesis will be focused on the classical capacity of quantum channels, one of the first areas treated by quantum information theorists. The problem is fairly solved since some years. Nevertheless, this work will give me a reason to introduce a consistent formalism of the quantum theory, as well as to review fundamental facts about quantum non-locality and how it can be used to enhance communication. Moreover, this reflects my dwelling in the spirit of classical information theory, and it is intended to be a starting point towards a thorough study of how quantum technologies can help to shape the future of telecommunications. Whenever it was possible, heuristic reasonings were introduced instead of rigorous mathematical proofs. This finds an explanation in that I am a self-taught neophyte in the field, and just about every time I came across a new concept, physical arguments were always more compelling to me than just maths. The technical content of the thesis is twofold. On one hand, a quadratic classification based on optimization programs that I devised for distinguishing entangled states is presented in Chapter 4. In second place, a less difficult yet I hope equally interesting technical part consists of versions of some proofs throughout the text.

id: 0810.2110
title: Quantum control on entangled bipartite qubits
authors: Francisco Delgado
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2110
abstract: Ising interaction between qubits could produce distortion in entangled pairs generated for engineering purposes (as in quantum computation) in presence of parasite magnetic fields, destroying or altering the expected behavior of process in which is projected to be used. Quantum control could be used to correct that situation in several ways. Sometimes the user should be make some measurement upon the system to decide which is the best control scheme; other posibility is try to reconstruct the system using similar procedures without perturbate it. In the complete pictures both schemes are present. We will work first with pure systems studying advantages of different procedures. After, we will extend these operations when time of distortion is uncertain, generating a mixed state, which needs to be corrected by suposing the most probably time of distortion.

id: 0810.2178
title: Simplified approach to generate controlled-NOT gates with single trapped ions for arbitrary Lamb-Dicke parameters
authors: Miao Zhang, H.Y. Jia, L.F. Wei
comments: 10 pages, 1 table
journal: Optics Communications 282 1948 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2178
abstract: For certain {\it specific} (or {\it"magic"}) Lamb-Dicke (LD) parameters, Monroe {\it et al} showed [Phys. Rev. {\bf A 55}, R2489 (1997)] that a two-qubit quantum operation, between the external and internal degrees of freedom of a single trapped ion, could be implemented by applying a single carrier laser pulse. Here, we further show that, such a two-qubit operation (which is equivalent to the standard CNOT gate, only apart from certain phase factors) could also be significantly-well realized for {\it arbitrarily} selected LD parameters. Instead of the so-called "$\pi$-pulses" used in the previous demonstrations, the durations of the pulses applied in the present proposal are required to be accurately set within the decoherence times of the ion. % We also propose a simple approach by using only one off-resonant (e.g., blue-sideband) laser pulse to eliminate the unwanted phase factors existed in the above two-qubit operations for generating the standard CNOT gates.

id: 0810.2246
title: Atom-atom entanglement generated at early times by two photon emission
authors: Juan Le¨®n, Carlos Sab¨ªn
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. T135 (2009) 014034
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2246
abstract: We analyze entanglement generation between a pair of neutral two level atoms that are initially excited in a common electromagnetic vacuum. The nonlocal correlations that appear due to the interaction with the field can become entanglement when the field state is known. We distinguish two different situations: in the first, the field remains in the vacuum state, and second two photons are present in the final state. In both cases we study the dependence of the entanglement with time and interatomic distance, at ranges related with locality issues.

id: 0810.2255
title: On a Quantum Action Principle
authors: Natalya Gorobey, Alexander Lukyanenko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2255
abstract: A quantum version of the action principle is formulated in terms of real parameters of a wave functional. The classical limit of the quantum action of a harmonic oscillator is obtained.

id: 0810.2283
title: Gamow vectors and Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, LaTeX file
journal: Rev Mex Fis 53 S2 (2007) 103-109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2283
abstract: Gamow solutions are used to transform self-adjoint energy operators by means of factorization (supersymmetric) techniques. The transformed non-hermitian operators admit a discrete real spectrum which is occasionally extended by a single complex eigenvalue associated to normalized eigensolutions. These new Hamiltonians are not pseudo-hermitian operators and also differ from those obtained by means of complex-scaling transformations. As an example, Coulomb-like potentials are studied.

id: 0810.2285
title: An elementary derivation of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm
authors: Neda Amin, Patrick Labelle
comments: 15 pages. Pedagogical paper at the undergraduate level. To be submitted to AJP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2285
abstract: Quantum computing takes fully advantage of the superposition principle to increase greatly (even exponentially) the speed of calculations, relative to the classical approach. The Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm is the simplest quantum algorithm illustrating this power. Unfortunately, the standard derivation involves several ingenious steps which usually leave students feeling that they could never have figured out the algorithm by themselves. We present here a different formulation of the problem which allows students to derive the algorithm using only basic knowledge of quantum mechanics and linear algebra.

id: 0810.2319
title: Entanglement Theory and the Second Law of Thermodynamics
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Martin B. Plenio
comments: Published in Nature Physics as advanced online publication (October 2008). This is the original submitted version
journal: Nature Physics 4, 873 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2319
abstract: Entanglement is central both to the foundations of quantum theory and, as a novel resource, to quantum information science. The theory of entanglement establishes basic laws, such as the non-increase of entanglement under local operations, that govern its manipulation and aims to draw from them formal analogies to the second law of thermodynamics. However, while in the second law the entropy uniquely determines whether a state is adiabatically accessible from another, the manipulation of entanglement under local operations exhibits a fundamental irreversibility which prevents the existence of such an order. Here we show that a reversible theory of entanglement and a rigorous relationship with thermodynamics may be established when one considers all non-entangling transformations. The role of the entropy in the second law is taken by the asymptotic relative entropy of entanglement in the basic law of entanglement. We show the usefulness of this new approach to general resource theories and to quantum information theory.

id: 0810.2327
title: Distinguishability of quantum states under restricted families of measurements with an application to quantum data hiding
authors: William Matthews, Stephanie Wehner, Andreas Winter
comments: 28 pages and 1 figure. Comments welcome. v2: Tightness of an inequality demonstrated (it was left open in v1). Thanks to A. Montanaro
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. Volume 291, Number 3 (November, 2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2327
abstract: Every sufficiently rich set of measurements on a fixed quantum system defines a statistical norm on the states of that system via the optimal bias that can be achieved in distinguishing the states using measurements from that set (assuming equal priors). The Holevo-Helstrom theorem says that for the set of all measurements this norm is the trace norm. For finite dimension any norm is lower and upper bounded by constant (though dimension dependent) multiples of the trace norm, so we set ourselves the task of computing or bounding the best possible "constants of domination" for the norms corresponding to various restricted sets of measurements, thereby determining the worst case and best case performance of these sets relative to the set of all measurements. We look at the case where the allowed set consists of a single measurement, namely the uniformly random continuous POVM and its approximations by 2-designs and 4-designs respectively. Here we find asymptotically tight bounds for the constants of domination. Furthermore, we analyse the multipartite setting with any LOCC measurement allowed. In the case of two parties, we show that the lower domination constant is the same as that of a tensor product of local uniformly random POVMs (up to a constant). This answers in the affirmative an open question about the (near-)optimality of bipartite data hiding: The bias that can be achieved by LOCC in discriminating two orthogonal states of a d x d bipartite system is Omega(1/d), which is known to be tight. Finally, we use our analysis to derive certainty relations (in the sense of Sanchez-Ruiz) for any such measurements and to lower bound the locally accessible information for bipartite systems.

id: 0810.2329
title: Repulsive electromagnetic stresses in the Casimir piston
authors: L. Garc¨ªa, L. E. Gonz¨¢lez, M. Lomnitz, C. Villarreal
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2329
abstract: This manuscript has been withdrawn, since the authors have detected numerical inaccuracies that invalidate their main results concerning the existence of repulsive Casimir forces within a rectangular piston. Formulas presented in the manuscript keep still valid. The authors deeply apologize for this mistake.

id: 0810.2334
title: Multi-point quasi-rational approximants for the energy eigenvalues of potentials of the form V(x)= Ax^a + Bx^b
authors: P. Martin, A. De Freitas, E. Castro, J.L. Paz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2334
abstract: Analytic approximants for the eigenvalues of the one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation with potentials of the form $V(x)= Ax^a + Bx^b$ are found using a multi-point quasi-rational approximation technique. This technique is based on the use of the power series and asymptotic expansion of the eigenvalues in $\lambda=A^{-\frac{b+2}{a+2}}B$, as well as the expansion at intermediate points. These expansions are found through a system of differential equations. The approximants found are valid and accurate for any value of $\lambda$. As examples, the technique is applied to the quartic and sextic anharmonic oscillators.

id: 0810.2337
title: Non-Markovian Quantum Jump with Generalized Lindblad Master Equation
authors: X.L. Huang, H.Y. Sun, X.X. Yi
comments: 
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW E 78, 041107(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2337
abstract: The Monte Carlo wave function method or the quantum trajectory/jump approach is a powerful tool to study dissipative dynamics governed by the Markovian master equation, in particular for high-dimensional systems and when it is difficult to simulate directly. In this paper, we extend this method to the non-Markovian case described by the generalized Lindblad master equation. Two examples to illustrate the method are presented and discussed. The results show that the method can correctly reproduce the dissipative dynamics for the system. The difference between this method and the traditional Markovian jump approach and the computational efficiency of this method are also discussed.

id: 0810.2394
title: The statistical origins of quantum mechanics
authors: U.Klein
comments: slightly modified version, 24 pages, no figures
journal: Physics Research International, vol. 2010, Article ID 808424, http://www.hindawi.com/journals/phys/2010/808424.html
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2394
abstract: It is shown that Schroedinger's equation may be derived from three postulates. The first is a kind of statistical metamorphosis of classical mechanics, a set of two relations which are obtained from the canonical equations of particle mechanics by replacing all observables by statistical averages. The second is a local conservation law of probability with a probability current which takes the form of a gradient. The third is a principle of maximal disorder as realized by the requirement of minimal Fisher information. The rule for calculating expectation values is obtained from a fourth postulate, the requirement of energy conservation in the mean. The fact that all these basic relations of quantum theory may be derived from premises which are statistical in character is interpreted as a strong argument in favor of the statistical interpretation of quantum mechanics. The structures of quantum theory and classical statistical theories are compared and some fundamental differences are identified.

id: 0810.2399
title: Connecting spin and statistics in quantum mechanics
authors: Arthur Jabs
comments: 13 pages, Latex2e, considerably simplified version
journal: Found.Phys.40:776-792,2010; Erratum-Found.Phys.40:793-794,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2399
abstract: The spin-statistics connection is derived in a simple manner under the postulates that the original and the exchange wave functions are simply added, and that the azimuthal phase angle, which defines the orientation of the spin part of each single-particle spin-component eigenfunction in the plane normal to the spin-quantization axis, is exchanged along with the other parameters. The spin factor (-1)^2s belongs to the exchange wave function when this function is constructed so as to get the spinor ambiguity under control. This is achieved by effecting the exchange of the azimuthal angle by means of rotations and admitting only rotations in one sense. The procedure works in Galilean as well as in Lorentz-invariant quantum mechanics. Relativistic quantum field theory is not required.

id: 0810.2417
title: Quantum information transfer from spin to orbital angular momentum of photons
authors: Eleonora Nagali, Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini, Lorenzo Marrucci, Bruno Piccirillo, Ebrahim Karimi, Enrico Santamato
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 013601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2417
abstract: The optical "spin-orbit" coupling occurring in a suitably patterned nonuniform birefringent plate known as `q-plate' allows entangling the polarization of a single photon with its orbital angular momentum (OAM). This process, in turn, can be exploited for building a bidirectional "spin-OAM interface", capable of transposing the quantum information from the spin to the OAM degree of freedom of photons and \textit{vice versa}. Here, we experimentally demonstrate this process by single-photon quantum tomographic analysis. Moreover, we show that two-photon quantum correlations such as those resulting from coalescence interference can be successfully transferred into the OAM degree of freedom.

id: 0810.2435
title: Quantum boolean functions
authors: Ashley Montanaro, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 47 pages; v5: fixes previously corrupt file
journal: Chicago Journal of Theoretical Computer Science vol. 2010 no. 1 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2435
abstract: In this paper we introduce the study of quantum boolean functions, which are unitary operators f whose square is the identity: f^2 = I. We describe several generalisations of well-known results in the theory of boolean functions, including quantum property testing; a quantum version of the Goldreich-Levin algorithm for finding the large Fourier coefficients of boolean functions; and two quantum versions of a theorem of Friedgut, Kalai and Naor on the Fourier spectra of boolean functions. In order to obtain one of these generalisations, we prove a quantum extension of the hypercontractive inequality of Bonami, Gross and Beckner.

id: 0810.2444
title: High Performance Quantum Computing
authors: Simon J. Devitt, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 4 Pages, 2 Figures (figures are a little low-res due to arXiv file size limits)
journal: Progress in Informatics, No. 8, pp. 1-7, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2444
abstract: The architecture scalability afforded by recent proposals of a large scale photonic based quantum computer, utilizing the theoretical developments of topological cluster states and the photonic chip, allows us to move on to a discussion of massively scaled Quantum Information Processing (QIP). In this letter we introduce the model for a secure and unsecured topological cluster mainframe. We consider the quantum analogue of High Performance Computing, where a dedicated server farm is utilized by many users to run algorithms and share quantum data. The scaling structure of photonics based topological cluster computing leads to an attractive future for server based QIP, where dedicated mainframes can be constructed and/or expanded to serve an increasingly hungry user base with the ideal resource for individual quantum information processing.

id: 0810.2447
title: Stable Mode Sorting by Two-Dimensional Parity of Photonic Transverse Spatial States
authors: C.C. Leary, L.A. Baumgardner, M.G. Raymer
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures, 2 appendices
journal: Opt. Express 17, 2435-2452 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2447
abstract: We describe a mode sorter for two-dimensional parity of transverse spatial states of light based on an out-of-plane Sagnac interferometer. Both Hermite-Gauss (HG) and Laguerre-Gauss (LG) modes can be guided into one of two output ports according to the two-dimensional parity of the mode in question. Our interferometer sorts HG_nm input modes depending upon whether they have even or odd order n+m; it equivalently sorts LG modes depending upon whether they have an even or odd value of their orbital angular momentum. It functions efficiently at the single-photon level, and therefore can be used to sort single-photon states. Due to the inherent phase stability of this type of interferometer as compared to those of the Mach-Zehnder type, it provides a promising tool for the manipulation and filtering of higher order transverse spatial modes for the purposes of quantum information processing. For example, several similar Sagnacs cascaded together may allow, for the first time, a stable measurement of the orbital angular momentum of a true single-photon state. Furthermore, as an alternative to well-known holographic techniques, one can use the Sagnac in conjunction with a multi-mode fiber as a spatial mode filter, which can be used to produce spatial-mode entangled Bell states and heralded single photons in arbitrary first-order (n+m=1) spatial states, covering the entire Poincare sphere of first-order transverse modes.

id: 0810.2491
title: High-fidelity fast quantum transport with imperfect controls
authors: Michael Murphy, Liang Jiang, Navin Khaneja, Tommaso Calarco
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 020301(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2491
abstract: Effective transport of quantum information is an essential element of quantum computation. We consider the problem of transporting a quantum state by using a moving potential well, while maintaining the encoded quantum information. In particular, we look at a set of cases where the input control defining the position of the potential well is subject to different types of distortion, each of which is motivated by experimental considerations. We show that even under these conditions, we are able to perfectly transfer the quantum information non-adiabatically over any given distance.

id: 0810.2495
title: Three useful bounds in quantum mechanics - easily obtained by Wiener integration
authors: Hajo Leschke, Rainer Ruder
comments: To be published (in shortened and different form) by World Scientific in the proceedings of a conference on path integrals in Dresden 09/2007. Eds.: W. Janke and A. Pelster
journal: Path Integrals -- New Trends and Perspectives, eds. W. Janke and A. Pelster, World Scientific, Singapore 2008, ISBN-13 978-981-283-726-4, pp. 63-70
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2495
abstract: In a reasonably self-contained and explicit presentation we illustrate the efficiency of the Feynman-Kac formula for the rigorous derivation of three inequalities of interest in non-relativistic quantum mechanics.

id: 0810.2506
title: Universality in open system entanglement dynamics
authors: Markus Tiersch, Fernando de Melo, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; completely revised version, new figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 085301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2506
abstract: We show that the entanglement evolution of an open quantum system is the same for the vast majority of initial pure states, in the limit of large Hilbert space dimensions.

id: 0810.2524
title: Channel-Optimized Quantum Error Correction
authors: Soraya Taghavi, Robert L. Kosut, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: IEEE Trans. on Info. Theory 56, 1461 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2524
abstract: We develop a theory for finding quantum error correction (QEC) procedures which are optimized for given noise channels. Our theory accounts for uncertainties in the noise channel, against which our QEC procedures are robust. We demonstrate via numerical examples that our optimized QEC procedures always achieve a higher channel fidelity than the standard error correction method, which is agnostic about the specifics of the channel. This demonstrates the importance of channel characterization before QEC procedures are applied. Our main novel finding is that in the setting of a known noise channel the recovery ancillas are redundant for optimized quantum error correction. We show this using a general rank minimization heuristic and supporting numerical calculations. Therefore, one can further improve the fidelity by utilizing all the available ancillas in the encoding block.

id: 0810.2528
title: Parameterizing density matrices for composite quantum systems
authors: Erwin Bruening, Dariusz Chruscinski, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 10 pages
journal: Open Systems and Inf. Dynamics, 15, 397 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2528
abstract: A parametrization of density operators for bipartite quantum systems is proposed. It is based on the particular parametrization of the unitary group found recently by Jarlskog. It is expected that this parametrization will find interesting applications in the study of quantum properties of many partite systems.

id: 0810.2532
title: Exactly solvable model for the dynamics of two spin-1/2 particles embedded in separate spin star environments
authors: Yamen Hamdouni
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures; comments welcome
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 315301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2532
abstract: Exact analytical results for the dynamics of two interacting qubits each of which is embedded in its own spin star bath are presented. The time evolution of the concurrence and the purity of the two-qubit system is investigated for finite and infinite numbers of environmental spins. The effect of qubit-qubit interactions on the steady state of the central system is investigated

id: 0810.2542
title: Quantum computational webs
authors: D. Gross, J. Eisert
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, small errors corrected, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 040303(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2542
abstract: We introduce the notion of quantum computational webs: These are quantum states universal for measurement-based computation which can be built up from a collection of simple primitives. The primitive elements - reminiscent of building blocks in a construction kit - are (i) states on a one-dimensional chain of systems ("computational quantum wires") with the power to process one logical qubit and (ii) suitable couplings which connect the wires to a computationally universal "web". All elements are preparable by nearest-neighbor interactions in a single pass - a type of operation well-suited for a number of physical architectures. We provide a complete classification of qubit wires. This is first instance where a physically well-motivated class of universal resources can be fully understood. Finally, we sketch possible realizations in superlattices, and explore the power of coupling mechanisms based on Ising or exchange-interactions.

id: 0810.2545
title: The straw man of quantum physics
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: Two pages, PDF, in a magazine format, expanding on earlier published papers
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2545
abstract: The violation of Bell inequalities by experiment has convinced physicists that we cannot maintain a classical view of the world. When we argue against the possibility of local realist hidden-variable models, however, the ubiquitous requirement of realism, that "measurement results depend on pre-existing properties of objects that are independent of the measurement", reduces classical theory to a straw man. When our most successful physical theories have been field theories for well over a century, and probabilistic for almost as long, the proper comparison is between quantum fields and random fields, for which there are no sharply defined objects and no properties, so that realism is inapplicable. If we model quantum fluctuations explicitly, we can construct random field models as alternatives to quantum field models.

id: 0810.2564
title: Entanglement under the renormalization-group transformations on quantum states and in quantum phase transitions
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2564
abstract: We consider quantum states under the renormalization-group (RG) transformations introduced by Verstraete et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 140601 (2005)] and propose a quantification of entanglement under such RG (via the geometric measure of entanglement). We examine the resulting entanglement under RG for the ground states of "matrix-product-state" (MPS) Hamiltonians constructed by Wolf et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 110403 (2006)] that possess quantum phase transitions. We find that near critical points, the ground-state entanglement exhibits singular behavior. The singular behavior within finite steps of RG obeys a scaling hypothesis and reveals the correlation length exponent. However, under the infinite steps of RG transformation, the singular behavior is rendered different and is universal only when there is an underlying conformal-field-theory description of the critical point.

id: 0810.2574
title: Quantum stabilizer codes and beyond
authors: Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli
comments: Ph.D. Dissertation, Texas A&M University, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2574
abstract: The importance of quantum error correction in paving the way to build a practical quantum computer is no longer in doubt. This dissertation makes a threefold contribution to the mathematical theory of quantum error-correcting codes. Firstly, it extends the framework of an important class of quantum codes -- nonbinary stabilizer codes. It clarifies the connections of stabilizer codes to classical codes over quadratic extension fields, provides many new constructions of quantum codes, and develops further the theory of optimal quantum codes and punctured quantum codes. Secondly, it contributes to the theory of operator quantum error correcting codes also called as subsystem codes. These codes are expected to have efficient error recovery schemes than stabilizer codes. This dissertation develops a framework for study and analysis of subsystem codes using character theoretic methods. In particular, this work establishes a close link between subsystem codes and classical codes showing that the subsystem codes can be constructed from arbitrary classical codes. Thirdly, it seeks to exploit the knowledge of noise to design efficient quantum codes and considers more realistic channels than the commonly studied depolarizing channel. It gives systematic constructions of asymmetric quantum stabilizer codes that exploit the asymmetry of errors in certain quantum channels.

id: 0810.2582
title: States of an Ensemble of Two-Level Atoms with Reduced Quantum Uncertainty
authors: Monika H. Schleier-Smith, Ian D. Leroux, Vladan Vuleti?
comments: Letter (4 pages, 3 figures) followed by Auxiliary Material (10 pages, 6 figures). Minor changes in presentation and analysis of data. Significant expansion of Auxiliary Material. Broken images fixed
journal: M. H. Schleier-Smith, I. D. Leroux, and V. Vuletic, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 073604 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2582
abstract: We generate entangled states of an ensemble of 5*10^4 rubidium-87 atoms by optical quantum nondemolition measurement. The resonator-enhanced measurement leaves the atomic ensemble, prepared in a superposition of hyperfine clock levels, in a squeezed spin state. By comparing the resulting reduction of quantum projection noise (up to 8.8(8) dB) with the concomitant reduction of coherence, we demonstrate a clock input state with spectroscopic sensitivity 3.0(8) dB beyond the standard quantum limit.

id: 0810.2587
title: A photonic cluster state machine gun
authors: Netanel H. Lindner, Terry Rudolph
comments: Final version accepted to Physical Review Letters, includes the supplemtary material with some more detailed calculations
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 113602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2587
abstract: We present a method to convert certain single photon sources into devices capable of emitting large strings of photonic cluster state in a controlled and pulsed "on demand" manner. Such sources would greatly reduce the resources required to achieve linear optical quantum computation. Standard spin errors, such as dephasing, are shown to affect only 1 or 2 of the emitted photons at a time. This allows for the use of standard fault tolerance techniques, and shows that the photonic machine gun can be fired for arbitrarily long times. Using realistic parameters for current quantum dot sources, we conclude high entangled-photon emission rates are achievable, with Pauli-error rates per photon of less than 0.2%. For quantum dot sources the method has the added advantage of alleviating the problematic issues of obtaining identical photons from independent, non-identical quantum dots, and of exciton dephasing.

id: 0810.2589
title: Enhancement of Cavity Cooling of a Micromechanical Mirror Using Parametric Interactions
authors: Sumei Huang, G.S.Agarwal
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 013821 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2589
abstract: It is shown that an optical parametric amplifier inside a cavity can considerably improve the cooling of the micromechanical mirror by radiation pressure. The micromechanical mirror can be cooled from room temperature 300 K to sub-Kelvin temperatures, which is much lower than what is achievable in the absence of the parametric amplifier. Further if in case of a precooled mirror one can reach millikelvin temperatures starting with about 1 K. Our work demonstrates the fundamental dependence of radiation pressure effects on photon statistics.

id: 0810.2618
title: $¦Ö^{(3)}$ non-Gaussian state generation for light using a trapped ion
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, G. J. Milburn, Krzysztof W¨®dkiewicz
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2618
abstract: According to the Gottesmann-Knill theorem the non-Gaussian states are necessary component for a nontrivial quantum computation. We show two efficient and deterministic methods of $\chi^{(3)}$ non-Gaussian state generation for a cavity mode using a single trapped ion. Both require ion motional state transfer to the cavity field. The methods are experimentally feasible. The first is based on the well-known protocol for an ion finite motional superposition state generation. It allows for an arbitrary good approximation of $\chi^{(3)}$ non-Gaussian states. We give criteria based on the Wigner function which quantify the error resulting from the approximation. The second and novel method enables an exact non-Gaussian state generation using one laser pulse only.

id: 0810.2621
title: Odd- and even-order dispersion cancellation in quantum interferometry
authors: Olga Minaeva, Cristian Bonato, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, David S. Simon, Alexander V. Sergienko
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures (to appear in Physical Review Letters)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 100504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2621
abstract: We describe a novel effect involving odd-order dispersion cancellation. We demonstrate that odd- and even-order dispersion cancellation may be obtained in different regions of a single quantum interferogram using frequency-anticorrelated entangled photons and a new type of quantum interferometer. This offers new opportunities for quantum communication and metrology in dispersive media.

id: 0810.2635
title: Experimental asymmetric phase-covariant quantum cloning of polarization qubits
authors: Jan Soubusta, Lucie Bartuskova, Antonin Cernoch, Miloslav Dusek, Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2635
abstract: We report on two optical realizations of the $1 \to 2$ asymmetric phase-covariant cloning machines for polarization states of single photons. The experimental setups combine two-photon interference and tunable polarization filtering that enables us to control the asymmetry of the cloners. The first scheme involves a special unbalanced bulk beam splitter exhibiting different splitting ratios for vertical and horizontal polarizations, respectively. The second implemented scheme consists of a balanced fiber coupler where photon bunching occurs, followed by a free-space part with polarization filters. With this later approach we were able to demonstrate very high cloning fidelities which are above the universal cloning limit.

id: 0810.2642
title: Quantum Memory for Photons in Case of Many Close Lying Exciton Resonances in Solids
authors: A. D. Gazazyan, E. A. Gazazyan, A. G. Margaryan
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2642
abstract: The possibility of storage of quantum information with photons is studied in the case of resonant transitions via many close lying exciton levels in a solid with impurity Lambda-atoms. The upper levels of the impurity atom form resonant Fano states, similar to the autoionization atomic states, due to the configuration interaction with the continuum of the exciton band. In this case slowing of light pulses is shown to be realistic, in the presence of the control field, down to the group velocity much lower than that in vacuum. The possibility of storage and reconstruction of a quantum pulse is studied in the case of the instantaneous switching on/off of the control field. It is shown that the signal quantum pulse cannot be stored undistorted for differing values of Fano parameters and for non-zero two-photon detuning and decay rate between the lower levels (decoherence). However, for small difference of the Fano parameters and for small values of the two-photon detuning and the decoherence there is no distortion in the case where the length of the pulse is much longer than the linear absorption (amplification) length, so the shape and quantum state of the light pulse can be restored.

id: 0810.2647
title: Ion traps with enhanced optical and physical access
authors: Robert Maiwald, Dietrich Leibfried, Joe Britton, J. C. Bergquist, Gerd Leuchs, D. J. Wineland
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Corrections of some typos, application section expanded to account for reviewer comments
journal: Nature Physics 5, 551 - 554 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2647
abstract: Small, controllable, highly accessible quantum systems can serve as probes at the single quantum level to study multiple physical effects, for example in quantum optics or for electric and magnetic field sensing. The applicability of trapped atomic ions as probes is highly dependent on the measurement situation at hand and thus calls for specialized traps. Previous approaches for ion traps with enhanced optical access included traps consisting of a single ring electrode or two opposing endcap electrodes. Other possibilities are planar trap geometries, which have been investigated for Penning traps and rf-trap arrays. By not having the electrodes lie in a common plane the optical access in the latter cases can be substantially increased. Here, we discuss the fabrication and experimental characterization of a novel radio-frequency (rf) ion trap geometry. It has a relatively simple structure and provides largely unrestricted optical and physical access to the ion, of up to 96% of the total 4pi solid angle in one of the three traps tested. We also discuss potential applications in quantum optics and field sensing. As a force sensor, we estimate sensitivity to forces smaller than 1 yN Hz^(-1/2).

id: 0810.2657
title: Everett and the Born Rule
authors: Alastair I. M. Rae
comments: 22 pages 1 figure
journal: Studies in Hist Phil Modern Phys 40, 243-250 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2657
abstract: During the last ten years or so, derivations of the Born rule based on decision theory have been proposed and developed, and it is claimed that these are valid in the context of the Everett interpretation. This claim is critically assessed and it is shown that one of its key assumptions, although natural in the context of the Copenhagen interpretation, is not consistent with that of Everett. It is further argued that any interpretation that relates outcome likelihood to the expansion coefficients connecting the wavefunction with the eigenfunctions of the measurement operator must be inconsistent with the Everett interpretation.

id: 0810.2695
title: Canonical quantization of electromagnetic field in an anisotropic polarizable and magnetizable medium with spatial-temporal dispersion
authors: Majid Amooshahi
comments: 19 pages, No figure
journal: J. Math. phys. 50 (2009) 062301-14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2695
abstract: Modeling an anisotropic spatially and temporarily dispersive magnetodielectric medium by two independent collections of three dimensional vector fields, we demonstrate a fully canonical quantization of electromagnetic field in the presence of such a medium. Two tensor fields which couple the electromagnetic field with the medium and have an important role in this quantization method are introduced. The electric and magnetic polarization fields of the medium naturally are concluded in terms of the coupling tensors and the dynamical variables modeling the magnetodielectric medium. In Heisenberg picture, the constitutive equations of the medium together with the Maxwell laws are obtained as the equations of motion of the total system and the susceptibility tensors of the medium are calculated in terms of the coupling tensors. Following a perturbation method the Green function related to the total system is found and the time dependence of electromagnetic field operators is derived.

id: 0810.2705
title: Simple scheme for expanding a polarization-entangled W state by adding one photon
authors: Yan-Xiao Gong, Xu-Bo Zou, Yun-Feng Huang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 (2009) 035503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2705
abstract: We propose a simple scheme for expanding a polarization-entangled W state. By mixing a single photon and one of the photons in an n-photon W state at a polarization-dependent beam splitter (PDBS), we can obtain an (n+1)-photon W state after post-selection. Our scheme also opens the door for generating n-photon W states using single photons and linear optics.

id: 0810.2758
title: Optimal covariant measurements: the case of a compact symmetry group and phase observables
authors: Claudio Carmeli, Teiko Heinosaari, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??, Alessandro Toigo
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 145304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2758
abstract: We study various optimality criteria for quantum observables. Observables are represented as covariant positive operator valued measures and we consider the case when the symmetry group is compact. Phase observables are examined as an example.

id: 0810.2780
title: Universal quantum computation in a hidden basis
authors: Lawrence M. Ioannou, Michele Mosca
comments: final version
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 10, No. 7&8, 0541-0561 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2780
abstract: Let $\ket{\0}$ and $\ket{\1}$ be two states that are promised to come from known subsets of orthogonal subspaces, but are otherwise unknown. Our paper probes the question of what can be achieved with respect to the basis $\{\ket{\0},\ket{\1}}^{\otimes n}$ of $n$ logical qubits, given only a few copies of the unknown states $\ket{\0}$ and $\ket{\1}$. A phase-invariant operator is one that is unchanged under the relative phase-shift $\ket{\1} \mapsto e^{i \theta}\ket{\1}$, for any $\theta$, of all of the $n$ qubits. We show that phase-invariant unitary operators can be implemented exactly with no copies and that phase-invariant states can be prepared exactly with at most $n$ copies each of $\ket{\0}$ and $\ket{\1}$; we give an explicit algorithm for state preparation that is efficient for some classes of states (e.g. symmetric states). We conjecture that certain non-phase-invariant operations are impossible to perform accurately without many copies. Motivated by optical implementations of quantum computers, we define ``quantum computation in a hidden basis'' to mean executing a quantum algorithm with respect to the phase-shifted hidden basis $\{\ket{\0}, e^{i\theta}\ket{\1}\}$, for some potentially unknown $\theta$; we give an efficient approximation algorithm for this task, for which we introduce an analogue of a coherent state of light, which serves as a bounded quantum phase reference frame encoding $\theta$. Our motivation was quantum-public-key cryptography, however the techniques are general. We apply our results to quantum-public-key authentication protocols, by showing that a natural class of digital signature schemes for classical messages is insecure. We also give a protocol for identification that uses many of the ideas discussed and whose security relates to our conjecture (but we do not know if it is secure).

id: 0810.2783
title: Long-time Protection of Nonlocal Entanglement
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Advanced Science Letters 2, 459 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2783
abstract: We investigate how nonlocal entanglement, as identified by violations of a Bell inequality, may be protected during the evolution. Our system consists of two qubits each embedded in a bosonic reservoir evolving independently and initially in an entangled mixed state. We show that the violation of the Bell inequality can be related to the single-qubit population of excited state in such a way that, by appropriately choosing structured environments that give rise to sufficiently high values of population trapping, long-time protection of nonlocal entanglement can be correspondingly achieved.

id: 0810.2792
title: Raman spectroscopy of a single ion coupled to a high-finesse cavity
authors: C. Russo, H.G. Barros, A. Stute, F. Dubin, E.S. Phillips, T. Monz, T.E. Northup, C. Becher, T. Salzburger, H. Ritsch, P.O. Schmidt, R. Blatt
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2792
abstract: We describe an ion-based cavity-QED system in which the internal dynamics of an atom is coupled to the modes of an optical cavity by vacuum-stimulated Raman transitions. We observe Raman spectra for different excitation polarizations and find quantitative agreement with theoretical simulations. Residual motion of the ion introduces motional sidebands in the Raman spectrum and leads to ion delocalization. The system offers prospects for cavity-assisted resolved-sideband ground-state cooling and coherent manipulation of ions and photons.

id: 0810.2806
title: Multicomponent systems in the new quantum statistical approach
authors: V. A. Golovko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2806
abstract: The paper is devoted to further development of the new approach in equilibrium statistical mechanics the basis of which was worked out in a series of articles by the author. The approach proceeds on the use of a hierarchy of equations for reduced density matrices in the case of thermodynamic equilibrium. The present paper deals with a system containing particles of several kinds with arbitrary spin, for which the hierarchy obtained previously for a single-component system is generalized. Thermodynamics of the multicomponent system described by the hierarchy deduced is constructed as well.

id: 0810.2828
title: Spectral Effects of Fast Response Cross Kerr Non-Linearity on Quantum Gate
authors: P.M. Leung, T.C. Ralph, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2828
abstract: According to idealized models, a strong Kerr non-linearity may be used to build optical quantum gates for optical quantum information processing by inducing conditional phase shifts on quantum states. Recently, Shapiro (PRA 73, 062305 (2006)) argued that for a Kerr medium with non-instantaneous but fast response, essentially no phase shift is induced on two-single-photon input states, and thus a quantum gate build from such a medium cannot work. Here we show that a fast response Kerr medium induces some but very little phase shifts on a two-single-photon input state, and it is insufficient for high fidelity quantum computation. We point out that this is caused by the medium imparting spectral entanglement to the input photons. We further show that a way to circumvent this problem and achieve a high fidelity gate, is to engineer the dispersion properties of the medium to give a dominant spectral effect over the non-instantaneous response, in addition to satisfying a phase matching condition.

id: 0810.2838
title: Multi-setting Bell inequality for qudits
authors: Se-Wan Ji, Jinhyoung Lee, James Lim, Koji Nagata, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2838
abstract: We propose a generalized Bell inequality for two three-dimensional systems with three settings in each local measurement. It is shown that this inequality is maximally violated if local measurements are configured to be mutually unbiased and a composite state is maximally entangled. This feature is similar to Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality for two qubits but is in contrast with the two types of inequalities, Collins-Gisin-Linden-Massar-Popescu and Son-Lee-Kim, for high-dimensional systems. The generalization to aribitrary prime-dimensional systems is discussed.

id: 0810.2850
title: Local expansion of photonic W state using a polarization dependent beamsplitter
authors: Toshiyuki Tashima, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 023024 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2850
abstract: We propose a simple probabilistic optical gate to expand polarization entangled W states. The gate uses one polarization-dependent beamsplitter and a horizontally polarized single photon as an ancilla. The gate post-selectively expands $N$-photon W states to $(N+1)$-photon W states. A feasibility analysis considering the realistic experimental conditions show that the scheme is within the reach of the current quantum optical technologies.

id: 0810.2859
title: Quantum asymmetric cryptography with symmetric keys
authors: Fei Gao, Qiao-Yan Wen, Su-Juan Qin, Fu-Chen Zhu
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, Revtex4
journal: Sci. China Ser. G, 2009, 52(12): 1925-1931
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2859
abstract: Based on quantum encryption, we present a new idea for quantum public-key cryptography (QPKC) and construct a whole theoretical framework of a QPKC system. We show that the quantum-mechanical nature renders it feasible and reasonable to use symmetric keys in such a scheme, which is quite different from that in conventional public-key cryptography. The security of our scheme is analyzed and some features are discussed. Furthermore, the state-estimation attack to a prior QPKC scheme is demonstrated.

id: 0810.2860
title: The Schrodinger-Chetaev Equation in Bohmian Quantum Mechanics and Diffusion Mechanism for Alpha Decay, Cluster Radioactivity and Spontaneous Fission
authors: V.D. Rusov, S. Cht. Mavrodiev, M.A. Deliyergiyev
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures; tables and formulas corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2860
abstract: In the framework of Bohmian quantum mechanics supplemented with the Chetaev theorem on stable trajectories in dynamics in the presence of dissipative forces we have shown the possibility of the classical (without tunneling) universal description of radioactive decay of heavy nuclei, in which under certain conditions so called noise-induced transition is generated or, in other words, the stochastic channel of alpha decay, cluster radioactivity and spontaneous fission conditioned by the Kramers diffusion mechanism. Based on the ENSDF database we have found the parametrized solutions of the Kramers equation of Langevin type by Alexandrov dynamic auto-regularization method (FORTRAN program REGN-Dubna). These solutions describe with high-accuracy the dependence of the half-life (decay probability) of heavy radioactive nuclei on total kinetic energy of daughter decay products. The verification of inverse problem solution in the framework of the universal Kramers description of the alpha decay, cluster radioactivity and spontaneous fission, which was based on the newest experimental data of alpha-decay of even-even super heavy nuclei (Z=114, 116, 118) have shown the good coincidence of the experimental and theoretical half-life depend upon of alpha-decay energy.

id: 0810.2866
title: Coupling strength estimation for spin chains despite restricted access
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Koji Maruyama, Franco Nori
comments: improved version with additional reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 020305(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2866
abstract: Quantum control requires full knowledge of the system many-body Hamiltonian. In many cases this information is not directly available due to restricted access to the system. Here we show how to indirectly estimate all the coupling strengths in a spin chain by measuring one spin at the end of the chain. We also discuss the efficiency of this "quantum inverse problem" and give a numerical example.

id: 0810.2871
title: Measurements and Mathematical Formalism of Quantum Mechanics
authors: D.A.Slavnov
comments: 42 pages, no figores
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2871
abstract: A scheme for constructing quantum mechanics is given that does not have Hilbert space and linear operators as its basic elements. Instead, a version of algebraic approach is considered. Elements of a noncommutative algebra (observables) and functionals on this algebra (elementary states) associated with results of single measurements are used as primary components of the scheme. On the one hand, it is possible to use within the scheme the formalism of the standard (Kolmogorov) probability theory, and, on the other hand, it is possible to reproduce the mathematical formalism of standard quantum mechanics, and to study the limits of its applicability. A short outline is given of the necessary material from the theory of algebras and probability theory. It is described how the mathematical scheme of the paper agrees with the theory of quantum measurements, and avoids quantum paradoxes.

id: 0810.2882
title: Bell-inequality test of spatial mode entanglement of a single massive particle
authors: Libby Heaney, Janet Anders
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Version two has been accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032104 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2882
abstract: Experiments showing the violation of Bell inequalities have formed our belief that the world at its smallest is genuinely non-local. While many non-locality experiments use the first quantised picture, the physics of fields of indistinguishable particles, such as bosonic gases, is captured most conveniently by second quantisation. This implies the possibility of non-local correlations, such as entanglement, between modes of the field. In this paper we propose an experimental scheme that tests the theoretically predicted entanglement between modes in space occupied by massive bosons. Moreover, the implementation of the proposed scheme is capable of proving that the particle number superselection rule is not a fundamental necessity of quantum theory but a consequence of not possessing a distinguished reference frame.

id: 0810.2912
title: Entanglement, Berry Phases, and Level Crossings for the Atomic Breit-Rabi Hamiltonian
authors: Sangchul Oh, Zhen Huang, Uri Peskin, Sabre Kais
comments: 5 figures, submitted to a journal
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062106 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2912
abstract: The relation between level crossings, entanglement, and Berry phases is investigated for the Breit-Rabi Hamiltonian of hydrogen and sodium atoms, describing a hyperfine interaction of electron and nuclear spins in a magnetic field. It is shown that the entanglement between nuclear and electron spins is maximum at avoided crossings. An entangled state encircling avoided crossings acquires a marginal Berry phase of a subsystem like an instantaneous eigenstate moving around real crossings accumulates a Berry phase. Especially, the nodal points of a marginal Berry phase correspond to the avoided crossing points.

id: 0810.2913
title: Effective Hamiltonian Approach to Open Systems and Its Applications
authors: X. L. Huang, X. X. Yi, Chunfeng Wu, X. L. Feng, S. X. Yu, C. H. OH
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: PRA 78,062114(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2913
abstract: By using the effective Hamiltonian approach, we present a self-consistent framework for the analysis of geometric phases and dynamically stable decoherence-free subspaces in open systems. Comparisons to the earlier works are made. This effective Hamiltonian approach is then extended to a non-Markovian case with the generalized Lindblad master equation. Based on this extended effective Hamiltonian approach, the non-Markovian master equation describing a dissipative two-level system is solved, an adiabatic evolution is defined and the corresponding adiabatic condition is given.

id: 0810.2918
title: Spectroscopy of Superradiant scattering from an array of Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Xu Xu, Xiaoji Zhou, Xuzong Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2918
abstract: We theoretically study the superradiant gain and the direction of this coherent radiant for an array of Bose-Einstein condensates in an optical lattice. We find that the density grating is formed to amplify the scattering light within the phase match condition. The scattering spectroscopy in the momentum space can provide a method for measuring the overlap of wavefunction between the neighboring sites, which is related to their inner-site and inter-site coherence.

id: 0810.2936
title: Manipulating sudden death of entanglement of two-qubit X-states in thermal reservoirs
authors: Mazhar Ali, G. Alber, A. R. P. Rau
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Title and abstract are slightly modified
journal: J. Phys. B 42, 025501 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2936
abstract: Manipulation of sudden death of entanglement (ESD) of two qubits interacting with statistically uncorrelated thermal reservoirs is investigated. It is shown that for initially prepared X-states of the two qubits a simple (necessary and sufficient) criterion for ESD can be derived with the help of the Peres-Horodecki criterion. This criterion implies that, in contrast to the zero-temperature case, at finite temperature of at least one of the reservoirs all initially prepared two-qubit X-states exhibit ESD. General conditions are derived under which ESD can be hastened, delayed, or averted.

id: 0810.2937
title: Quantum Random Access Codes with Shared Randomness
authors: Andris Ambainis, Debbie Leung, Laura Mancinska, Maris Ozols
comments: 51 pages, 33 figures. New sections added: 1.2, 3.5, 3.8.2, 5.4 (paper appears to be shorter because of smaller margins). Submitted as M.Math thesis at University of Waterloo by MO
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2937
abstract: We consider a communication method, where the sender encodes n classical bits into 1 qubit and sends it to the receiver who performs a certain measurement depending on which of the initial bits must be recovered. This procedure is called (n,1,p) quantum random access code (QRAC) where p > 1/2 is its success probability. It is known that (2,1,0.85) and (3,1,0.79) QRACs (with no classical counterparts) exist and that (4,1,p) QRAC with p > 1/2 is not possible. We extend this model with shared randomness (SR) that is accessible to both parties. Then (n,1,p) QRAC with SR and p > 1/2 exists for any n > 0. We give an upper bound on its success probability (the known (2,1,0.85) and (3,1,0.79) QRACs match this upper bound). We discuss some particular constructions for several small values of n. We also study the classical counterpart of this model where n bits are encoded into 1 bit instead of 1 qubit and SR is used. We give an optimal construction for such codes and find their success probability exactly--it is less than in the quantum case. Interactive 3D quantum random access codes are available on-line at this http URL .

id: 0810.2943
title: Adaptive quantum teleportation
authors: Joanna Modlawska, Andrzej Grudka
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 064302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2943
abstract: We consider multiple teleportation in the Knill-Laflamme-Milburn (KLM) scheme. We introduce adaptive teleportation, i.e., such that the choice of entangled state used in the next teleportation depends on the results of the measurements performed during the previous teleportations. We show that adaptive teleportation enables an increase in the probability of faithful multiple teleportation in the KLM scheme. In particular if a qubit is to be teleported more than once then it is better to use nonmaximally entangled states than maximally entangled ones in order to achieve the highest probability of faithful teleportation.

id: 0810.2960
title: Observation of collective excitation of two individual atoms in the Rydberg blockade regime
authors: A. Ga?tan, Y. Miroshnychenko, T. Wilk, A. Chotia, M. Viteau, D. Comparat, P. Pillet, A. Browaeys, P. Grangier
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 5, 115 - 118 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2960
abstract: The dipole blockade between Rydberg atoms has been proposed as a basic tool in quantum information processing with neutral atoms. Here we demonstrate experimentally the Rydberg blockade of two individual atoms separated by 4 $\mu$m. Moreover, we show that, in this regime, the single atom excitation is enhanced by a collective two-atom behavior associated with the excitation of an entangled state. This observation is a crucial step towards the deterministic manipulation of entanglement of two or more atoms using the Rydberg dipole interaction.

id: 0810.3016
title: Nilpotent quantum mechanics, qubits, and flavors of entanglement
authors: Andrzej M. Frydryszak
comments: 50 pages, 3 tables, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3016
abstract: We address the question of description of qubit system in a formalism based on the nilpotent commuting variables. In this formalism qubits exhibit properties of composite objects being subject of the Pauli exclusion principle, but otherwise behaving boson-like. They are not fundamental particles. In such an approach the classical limit yields the nilpotent mechanics. Using the space of $\eta$-wavefunctions, generalized Schr\"{o}dinger equation etc. we study properties of pure qubit systems and also properties of some composed, hybrid models: fermion-qubit, boson-qubit. The fermion-qubit system can be truly supersymmetric, with both SUSY partners having identical spectra. It is new and very interesting that SUSY transformations relate here only nilpotent object. The $\eta$-eigenfunctions for the qubit-qubit system give the set of Bloch vectors as a natural basis. Then the $\eta$-formalism is applied to the description of the pure state entanglement. Nilpotent commuting variables were firstly used in this context in [A. Mandilara, et. al., Phys. Rev. A \textbf{74}, 022331 (2006)], we generalize and extend approach presented there. Our main tool for study the entanglement or separability of states are Wronskians of $\eta$-functions. The known invariants and entanglement monotones for systems of $n=2,3,4$ qubits are expressed in terms of the Wronskians. This approach gives criteria for separability of states and insight into the flavor of entanglement of the system and simplifies description.

id: 0810.3050
title: Entanglement evolution of two remote and non-identical Jaynes-Cummings atoms
authors: S. Chan, M.D. Reid, Z. Ficek
comments: 26 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3050
abstract: A detailed treatment of the entanglement dynamics of two distant but non-identical systems is presented. We study the entanglement evolution of two remote atoms interacting independently with a cavity field, as in the double Jaynes-Cummings (JC) model. The four-qubit pairwise concurrences are studied, allowing for asymmetric atom-cavity couplings and off-resonant ineractions. Counter to intuition, imperfect matching can prove advantageous to entanglement creation and evolution. For two types of initial entanglement, corresponding to spin correlated and anti-correlated Bell states \Phi and \Psi, a full, periodic and directed transfer of entanglement into a specific qubit pair is possible, for resonant interactions, depending on the choice of relative couplings. Furthermore, entanglement transfer and sudden death (ESD) can be prevented using off-resonant interactions, although for some initial states, detunings will trigger an otherwise frozen entanglement, to allow a full entanglement transfer. We confirm a conservation rule governing the pairwise entanglement between the non-interacting systems, that for the initial state \Psi the sum of the square of these concurrences (SSC) is conserved. For \Phi, the total SSC is reduced periodically, even to zero in some cases, to reveal a complete and abrupt loss of all non-local pairwise entanglement.

id: 0810.3062
title: Non-local PT-symmetric potentials in the one-dimensional Dirac equation
authors: Francesco Cannata, Alberto Ventura
comments: 30 pages, 3 figures, to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 505305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3062
abstract: The Dirac equation in (1+1) dimensions with a non-local PT-symmetric potential of separable type is studied by means of the Green function method: properties of bound and scattering states are derived in full detail and numerical results are shown for a potential kernel of Yamaguchi type, inspired by the treatment of low-energy nucleon-nucleon interaction.

id: 0810.3211
title: Realization schemes for quantum instruments in finite dimensions
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 22 pages, no figures, published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 042101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3211
abstract: We present a general dilation scheme for quantum instruments with continuous outcome space in finite dimensions, in terms of an indirect POVM measurement performed on a finite dimensional ancilla. The general result is then applied to a large class of instruments generated by operator frames, which contains group-covariant instruments as a particular case, and allows to construct dilation schemes based on a measurement on the ancilla followed by a conditional feed-forward operation on the output. In the case of tight operator frames our construction generalizes quantum teleportation and telecloning, producing a whole family of generalized teleportation schemes in which the instrument is realized via a joint POVM at the sender combined with a conditional feed-forward operation at the receiver.

id: 0810.3243
title: Comment on "Thermal Lifshitz force between an atom and a conductor with a small density of carriers"
authors: B. Geyer, G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure; minor revisions are made in accordance with the text accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. v. 102, 189301 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3243
abstract: We demonstrate that the generalization of the Lifshitz theory proposed by L. P. Pitaevskii arXiv:0801.0656 [Phys. Rev. Lett. v.101, 163202 (2008)] violates the Nernst heat theorem for many dielectric materials and is experimentally inconsistent.

id: 0810.3244
title: Comment on "Contribution of drifting carriers to the Casimir-Lifshitz and Casimir-Polder interactions with semiconductor materials"
authors: R. S. Decca, E. Fischbach, B. Geyer, G. L. Klimchitskaya, D. E. Krause, D. Lopez, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure; minor revisions are made in accordance with the text accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. v.102, 189303 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3244
abstract: Recently D. A. R. Dalvit and S. K. Lamoreaux arXiv:0805.1676 [Phys. Rev. Lett. v.101, 163203 (2008)] suggested the modification of the reflection coefficients in the Lifshitz theory taking into account the screening effects and diffusion currents. We demonstrate that the suggested modification is thermodynamically and experimentally inconsistent.

id: 0810.3272
title: Modelling superradiant amplification of Casimir photons in very low dissipation cavities
authors: J.H. Brownell, W.J. Kim, R. Onofrio
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 164026
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3272
abstract: Recent advances in nanotechnology and atomic physics may allow for a demonstration of the dynamical Casimir effect. An array of film bulk acoustic resonators (FBARs) coherently driven at twice the resonant frequency of a high-quality electromagnetic cavity can generate a stationary state of Casimir photons. These are detected using an alkali atom beam prepared in an inverted population of hyperfine states, with an induced superradiant burst producing a detectable radio-frequency signal. We describe here the results of the simulations of the dynamics of superradiance and superfluorescence, with the aim to optimize the parameters for the detectability of Casimir photons. When the superradiant lifetime is shorter than the dissipation time, we find superradiant evolution to be similar in character but dramatically slower than in the usual lossy case.

id: 0810.3368
title: Mutual transformation among bound, virtual and resonance states in one-dimensional rectangular potentials
authors: M. Kawasaki, T. Maehara, M. Yonezawa
comments: 12 pages, 2 Fig's (each has 6 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3368
abstract: A detailed analysis has been made by R.Zavin and N.Moiseyev(2004 J. Phys. A: Math, Gen, \textbf{37} 4619) for the change of bound states into resonance states via coalescence of virtual states in a one-dimensional symmetric rectangular attractive potential as it becomes shallow, with convergent wave functions of virtual and resonance states by the complex scaling method. As a complement to such an analysis, we discuss some global features of the pole spectrum of the S-matrix by using a complex extension of the real potential $V^{(\mathrm{real})}$ to $e^{i\alpha}V^{(\mathrm{real})}$ with a real phase $\alpha$. We show the structures of trajectories of poles developed for the change of $\alpha$ in the complex momentum plane, which is useful to understand the mutual transformation among the bound, virtual and resonance states.

id: 0810.3380
title: Group theoretical study of LOCC-detection of maximally entangled state using hypothesis testing
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 11 No 4, 043028 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3380
abstract: In the asymptotic setting, the optimal test for hypotheses testing of the maximally entangled state is derived under several locality conditions for measurements. The optimal test is obtained in several cases with the asymptotic framework as well as the finite-sample framework. In addition, the experimental scheme for the optimal test is presented.

id: 0810.3381
title: Discrete realization of group symmetric LOCC-detection of maximally entangled state
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3381
abstract: Group symmetric LOCC measurement for detecting maximally entangled state is considered. Usually, this type measurement has continuous-valued outcomes. However, any realizable measurement has finite-valued outcomes. This paper proposes discrete realizations of such a group symmetric LOCC measurement.

id: 0810.3382
title: An approach to construct wave packets with complete classical-quantum correspondence in non-relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Pouria Pedram
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures, to appear in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48 (2009) 1848
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3382
abstract: We introduce a method to construct wave packets with complete classical and quantum correspondence in one-dimensional non-relativistic quantum mechanics. First, we consider two similar oscillators with equal total energy. In classical domain, we can easily solve this model and obtain the trajectories in the space of variables. This picture in the quantum level is equivalent with a hyperbolic partial differential equation which gives us a freedom for choosing the initial wave function and its initial slope. By taking advantage of this freedom, we propose a method to choose an appropriate initial condition which is independent from the form of the oscillators. We then construct the wave packets for some cases and show that these wave packets closely follow the whole classical trajectories and peak on them. Moreover, we use de-Broglie Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics to quantify this correspondence and show that the resulting Bohmian trajectories are also in a complete agreement with their classical counterparts.

id: 0810.3446
title: Sharing a quantum secret without a trusted party
authors: Qin Li, Dong-Yang Long, W.H. Chan, Dao-Wen Qiu
comments: some contens changed, 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3446
abstract: In a conventional quantum (k,n) threshold scheme, a trusted party shares a secret quantum state with n participants such that any k of those participants can cooperate to recover the original secret, while fewer than k participants obtain no information about the secret. In this paper we show how to construct a quantum (k,n) threshold scheme without the assistance of a trusted party, who generates and distributes shares among the participants. Instead, each participant chooses his private state and contributes the same to the determination of the final secret quantum state.

id: 0810.3478
title: Generalized relative entropies and the capacity of classical-quantum channels
authors: Milan Mosonyi, Nilanjana Datta
comments: Published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 072104 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3478
abstract: We provide lower and upper bounds on the information transmission capacity of one single use of a classical-quantum channel. The lower bound is expressed in terms of the Hoeffding capacity, that we define similarly to the Holevo capacity, but replacing the relative entropy with the Hoeffding distance. Similarly, our upper bound is in terms of a quantity obtained by replacing the relative entropy with the recently introduced max-relative entropy in the definition of the divergence radius of a channel.

id: 0810.3480
title: Scalar Casimir-Polder forces for uniaxial corrugations
authors: Babette D?brich, Maarten DeKieviet, Holger Gies
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures
journal: PhysRevD.78.125022, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3480
abstract: We investigate the Dirichlet-scalar equivalent of Casimir-Polder forces between an atom and a surface with arbitrary uniaxial corrugations. The complexity of the problem can be reduced to a one-dimensional Green's function equation along the corrugation which can be solved numerically. Our technique is fully nonperturbative in the height profile of the corrugation. We present explicit results for experimentally relevant sinusoidal and sawtooth corrugations. Parameterizing the deviations from the planar limit in terms of an anomalous dimension which measures the power-law deviation from the planar case, we observe up to order-one anomalous dimensions at small and intermediate scales and a universal regime at larger distances. This large-distance universality can be understood from the fact that the relevant fluctuations average over corrugation structures smaller than the atom-wall distance.

id: 0810.3521
title: Avoided crossing resonances: structural and dynamical aspects
authors: I. Lizuain, E. Hernandez-Concepcion, J. G. Muga
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 065602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3521
abstract: We examine structural and dynamical properties of quantum resonances associated with an avoided crossing and identify the parameter shifts where these properties attain maximal or extreme values, first at a general level, and then for a two-level system coupled to a harmonic oscillator, of the type commonly found in quantum optics. Finally the results obtained are exemplified and applied to optimize the fidelity and speed of quantum gates in trapped ions.

id: 0810.3536
title: Guide to Mathematical Concepts of Quantum Theory
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Mario Ziman
comments: 188 pages. Extension of lecture notes from a course that the authors gave in 2007/08 in Research Center for Quantum Information, Bratislava
journal: Acta Physica Slovaca 58, 487--674 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3536
abstract: Quantum Theory is one of the pillars of modern science developed over the last hundred years. In this review paper we introduce, step by step, the quantum theory understood as a mathematical model describing quantum experiments. We start with splitting the experiment into two parts: a preparation process and a measurement process leading to a registration of a particular outcome. These two ingredients of the experiment are represented by states and effects, respectively. Further, the whole picture of quantum measurement will be developed and concepts of observables, instruments and measurement models representing the three different descriptions on experiments will be introduced. In the second stage, we enrich the model of the experiment by introducing the concept of quantum channel describing the system changes between preparations and measurements. At the very end we review the elementary properties of quantum entanglement. The text contains many examples and exercise covering also many topics from quantum information theory and quantum measurement theory. The goal is to give a mathematically clear and self-containing explanation of the main concepts of the modern language of quantum theory.

id: 0810.3545
title: Mesoscopic atomic entanglement for precision measurements beyond the standard quantum limit
authors: J. Appel, P.J. Windpassinger, D. Oblak, U.B. Hoff, N. Kjaergaard, E.S. Polzik
comments: 6 pages+suppl, PNAS format
journal: PNAS (7/2009) vol. 106 no. 27 10960-10965
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3545
abstract: Squeezing of quantum fluctuations by means of entanglement is a well recognized goal in the field of quantum information science and precision measurements. In particular, squeezing the fluctuations via entanglement between two-level atoms can improve the precision of sensing, clocks, metrology, and spectroscopy. Here, we demonstrate 3.4 dB of metrologically relevant squeezing and entanglement for ~ 10^5 cold cesium atoms via a quantum nondemolition (QND) measurement on the atom clock levels. We show that there is an optimal degree of decoherence induced by the quantum measurement which maximizes the generated entanglement. A two-color QND scheme used in this paper is shown to have a number of advantages for entanglement generation as compared to a single color QND measurement.

id: 0810.3557
title: Quantum Self-Correcting Stabilizer Codes
authors: Alastair Kay, Roger Colbeck
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3557
abstract: In this paper, we explicitly construct (Abelian) anyonic excitations of arbitrary stabilizer Hamiltonians which are local on a 2D lattice of qubits. This leads directly to the conclusion that, in the presence of local thermal noise, such systems cannot be used for the fault-tolerant storage of quantum information by self-correction i.e. they are ruled out as candidates for a `quantum hard drive'. We suggest that in 3D, the same construction leads to an argument that self-correction is impossible.

id: 0810.3608
title: Phase boundaries in deterministic dense coding
authors: Michael R. Beran, Scott M. Cohen
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 79, 032307 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3608
abstract: We consider dense coding with partially entangled states on bipartite systems of dimension $d\times d$, studying the conditions under which a given number of messages, $N$, can be deterministically transmitted. It is known that the largest Schmidt coefficient, $\lambda_0$, must obey the bound $\lambda_0\le d/N$, and considerable empirical evidence points to the conclusion that there exist states satisfying $\lambda_0=d/N$ for every $d$ and $N$ except the special cases $N=d+1$ and $N=d^2-1$. We provide additional conditions under which this bound cannot be reached -- that is, when it must be that $\lambda_0<d/N$ -- yielding insight into the shapes of boundaries separating entangled states that allow $N$ messages from those that allow only $N-1$. We also show that these conclusions hold no matter what operations are used for the encoding, and in so doing, identify circumstances under which unitary encoding is strictly better than non-unitary.

id: 0810.3647
title: Exact quantum lower bound for Grover's problem
authors: Catalin Dohotaru, Peter Hoyer
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 9(5-6): 533 - 540, 1 May 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3647
abstract: One of the most important quantum algorithms ever discovered is Grover's algorithm for searching an unordered set. We give a new lower bound in the query model which proves that Grover's algorithm is exactly optimal. Similar to existing methods for proving lower bounds, we bound the amount of information we can gain from a single oracle query, but we bound this information in terms of angles. This allows our proof to be simple, self-contained, based on only elementary mathematics, capturing our intuition, while obtaining at the same an exact bound.

id: 0810.3695
title: An Efficient Quantum Algorithm for the Hidden Subgroup Problem over Weyl-Heisenberg Groups
authors: Hari Krovi, Martin Roetteler
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: Proceedings of Mathematical Methods in Computer Science, (MMICS'08), pp.70-88, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3695
abstract: Many exponential speedups that have been achieved in quantum computing are obtained via hidden subgroup problems (HSPs). We show that the HSP over Weyl-Heisenberg groups can be solved efficiently on a quantum computer. These groups are well-known in physics and play an important role in the theory of quantum error-correcting codes. Our algorithm is based on non-commutative Fourier analysis of coset states which are quantum states that arise from a given black-box function. We use Clebsch-Gordan decompositions to combine and reduce tensor products of irreducible representations. Furthermore, we use a new technique of changing labels of irreducible representations to obtain low-dimensional irreducible representations in the decomposition process. A feature of the presented algorithm is that in each iteration of the algorithm the quantum computer operates on two coset states simultaneously. This is an improvement over the previously best known quantum algorithm for these groups which required four coset states.

id: 0810.3710
title: Insights into classical irreversible computation using quantum information concepts
authors: Berry Groisman
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3710
abstract: The method of using concepts and insight from quantum information theory in order to solve problems in reversible classical computing (introduced in Ref. [1]) have been generalized to irreversible classical computing. The method have been successfully tested on two computational tasks. Several basic logic gates have been analyzed and the nonlocal content of the associate quantum transformations have been calculated. The results provide us with new interesting insight into the notion of complexity of logic operations.

id: 0810.3750
title: No quantum friction between uniformly moving plates
authors: T.G. Philbin, U. Leonhardt
comments: 17 pages. Final, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 033035
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3750
abstract: The Casimir forces between two plates moving parallel to each other are found by calculating the vacuum electromagnetic stress tensor. The perpendicular force between the plates is modified by the motion but there is no lateral force on the plates. Electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations do not therefore give rise to "quantum friction" in this case, contrary to previous assertions. The result shows that the Casimir-Polder force on a particle moving at constant speed parallel to a plate also has no lateral component.

id: 0810.3773
title: Electromagnetic radiation and resonance phenomena in quantum mechanics
authors: V. A. Golovko
comments: Two examples of nonstationary states of a hydrogen atom and a paragraph in Sec. 6 added; the text slightly rewritten
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3773
abstract: It is demonstrated that, if one remains in the framework of quantum mechanics taken alone, stationary states (energy eigenstates) are in no way singled out with respect to nonstationary ones, and moreover the stationary states would be difficult if possible to realize in practice. Owing to the nonstationary states any quantum system can absorb or emit energy in arbitrary continuous amounts. The peculiarity of the stationary states appears only if electromagnetic radiation that must always accompany nonstationary processes in real systems is taken into account. On the other hand, when the quantum system absorbs or emits energy in the form of a wave the determining role is played by resonance interaction of the system with the wave. Here again the stationary states manifest themselves. These facts and influence of the resonator upon the incident wave enable one to explain all effects ascribed to manifestation of the corpuscular properties of light (the photoelectric effect, the Compton effect etc.) solely on a base of the wave concept of light.

id: 0810.3785
title: Quantum control theory for coupled 2-electron dynamics in quantum dots
authors: R. Nepstad, L. S?len, I. Degani, J.P. Hansen
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3785
abstract: We investigate optimal control strategies for state to state transitions in a model of a quantum dot molecule containing two active strongly interacting electrons. The Schrodinger equation is solved nonperturbatively in conjunction with several quantum control strategies. This results in optimized electric pulses in the THz regime which can populate combinations of states with very short transition times. The speedup compared to intuitively constructed pulses is an order of magnitude. We furthermore make use of optimized pulse control in the simulation of an experimental preparation of the molecular quantum dot system. It is shown that exclusive population of certain excited states leads to a complete suppression of spin dephasing, as was indicated in Nepstad et al. [Phys. Rev. B 77, 125315 (2008)].

id: 0810.3814
title: Incoherent Control of Locally Controllable Quantum Systems
authors: Daoyi Dong, Chenbin Zhang, Herschel Rabitz, Alexander Pechen, Tzyh-Jong Tarn
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures, Latex
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics, Vol.129, p.154103, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3814
abstract: An incoherent control scheme for state control of locally controllable quantum systems is proposed. This scheme includes three steps: (1) amplitude amplification of the initial state by a suitable unitary transformation, (2) projective measurement on the amplified state, and (3) final optimization by a unitary controlled transformation. The first step increases the amplitudes of some desired eigenstates and the corresponding probability of observing these eigenstates, the second step projects, with high probability, the amplified state into a desired eigenstate, and the last step steers this eigenstate into the target state. Within this scheme, two control algorithms are presented for two classes of quantum systems. As an example, the incoherent control scheme is applied to the control of a hydrogen atom by an external field. The results support the suggestion that projective measurements can serve as an effective control and local controllability information can be used to design control laws for quantum systems. Thus, this scheme establishes a subtle connection between control design and controllability analysis of quantum systems and provides an effective engineering approach for controlling quantum systems with partial controllability information.

id: 0810.3826
title: Stage analysis of delayed-choice and quantum eraser experiments
authors: George Jaroszkiewicz
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3826
abstract: Delayed choice and quantum eraser experiments have attracted much interest recently, both theoretically and experimentally. In particular, they have prompted suggestions that quantum mechanics involves acausal effects. Using a recently developed approach which takes apparatus into account, we present a detailed analysis of various double-slit experiments to show that this is never the case. Instead, quantum experiments can be described in terms of a novel concept of time called stages. These can cut across the conventional linear time parameter as experienced in the laboratory and appear to violate causality.

id: 0810.3828
title: Quantum reinforcement learning
authors: Daoyi Dong, Chunlin Chen, Hanxiong Li, Tzyh-Jong Tarn
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures, Latex
journal: IEEE Transactions on Systems Man and Cybernetics Part B: Cybernetics, Vol. 38, No. 5, pp.1207-1220, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3828
abstract: The key approaches for machine learning, especially learning in unknown probabilistic environments are new representations and computation mechanisms. In this paper, a novel quantum reinforcement learning (QRL) method is proposed by combining quantum theory and reinforcement learning (RL). Inspired by the state superposition principle and quantum parallelism, a framework of value updating algorithm is introduced. The state (action) in traditional RL is identified as the eigen state (eigen action) in QRL. The state (action) set can be represented with a quantum superposition state and the eigen state (eigen action) can be obtained by randomly observing the simulated quantum state according to the collapse postulate of quantum measurement. The probability of the eigen action is determined by the probability amplitude, which is parallelly updated according to rewards. Some related characteristics of QRL such as convergence, optimality and balancing between exploration and exploitation are also analyzed, which shows that this approach makes a good tradeoff between exploration and exploitation using the probability amplitude and can speed up learning through the quantum parallelism. To evaluate the performance and practicability of QRL, several simulated experiments are given and the results demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of QRL algorithm for some complex problems. The present work is also an effective exploration on the application of quantum computation to artificial intelligence.

id: 0810.3832
title: Addendum to "Experimental demonstration of a quantum protocol for Byzantine agreement and liar detection" arXiv:0710.0290
authors: Sascha Gaertner, Mohamed Bourennane, Christian Kurtsiefer, Adan Cabello, Harald Weinfurter
comments: REVTeX4, 2 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101 (2008) 208902
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3832
abstract: Gao et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 208901 (2008)] have described a possible intercept-resend attack for the quantum protocol for detectable Byzantine agreement in Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 070504 (2008). Here we describe an extension of the protocol which defeats such attacks.

id: 0810.3841
title: Quantum micro-mechanics with ultracold atoms
authors: Thierry Botter, Daniel Brooks, Subhadeep Gupta, Zhao-Yuan Ma, Kevin L. Moore, Kater W. Murch, Tom P. Purdy, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: Proceedings of International Conference on Atomic Physics (ICAP) 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3841
abstract: In many experiments isolated atoms and ions have been inserted into high-finesse optical resonators for the study of fundamental quantum optics and quantum information. Here, we introduce another application of such a system, as the realization of cavity optomechanics where the collective motion of an atomic ensemble serves the role of a moveable optical element in an optical resonator. Compared with other optomechanical systems, such as those incorporating nanofabricated cantilevers or the large cavity mirrors of gravitational observatories, our cold-atom realization offers direct access to the quantum regime. We describe experimental investigations of optomechanical effects, such as the bistability of collective atomic motion and the first quantification of measurement backaction for a macroscopic object, and discuss future directions for this nascent field.

id: 0810.3843
title: Approximating Fractional Time Quantum Evolution
authors: L. Sheridan, D. Maslov, M. Mosca
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 185302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3843
abstract: An algorithm is presented for approximating arbitrary powers of a black box unitary operation, $\mathcal{U}^t$, where $t$ is a real number, and $\mathcal{U}$ is a black box implementing an unknown unitary. The complexity of this algorithm is calculated in terms of the number of calls to the black box, the errors in the approximation, and a certain `gap' parameter. For general $\mathcal{U}$ and large $t$, one should apply $\mathcal{U}$ a total of $\lfloor t \rfloor$ times followed by our procedure for approximating the fractional power $\mathcal{U}^{t-\lfloor t \rfloor}$. An example is also given where for large integers $t$ this method is more efficient than direct application of $t$ copies of $\mathcal{U}$. Further applications and related algorithms are also discussed.

id: 0810.3893
title: On Wigner functions and a damped star product in dissipative phase-space quantum mechanics
authors: B. Belchev, M.A. Walton
comments: 19 pages, no figures, accepted by Annals of Physics
journal: Ann. Phys. 324 (2009) 670-681
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3893
abstract: Dito and Turrubiates recently introduced an interesting model of the dissipative quantum mechanics of a damped harmonic oscillator in phase space. Its key ingredient is a non-Hermitian deformation of the Moyal star product with the damping constant as deformation parameter. We compare the Dito-Turrubiates scheme with phase-space quantum mechanics (or deformation quantization) based on other star products, and extend it to incorporate Wigner functions. The deformed (or damped) star product is related to a complex Hamiltonian, and so necessitates a modified equation of motion involving complex conjugation. We find that with this change the Wigner function satisfies the classical equation of motion. This seems appropriate since non-dissipative systems with quadratic Hamiltonians share this property.

id: 0810.3927
title: Two-Qubit Separabilities as Piecewise Continuous Functions of Maximal Concurrence. II--The Relevance of Dyson Indices
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3927
abstract: We importantly amend a certain parenthetical remark made in Part I (arXiv:0806.3294), to the effect that although two-qubit diagonal-entry-parameterized separability functions had been shown (arXiv:0704.3723) to clearly conform to a pattern dictated by the "Dyson indices" (beta = 1 [real], 2 [complex], 4 [quaternionic]) of random matrix theory, this did not appear to be the case with regard to eigenvalue-parameterized separability functions (ESFs). But upon further examination of the extensive numerical analyses reported in Part I, we find quite convincing evidence that adherence to the Dyson-index pattern does also hold for ESFs, at least as regards the upper half-range 1/2 <= C <= 1 of the maximal concurrence over spectral orbits, C. To be specific, it strongly appears that in this upper half-range, the real two-qubit ESF is simply proportional to (2-2 C)^(3/2), and its complex counterpart--in conformity to the Dyson-index pattern--proportional to the square of the real ESF, that is, (2-2 C)^3. The previously documented piecewise continuous ("semilinear") behavior in the lower half-range still appears, however, to lack any particular Dyson-index-related interpretation.

id: 0810.3928
title: Nuclear quadrupole resonances in compact vapor cells: the crossover from the NMR to the NQR interaction regimes
authors: E.A. Donley, J.L. Long, T.C. Liebisch, E.R. Hodby, T.A. Fisher, J. Kitching
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3928
abstract: We present the first experimental study that maps the transformation of nuclear quadrupole resonances from the pure nuclear quadrupole regime to the quadrupole-perturbed Zeeman regime. The transformation presents an interesting quantum-mechanical problem, since the quantization axis changes from being aligned along the axis of the electric-field gradient tensor to being aligned along the magnetic field. We achieve large nuclear quadrupole shifts for I = 3/2 131-Xe by using a 1 mm^3 cubic cell with walls of different materials. When the magnetic and quadrupolar interactions are of comparable size, perturbation theory is not suitable for calculating the transition energies. Rather than use perturbation theory, we compare our data to theoretical calculations using a Liouvillian approach and find excellent agreement.

id: 0810.3986
title: A New Interpretation of Two-Photon Entangled Experiments via Quantum Mirrors
authors: D. B. Ion, P. Constantin, M.L. Ion
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Romanian Journal of Physics, Vol. 45 (2000), Nos. 1-2, P. 3-14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3986
abstract: In this paper the coherence and crossing symmetry of the electromagnetic interaction of photons involved in the spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) phenomena in nonlinear crystals, are investigated. On this basis a new interpretation of the recent results on the two photon entangled experiment is obtained. A new field of applications is suggested.

id: 0810.4005
title: Erasing Distinguishability Using Quantum Frequency Up-Conversion
authors: Hiroki Takesue
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 173901 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4005
abstract: The frequency distinguishability of two single photons was successfully erased using single photon frequency up-conversion. A frequency non-degenerate photon pair generated via spontaneous four-wave mixing in a dispersion shifted fiber was used to emulate two telecom-band single photons that were in the same temporal mode but in different frequency modes. The frequencies of these photons were converted to the same frequency by using the sum frequency generation process in periodically poled lithium niobate waveguides, while maintaining their temporal indistinguishability. As a result, the two converted photons exhibited a non-classical dip in a Hong-Ou-Mandel quantum interference experiment. The present scheme will add flexibility to networking quantum information systems that use photons with various wavelengths.

id: 0810.4026
title: Light statistics by non-calibrated linear photodetectors
authors: Maria Bondani, Alessia Allevi, Alessandra Andreoni
comments: submitted to the special issue "Tests of foundations of Quantum Mechanics" of "Advanced Science Letters"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4026
abstract: We theoretically demonstrate that detectors endowed with internal gain and operated in regimes in which they do not necessarily behave as photon-counters, but still ensure linear input/output responses, can allow a self-consistent characterization of the statistics of the number of detected photons without need of knowing their gain. We present experiments performed with a photo-emissive hybrid detector on a number of classical fields endowed with non-trivial statistics and show that the method works for both microscopic and mesoscopic photon numbers. The obtained detected-photon probability distributions agree with those expected for the photon numbers, which are also reconstructed by an independent method.

id: 0810.4045
title: Quantum hypothesis testing and sufficient subalgebras
authors: Anna Jencova
comments: 12 pages
journal: Lett. Math. Phys 93 (2010), 15
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4045
abstract: We introduce a new notion of a sufficient subalgebra for quantum states: a subalgebra is 2- sufficient for a pair of states $\{\rho_0,\rho_1\}$ if it contains all Bayes optimal tests of $\rho_0$ against $\rho_1$. In classical statistics, this corresponds to the usual definition of sufficiency. We show this correspondence in the quantum setting for some special cases. Furthermore, we show that sufficiency is equivalent to 2 - sufficiency, if the latter is required for $\{\rho_0^{\otimes n},\rho_1^{\otimes}\}$, for all $n$.

id: 0810.4052
title: Coherent Exciton Dynamics and Trapping in Topologically Disordered Systems
authors: Oliver Muelken, Alexander Blumen
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physica E 42, 576 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4052
abstract: We analyze the coherent dynamics of excitons in three dimensional topologically disordered networks with traps. If the interactions between the nodes of the network are long ranged, i.e., algebraically decaying as a function of the distance between the nodes, the average survival probability of an exciton surprisingly shows a characteristic decay with features similar to the decay found for regular one-dimensional systems. We further show how this decay can be related to the eigenstates of the same system without a trap.

id: 0810.4055
title: Self-consistent characterization of light statistics
authors: Maria Bondani, Alessia Allevi, Andrea Agliati, Alessandra Andreoni
comments: To be published in "Journal of Modern Optics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4055
abstract: We demonstrate the possibility of a self-consistent characterization of the photon-number statistics of a light field by using photoemissive detectors with internal gain simply endowed with linear input/output responses. The method can be applied to both microscopic and mesoscopic photon-number regimes. The detectors must operate in the linear range without need of photon-counting capabilities.

id: 0810.4063
title: Demonstration of a bright and compact source of tripartite nonclassical light
authors: Alessia Allevi, Maria Bondani, Matteo G. A. Paris, Alessandra Andreoni
comments: submitted to "Physical Review A"
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78 063801 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4063
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the nonclassical photon number correlations expected in tripartite continuous variable states obtained by parametric processes. Our scheme involves a single nonlinear crystal, where two interlinked parametric interactions take place simultaneously, and represents a bright and compact source of a sub-shot-noise tripartite light field. We analyze the effects of the pump intensities on the numbers of detected photons and on the amount of noise reduction in some details, thus demonstrating a good agreement between the experimental data and a single-mode theoretical description.

id: 0810.4069
title: Optimizing H1 cavities for the generation of entangled photon pairs
authors: Matthieu Larqu¨¦, Timothy Karle, Isabelle Robert-Philip, Alexios Beveratos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4069
abstract: We report on the theoretical investigation of photonic crystal cavities etched on a suspended membrane for the generation of polarization entangled photon pairs using the biexciton cascade in a single quantum dot. The implementation of spontaneous emission enhancement effect increases the entanglement visibility, while the concomitant preferential funneling of the emission in the cavity mode increases the collection of both entangled photons. We demonstrate and quantify that standard cavity designs present a polarization dependent emission diagram, detrimental to entanglement. The optimization of H1 cavities allows to obtain both high collection efficiencies and polarization independent emission, while keeping high Purcell factors necessary for high quality entangled photon sources.

id: 0810.4093
title: Entanglement dynamics of a two-particle scattering in pulsed sinusoidal potentials
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Andrea Bertoni
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4093
abstract: We study by means of time-dependent numerical simulations the behavior of the entanglement stemming from the Coulomb scattering between two charged particles subject to a pulse of sinusoidal potential. We show that the splitting of the spatial wavefunction brought about by the interaction with the potential pulse plays a key role in the appearance of quantum correlation, thus leading under specific conditions to a peculiar behavior. The dependence of the final entanglement upon the physical parameters describing the pulse is discussed. Our results can be applied to a number of physical systems, such as electron-electron scattering in semiconductors or cold-ions dynamics in external fields.

id: 0810.4106
title: How can one probe Podolsky Electrodynamics?
authors: R. R. Cuzinatto, C. A. M. de Melo, L. G. Medeiros, P. J. Pompeia
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A, v. 26, p. 3641-3651, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4106
abstract: We investigate the possibility of detecting the Podolsky generalized electrodynamics constant $a$. First we analyze an ion interferometry apparatus proposed by B. Neyenhuis, et al (Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, (2007) 200401) who looked for deviations from Coulomb's inverse-square law in the context of Proca model. Our results show that this experiment has not enough precision for measurements of $a$. In order to set up bounds for $a$ we investigate the influence of Podolsky's electrostatic potential on the ground state of the Hydrogen atom. The value of the ground state energy of the Hydrogen atom requires Podolsky's constant to be smaller than 5.6 fm, or in energy scales larger than 35.51 MeV.

id: 0810.4206
title: Quantum Optomechanics with Single Atom
authors: Yue Chang, H. Ian, C. P. Sun
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 (2009) 215502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4206
abstract: The recently increasing explorations for cavity optomechanical coupling assisted by a single atom or an atomic ensemble have opened an experimentally accessible fashion to interface quantum optics and nano (micro) -mechanical systems. In this paper, we study in details such composite quantum dynamics of photon, phonon and atoms, specified by the triple coupling, which only exists in this triple hybrid system: The cavity QED system with a movable end mirror. We exactly diagonalize the Hamiltonian of the triple hybrid system under the parametric resonance condition. We find that, with the rotating-wave approximation, the hybrid system is modeled by a generalized spin-orbit coupling where the orbital angular momentum operator is defined through a Jordan-Schwinger realization with two bosonic modes, corresponding to the mirror oscillation and the single mode photon of the cavity. In the quasi-classical limit of very large angular momentum, this system will behave like a standard cavity-QED system described by the Jaynes-Cummings model as the angular momentum operators are transformed to bosonic operators of a single mode. We test this observation with an experimentally accessible system with the atom in the cavity with a moving mirror.

id: 0810.4209
title: Quantum Limits and Robustness of Nonlinear Intracavity Absorption Spectroscopy
authors: John K. Stockton, Ari K. Tuchman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4209
abstract: We investigate the limits of intracavity absorption spectroscopy with nonlinear media. Using a common theoretical framework, we compare the detection of a trace gas within an undriven cavity with gain near and above threshold, a driven cavity with gain kept just below threshold, and a cavity driven close to the saturation point of a saturable absorber. These phase-transition-based metrology methods are typically quantum-limited by spontaneous emission, and we compare them to the empty cavity shotnoise-limited case. Although the fundamental limits achievable with nonlinear media do not surpass the empty cavity limits, we show that nonlinear methods are more robust against certain technical noise models. This recognition may have applications in spectrometer design for devices operating in non-ideal field environments.

id: 0810.4219
title: Noiseless Quantum Transmission of Information via Aharonov - Bohm Effect
authors: Jian-Zu Zhang
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4219
abstract: The possibility of quantum transmission of information via the induced fractional angular momentum by the Aharonov - Bohm vector potential is revealed. Its special advantage is that it is noiseless: Stray magnetic fields of environments influence the energy spectrum of the ion, but cannot contribute the fractional angular momentum to cause noise.

id: 0810.4229
title: Experimental joint weak measurement on a photon pair as a probe of Hardy's Paradox
authors: J. S. Lundeen, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:020404,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4229
abstract: It has been proposed that the ability to perform joint weak measurements on post-selected systems would allow us to study quantum paradoxes. These measurements can investigate the history of those particles that contribute to the paradoxical outcome. Here, we experimentally perform weak measurements of joint (i.e. nonlocal) observables. In an implementation of Hardy's Paradox, we weakly measure the locations of two photons, the subject of the conflicting statements behind the Paradox. Remarkably, the resulting weak probabilities verify all these statements but, at the same time, resolve the Paradox.

id: 0810.4258
title: Molecules as Sources for Indistinguishable Single Photons
authors: V. Ahtee, R. Lettow, R. Pfab, A. Renn, E. Ikonen, S. G?tzinger, V. Sandoghdar
comments: Accepted for publication in J. Mod. Opt. This is the original submitted version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4258
abstract: We report on the triggered generation of indistinguishable photons by solid-state single-photon sources in two separate cryogenic laser scanning microscopes. Organic fluorescent molecules were used as emitters and investigated by means of high resolution laser spectroscopy. Continuous-wave photon correlation measurements on individual molecules proved the isolation of single quantum systems. By using frequency selective pulsed excitation of the molecule and efficient spectral filtering of its emission, we produced triggered Fourier-limited single photons. In a further step, local electric fields were applied to match the emission wavelengths of two different molecules via Stark effect. Identical single photons are indispensible for the realization of various quantum information processing schemes proposed. The solid-state approach presented here prepares the way towards the integration of multiple bright sources of single photons on a single chip.

id: 0810.4281
title: Thermal non-equilibrium effects in quantum reflection
authors: Viola Druzhinina, Marcel Mudrich, Florian Arnecke, Javier Madronero, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032714 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4281
abstract: We show that the quantum reflection coefficient of ultracold heavy atoms scattering off a dielectric surface can be tuned in a wide range by suitable choice of surface and environment temperatures. This effect results from a temperature dependent long-range repulsive part of the van der Waals-Casimir-Polder-Lifshitz atom-surface interaction potential.

id: 0810.4302
title: Comparative study of semiclassical approaches to quantum dynamics
authors: G.Schubert, V.S. Filinov, K. Matyash, R. Schneider, H. Fehske
comments: 32 pages, 8 figures, corrected typos and added references; version as published
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C, Vol. 20, 1155 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4302
abstract: Quantum states can be described equivalently by density matrices, Wigner functions or quantum tomograms. We analyze the accuracy and performance of three related semiclassical approaches to quantum dynamics, in particular with respect to their numerical implementation. As test cases, we consider the time evolution of Gaussian wave packets in different one-dimensional geometries, whereby tunneling, resonance and anharmonicity effects are taken into account. The results and methods are benchmarked against an exact quantum mechanical treatment of the system, which is based on a highly efficient Chebyshev expansion technique of the time evolution operator.

id: 0810.4317
title: Gaussian wave packets in phase space: The Fermi g_F function
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giuliano Strini
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, remarks added
journal: Am. J. Phys. 77, 546 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4317
abstract: Any pure quantum state can be equivalently represented by means of its wave function psi(q) or of the Fermi function g_F(q,p), with q and p coordinates and conjugate momenta of the system under investigation.We show that a Gaussian wave packet can be conveniently visualized in phase space by means of the curve g_F(q,p)=0. The evolution in time of the g_F=0 curve is then computed for a Gaussian packet evolving freely or under a constant or a harmonic force. As a result, the spreading or shrinking of the packet is easily interpreted in phase space. Finally, we discuss a gedanken prism microscope experiment for measuring the position-momentum correlation. This gedanken experiment, together with the well-known Heisenberg microscope and von Neumann velocimeter, is sufficient to fully determine the state of a Gaussian packet.

id: 0810.4319
title: Non-locality of non-Abelian anyons
authors: G.K. Brennen, S. Iblisdir, J.K. Pachos, J.K. Slingerland
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 103023 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4319
abstract: Topological systems, such as fractional quantum Hall liquids, promise to successfully combat environmental decoherence while performing quantum computation. These highly correlated systems can support non-Abelian anyonic quasiparticles that can encode exotic entangled states. To reveal the non-local character of these encoded states we demonstrate the violation of suitable Bell inequalities. We provide an explicit recipe for the preparation, manipulation and measurement of the desired correlations for a large class of topological models. This proposal gives an operational measure of non-locality for anyonic states and it opens up the possibility to violate the Bell inequalities in quantum Hall liquids or spin lattices.

id: 0810.4331
title: Most quantum states are too entangled to be useful as computational resources
authors: D. Gross, S. Flammia, J. Eisert
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, replaced with final version to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett. (except for an appendix and an additional figure)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 190501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4331
abstract: It is often argued that entanglement is at the root of the speedup for quantum compared to classical computation, and that one needs a sufficient amount of entanglement for this speedup to be manifest. In measurement-based quantum computing (MBQC), the need for a highly entangled initial state is particularly obvious. Defying this intuition, we show that quantum states can be too entangled to be useful for the purpose of computation. We prove that this phenomenon occurs for a dramatic majority of all states: the fraction of useful n-qubit pure states is less than exp(-n^2). Computational universality is hence a rare property in quantum states. This work highlights a new aspect of the question concerning the role entanglement plays for quantum computational speed-ups. The statements remain true if one allows for certain forms of post-selection and also cover the notion of CQ-universality. We identify scale-invariant states resulting from a MERA construction as likely candidates for physically relevant states subject to this effect.

id: 0810.4335
title: Consistency of the Adiabatic Theorem
authors: M. H. S. Amin
comments: 4 pages, version to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 220401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4335
abstract: The adiabatic theorem provides the basis for the adiabatic model of quantum computation. Recently the conditions required for the adiabatic theorem to hold have become a subject of some controversy. Here we show that the reported violations of the adiabatic theorem all arise from resonant transitions between energy levels. In the absence of fast driven oscillations the traditional adiabatic theorem holds. Implications for adiabatic quantum computation is discussed.

id: 0810.4340
title: Upper bounds on fault tolerance thresholds of noisy Clifford-based quantum computers
authors: M. B. Plenio, S. Virmani
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 033012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4340
abstract: We consider the possibility of adding noise to a quantum circuit to make it efficiently simulatable classically. In previous works this approach has been used to derive upper bounds to fault tolerance thresholds - usually by identifying a privileged resource, such as an entangling gate or a non-Clifford operation, and then deriving the noise levels required to make it `unprivileged'. In this work we consider extensions of this approach where noise is added to Clifford gates too, and then `commuted' around until it concentrates on attacking the non-Clifford resource. While commuting noise around is not always straightforward, we find that easy instances can be identified in popular fault tolerance proposals, thereby enabling sharper upper bounds to be derived in these cases. For instance we find that if we take Knill's high threshold proposal together with the ability to prepare any possible state in the $XY$ plane of the Bloch sphere, then no more than 3.69% error-per-gate noise is sufficient to make it classical, and 13.71% of Knill's gamma noise model is sufficient. These bounds have been derived without noise being added to the decoding parts of the circuits. Introducing such noise in a toy example suggests that the present approach can be optimised further to yield tighter bounds.

id: 0810.4372
title: Factoring integers with Young's N-slit interferometer
authors: John F. Clauser, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A VOLUME 53, NUMBER 6 JUNE 1996 4587-4590
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4372
abstract: We show that a Young's N slit interferometer can be used to factor the integer N. The device could factor four- or five-digit numbers in a practical fashion. This work shows how number theory may arise in physical problems, and may provide some insight as to how quantum computers can carry out factoring problems by interferometric means.

id: 0810.4386
title: Weak and strong measurement of a qubit using a switching-based detector
authors: S. Ashhab, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 20 pages (two-column), 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032317 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4386
abstract: We analyze the operation of a switching-based detector that probes a qubit's observable that does not commute with the qubit's Hamiltonian, leading to a nontrivial interplay between the measurement and free-qubit dynamics. In order to obtain analytic results and develop intuitive understanding of the different possible regimes of operation, we use a theoretical model where the detector is a quantum two-level system that is constantly monitored by a macroscopic system. We analyze how to interpret the outcome of the measurement and how the state of the qubit evolves while it is being measured. We find that the answers to the above questions depend on the relation between the different parameters in the problem. In addition to the traditional strong-measurement regime, we identify a number of regimes associated with weak qubit-detector coupling. An incoherent detector whose switching time is measurable with high accuracy can provide high-fidelity information, but the measurement basis is determined only upon switching of the detector. An incoherent detector whose switching time can be known only with low accuracy provides a measurement in the qubit's energy eigenbasis with reduced measurement fidelity. A coherent detector measures the qubit in its energy eigenbasis and, under certain conditions, can provide high-fidelity information.

id: 0810.4388
title: Polarization and entanglement in spin systems
authors: G.B. Furman, V. M. Meerovich, V.L. Sokolovsky
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4388
abstract: We established important relationships between entanglement measures and the order parameter (spin polarization) in nuclear spin systems controlled by the nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) technique. Since spin polarization can be easily manipulated by the NMR technique, experimentalists are presented with an opportunity to study the dynamic properties of entanglement, i.e., the creation and evolution of entangled states. Our approach may constitute the basis for researching the relations between the entanglement measures and measurable parameters of order in other quantum systems.

id: 0810.4408
title: Experimental and theoretical challenges for the trapped electron quantum computer
authors: I. Marzoli, P. Tombesi, G. Ciaramicoli, G. Werth, P. Bushev, S. Stahl, F. Schmidt-Kaler, M. Hellwig, C. Henkel, G. Marx, I. Jex, E. Stachowska, G. Szawiola, A. Walaszyk
comments: 18 pages, 6 figure. Submitted to Quantum Information and Computation
journal: J. Phys. B 42 (2009) 154010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4408
abstract: We discuss quantum information processing with trapped electrons. After recalling the operation principle of planar Penning traps we sketch the experimental conditions to load, cool and detect single electrons. Here we present a detailed investigation of a scalable scheme including feasibility studies and the analysis of all important elements, relevant for the experimental stage. On the theoretical side, we discuss different methods to couple electron qubits. We estimate the relevant qubit coherence times and draw implications for the experimental setting. A critical assessment of quantum information processing with trapped electrons is concluding the article.

id: 0810.4418
title: Bases for spin systems and qudits from angular momentum theory
authors: Maurice R. Kibler
comments: 6 pages
journal: Communications in Nonlinear Science and Numerical Simulation 15 (2010) 752-763
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4418
abstract: Spin bases of relevance for quantum systems with cyclic symmetry as well as for quantum information and quantum computation are constructed from the theory of angular momentum. This approach is connected to the use of generalized Pauli matrices (in dimension d) arising from a polar decomposition of the group SU(2). Numerous examples are given for d=2, 3 and 4.

id: 0810.4452
title: Comment on: Testing the speed of 'spooky action at a distance'
authors: Johannes Kofler, Rupert Ursin, Caslav Brukner, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4452
abstract: In a recent experiment, Salart et al. addressed the important issues of the speed of hypothetical communication and of reference frames in Bell-type experiments. The authors report that they "performed a Bell experiment using entangled photons" and conclude from their experimental results that "to maintain an explanation based on spooky action at a distance we would have to assume that the spooky action propagates at speeds even greater than the bounds obtained in our experiment", exceeding the speed of light by orders of magnitude. Here we show that, analyzing the experimental procedure, explanations with subluminal or even no communication at all exist for the experiment.

id: 0810.4461
title: Hyperentanglement of two photons in three degrees of freedom
authors: G. Vallone, R. Ceccarelli, F. De Martini, P. Mataloni
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 030301(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4461
abstract: A 6-qubit hyperentangled state has been realized by entangling two photons in three degrees of freedom. These correspond to the polarization, the longitudinal momentum and the indistinguishable emission produced by a 2-crystal system operating with Type I phase matching in the spontaneous parametric down conversion regime. The state has been characterized by a chained interferometric apparatus and its complete entangled nature has been tested by a novel witness criterium specifically introduced for hyperentangled states. The experiment represents the first realization of a genuine hyperentangled state with the maximum entanglement between the two particles allowed in the given Hilbert space.

id: 0810.4486
title: Optical Lenses for Atomic Beams
authors: Ole Steuernagel
comments: 10 figures
journal: Phys Rev A, 79, 013421, (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4486
abstract: Superpositions of paraxial laser beam modes to generate atom-optical lenses based on the optical dipole force are investigated theoretically. Thin, wide, parabolic, cylindrical and circular atom lenses with numerical apertures much greater than those reported in the literature to date can be synthesized. This superposition approach promises to make high quality atom beam imaging and nano-deposition feasible.

id: 0810.4501
title: Dispersion and fidelity in quantum interferometry
authors: D.S. Simon, A.V. Sergienko, T.B. Bahder
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures. Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4501
abstract: We consider Mach-Zehnder and Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometers with nonclassical states of light as input, and study the effect that dispersion inside the interferometer has on the sensitivity of phase measurements. We study in detail a number of different one- and two-photon input states, including Fock, dual Fock, N00N states, and photon pairs from parametric downconversion. Assuming there is a phase shift $\phi_0$ in one arm of the interferometer, we compute the probabilities of measurement outcomes as a function of $\phi_0$, and then compute the Shannon mutual information between $\phi_0$ and the measurements. This provides a means of quantitatively comparing the utility of various input states for determining the phase in the presence of dispersion. In addition, we consider a simplified model of parametric downconversion for which probabilities can be explicitly computed analytically, and which serves as a limiting case of the more realistic downconversion model.

id: 0810.4507
title: Strong NP-Hardness of the Quantum Separability Problem
authors: Sevag Gharibian
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure. v5: Updated version to appear in Quantum Information & Computation. Includes additional details in proof of NP-hardness of determining whether a quantum channel is entanglement-breaking, as well as minor updates to improve readability throughout. Thank you to anonymous referees for their comments
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 10, No. 3&4, pp. 343-360, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4507
abstract: Given the density matrix rho of a bipartite quantum state, the quantum separability problem asks whether rho is entangled or separable. In 2003, Gurvits showed that this problem is NP-hard if rho is located within an inverse exponential (with respect to dimension) distance from the border of the set of separable quantum states. In this paper, we extend this NP-hardness to an inverse polynomial distance from the separable set. The result follows from a simple combination of works by Gurvits, Ioannou, and Liu. We apply our result to show (1) an immediate lower bound on the maximum distance between a bound entangled state and the separable set (assuming P != NP), and (2) NP-hardness for the problem of determining whether a completely positive trace-preserving linear map is entanglement-breaking.

id: 0810.4584
title: On thermalization in Kitaev's 2D model
authors: R. Alicki, M. Fannes, M. Horodecki
comments: 26 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 065303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4584
abstract: The thermalization process of the 2D Kitaev model is studied within the Markovian weak coupling approximation. It is shown that its largest relaxation time is bounded from above by a constant independent of the system size and proportional to $\exp(2\Delta/kT)$ where $\Delta$ is an energy gap over the 4-fold degenerate ground state. This means that the 2D Kitaev model is not an example of a memory, neither quantum nor classical.

id: 0810.4607
title: Reply to the "Comment on: Testing the speed of 'spooky action at a distance' "
authors: D. Salart, A. Baas, C. Branciard, N. Gisin, H. Zbinden
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4607
abstract: This is the reply to the comment arXiv:0810.4452 by Kofler, Ursin, Brukner, and Zeilinger.

id: 0810.4708
title: On von Neumann and Bell theorems applied to quantumness tests
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4708
abstract: The issues, raised in arXiv:0809.011, concerning the relevance of the von Neumann theorem for the single-system's quantumness test proposed in arXiv:0704.1962 and performed for the case of single photon polarization in arXiv:0804.1646, and the usefulness of Bell's inequality for testing the idea of macroscopic quantum systems are discussed in some details. Finally, the proper quantum mechanical description of the experiment with polarized photon beams is presented.

id: 0810.4772
title: Pairing in fermionic systems: A quantum information perspective
authors: Christina V. Kraus, Michael M. Wolf, J. Ignacio Cirac, Geza Giedke
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012306 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4772
abstract: The notion of "paired" fermions is central to important condensed matter phenomena such as superconductivity and superfluidity. While the concept is widely used and its physical meaning is clear there exists no systematic and mathematical theory of pairing which would allow to unambiguously characterize and systematically detect paired states. We propose a definition of pairing and develop methods for its detection and quantification applicable to current experimental setups. Pairing is shown to be a quantum correlation different from entanglement, giving further understanding in the structure of highly correlated quantum systems. In addition, we will show the resource character of paired states for precision metrology, proving that the BCS states allow phase measurements at the Heisenberg limit.

id: 0810.4785
title: Photon bunching in parametric down-conversion with continuous wave excitation
authors: Bibiane Blauensteiner, Isabelle Herbauts, Stefano Bettelli, Andreas Poppe, Hannes H¨¹bel
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, expanded introduction and experimental details added. Accepted for publication in Phys.Rev.A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 063846 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4785
abstract: The first direct measurement of photon bunching (g2 correlation function) in one output arm of a spontaneous-parametric-down-conversion source operated with a continuous pump laser in the single-photon regime is demonstrated. The result is in agreement with the statistics of a thermal field of the same coherence length, and shows the feasibility of investigating photon statistics with compact cw-pumped sources. Implications for entanglement-based quantum cryptography are discussed.

id: 0810.4825
title: Comment on "Bell Experiment with Genuine Energy-Time Entanglement" by Cabello et al.: Why Franson's Experiment Violates Local Realism
authors: Luiz Carlos Ryff
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4825
abstract: It is shown that the model introduced by Cabello et al. to criticize the Franson experiment suffers from the same weakness as the previous model introduced by Aerts et al. with the same purpose. It is also shown why we can assume with confidence that the Franson experiment does violate local realism.

id: 0810.4840
title: The Pursuit For Uniqueness: Extending Valiant-Vazirani Theorem to the Probabilistic and Quantum Settings
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Michael Ben-Or, Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Or Sattath
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4840
abstract: Valiant-Vazirani showed in 1985 that solving NP with the promise that "yes" instances have only one witness is powerful enough to solve the entire NP class (under randomized reductions). We are interested in extending this result to the quantum setting. We prove extensions to the classes Merlin-Arthur (MA) and Quantum-Classical-Merlin-Arthur (QCMA). Our results have implications on the complexity of approximating the ground state energy of a quantum local Hamiltonian with a unique ground state and an inverse polynomial spectral gap. We show that the estimation, to within polynomial accuracy, of the ground state energy of poly-gapped 1-D local Hamiltonians is QCMA-hard, under randomized reductions. This is in strong contrast to the case of constant gapped 1-D Hamiltonians, which is in NP. Moreover, it shows that unless QCMA can be reduced to NP by randomized reductions, there is no classical description of the ground state of every poly-gapped local Hamiltonian which allows the calculation of expectation values efficiently. Finally, we discuss a few obstacles towards establishing an analogous result to the class Quantum-Merlin-Arthur (QMA). In particular, we show that random projections fail to provide a polynomial gap between two witnesses.

id: 0810.4903
title: The direction of time in quantum field theory
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: Submitted to the FQXi essay contest, on the subject of The Nature of Time
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4903
abstract: The algebra of observables associated with a quantum field theory is invariant under the connected component of the Lorentz group and under parity reversal, but it is not invariant under time reversal. If we take general covariance seriously as a long-term goal, the algebra of observables should be time-reversal invariant, and any breaking of time-reversal symmetry will have to be described by the state over the algebra. In consequence, the modified algebra of observables is a presentation of a classical continuous random field.

id: 0810.4931
title: Continuity of quantum channel capacities
authors: Debbie Leung, Graeme Smith
comments: 12 pages, Revised according to referee's suggestions
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 292, 201-215 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4931
abstract: We prove that a broad array of capacities of a quantum channel are continuous. That is, two channels that are close with respect to the diamond norm have correspondingly similar communication capabilities. We first show that the classical capacity, quantum capacity, and private classical capacity are continuous, with the variation on arguments epsilon apart bounded by a simple function of epsilon and the channel's output dimension. Our main tool is an upper bound of the variation of output entropies of many copies of two nearby channels given the same initial state; the bound is linear in the number of copies. Our second proof is concerned with the quantum capacities in the presence of free backward or two-way public classical communication. These capacities are proved continuous on the interior of the set of non-zero capacity channels by considering mutual simulation between similar channels.

id: 0810.4953
title: Fault-tolerant quantum computation versus Gaussian noise
authors: Hui Khoon Ng, John Preskill
comments: 30 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032318 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4953
abstract: We study the robustness of a fault-tolerant quantum computer subject to Gaussian non-Markovian quantum noise, and we show that scalable quantum computation is possible if the noise power spectrum satisfies an appropriate "threshold condition." Our condition is less sensitive to very-high-frequency noise than previously derived threshold conditions for non-Markovian noise.

id: 0810.4968
title: Quantum Algorithms Using the Curvelet Transform
authors: Yi-Kai Liu
comments: 64 pages, 4 figures; improved algorithm and lower bound for finding the center of a radial function; revised presentation; to appear in STOC 2009
journal: Proc. ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC), pp.391-400, 2009.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4968
abstract: The curvelet transform is a directional wavelet transform over R^n, which is used to analyze functions that have singularities along smooth surfaces (Candes and Donoho, 2002). I demonstrate how this can lead to new quantum algorithms. I give an efficient implementation of a quantum curvelet transform, together with two applications: a single-shot measurement procedure for approximately finding the center of a ball in R^n, given a quantum-sample over the ball; and, a quantum algorithm for finding the center of a radial function over R^n, given oracle access to the function. I conjecture that these algorithms succeed with constant probability, using one quantum-sample and O(1) oracle queries, respectively, independent of the dimension n -- this can be interpreted as a quantum speed-up. To support this conjecture, I prove rigorous bounds on the distribution of probability mass for the continuous curvelet transform. This shows that the above algorithms work in an idealized "continuous" model.

id: 0810.4970
title: Quantum Coherence Effects in Four-level Diamond Atomic System
authors: Bao-Quan Ou, Lin-Mei Liang, Cheng-Zu Li
comments: 8pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4970
abstract: A symmetric four-level closed-loop $\diamondsuit$ type (the diamond structure) atomic system driven by four coherent optical fields is investigated. The system shows rich quantum interference and coherence features. When symmetry of the system is broken, interesting phenomena such as single and double dark resonances appear. As a result, the double electromagnetically induced transparency effect is generated, which will facilitate the implementation of quantum phase gate operation.

id: 0810.4974
title: Reality, locality and all that: "experimental metaphysics" and the quantum foundations
authors: Eric G. Cavalcanti
comments: PhD thesis, The University of Queensland. Awarded May 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4974
abstract: In recent decades there has been a resurge of interest in the foundations of quantum theory, partly motivated by new experimental techniques, partly by the emerging field of quantum information science. Old questions, asked since the seminal article by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR), are being revisited. The work of John Bell has changed the direction of investigation by recognising that those fundamental philosophical questions can have, after all, input from experiment. Abner Shimony has aptly termed this new field of enquiry "experimental metaphysics". The objective of this Thesis is to contribute to that body of research, by formalising old concepts, proposing new ones, and finding new results in well-studied areas. Without losing from sight that the appeal of experimental metaphysics comes from the adjective, every major result is followed by clear experimental proposals for quantum-atom optical setups.

id: 0810.4976
title: Realistic interpretation of entangled state: a defense and application to Hardy's experiment
authors: Boon Leong Lan
comments: 
journal: J. Russian Laser Research, 28, 489-493, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4976
abstract: Two criticisms which have prevented the realistic interpretation of entangled state from being widely accepted are addressed and shown to be unfounded. A local realistic theory, which reproduces all the quantum probabilistic predictions, is constructed for Hardy's experiment based on the realistic interpretation of the entangled two-particle Hardy state.

id: 0810.5034
title: Entanglement Dynamics in Two-Qubit Open System Interacting with a Squeezed Thermal Bath via Quantum Nondemolition interaction
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, V. Ravishankar, R. Srikanth
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures, REVTeX4
journal: European Physical Journal D 56, 277 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5034
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of entanglement in a two-qubit system interacting with an initially squeezed thermal environment via a quantum nondemolition system-reservoir interaction, with the system and reservoir assumed to be initially separable. We compare and contrast the decoherence of the two-qubit system in the case where the qubits are mutually close-by (`collective regime') or distant (`localized regime') with respect to the spatial variation of the environment. Sudden death of entanglement (as quantified by concurrence) is shown to occur in the localized case rather than in the collective case, where entanglement tends to `ring down'. A consequence of the QND character of the interaction is that the time-evolved fidelity of a Bell state never falls below $1/\sqrt{2}$, a fact that is useful for quantum communication applications like a quantum repeater. Using a novel quantification of mixed state entanglement, we show that there are noise regimes where even though entanglement vanishes, the state is still available for applications like NMR quantum computation, because of the presence of a pseudo-pure component.

id: 0810.5050
title: Vulnerability of "A novel protocol-authentication algorithm ruling out a man-in-the-middle attack in Quantum Cryptography"
authors: Aysajan Abidin, Jan-?ke Larsson
comments: 6 pages
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. Vol. 7, No. 5 (2009) 1047-1052
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5050
abstract: In this paper we review and comment on "A novel protocol-authentication algorithm ruling out a man-in-the-middle attack in quantum cryptography", [M. Peev et al., Int. J. Quant. Inform., 3, 225, (2005)]. In particular, we point out that the proposed primitive is not secure when used in a generic protocol, and needs additional authenticating properties of the surrounding quantum-cryptographic protocol.

id: 0810.5054
title: Multipartite entanglement control via Quantum Zeno Effect
authors: J. G. Oliveira Jr., R. Rossi Jr., M. C. Nemes
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, v. 08, p. 961, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5054
abstract: We develop a protocol based on 2M pairwise interacting qubits, which through Quantum Zeno Effect controls the entanglement distribution of the system. We also show that if the coupling constants are different the QZE may be used to achieve perfect entanglement swap.

id: 0810.5095
title: Intrinsic Quantum Noise in Faraday Rotation Measurements of a Single Electron Spin
authors: Yanjun Ma, Jeremy Levy
comments: 7 pages with 8 figures; make FIG 1 be color; add some labels in FIG 5 and FIG 6; change the content of the first paragraph of introduction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5095
abstract: Faraday rotation is one way to realize quantum non-demolition measurement of electron spin in quantum dots. To describe Faraday rotation, semiclassical models are typically used, based on quantized electron spin states and classical electromagnetic fields. Such treatments neglect the entanglement between electronic and photonic degrees of freedom that produce intrinsic quantum noise, limiting the ultimate sensitivity of this technique. We present a fully quantum-mechanical description of Faraday rotation, and quantify this intrinsic noise. A method for measuring the purity of a given spin state is suggested based on this analysis.

id: 0810.5108
title: C3, Semi-Clifford and Generalized Semi-Clifford Operations
authors: Salman Beigi, Peter W. Shor
comments: 17 pages, final version, to appear in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 10, 0041-0059 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5108
abstract: Fault-tolerant quantum computation is a basic problem in quantum computation, and teleportation is one of the main techniques in this theory. Using teleportation on stabilizer codes, the most well-known quantum codes, Pauli gates and Clifford operators can be applied fault-tolerantly. Indeed, this technique can be generalized for an extended set of gates, the so called ${\mathcal{C}}_k$ hierarchy gates, introduced by Gottesman and Chuang (Nature, 402, 390-392). ${\mathcal{C}}_k$ gates are a generalization of Clifford operators, but our knowledge of these sets is not as rich as our knowledge of Clifford gates. Zeng et al. in (Phys. Rev. A 77, 042313) raise the question of the relation between ${\mathcal{C}}_k$ hierarchy and the set of semi-Clifford and generalized semi-Clifford operators. They conjecture that any ${\mathcal{C}}_k$ gate is a generalized semi-Clifford operator. In this paper, we prove this conjecture for $k=3$. Using the techniques that we develop, we obtain more insight on how to characterize ${\mathcal{C}}_3$ gates. Indeed, the more we understand ${\mathcal{C}}_3$, the more intuition we have on ${\mathcal{C}}_k$, $k\geq 4$, and then we have a way of attacking the conjecture for larger $k$.

id: 0810.5109
title: NP vs QMA_log(2)
authors: Salman Beigi
comments: 10 pages. Thanks to referees, the main result is now stated in terms of 3-SAT instead of NP. Clearer proofs. To appear in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 10, 0141-0151 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5109
abstract: Although it is believed unlikely that $\NP$-hard problems admit efficient quantum algorithms, it has been shown that a quantum verifier can solve $\NP$-complete problems given a "short" quantum proof; more precisely, $\NP\subseteq \QMA_{\log}(2)$ where $\QMA_{\log}(2)$ denotes the class of quantum Merlin-Arthur games in which there are two unentangled provers who send two logarithmic size quantum witnesses to the verifier. The inclusion $\NP\subseteq \QMA_{\log}(2)$ has been proved by Blier and Tapp by stating a quantum Merlin-Arthur protocol for 3-coloring with perfect completeness and gap $\frac{1}{24n^6}$. Moreover, Aaronson {\it et al.} have shown the above inclusion with a constant gap by considering $\widetilde{O}(\sqrt{n})$ witnesses of logarithmic size. However, we still do not know if $\QMA_{\log}(2)$ with a constant gap contains $\NP$. In this paper, we show that 3-SAT admits a $\QMA_{\log}(2)$ protocol with the gap $\frac{1}{n^{3+\epsilon}}$ for every constant $\epsilon>0$.

id: 0810.5245
title: Entanglement of Electrons Field-Emitted from a Superconductor
authors: Kazuya Yuasa, Paolo Facchi, Rosario Fazio, Hiromichi Nakazato, Ichiro Ohba, Saverio Pascazio, Shuichi Tasaki
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79 (2009) 180503(R)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5245
abstract: Under appropriate circumstances the electrons emitted from a superconducting tip can be entangled. We analyze these nonlocal correlations by studying the coincidences of the field-emitted electrons and show that electrons emitted in opposite directions violate Bell's inequality. We scrutinize the interplay between the bosonic nature of Cooper pairs and the fermionic nature of electrons. We further discuss the feasibility of our analysis in the light of present experimental capabilities.

id: 0810.5272
title: Measurement Induced Quantum Coherence Recovery
authors: JinShi Xu, ChuanFeng Li, Ming Gong, XuBo Zou, Lei Chen, Geng Chen, JianShun Tang, GuangCan Guo
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 043010(9pp) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5272
abstract: We show that measurement can recover the quantum coherence of a qubit in a non-Markovian environment. The experimental demonstration in an optical system is provided by comparing the visibilities (and fidelities) of the final states with and without measurement. This method can be extended to other two-level quantum systems and entangled states in a non-Markovian evolution environment. It may also be used to implement other quantum information processing.

id: 0810.5294
title: When are quantum systems operationally independent?
authors: Miklos Redei, Stephen J. Summers
comments: minor changes; to appear in Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.49:3250-3261,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5294
abstract: We propose some formulations of the notion of "operational independence" of two subsystems of a larger quantum system and clarify their relation to other independence concepts in the literature. In addition, we indicate why the operational independence of quantum subsystems holds quite generally, both in nonrelativistic and relativistic quantum theory.

id: 0810.5317
title: Can quantum mechanics help distributed computing?
authors: Anne Broadbent, Alain Tapp
comments: 14 pages. Contains some new material
journal: ACM SIGACT News 39:67-76 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5317
abstract: We present a brief survey of results where quantum information processing is useful to solve distributed computation tasks. We describe problems that are impossible to solve using classical resources but that become feasible with the help of quantum mechanics. We also give examples where the use of quantum information significantly reduces the need for communication. The main focus of the survey is on communication complexity but we also address other distributed tasks.

id: 0810.5322
title: Entanglement Dynamics in Two-Qubit Open System Interacting with a Squeezed Thermal Bath via Dissipative interaction
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, V. Ravishankar, R. Srikanth
comments: This paper has been withdrawn as it has been superseded by 0901.0404
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5322
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn as it has been superseded by 0901.0404

id: 0810.5334
title: Quantum repeaters with imperfect memories: cost and scalability
authors: M. Razavi, M. Piani, N. Lutkenhaus
comments: Extended version with 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.5334
abstract: Memory dephasing and its impact on the rate of entanglement generation in quantum repeaters is addressed. For systems that rely on probabilistic schemes for entanglement distribution and connection, we estimate the maximum achievable rate per employed memory for our optimized partial nesting protocol. We show that, for any given distance $L$, the polynomial scaling of rate with distance can only be achieved if quantum memories with coherence times on the order of $L/c$ or longer, with $c$ being the speed of light in the channel, are available. The above rate degrades as a power of $\exp[-\sqrt{(L/c)/ \tau_c}]$ with distance when the coherence time $\tau_c \ll L/c$.

id: 0810.0079
title: Return of the quantum cosmic censor
authors: Shahar Hod
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.B668:346-349,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0079
abstract: The influential theorems of Hawking and Penrose demonstrate that spacetime singularities are ubiquitous features of general relativity, Einstein's theory of gravity. The utility of classical general relativity in describing gravitational phenomena is maintained by the cosmic censorship principle. This conjecture, whose validity is still one of the most important open questions in general relativity, asserts that the undesirable spacetime singularities are always hidden inside of black holes. In this Letter we reanalyze extreme situations which have been considered as counterexamples to the cosmic censorship hypothesis. In particular, we consider the absorption of fermion particles by a spinning black hole. Ignoring quantum effects may lead one to conclude that an incident fermion wave may over spin the black hole, thereby exposing its inner singularity to distant observers. However, we show that when quantum effects are properly taken into account, the integrity of the black-hole event horizon is irrefutable. This observation suggests that the cosmic censorship principle is intrinsically a quantum phenomena.

id: 0810.0081
title: How Does Quantum Vacuum Energy Accelerate?
authors: K. A. Milton, P. Parashar, J. Wagner, K. V. Shajesh, A. Romeo, S. Fulling
comments: Parallel talk at ICHEP08, Philadelphia, USA, July 2008. 4 pages, LaTeX. Changes are cosmetic only, to conform to new ICHEP requirements
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0081
abstract: We show that Casimir energy for a configuration of parallel plates gravitates according to the equivalence principle both for the finite and divergent parts. This shows that the latter can be absorbed by a process of renormalization.

id: 0810.0087
title: Why do cosmological perturbations look classical to us?
authors: Claus Kiefer, David Polarski
comments: 12 pages, Revtex, invited contribution to a special issue of Advanced Science Letters, final version
journal: Adv.Sci.Lett.2:164-173,2009
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0087
abstract: According to the inflationary scenario of cosmology, all structure in the Universe can be traced back to primordial fluctuations during an accelerated (inflationary) phase of the very early Universe. A conceptual problem arises due to the fact that the primordial fluctuations are quantum, while the standard scenario of structure formation deals with classical fluctuations. In this essay we present a concise summary of the physics describing the quantum-to-classical transition. We first discuss the observational indistinguishability between classical and quantum correlation functions in the closed system approach (pragmatic view). We then present the open system approach with environment-induced decoherence. We finally discuss the question of the fluctuations' entropy for which, in principle, the concrete mechanism leading to decoherence possesses observational relevance.

id: 0810.0307
title: Quantum switching at a mean-field instability of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical lattice
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich, V. V. Konotop
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures (2 in color)
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0307
abstract: It is shown that bifurcations of the mean-field dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate can be related with the quantum phase transitions of the original many-body system. As an example we explore the intra-band tunneling in the two-dimensional optical lattice. Such a system allows for easy control by the lattice depth as well as for macroscopic visualization of the phase transition. The system manifests switching between two selftrapping states or from a selftrapping state to a superposition of the macroscopically populated selftrapping states with the step-like variation of the control parameter about the bifurcation point. We have also observed the magnification of the microscopic difference between the even and odd number of atoms to a macroscopically distinguishable dynamics of the system.

id: 0810.0340
title: Exactly solvable pairing model for superconductors with a p+ip-wave symmetry
authors: Miguel Ibanez, Jon Links, German Sierra, Shao-You Zhao
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Discussion on winding numbers added. Accepted in Phys Rev B
journal: Phys. Rev. B79:180501,2009
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0340
abstract: We present the exact Bethe ansatz solution for the two-dimensional BCS pairing Hamiltonian with p_x + i p_y symmetry. Using both mean-field theory and the exact solution we obtain the ground-state phase diagram parameterized by the filling fraction and the coupling constant. It consists of three phases denoted weak coupling BCS, weak pairing, and strong pairing. The first two phases are separated by a topologically protected line where the exact ground state is given by the Moore-Read pfaffian state. In the thermodynamic limit the ground-state energy is discontinuous on this line. The other two phases are separated by the critical line, also topologically protected, previously found by Read and Green. We establish a duality relation between the weak and strong pairing phases, whereby ground states of the weak phase are "dressed" versions of the ground states of the strong phase by zero energy (Moore-Read) pairs and characterized by a topological order parameter.

id: 0810.0590
title: One- and two-photon spectroscopy of a flux qubit coupled to a microscopic defect
authors: A. Lupascu, P. Bertet, E.F.C. Driessen, C.J.P.M. Harmans, J.E. Mooij
comments: accepted in Physical Review B
journal: Physical Review B 80, 172506 (2009)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0590
abstract: We observed the dynamics of a superconducting flux qubit coupled to an extrinsic quantum system (EQS). The presence of the EQS is revealed by an anticrossing in the spectroscopy of the qubit. The excitation of a two-photon transition to the third excited state of the qubit-EQS system allows us to extract detailed information about the energy level structure and the coupling of the EQS. We deduce that the EQS is a two-level system, with a transverse coupling to the qubit. The transition frequency and the coupling of the EQS changed during experiments, which supports the idea that the EQS is a two-level system of microscopic origin.

id: 0810.0600
title: Squeezing and entanglement in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: J. Esteve, C. Gross, A. Weller, S. Giovanazzi, M.K. Oberthaler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0600
abstract: Entanglement, a key feature of quantum mechanics, is a resource that allows the improvement of precision measurements beyond the conventional bound reachable by classical means. This is known as the standard quantum limit, already defining the accuracy of the best available sensors for various quantities such as time or position. Many of these sensors are interferometers in which the standard quantum limit can be overcome by feeding their two input ports with quantum-entangled states, in particular spin squeezed states. For atomic interferometers, Bose-Einstein condensates of ultracold atoms are considered good candidates to provide such states involving a large number of particles. In this letter, we demonstrate their experimental realization by splitting a condensate in a few parts using a lattice potential. Site resolved detection of the atoms allows the measurement of the conjugated variables atom number difference and relative phase. The observed fluctuations imply entanglement between the particles, a resource that would allow a precision gain of 3.8 dB over the standard quantum limit for interferometric measurements.

id: 0810.0611
title: General properties of the boundary renormalization group flow for supersymmetric systems in 1+1 dimensions
authors: Daniel Friedan, Anatoly Konechny
comments: 21 pages, Latex
journal: Adv. Theor. Math. Phys. 13 (2009) 1847-1874
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0611
abstract: We consider the general supersymmetric one-dimensional quantum system with boundary, critical in the bulk but not at the boundary. The renormalization group flow on the space of boundary conditions is generated by the boundary beta functions \beta^{a}(\lambda) for the boundary coupling constants \lambda^{a}. We prove a gradient formula \partial\ln z/\partial\lambda^{a} =-g_{ab}^{S}\beta^{b} where z(\lambda) is the boundary partition function at given temperature T=1/\beta, and g_{ab}^{S}(\lambda) is a certain positive-definite metric on the space of supersymmetric boundary conditions. The proof depends on canonical ultraviolet behavior at the boundary. Any system whose short distance behavior is governed by a fixed point satisfies this requirement. The gradient formula implies that the boundary energy, -\partial\ln z/\partial\beta = -T\beta^{a}\partial_{a}\ln z, is nonnegative. Equivalently, the quantity \ln z(\lambda) decreases under the renormalization group flow.

id: 0810.0876
title: The resonance amplitude associated with the Gamow states
authors: R. de la Madrid
comments: 
journal: Nucl.Phys.A812:13-27,2008
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.0876
abstract: The Gamow states describe the quasinormal modes of quantum systems. It is shown that the resonance amplitude associated with the Gamow states is given by the complex delta function. It is also shown that under the near-resonance approximation of neglecting the lower bound of the energy, such resonance amplitude becomes the Breit-Wigner amplitude. This result establishes the precise connection between the Gamow states, Nakanishi's complex delta function and the Breit-Wigner amplitude. In addition, this result provides another theoretical basis for the phenomenological fact that the almost-Lorentzian peaks in cross sections are produced by intermediate, unstable particles.

id: 0810.1543
title: On the nonlocality of the fractional Schr?dinger equation
authors: M. Jeng, S.-L.-Y. Xu, E. Hawkins, J. M. Schwarz
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1543
abstract: A number of papers over the past eight years have claimed to solve the fractional Schr\"{o}dinger equation for systems ranging from the one-dimensional infinite square well to the Coulomb potential to one-dimensional scattering with a rectangular barrier. However, some of the claimed solutions ignore the fact that the fractional diffusion operator is inherently nonlocal, preventing the fractional Schr\"{o}dinger equation from being solved in the usual piecewise fashion. We focus on the one-dimensional infinite square well and show that the purported groundstate, which is based on a piecewise approach, is definitely not a solution of the fractional Schr\"{o}dinger equation for general fractional parameters $\alpha$. On a more positive note, we present a solution to the fractional Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the one-dimensional harmonic oscillator with $\alpha=1$.

id: 0810.1660
title: Remarks on the GNS Representation and the Geometry of Quantum States
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Giuseppe Marmo
comments: 20 pages
journal: Open Syst.Info.Dyn.16:157-177,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1660
abstract: It is shown how to introduce a geometric description of the algebraic approach to the non-relativistic quantum mechanics. It turns out that the GNS representation provides not only symplectic but also Hermitian realization of a `quantum Poisson algebra'. We discuss alternative Hamiltonian structures emerging out of different GNS representations which provide a natural setting for quantum bi-Hamiltonian systems.

id: 0810.1665
title: Dipole oscillations of confined lattice bosons in one dimension
authors: Simone Montangero, Rosario Fazio, Peter Zoller, Guido Pupillo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 041602(R) (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1665
abstract: We study the dynamics of a non-integrable system comprising interacting cold bosons trapped in an optical lattice in one-dimension by means of exact time-dependent numerical DMRG techniques. Particles are confined by a parabolic potential, and dipole oscillations are induced by displacing the trap center of a few lattice sites. Depending on the system parameters this motion can vary from undamped to overdamped. We study the dipole oscillations as a function of the lattice displacement, the particle density and the strength of interparticle interactions. These results explain the recent experiment C.D. Fertig et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 120403 (2005).

id: 0810.1822
title: Quantum entanglement at the psi(3770) and Upsilon(4S)
authors: B.D. Yabsley
comments: Flavor Physics & CP Violation Conference, Taipei, 2008. Includes 8 pages, 10 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1822
abstract: We review results which explicitly depend on the entanglement of neutral meson pairs produced at the psi(3770) and Upsilon(4S). Time-dependent CP-violation analyses at the B-factories use the flavour-singlet final state at the Upsilon(4S), but by assuming its quantum-mechanical evolution; Belle on the other hand has tested the time-dependent flavour correlation of the B-mesons, comparing predictions of quantum mechanics, spontaneous disentanglement, and Pompili-Selleri models. At the psi(3770), decay rates are modulated by various combinations of the charm mixing parameters: this has been exploited by CLEO-c to provide the first effective constraint on the strong-phase difference delta. Finally, the goal of a "model-independent" phi_3/Dalitz analysis is now within reach, using D-mesons from the psi(3770) to constrain the D0 -> K_S pi+ pi- decay amplitude. Manifestly entangled events psi(3770) -> (K_S pi+pi-)_D (K_S pi+ pi-)_D, rather than just "CP-tagged" decays, turn out to be crucial.

id: 0810.1826
title: Two-bath model for activated surface diffusion of interacting adsorbates
authors: R. Martinez-Casado, A. S. Sanz, G. Rojas-Lorenzo, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 132, 054704 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1826
abstract: The diffusion and low vibrational motions of adsorbates on surfaces can be well described by a purely stochastic model, the so-called interacting single adsorbate model, for low-moderate coverages (\theta \lesssim 0.12). Within this model, the effects of thermal surface phonons and adsorbate-adsorbate collisions are accounted for by two uncorrelated noise functions which arise in a natural way from a two-bath model based on a generalization of the one-bath Caldeira-Leggett Hamiltonian. As an illustration, the model is applied to the diffusion of Na atoms on a Cu(001) surface with different coverages.

id: 0810.1992
title: Exact condition on the Kohn-Sham kinetic energy, and modern parametrization of the Thomas-Fermi density
authors: Donghyung Lee, Kieron Burke, Lucian A. Constantin, John P. Perdew
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, submitted at JCP
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1992
abstract: We study the asymptotic expansion of the neutral-atom energy as the atomic number Z goes to infinity, presenting a new method to extract the coefficients from oscillating numerical data. We find that recovery of the correct expansion is an exact condition on the Kohn-Sham kinetic energy that is important for the accuracy of approximate kinetic energy functionals for atoms, molecules and solids, when evaluated on a Kohn-Sham density. For example, this determines the small gradient limit of any generalized gradient approximation, and conflicts somewhat with the standard gradient expansion. Tests are performed on atoms, molecules, and jellium clusters. We also give a modern, highly accurate parametrization of the Thomas-Fermi density of neutral atoms.

id: 0810.2075
title: Relativistic Harmonic Oscillator Revisited
authors: Itzhak Bars
comments: 41 pages, 2 figures, LaTeX
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:045009,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2075
abstract: The familiar Fock space commonly used to describe the relativistic harmonic oscillator, for example as part of string theory, is insufficient to describe all the states of the relativistic oscillator. We find that there are three different vacua leading to three disconnected Fock sectors, all constructed with the same creation-annihilation operators. These have different spacetime geometric properties as well as different algebraic symmetry properties or different quantum numbers. Two of these Fock spaces include negative norm ghosts (as in string theory) while the third one is completely free of ghosts. We discuss a gauge symmetry in a worldline theory approach that supplies appropriate constraints to remove all the ghosts from all Fock sectors of the single oscillator. The resulting ghost free quantum spectrum in d+1 dimensions is then classified in unitary representations of the Lorentz group SO(d,1). Moreover all states of the single oscillator put together make up a single infinite dimensional unitary representation of a hidden global symmetry SU(d,1), whose Casimir eigenvalues are computed. Possible applications of these new results in string theory and other areas of physics and mathematics are briefly mentioned.

id: 0810.2213
title: Wolfgang Pauli and Modern Physics
authors: Norbert Straumann
comments: 18 pages, invited talk at the Workshop "The Nature of Gravity", at the International Space Science Institute (ISSI), 6 - 10 October 2008, Bern, Switzerland
journal: Space Sci.Rev.148:25-36,2009
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2213
abstract: In this written version of a pre-dinner-speech at the workshop "The Nature of Gravity" at ISSI I illustrate Pauli's science primarily with material that has not formally been published by him, but was communicated in detailed letters to eminent colleagues and friends.

id: 0810.2453
title: Robust creation of entangled states of two coupled flux qubits via dynamic control of the transition frequencies
authors: K. Xia, M. Macovei, J. Evers, C. H. Keitel
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 024519 (2009)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2453
abstract: Coherent control and the creation of entangled states are discussed in a system of two superconducting flux qubits interacting with each other through their mutual inductance and identically coupling to a reservoir of harmonic oscillators. We present different schemes using continuous-wave control fields or Stark-chirped rapid adiabatic passages, both of which rely on a dynamic control of the qubit transition frequencies via the external bias flux in order to maximize the fidelity of the target states. For comparison, also special area pulse schemes are discussed. The qubits are operated around the optimum point, and decoherence is modelled via a bath of harmonic oscillators. As our main result, we achieve controlled robust creation of different Bell states consisting of the collective ground and excited state of the two-qubit system.

id: 0810.2593
title: Ultracold Atoms in 1D Optical Lattices: Mean Field, Quantum Field, Computation, and Soliton Formation
authors: R. V. Mishmash, L. D. Carr
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures; to appear in Journal of Mathematics and Computers in Simulation
journal: Math.Comput.Simul.80:732,2009
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2593
abstract: In this work, we highlight the correspondence between two descriptions of a system of ultracold bosons in a one-dimensional optical lattice potential: (1) the discrete nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equation, a discrete mean-field theory, and (2) the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, a discrete quantum-field theory. The former is recovered from the latter in the limit of a product of local coherent states. Using a truncated form of these mean-field states as initial conditions, we build quantum analogs to the dark soliton solutions of the discrete nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equation and investigate their dynamical properties in the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian. We also discuss specifics of the numerical methods employed for both our mean-field and quantum calculations, where in the latter case we use the time-evolving block decimation algorithm due to Vidal.

id: 0810.2920
title: Topologically protected qubits as minimal Josephson junction arrays with non trivial boundary conditions: a proposal
authors: Gerardo Cristofano, Vincenzo Marotta, Adele Naddeo, Giuliano Niccoli
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:6965-6974,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.2920
abstract: Recently a one-dimensional closed ladder of Josephson junctions has been studied (G. Cristofano et al., Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 2464) within a twisted conformal field theory (CFT) approach (G. Cristofano et al., Mod. Phys. Lett. A 15 (2000) 1679; Nucl. Phys. B 641 (2002) 547) and shown to develop the phenomenon of flux fractionalization (G. Cristofano et al., Eur. Phys. J. B 49 (2006) 83). That led us to predict the emergence of a topological order in such a system (G. Cristofano et al., JSTAT (2005) P03006). In this letter we analyze the ground states and the topological properties of fully frustrated Josephson junction arrays (JJA) arranged in a Corbino disk geometry for a variety of boundary conditions. In particular minimal configurations of fully frustrated JJA are considered and shown to exhibit the properties needed in order to build up a solid state qubit, protected from decoherence. The stability and transformation properties of the ground states of the JJA under adiabatic magnetic flux changes are analyzed in detail in order to provide a tool for the manipulation of the proposed qubit.

id: 0810.3222
title: Comment on "Anomalous temperature dependence of the Casimir force for thin metal films" [arXiv:0712.1395]
authors: B. Geyer, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3222
abstract: Recently V. A. Yampol'skii, S. Savel'ev, Z. A. Mayselis, S. S. Apostolov, and F. Nori [Phys. Rev. Lett., v.101, 096803 (2008),arXiv:0712.1395] claimed that the Casimir force between a thin metal film described by the Drude model and an ideal metal semispace can decrease with temperature whereas for bulk samples the Casimir force increases with temperature. On this basis the experimental observation of the decreasing temperature dependence of the Casimir force magnitude between a film and a bulk ideal metal was proposed. We demonstrate that, contrary to what is claimed by the authors, the magnitude of the Casimir force decreases with temperature in a wide temperature region for bulk samples described by the Drude model. This decrease is shown to be much larger than that for a thin film and it has already been experimentally excluded.

id: 0810.3247
title: Comment on "Application of the Lifshitz theory to poor conductors" [arXiv:0809.3901]
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3247
abstract: Recent Letter by V. B. Svetovoy [Phys. Rev. Lett. v.101, 163603 (2008), arXiv:0809.3901] claims that the Lifshitz theory combined with spatially nonlocal dielectric permittivities is consistent with the experimental data and Nernst's theorem. We prove that these claims are incorrect. They are based on irregular comparison with the data and misinterpretation of relevant physical quantities.

id: 0810.3283
title: Quantum robot: structure, algorithms and applications
authors: Daoyi Dong, Chunlin Chen, Chenbin Zhang, Zonghai Chen
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3283
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn.

id: 0810.3394
title: Rashba coupling in quantum dots in the presence of magnetic field
authors: V.V. Kudryashov
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables, typos corrected, figures revised, reference added
journal: Nonlinear Dynamics and Applications. Proceedings of the Fourteenth Annual Seminar NPCS'2007, Minsk, 2007, pp.75-80
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3394
abstract: We present an analytical solution to the Schr\"odinger equation for electron in a two-dimensional circular quantum dot in the presence of both external magnetic field and the Rashba spin-orbit interaction. The confinement is described by the realistic potential well of finite depth.

id: 0810.3430
title: Compact dimensions and the Casimir effect: the Proca connection
authors: Ariel Edery, Valery Marachevsky
comments: 21 pages; 3 figures; references added; to appear in JHEP
journal: JHEP 0812:035,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3430
abstract: We study the Casimir effect in the presence of an extra dimension compactified on a circle of radius R ($M^4\times S^1$ spacetime). Our starting point is the Kaluza Klein decomposition of the 5D Maxwell action into a massless sector containing the 4D Maxwell action and an extra massless scalar field and a Proca sector containing 4D gauge fields with masses $m_n=n/R$ where $n$ is a positive integer. An important point is that, in the presence of perfectly conducting parallel plates, the three degrees of freedom do not yield three discrete (non-penetrating) modes but two discrete modes and one continuum (penetrating) mode. The massless sector reproduces Casimir's original result and the Proca sector yields the corrections. The contribution from the Proca continuum mode is obtained within the framework of Lifshitz theory for plane parallel dielectrics whereas the discrete modes are calculated via 5D formulas for the piston geometry. An interesting manifestation of the extra compact dimension is that the Casimir force between perfectly conducting plates depends on the thicknesses of the slabs.

id: 0810.3628
title: Integrable models from PT-symmetric deformations
authors: Paulo E.G. Assis, Andreas Fring
comments: 14 pages Latex
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 105206
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3628
abstract: We address the question of whether integrable models allow for PT-symmetric deformations which preserve their intgrability. For this purpose we carry out the Painleve test for PT-symmetric deformations of Burgers and the Korteweg-De Vries equation. We find that the former equation allows for infinitely many deformations which pass the Painleve test. For a specific deformation we prove the convergence of the Painleve expansion and thus establish the Painleve property for these models, which are therefore thought to be integrable. The Korteweg-De Vries equation does not allow for deformations which pass the Painleve test in complete generality, but we are able to construct a defective Painleve expansion.

id: 0810.3910
title: The Large-N Limit of PT-Symmetric O(N) Models
authors: Hiromichi Nishimura, Michael Ogilvie
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: J.Phys.A42:022002,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3910
abstract: We study a $PT$-symmetric quantum mechanical model with an O(N)-symmetric potential of the form $m^{2}\vec{x}^{2}/2-g(\vec{x}^{2})^{2}/N$ using its equivalent Hermitian form. Although the corresponding classical model has finite-energy trajectories that escape to infinity, the spectrum of the quantum theory is proven to consist only of bound states for all $N$. We show that the model has two distinct phases in the large-$N$ limit, with different scaling behaviors as $N$ goes to infinity. The two phases are separated by a first-order phase transition at a critical value of the dimensionless parameter $m^{2}/g^{2/3}$, given by $3\cdot2^{1/3}$.

id: 0810.3911
title: Gravitational Waves detection and spectroscopy with a Double-slit Quantum Eraser
authors: Clovis Jacinto de Matos, Fabrizio Tamburini, Josep Maria Perdigues Armengol, Carlo Nicola Colacino
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in NCB
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3911
abstract: We propose the use of heralded photons to detect Gravitational Waves (GWs). Heralded photons are those photons that, produced during a parametric downconversion process, are "labelled" by the detection and counting of coincidences of their correlated or entangled twins and therefore can be discriminated from the background noise, independently of the type of correlation/entanglement used in the setup. Without losing any generality, we illustrate our proposal with a gedankenexperiment, in which the presence of a gravitational wave causes a relative rotation of the reference frames associated to the double-slit and the test polarizer, respectively, of a Walborn's quantum eraser \cite{wal02}. In this thought experiment, the GW is revealed by the detection of heralded photons in the dark fringes of the recovered interference pattern by the quantum eraser. Other types of entanglement, such as momentum-space or energy-time, could be used to obtain heralded photons to be used in the future with high-frequency GW interferometric detectors when enough bright sources of correlated photons will be available.

id: 0810.4324
title: The two-dimensional hydrogen atom in The momentum representation
authors: Mehdi Hage-Hassan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4324
abstract: The analytic expression of the momentum representation in terms of the associated Legendre function is determined by a direct integration of Fourier transform of the wave function of coordinates using the Levi-Civita transformation and the generating function method. A new generating function for the associated Legendre functions are obtained.

id: 0810.4488
title: A quantum interface between light and nuclear spins in quantum dots
authors: Heike Schwager, J. Ignacio Cirac, G¨¦za Giedke
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 045309 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4488
abstract: The coherent coupling of flying photonic qubits to stationary matter-based qubits is an essential building block for quantum communication networks. We show how such a quantum interface can be realized between a traveling-wave optical field and the polarized nuclear spins in a singly charged quantum dot strongly coupled to a high-finesse optical cavity. By adiabatically eliminating the electron a direct effective coupling is achieved. Depending on the laser field applied, interactions that enable either write-in or read-out are obtained.

id: 0810.4489
title: Zeno Quantum Gates in Semiconductor Quantum Dots
authors: K. J. Xu, Y. P. Huang, M. G. Moore, C. Piermarocchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4489
abstract: We propose a scheme for a two-qubit conditional phase gate by quantum Zeno effect with semiconductor quantum dots. The system consists of two charged dots and one ancillary dot that can perform Rabi oscillations under a resonant laser pulse. The quantum Zeno effect is induced by phonon-assisted exciton relaxation between the ancillary dot and the charged dots, which is equivalent to a continuous measurement. We solve analytically the master equation and simulate the dynamics of the system using a realistic set of parameters. In contrast to standard schemes, larger phonon relaxation rates increase the fidelity of the operations.

id: 0810.4849
title: Gravitational red-shift and deflection of slow light
authors: J. Dressel, S. G. Rajeev, J. C. Howell, A. N. Jordan
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 013834 (2009)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4849
abstract: We explore the nature of the classical propagation of light through media with strong frequency-dependent dispersion in the presence of a gravitational field. In the weak field limit, gravity causes a redshift of the optical frequency, which the slow-light medium converts into a spatially-varying index of refraction. This results in the bending of a light ray in the medium. We further propose experimental techniques to amplify and detect the phenomenon using weak value measurements. Independent heuristic and rigorous derivations of this effect are given.

id: 0810.4729
title: Introduction to Quantum Noise, Measurement and Amplification
authors: A. A. Clerk, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin, F. Marquardt, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: Substantial improvements over initial version; include supplemental appendices.
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 82, 1155 (2010).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4729
abstract: The topic of quantum noise has become extremely timely due to the rise of quantum information physics and the resulting interchange of ideas between the condensed matter and AMO/quantum optics communities. This review gives a pedagogical introduction to the physics of quantum noise and its connections to quantum measurement and quantum amplification. After introducing quantum noise spectra and methods for their detection, we describe the basics of weak continuous measurements. Particular attention is given to treating the standard quantum limit on linear amplifiers and position detectors using a general linear-response framework. We show how this approach relates to the standard Haus-Caves quantum limit for a bosonic amplifier known in quantum optics, and illustrate its application for the case of electrical circuits, including mesoscopic detectors and resonant cavity detectors.

