id: 0811.0027
title: Detector decoy quantum key distribution
authors: Tobias Moroder, Marcos Curty, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 27 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 045008 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0027
abstract: Photon number resolving detectors can enhance the performance of many practical quantum cryptographic setups. In this paper, we employ a simple method to estimate the statistics provided by such a photon number resolving detector using only a threshold detector together with a variable attenuator. This idea is similar in spirit to that of the decoy state technique, and is specially suited for those scenarios where only a few parameters of the photon number statistics of the incoming signals have to be estimated. As an illustration of the potential applicability of the method in quantum communication protocols, we use it to prove security of an entanglement based quantum key distribution scheme with an untrusted source without the need of a squash model and by solely using this extra idea. In this sense, this detector decoy method can be seen as a different conceptual approach to adapt a single photon security proof to its physical, full optical implementation. We show that in this scenario the legitimate users can now even discard the double click events from the raw key data without compromising the security of the scheme, and we present simulations on the performance of the BB84 and the 6-state quantum key distribution protocols.

id: 0811.0033
title: On thermal stability of topological qubit in Kitaev's 4D model
authors: R. Alicki, M. Horodecki, P. Horodecki, R. Horodecki
comments: 9 pages, RevTeX
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 17 (2010) 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0033
abstract: We analyse stability of the four-dimensional Kitaev model - a candidate for scalable quantum memory - in finite temperature within the weak coupling Markovian limit. It is shown that, below a critical temperature, certain topological qubit observables X and Z possess relaxation times exponentially long in the size of the system. Their construction involves polynomial in system's size algorithm which uses as an input the results of measurements performed on all individual spins. We also discuss the drawbacks of such candidate for quantum memory and mention the implications of the stability of qubit for statistical mechanics.

id: 0811.0045
title: Cavity QED characterization of many-body atomic states in double-well potentials -- The role of dissipation
authors: W. Chen, P. Meystre
comments: 8 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0045
abstract: When an incident light beam is scattered off a sample of ultracold atoms trapped in an optical lattice, the statistical properties of the retro-reflected field contain information about the quantum state of the atoms, and permit for example to distinguish between atoms in a superfluid and a Mott insulator state. This paper extends our previous analysis of this problem to include the effects of cavity damping. We use a Monte Carlo wave function method to determine the two-time correlation function and time-dependent physical spectrum of the retro-reflected field in the case of a simple two-well lattice. We also analyze quantitatively the entanglement between the atoms and the light field for atoms in a Mott insulator and a superfluid state.

id: 0811.0050
title: Efficient polarization entanglement concentration for electrons with charge detection
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 1823-1825
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0050
abstract: We present an entanglement concentration protocol for electrons based on their spins and their charges. The combination of an electronic polarizing beam splitter and a charge detector functions as a parity check device for two electrons, with which the parties can reconstruct maximally entangled electron pairs from those in a less-entanglement state nonlocally. This protocol has a higher efficiency than those based on linear optics and it does not require the parties to know accurately the information about the less-entanglement state, which makes it more convenient in a practical application of solid quantum computation and communication.

id: 0811.0082
title: Quantum random number generator based on the photon number decision of weak laser pulses
authors: Wei Wei, J. W. Zhang, Tian Liu, Hong Guo
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0082
abstract: We propose an approach to realize a quantum random number generator (QRNG) based on the photon number decision of weak laser pulses. This type of QRNG can generate true random numbers at a high speed and can be adjusted to zero bias conveniently, thus is suitable for the applications in quantum cryptography.

id: 0811.0085
title: Definition and evolution of quantum cellular automata with two qubits per cell
authors: Ioannis G. Karafyllidis
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 044301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0085
abstract: Studies of quantum computer implementations suggest cellular quantum computer architectures. These architectures can simulate the evolution of quantum cellular automata, which can possibly simulate both quantum and classical physical systems and processes. It is however known that except for the trivial case, unitary evolution of one-dimensional homogeneous quantum cellular automata with one qubit per cell is not possible. Quantum cellular automata that comprise two qubits per cell are defined and their evolution is studied using a quantum computer simulator. The evolution is unitary and its linearity manifests itself as a periodic structure in the probability distribution patterns.

id: 0811.0147
title: Coherent State Preparation and Observation of Rabi Oscillations in a Single Molecule
authors: Ilja Gerhardt, Gert Wrigge, Gert Zumofen, Jaesuk Hwang, Alois Renn, Vahid Sandoghdar
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 011402(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0147
abstract: We report on the excitation of single molecules via narrow zero-phonon transitions using short laser pulses. By monitoring the Stokes-shifted fluorescence, we studied the excited state population as a function of the delay time, laser intensity, and frequency detuning. A pi-pulse excitation was demonstrated with merely 500 photons, and 5 Rabi cycles were achieved at higher excitation powers. Our findings are in good agreement with theoretical calculations and provide a first step toward coherent manipulation of the electronic states of single molecules with few photons.

id: 0811.0161
title: Phase-sensitive Manipulations of Squeezed Vacuum Field in an Optical Parametric Amplifier inside an Optical Cavity
authors: Jing Zhang, Chenguang Ye, Feng Gao, Min Xiao
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0161
abstract: Squeezed vacuum field can be amplified or deamplified when it is injected, as the signal beam, into a phase-sensitive optical parametric amplifier (OPA) inside an optical cavity. The spectral features of the reflected quantized signal field are controlled by the relative phase between the injected squeezed vacuum field and the pump field for the OPA. The experimental results demonstrate coherent phenomena of OPA in the quantum regime, and show phase-sensitive manipulations of quantum fluctuations for quantum information processing.

id: 0811.0193
title: Narrow absorptive resonances in a four-level atomic system
authors: M. G. Bason, A. K. Mohapatra, K. J. Weatherill, C. S. Adams
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0193
abstract: We study the effect of a control beam on a Lambda electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) system in 87Rb. The control beam couples one ground state to another excited state forming a four level N-system. Phase coherent beams to drive the N-system are produced using a double injection scheme. We show that the control beam can be used to Stark shift or split the EIT resonance. Finally, we show that the when the control beam is on-resonance one observes a Doppler-free and sub-natural absorptive resonance with a width of order 100 kHz. Crucially, this narrow absorptive resonance only occurs when atoms with a range of velocities are present, as is the case in a room temperature vapour.

id: 0811.0249
title: Constant rotation of two-qubit equally entangled pure states by local quantum operations
authors: Samir Kunkri, Swarup Poria, Preeti Parashar, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 11 pages, Latex file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0249
abstract: We look for local unitary operators $W_1 \otimes W_2$ which would rotate all equally entangled two-qubit pure states by the same but arbitrary amount. It is shown that all two-qubit maximally entangled states can be rotated through the same but arbitrary amount by local unitary operators. But there is no local unitary operator which can rotate all equally entangled non-maximally entangled states by the same amount, unless it is unity. We have found the optimal sets of equally entangled non-maximally entangled states which can be rotated by the same but arbitrary amount via local unitary operators $W_1 \otimes W_2$, where at most one these two operators can be identity. In particular, when $W_1 = W_2 = (i/\sqrt{2})({\sigma}_x + {\sigma}_y)$, we get the local quantum NOT operation. Interestingly, when we apply the one-sided local depolarizing map, we can rotate all equally entangled two-qubit pure states through the same amount. We extend our result for the case of three-qubit maximally entangled state.

id: 0811.0264
title: Two-photon gateway in one-atom cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: A. Kubanek, A. Ourjoumtsev, I. Schuster, M. Koch, P.W.H. Pinkse, K. Murr, G. Rempe
comments: PRL, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 203602 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0264
abstract: Single atoms absorb and emit light from a resonant laser beam photon by photon. We show that a single atom strongly coupled to an optical cavity can absorb and emit resonant photons in pairs. The effect is observed in a photon correlation experiment on the light transmitted through the cavity. We find that the atom-cavity system transforms a random stream of input photons into a correlated stream of output photons, thereby acting as a two-photon gateway. The phenomenon has its origin in the quantum anharmonicity of the energy structure of the atom-cavity system. Future applications could include the controlled interaction of two photons by means of one atom.

id: 0811.0284
title: Direct probing of the Wigner function by time-multiplexed detection of photon statistics
authors: K Laiho, M Avenhaus, K N Cassemiro, Ch Silberhorn
comments: 22 pages, 13 figures, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 043012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0284
abstract: We investigate the capabilities of loss-tolerant quantum state characterization using a photon-number resolving, time-multiplexed detector (TMD). We employ the idea of probing the Wigner function point-by-point in phase space via photon parity measurements and displacement operations, replacing the conventional homodyne tomography. Our emphasis lies on reconstructing the Wigner function of non-Gaussian Fock states with highly negative values in a scheme that is based on a realistic experimental setup. In order to establish the concept of loss-tolerance for state characterization we show how losses can be decoupled from the impact of other experimental imperfections, i.e. the non-unity transmittance of the displacement beamsplitter and non-ideal mode overlap. We relate the experimentally accessible parameters to effective ones that are needed for an optimised state reconstruction. The feasibility of our approach is tested by Monte Carlo simulations, which provide bounds resulting from statistical errors that are due to limited data sets. Our results clearly show that high losses can be accepted for a defined parameter range, and moreover, that (in contrast to homodyne detection) mode mismatch results in a distinct signature, which can be evaluated by analysing the photon number oscillations of the displaced Fock states.

id: 0811.0287
title: Auxiliary field method and analytical solutions of the Schr?dinger equation with exponential potentials
authors: Bernard Silvestre-Brac, Claude Semay, Fabien Buisseret
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 245301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0287
abstract: The auxiliary field method is a new and efficient way to compute approximate analytical eigenenergies and eigenvectors of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. This method has already been successfully applied to the case of central potentials of power-law and logarithmic forms. In the present work, we show that the Schr\"{o}dinger equation with exponential potentials of the form $-\alpha r^\lambda \exp(-\beta r)$ can also be analytically solved by using the auxiliary field method. Formulae giving the critical heights and the energy levels of these potentials are presented. Special attention is drawn on the Yukawa potential and the pure exponential one.

id: 0811.0303
title: Emission and Absorption of Light by Hot Electrons in Multivalley Semiconductors (TERAHERTZ Range)
authors: P.M. Tomchuk, V.M. Bondar
comments: 
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, vol. 53, no. 7, pp. 666-676, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0303
abstract: The angular dependences of the spontaneous emission by hot electrons in multivalley semiconductors are studied theoretically and experimentally using $n$-Ge as an example. We demonstrate that the change in the scattering mechanism caused by the growth of electron temperature can affect the angular scattering dependence. In the case when the heating field is applied along the symmetry axis of the crystal [for $n$-Ge it is the axis (1,0,0,)], the angular dependence of the emission was observed experimentally for the first time, and the corresponding theory is proposed. When electrons have identical concentration and temperature in every valley, the angular dependence of emission is shown to be related to the violation of symmetry of the energy distribution of electrons (from the theoretical viewpoint, this effect means going beyond the scope of the traditional diffusion approximation).

id: 0811.0305
title: Gauging non-Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: H. F. Jones
comments: The mimimal substitution rule given in v1 was incorrect. The corrected version appears in Eq. (21) of v2, and the necessary changes are made to the rest of the paper. In particular, gauge transformations are not now restricted, as they were in v1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0305
abstract: We address the problem of coupling non-Hermitian systems, treated as fundamental rather than effective theories, to the electromagnetic field. In such theories the observables are not the $\bs{x}$ and $\bs{p}$ appearing in the Hamiltonian, but quantities $\bs{X}$ and $\bs{P}$ constructed by means of the metric operator. Following the analogous procedure of gauging a global symmetry in Hermitian quantum mechanics we find that the corresponding gauge transformation in $\bs{X}$ implies minimal substitution in the form $\bs{P}\to \bs{P} - e\bs{A}(\bs{X})$. We discuss how the relevant matrix elements governing electromagnetic transitions may be calculated in the special case of the Swanson Hamiltonian, where the equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian $h$ is local, and in the more generic example of the imaginary cubic interaction, where $H$ is local but $h$ is not.

id: 0811.0328
title: Coupling of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond to a GaP waveguide
authors: K.-M.C. Fu, C. Santori, P.E. Barclay, I. Aharonovich, S. Prawer, N. Meyer, A. M. Holm, R.G. Beausoleil
comments: 4 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0328
abstract: The optical coupling of guided modes in a GaP waveguide to nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond is demonstrated. The electric field penetration into diamond and the loss of the guided mode are measured. The results indicate that the GaP-diamond system could be useful for realizing coupled microcavity-NV devices for quantum information processing in diamond.

id: 0811.0339
title: Designing lattice structures with maximal nearest-neighbor entanglement
authors: J. C. Navarro-Munoz, R. Lopez-Sandoval, M. E. Garcia
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0339
abstract: In this work, we study the numerical optimization of nearest-neighbor concurrence of bipartite one and two dimensional lattices, as well as non bipartite two dimensional lattices. These systems are described in the framework of a tight-binding Hamiltonian while the optimization of concurrence was performed using genetic algorithms. Our results show that the concurrence of the optimized lattice structures is considerably higher than that of non optimized systems. In the case of one dimensional chains the concurrence is maximized when the system begins to dimerize, i.e. it undergoes a structural phase transition (Peierls distortion). This result is consistent with the idea that entanglement is maximal or shows a singularity near quantum phase transitions and that quantum entanglement cannot be freely shared between many objects (monogamy property). Moreover, the optimization of concurrence in two-dimensional bipartite and non bipartite lattices is achieved when the structures break into smaller subsystems, which are arranged in geometrically distinguishable configurations. This behavior is again related to the monogamy property.

id: 0811.0416
title: Training a Binary Classifier with the Quantum Adiabatic Algorithm
authors: Hartmut Neven, Vasil S. Denchev, Geordie Rose, William G. Macready
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0416
abstract: This paper describes how to make the problem of binary classification amenable to quantum computing. A formulation is employed in which the binary classifier is constructed as a thresholded linear superposition of a set of weak classifiers. The weights in the superposition are optimized in a learning process that strives to minimize the training error as well as the number of weak classifiers used. No efficient solution to this problem is known. To bring it into a format that allows the application of adiabatic quantum computing (AQC), we first show that the bit-precision with which the weights need to be represented only grows logarithmically with the ratio of the number of training examples to the number of weak classifiers. This allows to effectively formulate the training process as a binary optimization problem. Solving it with heuristic solvers such as tabu search, we find that the resulting classifier outperforms a widely used state-of-the-art method, AdaBoost, on a variety of benchmark problems. Moreover, we discovered the interesting fact that bit-constrained learning machines often exhibit lower generalization error rates. Changing the loss function that measures the training error from 0-1 loss to least squares maps the training to quadratic unconstrained binary optimization. This corresponds to the format required by D-Wave's implementation of AQC. Simulations with heuristic solvers again yield results better than those obtained with boosting approaches. Since the resulting quadratic binary program is NP-hard, additional gains can be expected from applying the actual quantum processor.

id: 0811.0418
title: Decoherence-free quantum memory for photonic state using atomic ensembles
authors: Feng Mei, Ya-Fei Yu, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0418
abstract: Large scale quantum information processing requires stable and long-lived quantum memories. Here, using atom-photon entanglement, we propose an experimentally feasible scheme to realize decoherence-free quantum memory with atomic ensembles, and show one of its applications, remote transfer of unknown quantum state, based on laser manipulation of atomic ensembles, photonic state operation through optical elements, and single-photon detection with moderate efficiency. The scheme, with inherent fault-tolerance to the practical noise and imperfections, allows one to retrieve the information in the memory for further quantum information processing within the reach of current technology.

id: 0811.0421
title: Quantum error correction on infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny, Achim Kempf, David W. Kribs
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 062108 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0421
abstract: We present a generalization of quantum error correction to infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. The generalization yields new classes of quantum error correcting codes that have no finite-dimensional counterparts. The error correction theory we develop begins with a shift of focus from states to algebras of observables. Standard subspace codes and subsystem codes are seen as the special case of algebras of observables given by finite-dimensional von Neumann factors of type I. Our generalization allows for the correction of codes characterized by any von Neumann algebra and we give examples, in particular, of codes defined by infinite-dimensional algebras.

id: 0811.0424
title: Generating EPR beams in a cavity optomechanical system
authors: Zhang-qi Yin, Y. J. Han
comments: 4.1 pages, 4 figures, comments are welcome; to appear in PRA, published version with corrections of typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 024301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0424
abstract: We propose a scheme to produce continuous variable entanglement between phase-quadrature amplitudes of two light modes in an optomechanical system. For proper driving power and detuning, the entanglement is insensitive with bath temperature and $Q$ of mechanical oscillator. Under realistic experimental conditions, we find that the entanglement could be very large even at room temperature.

id: 0811.0496
title: Extended Hamilton-Lagrange formalism and its application to Feynman's path integral for relativistic quantum physics
authors: J¨¹rgen Struckmeier
comments: 49 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0496
abstract: With this paper, a consistent and comprehensive treatise on the foundations of the extended Hamilton-Lagrange formalism will be presented. In this formalism, the system's dynamics is parametrized along a time-like system evolution parameter $s$, and the physical time $t$ is treated as a dependent variable $t(s)$ on equal footing with all other configuration space variables $q^{i}(s)$. In the action principle, the conventional classical action $L\,dt$ is then replaced by the generalized action $L_{e}ds$, with $L$ and $L_{e}$ denoting the conventional and the extended Lagrangian, respectively. In the existing literature, the discussion is restricted to only those extended Lagrangians $L_{e}$ that are homogeneous forms of first order in the velocities. It is shown that a class of extended Lagrangians $L_{e}$ exists that are correlated to corresponding conventional Lagrangians $L$ without being homogeneous functions in the velocities. Then the Legendre transformation of $L_{e}$ to an extended Hamiltonian $H_{e}$ exists. With this class of extended Hamiltonians, an extended canonical formalism is presented that is completely analogous to the conventional Hamiltonian formalism. The physical time $t$ and the negative value of the conventional Hamiltonian then constitute and an additional pair of conjugate canonical variables. The extended formalism also includes a theory of extended canonical transformations, where the time variable $t(s)$ is also subject to transformation. In the extended formalism, the system's dynamics is described as a motion on a hypersurface within an extended phase space of even dimension. It is shown that the hypersurface condition does not embody a constraint as the condition is automatically satisfied on the system path that is given by the solution of the extended set of canonical equations.

id: 0811.0497
title: Tripartite entanglement transfer from flying modes to localized qubits
authors: Federico Casagrande, Alfredo Lulli, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 12 pages, 12 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022307 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0497
abstract: We investigate the process of entanglement transfer from a three-mode quantized field to a system of three spatially separated qubits each one made of a two-level atom resonantly coupled to a cavity mode. The optimal conditions for entanglement transfer, evaluated by atomic tripartite negativity, are derived for radiation prepared in qubit-like and Gaussian entangled states in terms of field parameters, atom-cavity interaction time, cavity mirror losses, and atomic preparation. For qubit-like states we found that for negligible cavity losses some states may completely transfer their entanglement to the atoms and/or be exactly mapped to the atomic state, whereas for Gaussian states we found a range of field parameters to obtain a large entanglement transfer. The purity of the three-qubit states and the entanglement of two-qubit subsystems are also discussed in some details.

id: 0811.0531
title: A Hilbert Space Representation of Generalized Observables and Measurement Processes in the ESR Model
authors: Sandro Sozzo, Claudio Garola
comments: 12 pages, Standard Latex, Minor revisions
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics (2010) 49: 3262-3270
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0531
abstract: The extended semantic realism (ESR) model recently worked out by one of the authors embodies the mathematical formalism of standard (Hilbert space) quantum mechanics in a noncontextual framework, reinterpreting quantum probabilities as conditional instead of absolute. We provide here a Hilbert space representation of the generalized observables introduced by the ESR model that satisfy a simple physical condition, propose a generalization of the projection postulate, and suggest a possible mathematical description of the measurement process in terms of evolution of the compound system made up of the measured system and the measuring apparatus.

id: 0811.0539
title: Embedding Quantum Mechanics Into a Broader Noncontextual Theory: A Conciliatory Result
authors: Claudio Garola, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 24 pages, standard Latex, Extensively revised version
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics (2010) 49: 3101-3117
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0539
abstract: The extended semantic realism (ESR) model embodies the mathematical formalism of standard (Hilbert space) quantum mechanics in a noncontextual framework, reinterpreting quantum probabilities as conditional instead of absolute. We provide here an improved version of this model and show that it predicts that, whenever idealized measurements are performed, a modified Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (BCHSH) inequality holds if one takes into account all individual systems that are prepared, standard quantum predictions hold if one considers only the individual systems that are detected, and a standard BCHSH inequality holds at a microscopic (purely theoretical) level. These results admit an intuitive explanation in terms of an unconventional kind of unfair sampling and constitute a first example of the unified perspective that can be attained by adopting the ESR model.

id: 0811.0562
title: Fast quantum algorithms for approximating some irreducible representations of groups
authors: Stephen P. Jordan
comments: added simplified algorithms using quantum Schur and Fourier transforms
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0562
abstract: We consider the quantum complexity of estimating matrix elements of unitary irreducible representations of groups. For several finite groups including the symmetric group, quantum Fourier transforms yield efficient solutions to this problem. Furthermore, quantum Schur transforms yield efficient solutions for certain irreducible representations of the unitary group. Beyond this, we obtain poly(n)-time quantum algorithms for approximating matrix elements from all the irreducible representations of the alternating group A_n, and all the irreducible representations of polynomial highest weight of U(n), SU(n), and SO(n). These quantum algorithms offer exponential speedup in worst case complexity over the fastest known classical algorithms. On the other hand, we show that average case instances are classically easy, and that the techniques analyzed here do not offer a speedup over classical computation for the estimation of group characters.

id: 0811.0575
title: Excitation dependence of resonance line self-broadening at different atomic densities
authors: Hebin Li, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 42, 065203 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0575
abstract: We study the dipole-dipole spectral broadening of a resonance line at high atomic densities when the self-broadening dominates. The selective reflection spectrum of a weak probe beam from the interface of the cell window and rubidium vapor are recorded in the presence of a far-detuned pump beam. The excitation due to the pump reduces the self-broadening. We found that the self-broadening reduction dependence on the pump power is atomic density independent. These results provide experimental evidence for the disordered exciton based theory of self-broadening, and can be useful for the description of the interaction of a strong optical field with a dense resonance medium.

id: 0811.0596
title: Quantum Speed-up for Approximating Partition Functions
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Chen-Fu Chiang, Anura Abeyesinghe, Daniel Nagaj
comments: 17 pages; v3: corrected typos, added a reference about efficient implementations of quantum walks
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022340 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0596
abstract: We achieve a quantum speed-up of fully polynomial randomized approximation schemes (FPRAS) for estimating partition functions that combine simulated annealing with the Monte-Carlo Markov Chain method and use non-adaptive cooling schedules. The improvement in time complexity is twofold: a quadratic reduction with respect to the spectral gap of the underlying Markov chains and a quadratic reduction with respect to the parameter characterizing the desired accuracy of the estimate output by the FPRAS. Both reductions are intimately related and cannot be achieved separately. First, we use Grover's fixed point search, quantum walks and phase estimation to efficiently prepare approximate coherent encodings of stationary distributions of the Markov chains. The speed-up we obtain in this way is due to the quadratic relation between the spectral and phase gaps of classical and quantum walks. Second, we generalize the method of quantum counting, showing how to estimate expected values of quantum observables. Using this method instead of classical sampling, we obtain the speed-up with respect to accuracy.

id: 0811.0601
title: Single shot parameter estimation via continuous quantum measurement
authors: Bradley A. Chase, J.M. Geremia
comments: 9 pages, 5 images
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022314 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0601
abstract: We present filtering equations for single shot parameter estimation using continuous quantum measurement. By embedding parameter estimation in the standard quantum filtering formalism, we derive the optimal Bayesian filter for cases when the parameter takes on a finite range of values. Leveraging recent convergence results [van Handel, arXiv:0709.2216 (2008)], we give a condition which determines the asymptotic convergence of the estimator. For cases when the parameter is continuous valued, we develop quantum particle filters as a practical computational method for quantum parameter estimation.

id: 0811.0663
title: Complete Adiabatic Quantum Search in Unsorted Databases
authors: Nanyang Xu, Xinhua Peng, Mingjun Shi, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0663
abstract: We propose a new adiabatic algorithm for the unsorted database search problem. This algorithm saves two thirds of qubits than Grover's algorithm in realizations. Meanwhile, we analyze the time complexity of the algorithm by both perturbative method and numerical simulation. The results show it provides a better speedup than the previous adiabatic search algorithm.

id: 0811.0665
title: Dynamical Casimir Effect for a Swinging Cavity
authors: Cem Yuce, Zalihe Ozcakmakli
comments: to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 035403 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0665
abstract: The resonant scalar particle generation for a swinging cavity resonator in the Casimir vacuum is examined. It is shown that the number of particles grows exponentially when the cavity rotates at some specific external frequency.

id: 0811.0695
title: Dark resonances for ground state transfer of molecular quantum gases
authors: Manfred J. Mark, Johann G. Danzl, Elmar Haller, Mattias Gustavsson, Nadia Bouloufa, Olivier Dulieu, Houssam Salami, Tom Bergeman, Helmut Ritsch, Russell Hart, Hanns-Christoph N?gerl
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B 95, 219-225 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0695
abstract: One possible way to produce ultracold, high-phase-space-density quantum gases of molecules in the rovibronic ground state is given by molecule association from quantum-degenerate atomic gases on a Feshbach resonance and subsequent coherent optical multi-photon transfer into the rovibronic ground state. In ultracold samples of Cs_2 molecules, we observe two-photon dark resonances that connect the intermediate rovibrational level |v=73,J=2> with the rovibrational ground state |v=0,J=0> of the singlet $X^1\Sigma_g^+$ ground state potential. For precise dark resonance spectroscopy we exploit the fact that it is possible to efficiently populate the level |v=73,J=2> by two-photon transfer from the dissociation threshold with the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) technique. We find that at least one of the two-photon resonances is sufficiently strong to allow future implementation of coherent STIRAP transfer of a molecular quantum gas to the rovibrational ground state |v=0,J=0>.

id: 0811.0748
title: Some equivalences between the auxiliary field method and the envelope theory
authors: F. Buisseret, C. Semay, B. Silvestre-Brac
comments: v2 to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 032102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0748
abstract: The auxiliary field method has been recently proposed as an efficient technique to compute analytical approximate solutions of eigenequations in quantum mechanics. We show that the auxiliary field method is completely equivalent to the envelope theory, which is another well-known procedure to analytically solve eigenequations, although relying on different principles \textit{a priori}. This equivalence leads to a deeper understanding of both frameworks.

id: 0811.0776
title: Distribution of resonances in the quantum open baker map
authors: Juan M. Pedrosa, Gabriel G. Carlo, Diego A. Wisniacki, Leonardo Ermann
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 016215 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0776
abstract: We study relevant features of the spectrum of the quantum open baker map. The opening consists of a cut along the momentum $p$ direction of the 2-torus phase space, modelling an open chaotic cavity. We study briefly the classical forward trapped set and analyze the corresponding quantum nonunitary evolution operator. The distribution of eigenvalues depends strongly on the location of the escape region with respect to the central discontinuity of this map. This introduces new ingredients to the association among the classical escape and quantum decay rates. Finally, we could verify that the validity of the fractal Weyl law holds in all cases.

id: 0811.0783
title: Notes on Joint Measurability of Quantum Observables
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Daniel Reitzner, Peter Stano
comments: published version, some minor corrections
journal: Foundations of Physics (2008) 38: 1133-1147
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0783
abstract: For sharp quantum observables the following facts hold: (i) if we have a collection of sharp observables and each pair of them is jointly measurable, then they are jointly measurable all together; (ii) if two sharp observables are jointly measurable, then their joint observable is unique and it gives the greatest lower bound for the effects corresponding to the observables; (iii) if we have two sharp observables and their every possible two outcome partitionings are jointly measurable, then the observables themselves are jointly measurable. We show that, in general, these properties do not hold. Also some possible candidates which would accompany joint measurability and generalize these apparently useful properties are discussed.

id: 0811.0789
title: Relation between quantum dwell times and flux-flux correlations
authors: J. Munoz, D. Seidel, J. G. Muga
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0789
abstract: We examine the connection between the dwell time of a quantum particle in a region of space and flux-flux correlations at the boundaries. It is shown that the first and second moments of a flux-flux correlation function which generalizes a previous proposal by Pollak and Miller [E. Pollak and W. H. Miller, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 53}, 115 (1984)], agree with the corresponding moments of the dwell-time distribution, whereas the third and higher moments do not. We also discuss operational approaches and approximations to measure the flux-flux correlation function and thus the second moment of the dwell time, which is shown to be characteristically quantum, and larger than the corresponding classical moment even for freely moving particles.

id: 0811.0810
title: De Broglie-Bohm Pilot-Wave Theory: Many Worlds in Denial?
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 31 pages, 2 figures. To appear in: 'Everett and his Critics', eds. S. W. Saunders et al. (Oxford University Press, 2009)
journal: 'Many Worlds? Everett, Quantum Theory, and Reality', eds. S. Saunders et al. (Oxford University Press, 2010), pp. 476--509
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0810
abstract: We reply to claims (by Deutsch, Zeh, Brown and Wallace) that the pilot-wave theory of de Broglie and Bohm is really a many-worlds theory with a superfluous configuration appended to one of the worlds. Assuming that pilot-wave theory does contain an ontological pilot wave (a complex-valued field in configuration space), we show that such claims arise from not interpreting pilot-wave theory on its own terms. Specifically, the theory has its own ('subquantum') theory of measurement, and in general describes a 'nonequilibrium' state that violates the Born rule. Furthermore, in realistic models of the classical limit, one does not obtain localised pieces of an ontological pilot wave following alternative macroscopic trajectories: from a de Broglie-Bohm viewpoint, alternative trajectories are merely mathematical and not ontological. Thus, from the perspective of pilot-wave theory itself, many worlds are an illusion. It is further argued that, even leaving pilot-wave theory aside, the theory of many worlds is rooted in the intrinsically unlikely assumption that quantum measurements should be modelled on classical measurements, and is therefore unlikely to be true.

id: 0811.0838
title: Wave Packets in Discrete Quantum Phase Space
authors: Jang Young Bang, Micheal S Berger
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:022105,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0838
abstract: The properties of quantum mechanics with a discrete phase space are studied. The minimum uncertainty states are found, and these states become the Gaussian wave packets in the continuum limit. With a suitably chosen Hamiltonian that gives free particle motion in the continuum limit, it is found that full or approximate periodic time evolution can result. This represents an example of revivals of wave packets that in the continuum limit is the familiar free particle motion on a line. Finally we examine the uncertainty principle for discrete phase space and obtain the correction terms to the continuum case.

id: 0811.0857
title: Complete transfer of populations from a single state to a pre-selected superposition of states using Piecewise Adiabatic Passage
authors: Evgeny A. Shapiro, Valery Milner, Moshe Shapiro
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0857
abstract: We develop a method for executing robust and selective transfer of populations between a single level and pre-selected superpositions of energy eigenstates. Viewed in the frequency domain, our method amounts to executing a series of simultaneous adiabatic passages into each component of the target superposition state. Viewed in {the} time domain, the method works by accumulating the wavefunction of the target wave packet as it revisits the Franck Condon region, in what amounts to an extension of the Piecewise Adiabatic Passage technique [ Shapiro et.al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 033002 (2007)] to the multi-state regime. The viability of the method is verified by performing numerical tests for the Na_2 molecule.

id: 0811.0858
title: Eigenfunctions of spinless particles in a one-dimensional linear potential well
authors: Nagalakshmi A Rao, B A Kagali
comments: 6 Pages, Latex, No figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0858
abstract: In the present paper, we work out the eigenfunctions of spinless particles bound in a one-dimensional linear finite range, attractive potential well, treating it as a time-like component of a four-vector. We show that the one-dimensional stationary Klein-Gordon equation is reduced to a standard differential equation, whose solutions, consistent with the boundary conditions, are the parabolic cylinder functions, which further reduce to the well-known confluent hypergeometric functions.

id: 0811.0881
title: Non-classical Role of Potential Energy in Adiabatic Quantum Annealing
authors: Arnab Das
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures (for the Proceedings of the International Workshop on Statis tical-Mechanical Informatics 2008, Sendai, Japan). Journal of Physics: Conference Series (to be publised)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. vol. 143 012001 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0881
abstract: Adiabatic quantum annealing is a paradigm of analog quantum computation, where a given computational job is converted to the task of finding the global minimum of some classical potential energy function and the search for the global potential minimum is performed by employing external kinetic quantum fluctuations and subsequent slow reduction (annealing) of them. In this method, the entire potential energy landscape (PEL) may be accessed simultaneously through a delocalized wave-function, in contrast to a classical search, where the searcher has to visit different points in the landscape (i.e., individual classical configurations) sequentially. Thus in such searches, the role of the potential energy might be significantly different in the two cases. Here we discuss this in the context of searching of a single isolated hole (potential minimum) in a golf-course type gradient free PEL. We show, that the quantum particle would be able to locate the hole faster if the hole is deeper, while the classical particle of course would have no scope to exploit the depth of the hole. We also discuss the effect of the underlying quantum phase transition on the adiabatic dynamics.

id: 0811.0898
title: Classical simulation of quantum computation, the Gottesman-Knill theorem, and slightly beyond
authors: M. Van den Nest
comments: 14 pages, shortened version, one additional result. To appear in Quant. Inf. Comp
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 10, 3-4 pp. pp0258-0271 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0898
abstract: We study classical simulation of quantum computation, taking the Gottesman-Knill theorem as a starting point. We show how each Clifford circuit can be reduced to an equivalent, manifestly simulatable circuit (normal form). This provides a simple proof of the Gottesman-Knill theorem without resorting to stabilizer techniques. The normal form highlights why Clifford circuits have such limited computational power in spite of their high entangling power. At the same time, the normal form shows how the classical simulation of Clifford circuits fits into the standard way of embedding classical computation into the quantum circuit model. This leads to simple extensions of Clifford circuits which are classically simulatable. These circuits can be efficiently simulated by classical sampling ('weak simulation') even though the problem of exactly computing the outcomes of measurements for these circuits ('strong simulation') is proved to be #P-complete--thus showing that there is a separation between weak and strong classical simulation of quantum computation.

id: 0811.0925
title: Quantum measuring processes for trapped ultracold bosonic gases
authors: S. Anderloni, F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, A. Trombettoni
comments: 11 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0925
abstract: The standard experimental techniques usually adopted in the study of the behaviour of ultracold atoms in optical lattices involve extracting the atom density profile from absorption images of the atomic sample after trap release. Quantum mechanically this procedure is described by a generalized measure (POVM); interference patterns found in absorption images suggest a generalized measure based on fixed-phase, coherent-like states. We show that this leads to an average atomic density which differs from the usually adopted one, obtained as the expectation value of the atom density operator in the many-body state.

id: 0811.0927
title: Emergence of quantum mechanics from classical statistics
authors: C. Wetterich
comments: clearer distinction between system and quantum observables, new references, 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0927
abstract: The conceptual setting of quantum mechanics is subject to an ongoing debate from its beginnings until now. The consequences of the apparent differences between quantum statistics and classical statistics range from the philosophical interpretations to practical issues as quantum computing. In this note we demonstrate how quantum mechanics can emerge from classical statistical systems. We discuss conditions and circumstances for this to happen. Quantum systems describe isolated subsystems of classical statistical systems with infinitely many states. While infinitely many classical observables "measure" properties of the subsystem and its environment, the state of the subsystem can be characterized by the expectation values of only a few probabilistic observables. They define a density matrix, and all the usual laws of quantum mechanics follow. No concepts beyond classical statistics are needed for quantum physics - the differences are only apparent and result from the particularities of those classical statistical systems which admit a quantum mechanical description. In particular, we show how the non-commuting properties of quantum operators are associated to the use of conditional probabilities within the classical system, and how a unitary time evolution reflects the isolation of the subsystem.

id: 0811.0929
title: On time-reversal and space-time harmonic processes for Markovian quantum channels
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Michele Pavon
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0929
abstract: The time reversal of a completely-positive, nonequilibrium discrete-time quantum Markov evolution is derived via a suitable adjointness relation. Space-time harmonic processes are introduced for the forward and reverse-time transition mechanisms, and their role for relative entropy dynamics is discussed.

id: 0811.0939
title: Determination of the noise parameters in a one-dimensional open quantum system
authors: Alexandra M. Liguori, Giovanni Moras
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 372 (2008), pp. 7038-7042
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0939
abstract: We consider an electron magnetically interacting with a spin-1/2 impurity, embedded in an external environment whose noisy term acts only on the impurity's spin, and we find expressions for the electron transmission and reflection probabilities in terms of the phenomenological noise parameters. Moreover, we give a simple example of the necessity of complete positivity for physical consistency, showing that a positive but not completely positive dissipative map can lead to negative transmission probabilities.

id: 0811.0944
title: Influence of configuration and acoustic phonons on three-qubit controlled-phase gate
authors: Song Yang, Ming Gong, Xubo Zou, Chuanfeng Li, Cheng Zhao, Guangcan Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0944
abstract: We discuss the configuration and acoustic phonon effect on the conditional phase gate using self assembled quantum dots. As an example, we discuss the simplest three dots conditional phase gate, and we found that the fidelity of conditional phase gate depends strongly on the configuration and temperature. Numerical simulation shows that line-configuration resonant with lower single exciton energy level performs better during the gate operation.

id: 0811.0947
title: The multiplicative domain in quantum error correction
authors: Man-Duen Choi, Nathaniel Johnston, David W. Kribs
comments: 17 pages, preprint version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0947
abstract: We show that the multiplicative domain of a completely positive map yields a new class of quantum error correcting codes. In the case of a unital quantum channel, these are precisely the codes that do not require a measurement as part of the recovery process, the so-called unitarily correctable codes. Whereas in the arbitrary, not necessarily unital case they form a proper subset of unitarily correctable codes that can be computed from properties of the channel. As part of the analysis we derive a representation theoretic characterization of subsystem codes. We also present a number of illustrative examples.

id: 0811.1027
title: Parts and Wholes. An Inquiry into Quantum and Classical Correlations
authors: M.P. Seevinck
comments: Dissertation, Utrecht University, 2008. 286 pages. ISBN: 978-90-3934916-8. A hard copy is obtainable via Igitur of the Utrecht University Library. This version 3 has exactly the same content as the version 2. Only the page layout has been changed to match the hard copy layout of the Dissertation which is on B5 format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1027
abstract: ** The primary topic of this dissertation is the study of the relationships between parts and wholes as described by particular physical theories, namely generalized probability theories in a quasi-classical physics framework and non-relativistic quantum theory. ** A large part of this dissertation is devoted to understanding different aspects of four different kinds of correlations: local, partially-local, no-signaling and quantum mechanical correlations. Novel characteristics of these correlations have been used to study how they are related and how they can be discerned via Bell-type inequalities that give non-trivial bounds on the strength of the correlations. ** The study of quantum correlations has also prompted us to study a) the multi-partite qubit state space with respect to its entanglement and separability characteristics, and b) the differing strength of the correlations in separable and entangled qubit states. Results include a novel classification of multipartite (partial) separability and entanglement, strong constraints on the monogamy of entanglement and of non-local correlations, and many new entanglement detection criteria that are directly experimentally accessible. ** Because of the generality of the investigation these results also have strong foundational as well as philosophical repercussions for the different sorts of physical theories as a whole; notably for the viability of hidden variable theories for quantum mechanics, for the possibility of doing experimental metaphysics, for the question of holism in physical theories, and for the classical vs. quantum dichotomy.

id: 0811.1071
title: Non-Markovian Effects on the Geometric Phase
authors: X. L. Huang, X. X. Yi
comments: 7 pages
journal: EPL 82 50001 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1071
abstract: The geometric phases of a two-level atom interacting with non-Markovian environments are calculated and the non-Markovian effects on the geometric phases are discussed in this paper. Three kinds of methods that describe the non-Markovian process, projection superoperator technique, memory kernel master equation and post-Markovian master equation, are used in the discussions. The results show that when the dissipation rate is large, the non-Markovian effects change the geometric phase more strikingly than the small one.

id: 0811.1079
title: Atomic entanglement sudden death in a strongly driven cavity QED system
authors: Ying-Jie Zhang, Zhong-Xiao Man, Yun-Jie Xia
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B. 2009 42 095503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1079
abstract: We study the entanglement dynamics of strongly driven atoms off-resonantly coupled with cavity fields. We consider conditions characterized not only by the atom-field coupling but also by the atom-field detuning. By studying two different models within the framework of cavity QED, we show that the so-called atomic entanglement sudden death (ESD) always occurs if the atom-field coupling lager than the atom-field detuning, and is independent of the type of initial atomic state.

id: 0811.1092
title: Continuous-variable quantum information processing with squeezed states of light
authors: Hidehiro Yonezawa, Akira Furusawa
comments: submitted to Optics and Spectroscopy special issue for ICQO'2008
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy 108, 288-296 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1092
abstract: We investigate experiments of continuous-variable quantum information processing based on the teleportation scheme. Quantum teleportation, which is realized by a two-mode squeezed vacuum state and measurement-and-feedforward, is considered as an elementary quantum circuit as well as quantum communication. By modifying ancilla states or measurement-and-feedforwards, we can realize various quantum circuits which suffice for universal quantum computation. In order to realize the teleportation-based computation we improve the level of squeezing, and fidelity of teleportation. With a high-fidelity teleporter we demonstrate some advanced teleportation experiments, i.e., teleportation of a squeezed state and sequential teleportation of a coherent state. Moreover, as an example of the teleportation-based computation, we build a QND interaction gate which is a continuous-variable analog of a CNOT gate. A QND interaction gate is constructed only with ancillary squeezed vacuum states and measurement-and-feedforwards. We also create continuous-variable four mode cluster type entanglement for further application, namely, one-way quantum computation.

id: 0811.1120
title: Analysis of the possibility of analog detectors calibration by exploiting Stimulated Parametric Down Conversion
authors: Giorgio Brida, Maria Chekhova, Marco Genovese, Ivano Ruo-Berchera
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 16 No. 17 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1120
abstract: Spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) has been largely exploited as a tool for absolute calibration of photon-counting detectors, i.e detectors registering very small photon fluxes. In [J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 23, 2185 (2006)] we derived a method for absolute calibration of analog detectors using SPDC emission at higher photon fluxes, where the beam is seen as a continuum by the detector. Nevertheless intrinsic limitations appear when high-gain regime of SPDC is required to reach even larger photon fluxes. Here we show that stimulated parametric down conversion allow one to avoid this limitation, since stimulated photon fluxes are increased by the presence of the seed beam.

id: 0811.1141
title: Absolute absorption spectroscopy based on molecule interferometry
authors: Stefan Nimmrichter, Klaus Hornberger, Hendrik Ulbricht, Markus Arndt
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A *78*, 063607 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1141
abstract: We propose a new method to measure the absolute photon absorption cross section of neutral molecules in a molecular beam. It is independent of our knowledge of the particle beam density, nor does it rely on photo-induced fragmentation or ionization. The method is based on resolving the recoil resulting from photon absorption by means of near-field matter-wave interference, and it thus applies even to very dilute beams with low optical densities. Our discussion includes the possibility of internal state conversion as well as fluorescence. We assess the influence of various experimental uncertainties and show that the measurement of absolute absorption cross sections is conceivable with high precision and using existing technologies.

id: 0811.1155
title: Mesoscopic Rydberg Gate based on Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: M. M¨¹ller, I. Lesanovsky, H. Weimer, H. P. B¨¹chler, P. Zoller
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 170502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1155
abstract: We demonstrate theoretically a parallelized C-NOT gate which allows to entangle a mesoscopic ensemble of atoms with a single control atom in a single step, with high fidelity and on a microsecond timescale. Our scheme relies on the strong and long-ranged interaction between Rydberg atoms triggering Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT). By this we can robustly implement a conditional transfer of all ensemble atoms among two logical states, depending on the state of the control atom. We outline a many body interferometer which allows a comparison of two many-body quantum states by performing a measurement of the control atom.

id: 0811.1156
title: Spinor Dynamics of Quantum Accelerator Modes near Higher Order Resonances
authors: L. Rebuzzini, I. Guarneri, R. Artuso
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev A 79, 033614 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1156
abstract: Quantum Accelerator Modes were discovered in experiments with Kicked Cold Atoms in the presence of gravity. They were shown to be tightly related to resonances of the Quantum Kicked Rotor. In this paper a spinor formalism is developed for the analysis of Modes associatedwith resonances of arbitrary order q>1. Decoupling of spin variables from orbital ones is achieved by means of an ansatz of the Born-Oppenheimer type, that generates q independent band dynamics. Each of these is described, in classical terms, by a map, and the stable periodic orbits of this map give rise to quantum accelerator modes, which are potentially observable in experiments. The arithmetic organization of such periodic orbits is briefly discussed.

id: 0811.1209
title: Localized closed timelike curves can perfectly distinguish quantum states
authors: Todd A. Brun, Jim Harrington, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 4.1 pages, 2 figures; v2: revised title, abstract, introduction and conclusion, plus added references
journal: Physical Review Letters 102, 210402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1209
abstract: We show that qubits traveling along closed timelike curves are a resource that a party can exploit to distinguish perfectly any set of quantum states. As a result, an adversary with access to closed timelike curves can break any prepare-and-measure quantum key distribution protocol. Our result also implies that a party with access to closed timelike curves can violate the Holevo bound.

id: 0811.1221
title: A Fully Quantum Asymptotic Equipartition Property
authors: Marco Tomamichel, Roger Colbeck, Renato Renner
comments: Main claim is updated with improved bounds
journal: IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory 55 (2009) p. 5840-5847
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1221
abstract: The classical asymptotic equipartition property is the statement that, in the limit of a large number of identical repetitions of a random experiment, the output sequence is virtually certain to come from the typical set, each member of which is almost equally likely. In this paper, we prove a fully quantum generalization of this property, where both the output of the experiment and side information are quantum. We give an explicit bound on the convergence, which is independent of the dimensionality of the side information. This naturally leads to a family of Renyi-like quantum conditional entropies, for which the von Neumann entropy emerges as a special case.

id: 0811.1243
title: Squeezed Light and Entangled Images from Four-Wave-Mixing in Hot Rubidium Vapor
authors: Raphael C Pooser, Vincent Boyer, Alberto M. Marino, Paul D. Lett
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures. SPIE Optics and Photonics 2008 proceeding (San Diego, CA)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1243
abstract: Entangled multi-spatial-mode fields have interesting applications in quantum information, such as parallel quantum information protocols, quantum computing, and quantum imaging. We study the use of a nondegenerate four-wave mixing process in rubidium vapor at 795 nm to demonstrate generation of quantum-entangled images. Owing to the lack of an optical resonator cavity, the four-wave mixing scheme generates inherently multi-spatial-mode output fields. We have verified the presence of entanglement between the multi-mode beams by analyzing the amplitude difference and the phase sum noise using a dual homodyne detection scheme, measuring more than 4 dB of squeezing in both cases. This paper will discuss the quantum properties of amplifiers based on four-wave-mixing, along with the multi mode properties of such devices.

id: 0811.1269
title: Weakly interacting Bose gas in a random environment
authors: G.M. Falco, T. Nattermann, V.L. Pokrovsky
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev B 80, 104515 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1269
abstract: Zero temperature properties of a dilute weakly interacting $d$-dimensional Bose gas in a random potential are studied. We calculate geometrical and energetic characteristics of the localized state of a gas confined in a large box or in a harmonic trap. Different regimes of the localized state are found depending on the ratio of two characteristic length scales of the disorder, the Larkin length and the disorder correlation length. Repulsing bosons confined in a large box with average density $n$ well below a critical value $n_c$ are trapped in deep potential wells of extension much smaller than distance between them. Tunneling between these wells is exponentially small. The ground state of such a gas is a random singlet with no long-range phase correlation For $n>n_c$ repulsion between particles overcomes the disorder and the gas transits from the localized to a coherent superfluid state. The critical density $n_c$ is calculated in terms of the disorder parameters and the interaction strength. For atoms in traps four different regimes are found, only one of it is superfluid. The theory is extended to lower (1 and 2) dimensions. Its quantitative predictions can be checked in experiments with ultracold atomic gases and other Bose-systems.

id: 0811.1285
title: Scaling of entanglement between separated blocks in spin chains at criticality
authors: H. Wichterich, J. Molina-Vilaplana, S. Bose
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 010304(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1285
abstract: We compute the entanglement between separated blocks in certain spin models showing that at criticality this entanglement is a function of the ratio of the separation to the length of the blocks and can be written as a product of a power law and an exponential decay. It thereby interpolates between the entanglement of individual spins and blocks of spins. It captures features of correlation functions at criticality as well as the monogamous nature of entanglement. We exemplify invariant features of this entanglement to microscopic changes within the same universality class. We find this entanglement to be invariant with respect to simultaneous scale transformations of the separation and the length of the blocks. As a corollary, this study estimates the entanglement between separated regions of those quantum fields to which the considered spin models map at criticality.

id: 0811.1288
title: Critical and noncritical long range entanglement in the Klein-Gordon field
authors: S. Marcovitch, A. Retzker, M. B. Plenio, B. Reznik
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012325 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1288
abstract: We investigate the entanglement between two separated segments in the vacuum state of a free 1D Klein-Gordon field, where explicit computations are performed in the continuum limit of the linear harmonic chain. We show that the entanglement, which we measure by the logarithmic negativity, is finite with no further need for renormalization. We find that the quantum correlations decay much faster than the classical correlations as in the critical limit long range entanglement decays exponentially for separations larger than the size of the segments. As the segments become closer to each other the entanglement diverges as a power law. The noncritical regime manifests richer behavior, as the entanglement depends both on the size of the segments and on their separation. In correspondence with the von Neumann entropy long-range entanglement also distinguishes critical from noncritical systems.

id: 0811.1309
title: Entanglement oscillation and survival induced by non-Markovian decoherence dynamics of entangled squeezed-state
authors: Jun-Hong An, Ye Yeo, Wei-Min Zhang, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 015302.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1309
abstract: We study the exact decoherence dynamics of the entangled squeezed state of two single-mode optical fields interacting with two independent and uncorrelated environments. We analyze in detail the non-Markovian effects on the entanglement evolution of the initially entangled squeezed state for different environmental correlation time scales. We find that the environments have dual actions on the system: backaction and dissipation. In mparticular, when the environmental correlation time scale is comparable to the time scale for significant change in the system, the backaction would counteract the dissipative effect. Interestingly, this results in the survival of some residual entanglement in the final steady state.

id: 0811.1343
title: Improved "Position Squared" Readout of a Mechanical Resonator in an Optical Cavity Using Degenerate Optical Modes
authors: Jack C. Sankey, Andrew M. Jayich, Benjamin M. Zwickl, Cheng Yang, Jack G. E. Harris
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, ICAP proceeding
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1343
abstract: Optomechanical devices in which a flexible SiN membrane is placed inside an optical cavity allow for very high finesse and mechanical quality factor in a single device. They also provide fundamentally new functionality: the cavity detuning can be a quadratic function of membrane position. This enables a measurement of "position squared" ($x^2$) and in principle a QND phonon number readout of the membrane. However, the readout achieved using a single transverse cavity mode is not sensitive enough to observe quantum jumps between phonon Fock states. Here we demonstrate an $x^2$-sensitivity that is orders of magnitude stronger using two transverse cavity modes that are nearly degenerate. We derive a first-order perturbation theory to describe the interactions between nearly-degenerate cavity modes and achieve good agreement with our measurements using realistic parameters. We also demonstrate theoretically that the $x^2$-coupling should be easily tunable over a wide range.

id: 0811.1359
title: Discrimination of Unitary Transformations and Quantum Algorithms
authors: David Collins
comments: Submitted to the proceedings of the QCMC 08 conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1359
abstract: Quantum algorithms are typically understood in terms of the evolution of a multi-qubit quantum system under a prescribed sequence of unitary transformations. The input to the algorithm prescribes some of the unitary transformations in the sequence with others remaining fixed. For oracle query algorithms, the input determines the oracle unitary transformation. Such algorithms can be regarded as devices for discriminating amongst a set of unitary transformations. The question arises: "Given a set of known oracle unitary transformations, to what extent is it possible to discriminate amongst them?" We investigate this for the Deutsch-Jozsa problem. The task of discriminating amongst the admissible oracle unitary transformations results in an exhaustive collection of algorithms which can solve the problem with certainty.

id: 0811.1388
title: Tunneling Time in the Landau-Zener Model
authors: Yue Yan, Biao Wu
comments: 7pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81 (2010) 022126
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1388
abstract: We give a general definition for the tunneling time in the Landau-Zener model. This definition allows us to compute numerically the Landau-Zener tunneling time at any sweeping rate without ambiguity. We have also obtained analytical results in both the adiabatic limit and the sudden limit. Whenever applicable, our results are compared to previous results and they are in good agreement.

id: 0811.1401
title: Fermions on atom chips
authors: Marcius H. T. Extavour, Lindsay J. LeBlanc, Jason McKeever, Alma B. Bardon, Seth Aubin, Stefan Myrskog, Thorsten Schumm, Joseph H. Thywissen
comments: 33 pages, 10 figures. This article is to be included in a forthcoming, broader volume on atom chips; ISBN 978-3-527-40755-2. Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, Germany
journal: "Fermions on Atom Chips", Chapter 12 of Atom Chips, J. Reichel, V. Vuletic, eds., pp. 365-394 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1401
abstract: We review our recent and ongoing work with Fermi gases on an atom chip. After reviewing some statistical and thermodynamic properties of the ideal, non-interacting Fermi gas, and a brief description of our atom chip and its capabilities, we discuss our experimental approach to producing a potassium-40 degenerate Fermi gas (DFG) using sympathetic cooling by a rubidium-87 Bose-Einstein condensate on an atom chip. In doing so, we describe the factors affecting the loading efficiency of the atom chip microtrap. This is followed by a discussion of species selectivity in radio frequency manipulation of the Bose-Fermi mixture, which we explore in the context of sympathetic evaporative cooling and radio-frequency dressed adiabatic double-well potentials. Next, we describe the incorporation of a crossed-beam dipole trap into the atom chip setup, in which we generate and manipulate strongly interacting spin mixtures of potassium-40. Finally, we conclude with a brief discussion of future research directions with DFGs and atom chips.

id: 0811.1415
title: Alternative descriptions and bipartite compound quantum systems
authors: G. Scolarici, L. Solombrino
comments: submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A42:055303,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1415
abstract: We analyze some features of alternative Hermitian and quasi-Hermitian quantum descriptions of simple and bipartite compound systems. We show that alternative descriptions of two interacting subsystems are possible if and only if the metric operator of the compound system can be obtained as tensor product of positive operators on component spaces. Some examples also show that such property could be strictly connected with symmetry properties of the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian.

id: 0811.1427
title: Casimir Lifshitz pressure and free energy: exploring a simple model
authors: Simen ?. Ellingsen
comments: Contribution to the anniversary volume of TSPU Vestnik in honour of Professor Iver Brevik
journal: S. Odintsov et al. (eds.) "The Casimir Effect and Cosmology" (Tomsk State Pedagogical University Press, Tomsk, 2008) p. 45
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1427
abstract: The Casimir effect, the dispersion force attracting neutral objects to each other, may be understood in terms of multiple scattering of light between the interacting bodies. We explore the simple model in which the bodies are assumed to possess reflection coefficients independent of the energy and angle of incidence of an impinging field and show how a multitude of information can be extracted within the geometry of two parallel plates. The full thermal behaviour of the model is found and we discuss how non-analytic behaviour emerges in the combined limits of zero temperature and perfect reflection. Finally we discuss the possibility of a generalised force conjugate to the reflection coefficients of the interacting materials and how, if the materials involved were susceptible to changing their reflective properties, this would tend to enhance the Casimir attraction. The dependence of this correction on separation is studied for the constant reflection model, indicating that the effect is likely to be negligible under most experimental circumstances.

id: 0811.1545
title: On interchanging the states of a pair of qudits
authors: Colin Wilmott, Peter Wild
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1545
abstract: The qubit SWAP gate has been shown to be an integral component of quantum circuitry design. It permutes the states of two qubits and allows for the storage quantum information, teleportation of atomic or ionic states, and is a fundamental element in the circuit implementation of Shor's algorithm. We consider the problem of generalising the SWAP gate beyond the qubit setting. We show that quantum circuit architectures completely described by instances of the CNOT gate can not implement a transposition of a pair of qudits for dimensions $d \equiv 3 (mod 4)$. The task of constructing generalised SWAP gates based on transpositions of qudit states is argued in terms of the signature of a permutation.

id: 0811.1550
title: Suppression or enhancement of the Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov order in a one-dimensional optical lattice with particle correlated tunnelling
authors: B. Wang, L.-M. Duan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 043612 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1550
abstract: We study through controlled numerical simulation the ground state properties of spin-polarized strongly interacting fermi gas in an anisotropic optical lattice, which is described by an effective one-dimensional general Hubbard model with particle correlated hopping rate. We show that the Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) type of state, while enhanced by a negative correlated hopping rate, can be completely suppressed by positive particle correlated hopping, yielding to an unusual magnetic phase even for particles with on-site attractive interaction We also find several different phase separation patterns for these atoms in an inhomogeneous harmonic trap, depending on the correlated hopping rate.

id: 0811.1570
title: Constructions of Subsystem Codes over Finite Fields
authors: Salah A. Aly, Andreas Klappenecker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1570
abstract: Subsystem codes protect quantum information by encoding it in a tensor factor of a subspace of the physical state space. Subsystem codes generalize all major quantum error protection schemes, and therefore are especially versatile. This paper introduces numerous constructions of subsystem codes. It is shown how one can derive subsystem codes from classical cyclic codes. Methods to trade the dimensions of subsystem and co-subystem are introduced that maintain or improve the minimum distance. As a consequence, many optimal subsystem codes are obtained. Furthermore, it is shown how given subsystem codes can be extended, shortened, or combined to yield new subsystem codes. These subsystem code constructions are used to derive tables of upper and lower bounds on the subsystem code parameters.

id: 0811.1595
title: Exponential Sums Algorithm based on Optical Interference: Factorization of arbitrary large numbers in a single run
authors: Vincenzo Tamma, Heyi Zhang, Xuehua He, Augusto Garuccio, Yanhua Shih
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1595
abstract: This article presents a new factorization algorithm based on the implementation of exponential sums using optical interference and exploiting the spectrum of the light source. Such a goal is achievable with the use of two different kinds of optical interferometers with variable optical paths: a liquid crystal grating and a generalized symmetric Michelson interferometer. This algorithm allows, for the first time, to find, in a single run, all the factors of an arbitrary large number N.

id: 0811.1596
title: Decoherence and Recoherence in Model Quantum Systems
authors: Jen-Tsung Hsiang, L.H. Ford
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, talk presented at the 7th Friedmann Seminar, Joao Pessoa, Brazil, July 2008
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A24, 1705 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1596
abstract: We discuss the various manifestations of quantum decoherence in the forms of dephasing, entanglement with the environment, and revelation of "which-path" information. As a specific example, we consider an electron interference experiment. The coupling of the coherent electrons to the quantized electromagnetic field illustrates all of these versions of decoherence. This decoherence has two equivalent interpretations, in terms of photon emission or in terms of Aharonov-Bohm phase fluctuations. We consider the case when the coherent electrons are coupled to photons in a squeezed vacuum state. The time-averaged result is increased decoherence. However, if only electrons which are emitted during selected periods are counted, the decoherence can be suppressed below the level for the photon vacuum. This is the phenomenon of recoherence. This effect is closely related to the quantum violations of the weak energy condition, and is restricted by similar inequalities. We give some estimates of the magnitude of the recoherence effect and discuss prospects for observing it in an electron interferometry experiment.

id: 0811.1621
title: Entropy of a quantum error correction code
authors: David W. Kribs, Aron Pasieka, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Open Systems & Information Dynamics
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 15, 329-343 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1621
abstract: We define and investigate a notion of entropy for quantum error correcting codes. The entropy of a code for a given quantum channel has a number of equivalent realisations, such as through the coefficients associated with the Knill-Laflamme conditions and the entropy exchange computed with respect to any initial state supported on the code. In general the entropy of a code can be viewed as a measure of how close it is to the minimal entropy case, which is given by unitarily correctable codes (including decoherence-free subspaces), or the maximal entropy case, which from dynamical Choi matrix considerations corresponds to non-degenerate codes. We consider several examples, including a detailed analysis in the case of binary unitary channels, and we discuss an extension of the entropy to operator quantum error correcting subsystem codes.

id: 0811.1625
title: Direct observation of Hardy's paradox by joint weak measurement with an entangled photon pair
authors: Kazuhiro Yokota, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; Eq.(10) and (11) corrected, appendices added
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 033011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1625
abstract: We implemented a joint weak measurement of the trajectories of two photons in a photonic version of Hardy's experiment. The joint weak measurement has been performed via an entangled meter state in polarization degrees of freedom of the two photons. Unlike Hardy's original argument in which the contradiction is inferred by retrodiction, our experiment reveals its paradoxical nature as preposterous values actually read out from the meter. Such a direct observation of a paradox will give us a new insight into the spooky action of quantum mechanics.

id: 0811.1649
title: The non-locality of n noisy Popescu-Rohrlich boxes
authors: Matthias Fitzi, Esther H?nggi, Valerio Scarani, Stefan Wolf
comments: 14 pages, v2: published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 465305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1649
abstract: We quantify the amount of non-locality contained in n noisy versions of so-called Popescu-Rohrlich boxes (PRBs), i.e., bipartite systems violating the CHSH Bell inequality maximally. Following the approach by Elitzur, Popescu, and Rohrlich, we measure the amount of non-locality of a system by representing it as a convex combination of a local behaviour, with maximal possible weight, and a non-signalling system. We show that the local part of n systems, each of which approximates a PRB with probability $1-\epsilon$, is of order $\Theta(\epsilon^{\lceil n/2\rceil})$ in the isotropic, and equal to $(3\epsilon)^n$ in the maximally biased case.

id: 0811.1684
title: A generalized quantum SWAP gate
authors: Colin Wilmott
comments: 17 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1684
abstract: The SWAP gate plays a central role in network designs for qubit quantum computation. However, there is a view to generalize qubit quantum computing to higher dimensional quantum systems. In this paper we construct a generalized SWAP gate using only instances of the generalized controlled-NOT gate to cyclically permute the states of $d$ qudits for $d$ prime.

id: 0811.1706
title: Weak measurements of non local variables
authors: Aharon Brodutch
comments: Tel Aviv University MSc Thesis, April 2008. Supervisor:Lev Vaidman
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1706
abstract: Methods for measuring the weak value of non local variables are investigated. We analyze local (indirect) measurement methods for obtaining the weak values. We also describe some new (direct) methods (Non local weak measurements) for measuring the weak values of some non local variables.

id: 0811.1709
title: Two Electrons in a Quantum Dot: A Unified Approach
authors: Bulent Gonul, Ebru Bakir, Koray Koksal
comments: 14 pages
journal: Int J Theor Phys 47 3091 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1709
abstract: Low-lying energy levels of two interacting electrons confined in a two-dimensional parabolic quantum dot in the presence of an external magnetic field have been revised within the frame of a novel model. The present formalism, which gives closed algebraic solutions for the specific values of magnetic field and spatial confinement length, enables us to see explicitly individual effects of the electron correlation.

id: 0811.1780
title: Reduction and possible elimination of coating thermal noise using a rigidly controlled cavity with a QND technique
authors: Kentaro Somiya
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 230801 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1780
abstract: Thermal noise of a mirror is one of the most important issues in high precision measurements such as gravitational-wave detection or cold damping experiments. It has been pointed out that thermal noise of a mirror with multi-layer coatings can be reduced by mechanical separation of the layers. In this paper, we introduce a way to further reduce thermal noise by locking the mechanically separated mirrors. The reduction is limited by the standard quantum limit of control noise, but it can be overcome with a quantum-non-demolition technique, which finally raises a possibility of complete elimination of coating thermal noise.

id: 0811.1792
title: Use of a Quantum Computer to do Importance and Metropolis-Hastings Sampling of a Classical Bayesian Network
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 41 pages (files: 1.tex, 3.sty, 8.eps)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1792
abstract: Importance sampling and Metropolis-Hastings sampling (of which Gibbs sampling is a special case) are two methods commonly used to sample multi-variate probability distributions (that is, Bayesian networks). Heretofore, the sampling of Bayesian networks has been done on a conventional "classical computer". In this paper, we propose methods for doing importance sampling and Metropolis-Hastings sampling of a classical Bayesian network on a quantum computer.

id: 0811.1795
title: Solid State Implementation of Quantum Random Walks on General Graphs
authors: K Manouchehri, J.B. Wang
comments: 6 manuscript pages, 6 figures, to appear in the proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Solid-State Quantum Computing and the Mini-School on Quantum Information Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1795
abstract: Advances in recent years have made it possible to explore quantum dots as a viable technology for scalable quantum information processing. Charge qubits for example can be realized in the lowest bound states of coupled quantum dots and the precision control of the confinement potential allows for the realization of a full set of universal qubit gates, including arbitrary single-qubit rotations and two-qubit C-NOT gates. In this work we describe a novel scheme for implementing quantum random walks on arbitrarily complex graphs by extending these elementary operations to the control of a two-dimensional quantum dot grid. As single-qubit rotations constitute the essential building blocks of our implementation scheme, we also present numerical simulations of one such mechanism by directly solving the corresponding time-dependent Schrodinger equation.

id: 0811.1801
title: Relating computational complexity and quantum spectral complexity
authors: David R. Mitchell
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1801
abstract: It is found that the statistical level fluctuations of the AQC 3-SAT problem undergo a transition from a poisson (regular) fluctuation form to a form consistent with the predictions of Random Matrix Theory. We present data which suggests this transition correlates with the computational phase transition in the classical 3-SAT problem. Application to Gaussian Processes and implication for experiment is discussed.

id: 0811.1821
title: Berry Phase in a Two-atom Jaynes-Cummings Model with Kerr Medium
authors: Shen-Ping Bu, Guo-Feng Zhang, Jia Liu, Zi-Yu Chen
comments: accepted by physica scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1821
abstract: he Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM) is an very important model for describing interaction between quantized electromagnetic fields and atoms in cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). This model is generalized in many different direction since it predicts many novel quantum effects that can be verified by modern physics experimental technologies. In this paper, the Berry phase and entropy of the ground state for arbitrary photon number $n$ of a two-atom Jaynes-Cummings model with Kerr like medium are investigated. It is found that there are some correspondence between their images, especially the existence of a curve in the $\Delta-\varepsilon$ plane along which the energy, Berry phase and entropy all reach their special values. So it is available for detecting entanglement by applying Berry phase.

id: 0811.1844
title: Quantum simulations based on measurements and feedback control
authors: K. G. H. Vollbrecht, J. I. Cirac
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1844
abstract: We propose a scheme for performing quantum simulations with atoms in cavities based on a photon detection feedback loop that requires only linear optical elements. Atoms can be stored individually without the need of directly interacting with one another. The scheme is able to simulate any time evolution that can be written as a sum of two-qubit Hamiltonians, .e.g., any next neighbor interaction on a lattice. It can also be made robust against photon losses.

id: 0811.1872
title: On the long time behavior of Hilbert space diffusion
authors: Angelo Bassi, Detlef Duerr
comments: 6 pages, EPL2-TeX
journal: Europhys. Lett. 84, 10005 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1872
abstract: Stochastic differential equations in Hilbert space as random nonlinear modified Schroedinger equations have achieved great attention in recent years; of particular interest is the long time behavior of their solutions. In this note we discuss the long time behavior of the solutions of the stochastic differential equation describing the time evolution of a free quantum particle subject to spontaneous collapses in space. We explain why the problem is subtle and report on a recent rigorous result, which asserts that any initial state converges almost surely to a Gaussian state having a fixed spread both in position and momentum.

id: 0811.1877
title: On the long time behavior of stochastic Schroedinger evolutions
authors: Angelo Bassi, Detlef Duerr, Martin Kolb
comments: 34 pages, LaTeX. Minor changes made
journal: Rev. Math. Phys. 22, 55 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1877
abstract: We discuss the time evolution of the wave function which is solution of a stochastic Schroedinger equation describing the dynamics of a free quantum particle subject to spontaneous localizations in space. We prove global existence and uniqueness of solutions. Observing that there exist three time regimes, namely the collapse regime, after which the wave function is localized in space; the classical regime, during which the collapsed wave function moves along a classical path and the diffusive regime, in which diffusion overlaps significantly the deterministic motion, we study the long time behavior of the wave function. We assert that the general solution converges a.s. to a diffusing Gaussian wave function having a finite spread both in position as well as in momentum. This paper corrects and completes earlier works on this.

id: 0811.1879
title: On Binomial Summations and a Generalised Quantum SWAP Gate
authors: Colin Wilmott, Peter Wild
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1879
abstract: We give a quantum gate construction - composed entirely from incidents of the CNOT gate - that generalises the qubit SWAP gate to higher dimensions. This new construction is more regular than and is an improvement on the WilNOT quantum gate construction.

id: 0811.1905
title: Time in relativistic and nonrelativistic quantum mechanics
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 8 pages, slightly revised, new references, accepted for publication in Int. J. Quantum Inf
journal: Int.J.Quant.Inf.7:595-602,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1905
abstract: The kinematic time operator can be naturally defined in relativistic and nonrelativistic quantum mechanics (QM) by treating time on an equal footing with space. The spacetime-position operator acts in the Hilbert space of functions of space and time. Dynamics, however, makes eigenstates of the time operator unphysical. This poses a problem for the standard interpretation of QM and reinforces the role of alternative interpretations such as the Bohmian one. The Bohmian interpretation, despite of being nonlocal in accordance with the Bell theorem, is shown to be relativistic covariant.

id: 0811.1910
title: Solitons with Cubic and Quintic Nonlinearities Modulated in Space and Time
authors: A.T. Avelar, D. Bazeia, W.B. Cardoso
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures; version to appear in PRE, RC
journal: Phys.Rev.E79:025602(R),2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1910
abstract: This work deals with soliton solutions of the nonlinear Schroedinger equation with cubic and quintic nonlinearities. We extend the procedure put forward in a recent Letter and we solve the equation in the presence of linear background, and cubic and quintic interactions which are modulated in space and time. As a result, we show how a simple parameter can be used to generate brightlike or darklike localized nonlinear waves which oscillate in several distinct ways, driven by the space and time dependence of the parameters that control the trapping potential, and the cubic and quintic nonlinearities.

id: 0811.1913
title: Scanning Quantum Decoherence Microscopy
authors: J. H. Cole, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 11 pages, 5 low quality (but arXiv friendly) images
journal: Nanotechnology (20) 495401 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1913
abstract: The use of qubits as sensitive magnetometers has been studied theoretically and recent demonstrated experimentally. In this paper we propose a generalisation of this concept, where a scanning two-state quantum system is used to probe the subtle effects of decoherence (as well as its surrounding electromagnetic environment). Mapping both the Hamiltonian and decoherence properties of a qubit simultaneously, provides a unique image of the magnetic (or electric) field properties at the nanoscale. The resulting images are sensitive to the temporal as well as spatial variation in the fields created by the sample. As an example we theoretically study two applications of this technology; one from condensed matter physics, the other biophysics. The individual components required to realise the simplest version of this device (characterisation and measurement of qubits, nanoscale positioning) have already been demonstrated experimentally.

id: 0811.1921
title: Symmetry-Breaking and Symmetry-Restoring Dynamics of a Mixture of Bose-Einstein Condensates in a Double Well
authors: Indubala I Satija, Philip Naudus, Radha Balakrishnan, Jeffrey Heward, Mark Edwards, and Charles W Clark
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1921
abstract: We study the coherent nonlinear tunneling dynamics of a binary mixture of Bose-Einstein condensates in a double-well potential. We demonstrate the existence of a new type of mode associated with the "swapping" of the two species in the two wells of the potential. In contrast to the symmetry breaking macroscopic quantum self-trapping (MQST) solutions, the swapping modes correspond to the tunneling dynamics that preserves the symmetry of the double well potential. As a consequence of two distinct types of broken symmetry MQST phases where the two species localize in the different potential welils or coexist in the same well, the corresponding symmetry restoring swapping modes result in dynamics where the the two species either avoid or chase each other. In view of the possibility to control the interaction between the species, the binary mixture offers a very robust system to observe these novel effects as well as the phenomena of Josephson oscillations and pi-modes

id: 0811.1927
title: Optimal protocol for quantum state tomography
authors: E. V. Moreva, Yu.I. Bogdanov, A.K. Gavrichenko, S.P. Kulik, I. Tikhonov
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1927
abstract: We develop a practical quantum tomography protocol and implement measurements of pure states of ququarts realized with polarization states of photon pairs (biphotons). The method is based on an optimal choice of the measuring scheme's parameters that provides better quality of reconstruction for the fixed set of statistical data. A high accuracy of the state reconstruction (above 0.99) indicates that developed methodology is adequate.

id: 0811.1942
title: Matter-Wave Solitons in the Presence of Collisional Inhomogeneities: Perturbation theory and the impact of derivative terms
authors: S. Middelkamp, P.G. Kevrekidis, D.J. Frantzeskakis, P. Schmelcher
comments: 12 pages, 5 fugures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1942
abstract: We study the dynamics of bright and dark matter-wave solitons in the presence of a spatially varying nonlinearity. When the spatial variation does not involve zero crossings, a transformation is used to bring the problem to a standard nonlinear Schrodinger form, but with two additional terms: an effective potential one and a non-potential term. We illustrate how to apply perturbation theory of dark and bright solitons to the transformed equations. We develop the general case, but primarily focus on the non-standard special case whereby the potential term vanishes, for an inverse square spatial dependence of the nonlinearity. In both cases of repulsive and attractive interactions, appropriate versions of the soliton perturbation theory are shown to accurately describe the soliton dynamics.

id: 0811.1975
title: Pulse Areas in Multi-Soliton Propagation
authors: Elizabeth Groves, B. D. Clader, J. H. Eberly
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1975
abstract: The prospect of self-consistent propagation of more than two pulses contemporaneously through multi-resonant media raises open questions: whether soliton solutions exist, and whether a useful generalization of two-level pulse Area can be found. We answer these questions positively for the case of four pulses interacting in combined V and Lambda fashion with an idealized pair of atomic D-lines.

id: 0811.2017
title: Effects of anisotropy on optimal dense coding
authors: Guo-Feng Zhang
comments: Accepted by physica scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2017
abstract: We study optimal dense coding with thermal entangled states of a two-qubit anisotropic \emph{XXZ} model and a Heisenberg model with Dzyaloshinski-Moriya (DM) interactions. The DM interaction is another kind of anisotropic antisymmetric exchange interaction. The effects of these two kinds of anisotropies on dense coding are studied in detail for both the antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic cases. For the two models, we give the conditions that the parameters of the models have to satisfy for a valid dense coding. We also found that even though there is entanglement, it is unavailable for our optimal dense coding, which is the same as entanglement teleportation.

id: 0811.2030
title: A comparative study of dynamical simulation methods for the dissociation of molecular Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: S. L. W. Midgley, S. Wuester, M. K. Olsen, M. J. Davis, K. V. Kheruntsyan
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, corrected typos, minor content changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2030
abstract: We describe a pairing mean-field theory related to the Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov approach, and apply it to the dynamics of dissociation of a molecular Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) into correlated bosonic atom pairs. We also perform the same simulation using two stochastic phase-space techniques for quantum dynamics -- the positive P-representation method and the truncated Wigner method. By comparing the results of our calculations we are able to assess the relative strength of these theoretical techniques in describing molecular dissociation in one spatial dimension. An important aspect of our analysis is the inclusion of atom-atom interactions which can be problematic for the positive-P method. We find that the truncated Wigner method mostly agrees with the positive-P simulations, but can be simulated for significantly longer times. The pairing mean-field theory results diverge from the quantum dynamical methods after relatively short times.

id: 0811.2035
title: Nonlocal Dispersion Cancellation using Entangled Photons
authors: So-Young Baek, Young-Wook Cho, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2035
abstract: A pair of optical pulses traveling through two dispersive media will become broadened and, as a result, the degree of coincidence between the optical pulses will be reduced. For a pair of entangled photons, however, nonlocal dispersion cancellation in which the dispersion experienced by one photon cancels the dispersion experienced by the other photon is possible. In this paper, we report an experimental demonstration of nonlocal dispersion cancellation using entangled photons. The degree of two-photon coincidence is shown to increase beyond the limit attainable without entanglement. Our results have important applications in fiber-based quantum communication and quantum metrology.

id: 0811.2038
title: Spectral Effects of Strong Chi-2 Non-Linearity for Quantum Processing
authors: P.M. Leung, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, T.C. Ralph
comments: Will be submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2038
abstract: Optical $\chi^{(2)}$ non-linearity can be used for parametric amplification and producing down-converted entangled photon pairs that have broad applications. It is known that weak non-linear media exhibit dispersion and produce a frequency response. It is therefore of interest to know how spectral effects of a strong $\chi^{(2)}$ crystal affect the performance. Here we model the spectral effects of the dispersion of a strong $\chi^{(2)}$ crystal and illustrate how this affects its ability to perform Bell measurements and influence the performance of a quantum gates that employ such a Bell measurement. We show that a Dyson series expansion of the unitary operator is necessary in general, leading to unwanted spectral entanglement. We identify a limiting situation employing periodic poling, in which a Taylor series expansion is a good approximation and this entanglement can be removed.

id: 0811.2047
title: Entanglement monogamy of multipartite higher-dimensional quantum systems using convex-roof extended negativity
authors: Jeong San Kim, Anirban Das, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79(1), 012329 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2047
abstract: We propose replacing concurrence by convex-roof extended negativity (CREN) for studying monogamy of entanglement (MoE). We show that all proven MoE relations using concurrence can be rephrased in terms of CREN. Furthermore we show that higher-dimensional (qudit) extensions of MoE in terms of CREN are not disproven by any of the counterexamples used to disprove qudit extensions of MoE in terms of concurrence. We further test the CREN version of MoE for qudits by considering fully or partially coherent mixtures of a qudit W-class state with the vacuum and show that the CREN version of MoE for qudits is satisfied in this case as well. The CREN version of MoE for qudits is thus a strong conjecture with no obvious counterexamples.

id: 0811.2050
title: Quantum entanglement in a non-commutative system
authors: S. Adhikari, B. Chakraborty, A. S. Majumdar, S. Vaidya
comments: Latex, 25 pages, 8 eps figs, matches with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042109 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2050
abstract: We explore the effect of two-dimensional position-space non-commutativity on the bipartite entanglement of continuous variable systems. We first extend the standard symplectic framework for studying entanglement of Gaussian states of commutative systems to the case of non-commutative systems residing in two dimensions. Using the positive partial transpose criterion for separability of bipartite states we derive a new condition on the separability of a non-commutative system that is dependent on the noncommutative parameter $\theta$. We then consider the specific example of a bipartite Gaussian state and show the quantitative reduction of entanglement originating from non-commutative dynamics. We show that such a reduction of entanglement for a non-commutative system arising from the modification of the variances of the phase space variables (uncertainty relations) is clearly manifested between two particles that are separated by small distances.

id: 0811.2062
title: On Deriving a Basis for the Vector Space of Bounded Qudit Error Operators over $C^d$
authors: Colin Wilmott, Peter Wild
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2062
abstract: We derive a basis for the vector space of bounded operators acting on a $d$-dimensional system Hilbert space $C^d$. In the context of quantum computation the basis elements are identified as the generalised Pauli matrices - the error generators. As an application, we show how such matrices are used in the teleportation a single qudit.

id: 0811.2068
title: Testing Born's Rule in Quantum Mechanics with a Triple Slit Experiment
authors: Urbasi Sinha, Christophe Couteau, Zachari Medendorp, Immo S?llner, Raymond Laflamme, Rafael Sorkin, Gregor Weihs
comments: Submitted to the proceedings of Foundations of Probability and Physics-5, Vaxjo, Sweden, August 2008. 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2068
abstract: In Mod. Phys. Lett. A 9, 3119 (1994), one of us (R.D.S) investigated a formulation of quantum mechanics as a generalized measure theory. Quantum mechanics computes probabilities from the absolute squares of complex amplitudes, and the resulting interference violates the (Kolmogorov) sum rule expressing the additivity of probabilities of mutually exclusive events. However, there is a higher order sum rule that quantum mechanics does obey, involving the probabilities of three mutually exclusive possibilities. We could imagine a yet more general theory by assuming that it violates the next higher sum rule. In this paper, we report results from an ongoing experiment that sets out to test the validity of this second sum rule by measuring the interference patterns produced by three slits and all the possible combinations of those slits being open or closed. We use attenuated laser light combined with single photon counting to confirm the particle character of the measured light.

id: 0811.2070
title: Factorizing numbers with classical interference: several implementations in optics
authors: A. A. Rangelov
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42, 021002 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2070
abstract: Truncated Fourier, Gauss, Kummer and exponential sums can be used to factorize numbers: for a factor these sums equal unity in absolute value, whereas they nearly vanish for any other number. We show how this factorization algorithm can emerge from superpositions of classical light waves and we present a number of simple implementations in optics.

id: 0811.2109
title: Clifford groups of quantum gates, BN-pairs and smooth cubic surfaces
authors: Michel Planat, Patrick Sol¨¦
comments: 7 pages, version to appear in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical (fast track communications)
journal: Journal of Physics A Mathematical and Theoretical 42 (2009) 042003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2109
abstract: The recent proposal (M Planat and M Kibler, Preprint 0807.3650 [quantph]) of representing Clifford quantum gates in terms of unitary reflections is revisited. In this essay, the geometry of a Clifford group G is expressed as a BN-pair, i.e. a pair of subgroups B and N that generate G, is such that intersection H = B \cap N is normal in G, the group W = N/H is a Coxeter group and two extra axioms are satisfied by the double cosets acting on B. The BN-pair used in this decomposition relies on the swap and match gates already introduced for classically simulating quantum circuits (R Jozsa and A Miyake, Preprint arXiv:0804.4050 [quant-ph]). The two- and three-qubit steps are related to the configuration with 27 lines on a smooth cubic surface.

id: 0811.2116
title: Confining stationary light: Dirac dynamics and Klein tunneling
authors: J. Otterbach, R. G. Unanyan, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2116
abstract: We discuss the properties of 1D stationary pulses of light in atomic ensemble with electromagnetically induced transparency in the limit of tight spatial confinement. When the size of the wavepacket becomes comparable or smaller than the absorption length of the medium, it must be described by a two-component vector which obeys the one-dimensional two-component Dirac equation with an effective mass $m^*$ and effective speed of light $c^*$. Then a fundamental lower limit to the spatial width in an external potential arises from Klein tunneling and is given by the effective Compton length $\lambda_C = \hbar/(m^* c^*)$. Since $c^*$ and $m^*$ can be externally controlled and can be made small it is possible to observe effects of the relativistic dispersion for rather low energies or correspondingly on macroscopic length scales.

id: 0811.2139
title: Coherent state approach to the cross collisional effects in the population dynamics of a two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Thiago F. Viscondi, K. Furuya, M. C. de Oliveira
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures. Added some references, remarks on LMG model and acknowledgments
journal: Annals of Physics, Volume 324, Issue 9, September 2009, Pages 1837-1846
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2139
abstract: We reanalyze the non-linear population dynamics of a Bose-Einstein Condensate (BEC) in a double well trap considering a semiclassical approach based on a time dependent variational principle applied to coherent states associated to SU(2) group. Employing a two-mode local approximation and hard sphere type interaction, we show in the Schwinger's pseudo-spin language the occurrence of a fixed point bifurcation that originates a separatrix of motion on a sphere. This separatrix corresponds to the borderline between two dynamical regimes of Josephson oscillations and mesoscopic self-trapping. We also consider the effects of interaction between particles in different wells, known as cross collisions. Such terms are usually neglected for traps sufficiently far apart, but recently it has been shown that they contribute to the effective tunneling constant with a factor growing linearly with the particle number. This effect changes considerably the effective tunneling of the system for sufficiently large number of trapped atoms, in perfect accord with experimental data. Finally, we identify analytically the transition parameter associated to the bifurcation in the generalized phase space of the model with cross-collision terms, and show how the dynamical regime depends on the initial conditions of the system and the collisional parameters values.

id: 0811.2140
title: Hund's paradox and the collisional stabilization of chiral molecules
authors: Johannes Trost, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; v3:corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 103, 023202 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2140
abstract: We identify the dominant collisional decoherence mechanism which serves to stabilize and super-select the configuration states of chiral molecules. A high-energy description of this effect is compared to the results of the exact molecular scattering problem, obtained by solving the coupled-channel equations. It allows to predict the experimental conditions for observing the collisional suppression of the tunneling dynamics between the left-handed and the right-handed configuration of D2S2 molecules.

id: 0811.2183
title: Laser frequency stabilization to highly excited state transitions using electromagnetically induced transparency in a cascade system
authors: R. P. Abel, A. K. Mohapatra, M. G. Bason, J. D. Pritchard, K. J. Weatherill, U. Raitzsch, C. S. Adams
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures, with corrections
journal: Applied physics Letters, 94, 071107 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2183
abstract: We demonstrate laser frequency stabilization to excited state transitions using cascade electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). Using a room temperature Rb vapor cell as a reference, we stabilize a first diode laser to the D2 transition and a second laser to a transition from the intermediate state to a Rydberg state with principal quantum number n=19 - 70. A combined laser linewidth of 280 kHz over a 0.1 ms time period is achieved. This method may be applied generally to any cascade system and allows laser stabilization to an atomic reference in the absence of strong optical transitions.

id: 0811.2270
title: Robust quantum repeater with atomic ensembles and single-photon sources
authors: Fang-Yu Hong, Shi-Jie Xiong
comments: 5 pages 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052341 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2270
abstract: We present a quantum repeater protocol using atomic ensembles, linear optics and single-photon sources. Two local 'polarization' entangled states of atomic ensembles $u$ and $d$ are generated by absorbing a single photon emitted by an on-demand single-photon sources, based on which high-fidelity local entanglement between four ensembles can be established efficiently through Bell-state measurement. Entanglement in basic links and entanglement connection between links are carried out by the use of two-photon interference. In addition to being robust against phase fluctuations in the quantum channels, this scheme may speed up quantum communication with higher fidelity by about 2 orders of magnitude for 1280 km compared with the partial read (PR) protocol (Sangouard {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf77}, 062301 (2008)) which may generate entanglement most quickly among the previous schemes with the same ingredients.

id: 0811.2278
title: Neodymium Photoluminescence in Whispering Gallery Modes of Toroidal Microcavities
authors: Fedja Orucevic, Jean Hare, Val¨¦rie Lef¨¨vre-Seguin
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2278
abstract: We report on light emission from high-Q neodymium-implanted silica microtoroids. Following the description of the fabrication process of microtoroids, neodymium light emission is analysed. This emission is coupled to various cavity modes. Using evanescent wave coupling we achieve selective detection of Whispering Gallery Modes of a microtoroid.

id: 0811.2298
title: Entropic uncertainty relation for mutually unbiased bases
authors: Shengjun Wu, Sixia Yu, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 7 pages, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022104 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2298
abstract: We derive new inequalities for the probabilities of projective measurements in mutually unbiased bases of a qudit system. These inequalities lead to wider ranges of validity and tighter bounds on entropic uncertainty inequalities previously derived in the literature.

id: 0811.2312
title: Complementarity of information sent via different bases
authors: Shengjun Wu, Sixia Yu, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 9 pages, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022320 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2312
abstract: We discuss quantitatively the complementarity of information transmitted by a quantum system prepared in a basis state in one out of several different mutually unbiased bases (MUBs). We obtain upper bounds on the information available to a receiver who has no knowledge of which MUB was chosen by the sender. These upper bounds imply a complementarity of information encoded via different MUBs and ultimately ensure the security in quantum key distribution protocols.

id: 0811.2315
title: Non-Gaussian two-mode squeezing and continuous variable entanglement of linearly and circularly polarized light beams interacting with cold atoms
authors: R. J. Missori, M. C. de Oliveira, K. Furuya
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, replaced with final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 023801 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2315
abstract: We investigate how entangled coherent states and superpositions of low intensity coherent states of non-Gaussian nature can be generated via non-resonant interaction between either two linearly or circularly polarized field modes and an ensemble of X-like four-level atoms placed in an optical cavity. We compare our results to recent experimental observations and argue that the non-Gaussian structure of the field states may be present in those systems.

id: 0811.2323
title: Bound on trace distance based on superfidelity
authors: Zbigniew Pucha?a, Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 024302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2323
abstract: We provide a bound for the trace distance between two quantum states. The lower bound is based on the superfidelity, which provides the upper bound on quantum fidelity. One of the advantages of the presented bound is that it can be estimated using a simple measurement procedure. We also compare this bound with the one provided in terms of fidelity.

id: 0811.2360
title: Adaptive estimation of qubits by symmetry measurements
authors: Christof J. Happ, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; Version 3 with minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 064303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2360
abstract: We analyze quantum state estimation for finite samples based on symmetry information. The used measurement concept compares an unknown qubit to a reference state. We describe explicitly an adaptive strategy, that enhances the estimation fidelity of these measurements.

id: 0811.2409
title: The Phononic Casimir Effect: An Analog Model
authors: L.H. Ford, N.F. Svaiter
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, talk presented at "60 Years of Casimir Effect", Brasilia, Brazil, June 2008
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.161: 012034,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2409
abstract: We discuss the quantization of sound waves in a fluid with a linear dispersion relation and calculate the quantum density fluctuations of the fluid in several cases. These include a fluid in its ground state. In this case, we discuss the scattering cross section of light by the density fluctuations, and find that in many situations it is small compared to the thermal fluctuations, but not negligibly small and might be observable at room temperature. We also consider a fluid in a squeezed state of phonons and fluids containing boundaries. We suggest that the latter may be a useful analog model for better understanding boundary effects in quantum field theory. In all cases involving boundaries which we consider, the mean squared density fluctuations are reduced by the presence of the boundary. This implies a reduction in the light scattering cross section, which is potentially an observable effect.

id: 0811.2422
title: Individual addressing of ions using magnetic field gradients in a surface-electrode ion trap
authors: Shannon X. Wang, Jaroslaw Labaziewicz, Yufei Ge, Ruth Shewmon, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures; submitted to APL
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 94, 094103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2422
abstract: Dense array of ions in microfabricated traps represent one possible way to scale up ion trap quantum computing. The ability to address individual ions is an important component of such a scheme. We demonstrate individual addressing of trapped ions in a microfabricated surface-electrode trap using a magnetic field gradient generated on-chip. A frequency splitting of 310(2) kHz for two ions separated by 5 um is achieved. Selective single qubit operations are performed on one of two trapped ions with an average of 2.2+/-1.0% crosstalk. Coherence time as measured by the spin-echo technique is unaffected by the field gradient.

id: 0811.2430
title: What particles that never met "know" of one another?
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure Minor changes, one reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2430
abstract: An experiment proposed by Yurke and Stoler, and similar to that realized experimentally by Sciarrino et al., is analyzed. In Sciarrino's realization, identical photons from a degenerated down-conversion pair are used, i.e. the photons met in the past. In the experiment analyzed here the particles are also identical, but from different sources. As long as one can tell from which source came each particle, the joint wave function remains factorizable. However, a configuration is created in which one cannot tell anymore which particle came from which source. As a result, the wave function becomes non-factorizable, symmetrical (for bosons) or antisymmetrical (for fermions). In part of the cases the situation is even more surprising: the particles never meet, s.t. the symmetry (antisymmetry) is produced at-a-distance without the particles having had the possibility to interact in any way.

id: 0811.2454
title: Topologies on Quantum Effects
authors: Zhihao Ma, Sen Zhu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2454
abstract: Quantum effects play an important role in quantum measurement theory. The set of all quantum effects can be organized into an algebraical structure called effect algebra. In this paper, we study various topologies on the Hilbert space effect algebra and the projection lattice effect algebra.

id: 0811.2460
title: Quantum Kolmogorov Complexity and Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Hideki Imai
comments: typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012324 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2460
abstract: We discuss the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) quantum key distribution protocol in the light of quantum algorithmic information. While Shannon's information theory needs a probability to define a notion of information, algorithmic information theory does not need it and can assign a notion of information to an individual object. The program length necessary to describe an object, Kolmogorov complexity, plays the most fundamental role in the theory. In the context of algorithmic information theory, we formulate a security criterion for the quantum key distribution by using the quantum Kolmogorov complexity that was recently defined by Vit\'anyi. We show that a simple BB84 protocol indeed distribute a binary sequence between Alice and Bob that looks almost random for Eve with a probability exponentially close to 1.

id: 0811.2479
title: Negative-index media for matter-wave optics
authors: J. Baudon, M. Hamamda, J. Grucker, F. Perales, G. Dutier, M. Boustimi, M. Ducloy
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted at PRL 4 November 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2479
abstract: We consider the extension of optical meta-materials to matter waves. We show that the generic property of pulsed comoving magnetic fields allows us to fashion the wave-number dependence of the atomic phase shift. It can be used to produce a transient negative group velocity of an atomic wave packet, which results into a negative refraction of the matter wave. Application to slow metastable argon atoms Ar*(3P2) shows that the device is able to operate either as an efficient beam splitter or an atomic meta-lens. Implications of "meta-media" in atom optics are considered.

id: 0811.2528
title: Quantum restrictions on transfer of matrix elements
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Karen Hovhannisyan
comments: 4.1 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2528
abstract: We discuss restrictions imposed by quantum mechanics on the process of matrix elements transfer from the one system to another. This is relevant for various processes of partial state transfer (quantum communication, indirect measurement, polarization transfer, {\it etc}). Given two systems A and B with initial density operators $\lambda$ and $r$, respectively, we consider most general interactions, which lead to transferring certain matrix elements of unknown $\lambda$ into those of the final state ${\widetilde r}$ of B. We find that this process leads to eliminating the memory on the transferred (or certain other) matrix elements from the final state of A. If one diagonal matrix element is transferred: ${\widetilde r}_{aa}=\lambda_{aa}$, the memory on each non-diagonal element $\lambda_{a\not=b}$ is completely eliminated from the final density operator of A. The transfer of a non-diagonal element: ${\widetilde r}_{ab}=\lambda_{ab}$ eliminates the memory on the diagonal elements $\lambda_{aa}$ and $\lambda_{bb}$, while the memory about their sum $\lambda_{aa}+\lambda_{bb}$ is kept. Moreover, the memory about $\lambda_{ab}$ itself is completely eliminated from the final state of A. Generalization of these set-ups to non-ideal transfer brings in a trade-off between the quality of the transfer and the amount of preserved memory. This trade-off is expressed via system-independent uncertainty relations.

id: 0811.2543
title: A Non-Renormalized Field Theoretic Treatment of Photon Scattering
authors: Joydip Ghosh
comments: NA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2543
abstract: NA

id: 0811.2576
title: Quantum teleportation and state sharing using a genuinely entangled six qubit state
authors: Sayan Choudhury, Sreraman Muralidharan, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 6 pages, 7 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2576
abstract: The usefulness of the genuinely entangled six qubit state that was recently introduced by Borras et al. is investigated for the quantum teleportation of an arbitrary three qubit state and for quantum state sharing (QSTS) of an arbitrary two qubit state. For QSTS, we explicitly devise two protocols and construct sixteen orthogonal measurement basis which can lock an arbitrary two qubit information between two parties.

id: 0811.2582
title: A closer look at the uncertainty relation of position and momentum
authors: Thomas Sch¨¹rmann, Ingo Hoffmann
comments: 3 pages, introduction shortened, content unchanged
journal: Foundations of Physics, Vol. 39 (2009), p. 958-963
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2582
abstract: We consider particles prepared by the von Neumann-L\"uders projection. For those particles the standard deviation of the momentum is discussed. We show that infinite standard deviations are not exceptions but rather typical. A necessary and sufficient condition for finite standard deviations is given. Finally, a new uncertainty relation is derived and it is shown that the latter cannot be improved.

id: 0811.2597
title: Efficient Quantum Tensor Product Expanders and k-designs
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Richard A. Low
comments: 16 pages, typo in references fixed
journal: Proceedings of RANDOM 2009, LNCS, 5687:548-561, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2597
abstract: Quantum expanders are a quantum analogue of expanders, and k-tensor product expanders are a generalisation to graphs that randomise k correlated walkers. Here we give an efficient construction of constant-degree, constant-gap quantum k-tensor product expanders. The key ingredients are an efficient classical tensor product expander and the quantum Fourier transform. Our construction works whenever k=O(n/log n), where n is the number of qubits. An immediate corollary of this result is an efficient construction of an approximate unitary k-design, which is a quantum analogue of an approximate k-wise independent function, on n qubits for any k=O(n/log n). Previously, no efficient constructions were known for k>2, while state designs, of which unitary designs are a generalisation, were constructed efficiently in [Ambainis, Emerson 2007].

id: 0811.2628
title: Finite-key analysis for practical implementations of quantum key distribution
authors: Raymond Y.Q. Cai, Valerio Scarani
comments: Typo in eq.(3) corrected
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 045024 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2628
abstract: The lists of bits processed in quantum key distribution are necessarily of finite length. The need for finite-key unconditional security bounds has been recognized long ago, but the theoretical tools have become available only very recently. We provide finite-key unconditional security bounds for two practical implementations of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 coding: prepare-and-measure implementations without decoy states, and entanglement-based implementations. A finite-key bound for prepare-and-measure implementations with decoy states is also derived under a simplified treatment of the statistical fluctuations. The presentation is tailored to allow direct application of the bounds in experiments. Finally, the bounds are also evaluated on a priori reasonable expected values of the observed parameters.

id: 0811.2639
title: Entanglement Purification with Double Selection
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 042308 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2639
abstract: We investigate efficient entanglement purification through double selection process. This method works with higher noise thresholds for the communication channels and local operations, and achieves higher fidelity of purified states. Furthermore it provides a yield comparable to the usual protocol with single selection. It is shown by general considerations that the double selection is optimal to remove the first-order errors, achieving the upper bound on the fidelity of purified states in the low noise regime. The double selection is also applied to purification of multi-partite entanglement such as two-colorable graph states.

id: 0811.2647
title: Photon exchange and correlations transfer in atom-atom entanglement dynamics
authors: Juan Le¨®n, Carlos Sab¨ªn
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2647
abstract: We analyze the entanglement dynamics of a system composed by a pair of neutral two-level atoms that are initially entangled, and the electromagnetic field, initially in the vacuum state, within the formalism of perturbative quantum field theory up to the second order. We show that entanglement sudden death and revival can occur while the atoms remain spacelike-separated and therefore cannot be related with photon exchange between the atoms. We interpret these phenomena as the consequence of a transfer of atom-atom entanglement to atom-field entanglement and viceversa. We also consider the different bi-partitions of the system, finding similar relationships between their entanglement evolutions.

id: 0811.2654
title: Experimental inhibition of decoherence on flying qubits via bang-bang control
authors: Sajeev Damodarakurup, Marco Lucamarini, Giovanni Di Giuseppe, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 040502 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2654
abstract: Decoherence may significantly affect the polarization state of optical pulses propagating in dispersive media because of the unavoidable presence of more than a single frequency in the envelope of the pulse. Here we report on the suppression of polarization decoherence in a ring cavity obtained by properly retooling for photonic qubits the ``bang-bang'' protection technique already employed for nuclear spins and nuclear-quadrupole qubits. Our results show that bang-bang control can be profitably extended to quantum information processes involving flying polarization qubits.

id: 0811.2705
title: Coherent shift of localized bound pair in Bose Hubbard model
authors: L. Jin, B. Chen, Z. Song
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: PRA 79, 032108 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2705
abstract: Based on the exact results obtained by Bethe ansatz, we demonstrate the existence of stable bound pair (BP) wave packet in Bose Hubbard model with arbitrary on-site interaction U. In large-U regime, it is found that an incoming single-particle (SP) can coherently pass through a BP wave packet and leave a coherent shift in the position of it. This suggests a simple scheme for constructing a BP charge qubit to realize a quantum switch, which is capable of controlling the coherent transport of one and only one photon in a one-dimensional waveguide.

id: 0811.2739
title: Indistinguishability of independent single photons
authors: F. W. Sun, C. W. Wong
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 013824 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2739
abstract: The indistinguishability of independent single photons is presented by decomposing the single photon pulse into the mixed state of different transform limited pulses. The entanglement between single photons and outer environment or other photons induces the distribution of the center frequencies of those transform limited pulses and makes photons distinguishable. Only the single photons with the same transform limited form are indistinguishable. In details, the indistinguishability of single photons from the solid-state quantum emitter and spontaneous parametric down conversion is examined with two-photon Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer. Moreover, experimental methods to enhance the indistinguishability are discussed, where the usage of spectral filter is highlighted.

id: 0811.2756
title: Quantum Thermodynamic Cycles and Quantum Heat Engines (II)
authors: H. T. Quan
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79. 041129 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2756
abstract: We study the quantum mechanical generalization of force or pressure, and then we extend the classical thermodynamic isobaric process to quantum mechanical systems. Based on these efforts, we are able to study the quantum version of thermodynamic cycles that consist of quantum isobaric process, such as quantum Brayton cycle and quantum Diesel cycle. We also consider the implementation of quantum Brayton cycle and quantum Diesel cycle with some model systems, such as single particle in 1D box and single-mode radiation field in a cavity. These studies lay the microscopic (quantum mechanical) foundation for Szilard-Zurek single molecule engine.

id: 0811.2771
title: Momentum exchange between light and a single atom: Abraham or Minkowski?
authors: E. A. Hinds, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2771
abstract: We consider the forces exerted by a pulse of plane-wave light on a single atom. The leading edge of the pulse exerts a dispersive force on the atom, and this modifies the atomic momentum while the atom is enveloped in the light. The standard view of the optical dipole force indicates that red-detuned light should attract the atom towards high intensity. This should increase the average momentum per photon to $\textbf{p}_{0} n$, where $\textbf{p}_{0}$ is the photon momentum in free space and $n$ is the average refractive index due to the presence of the atom in the light. We show, however, that this is the wrong conclusion and that the atom is in fact repelled from the light by the dispersive forces, giving the photons a momentum $\textbf{p}_{0} /n$. This leads us to identify Abraham's optical momentum with the kinetic momentum transfer. The form due to Minkowski is similarly associated with the canonical momentum. We consider the possibility of demonstrating this in the laboratory, and we note an unexpected connection with the Aharonov-Casher effect.

id: 0811.2780
title: Canonical Phase Measurements in the Presence of Photon Loss
authors: Aravind Chiruvelli, Hwang Lee
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Submitted to PRA. Rewritten as per the comments of referee. More references added. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2780
abstract: We analyze the optimal state, as given by Berry and Wiseman [Phys. Rev. Lett {\bf 85}, 5098, (2000)], under the canonical phase measurement in the presence of photon loss. The model of photon loss is a generic fictitious beam splitter, and we present the full density matrix calculations, which are more direct and do not involve any approximations. We find for a given amount of loss the upper bound for the input photon number that yields a sub-shot noise estimate.

id: 0811.2784
title: Complete Characterization of Quantum-Optical Processes
authors: Mirko Lobino, Dmitry Korystov, Connor Kupchak, Eden Figueroa, Barry C. Sanders, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Science 322, 563-565 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2784
abstract: The technologies of quantum information and quantum control are rapidly improving, but full exploitation of their capabilities requires complete characterization and assessment of processes that occur within quantum devices. We present a method for characterizing, with arbitrarily high accuracy, any quantum optical process. Our protocol recovers complete knowledge of the process by studying, via homodyne tomography, its effect on a set of coherent states, i.e. classical fields produced by common laser sources. We demonstrate the capability of our protocol by evaluating and experimentally verifying the effect of a test process on squeezed vacuum.

id: 0811.2799
title: The Optical Frequency Comb as a One-Way Quantum Computer
authors: Steven T. Flammia, Nicolas C. Menicucci, Oliver Pfister
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures. v2 corrects minor error in published version
journal: J. Phys. B 42, 114009 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2799
abstract: In the one-way model of quantum computing, quantum algorithms are implemented using only measurements on an entangled initial state. Much of the hard work is done up-front when creating this universal resource, known as a cluster state, on which the measurements are made. Here we detail a new proposal for a scalable method of creating cluster states using only a single multimode optical parametric oscillator (OPO). The method generates a continuous-variable cluster state that is universal for quantum computation and encoded in the quadratures of the optical frequency comb of the OPO. This work expands on the presentation in Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 130501 (2008).

id: 0811.2803
title: Entanglement detection
authors: Otfried G¨¹hne, Geza Toth
comments: review article, 90 pages, 22 figures. v2: more content, v3: small changes
journal: Physics Reports 474, 1 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2803
abstract: How can one prove that a given state is entangled? In this paper we review different methods that have been proposed for entanglement detection. We first explain the basic elements of entanglement theory for two or more particles and then entanglement verification procedures such as Bell inequalities, entanglement witnesses, the determination of nonlinear properties of a quantum state via measurements on several copies, and spin squeezing inequalities. An emphasis is given on the theory and application of entanglement witnesses. We also discuss several experiments, where some of the presented methods have been implemented.

id: 0811.2810
title: Spin bath interactions effects on the geometric phase
authors: Paula I. Villar
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. Version to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2810
abstract: We calculate the geometric phase of a spin-1/2 particle coupled to an external environment comprising N spin-1/2 particle in the framework of open quantum systems. We analyze the decoherence factor and the deviation of the geometric phase under a nonunitary evolution from the one gained under an unitary one. We show the dependence upon the system's and bath's parameter and analyze the range of validity of the perturbative approximation. Finally, we discuss the implications of our results.

id: 0811.2856
title: On the exact treatment of Time Dependent Self-Interaction Correction
authors: J. Messud, P. M. Dinh, P.-G. Reinhard, E. Suraud
comments: 33 pages, 6 figures, 46 references
journal: Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 324 (2009) 955
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2856
abstract: We present a new formulation of the time-dependent self-interaction correction (TDSIC). It is derived variationally obeying explicitly the constraints on orthonormality of the occupied single-particle orbitals. The thus emerging rather involved symmetry condition amongst the orbitals is dealt with using two separate sets of (occupied) single-particle wavefunctions, related by a unitary transformation. The double-set TDSIC scheme is well suited for numerical implementation. We present results for laser-excited dynamics in a 1D model for a molecule and in fully fledged 3D calculations.

id: 0811.2857
title: Noise induced interference fringes in trapped ultracold bosonic gases
authors: S. Anderloni, F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, G. G. Guerreschi
comments: 14 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2857
abstract: We study the dynamics of ultracold atoms trapped in optical double-well potentials in presence of noise generated by an external environment. When prepared in a Fock number state, the system shows phase coherence in the averaged density profile obtained using standard absorption image techniques, that disappears in absence of noise. This effect indicates that also in many-body systems an external environment may enhance quantum coherence, instead of destroying it.

id: 0811.2862
title: Non-local Realistic Theories and the Scope of the Bell Theorem
authors: Federico Laudisa
comments: Forthcoming in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2862
abstract: According to a widespread view, the Bell theorem establishes the untenability of so-called 'local realism'. On the basis of this view, recent proposals by Leggett, Zeilinger and others have been developed according to which it can be proved that even some non-local realistic theories have to be ruled out. As a consequence, within this view the Bell theorem allows one to establish that no reasonable form of realism, be it local or non-local, can be made compatible with the (experimentally tested) predictions of quantum mechanics. In the present paper it is argued that the Bell theorem has demonstrably nothing to do with the 'realism' as defined by these authors and that, as a consequence, their conclusions about the foundational significance of the Bell theorem are unjustified.

id: 0811.2887
title: Quantum Logical Gates with Linear Quadripartite Cluster States of Continuous Variables
authors: Aihong Tan, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: accepted for publication by PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2887
abstract: The concrete schemes to realize three types of basic quantum logical gates using linear quadripartite cluster states of optical continuous variables are proposed. The influences of noises and finite squeezing on the computation precision are analyzed in terms of the fidelity of propagated quantum information through the continuous variable cluster states. The proposed schemes provide direct references for the design of experimental systems of one-way quantum computer based on the cluster entanglement of amplitude and phase quadratures of light.

id: 0811.2905
title: Solution to Satisfiability problem by a complete Grover search with trapped ions
authors: W. L. Yang, H. Wei, F. Zhou, W. L. Chang, M. Feng
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2905
abstract: The main idea in the original Grover search (Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 325 (1997)) is to single out a target state containing the solution to a search problem by amplifying the amplitude of the state, following the Oracle's job, i.e., a black box giving us information about the target state. We design quantum circuits to accomplish a complete Grover search involving both the Oracle's job and the amplification of the target state, which are employed to solve Satisfiability (SAT) problems. We explore how to carry out the quantum circuits by currently available ion-trap quantum computing technology.

id: 0811.2907
title: Quantitative complementarity between local and nonlocal character of quantum states in a three-qubit system
authors: Xinhua Peng, Jingfu Zhang, Jiangfeng Du, Dieter Suter
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052107 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2907
abstract: Local or nonlocal character of quantum states can be quantified and is subject to various bounds that can be formulated as complementarity relations. Here, we investigate the local vs. nonlocal character of pure three-qubit states by a four-way interferometer. The complete entanglement in the system can be measured as the entanglement of a specific qubit with the subsystem consisting of the other two qubits. The quantitative complementarity relations are verified experimentally in an NMR quantum information processor.

id: 0811.2924
title: Negativity of the Coarse Grained Wigner Function as a Measure of Quantal Behavior
authors: Tyler E Keating, Adam T.C. Steege, Arjendu K. Pattanayak
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2924
abstract: The negativity of a given state's Wigner function has been proposed as a measure of quantumness of that state in a unipartite system. This otherwise physically intuitive and useful phase-space measure however does not yield the right correspondence principle limit, and also turns out to yield infinite values for the infinite square well. We show that both these issues can be sensibly resolved using coarse-graining of the Wigner function.

id: 0811.2937
title: Emergence of Quantum Correlations from Non-Locality Swapping
authors: Paul Skrzypczyk, Nicolas Brunner, Sandu Popescu
comments: 5 pages. 6 figures. Minor Revisions. To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 110402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2937
abstract: By studying generalized non-signalling theories, the hope is to find out what makes quantum mechanics so special. In the present paper, we revisit the paradigmatic model of non-signalling boxes and introduce the concept of a genuine box. This will allow us to present the first generalized non-signalling model featuring quantum-like dynamics. In particular, we present the coupler, a device enabling non-locality swapping, the analogue of quantum entanglement swapping, as well as teleportation. Remarkably, part of the boundary between quantum and post-quantum correlations emerges in our study.

id: 0811.2938
title: Nonequilibrium thermodynamics of a squeezed harmonic oscillator
authors: Fernando Galve, Eric Lutz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2938
abstract: We consider the thermodynamic properties of the squeezed vacuum state of a frequency--modulated quantum harmonic oscillator. We analytically relate the squeezing parameter to the irreversible work and the degree of nonadiabaticity of the frequency transformation. We furthermore determine the optimal modulation that leads to maximal squeezing, and discuss its implementation as well as the detection of squeezing in single cold ion traps.

id: 0811.2952
title: Peculiarities of the Light Absorption and Emission by Free Electrons in Multivalley Semiconductors
authors: P.M. Tomchuk
comments: 
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, vol. 49, no. 7, pp. 681-690, 2004 (http://ujp.bitp.kiev.ua)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2952
abstract: General expressions are obtained for the coefficient of light absorption by free carriers as well as the intensity of the spontaneous light emission by hot electrons in multivalley semiconductors. These expressions depend on the electron concentration and electron temperature in the individual valleys. An anisotropy of the dispersion law and electron scattering mechanisms is taken into account. Impurity-related and acoustic scattering mechanisms are analyzed. Polarization dependence of the spontaneous emission by hot electrons is found out. At unidirectional pressure applied or high irradiation intensities, the polarization dependence also appears in the coefficient of light absorption by free electrons.

id: 0811.2953
title: Purification of single-photon entanglement with linear optics
authors: Nicolas Sangouard, Christoph Simon, Thomas Coudreau, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 050301(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2953
abstract: We show that single-photon entangled states of the form |0>|1>+|1>|0> can be purified with a simple linear-optics based protocol, which is eminently feasible with current technology. Besides its conceptual interest, this result is relevant for attractive quantum repeater protocols.

id: 0811.2986
title: A mechanical model of tunnelling
authors: Amaury Mouchet
comments: 
journal: European Journal of Physics 30, 1 (2009) L1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2986
abstract: It is shown how the model which was introduced by Mouchet (2008 Eur. J. Phys. 29 1033) allows one to mimic the quantum tunnelling between two symmetric one-dimensional wells.

id: 0811.3014
title: Quantum control of noisy channels
authors: Raffaele Romano, Peter van Loock
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3014
abstract: Sender and receiver can control noisy channels by means of the resources they own, that is local operations, potentially correlated using classical communication, and entangled pairs shared between them. Using the Choi-Jamiolkowski isomorphism, we express the control of a noisy channel in terms of control of (non-normalized) states, and show how the available resources enter the analysis. Our formalism provides a general scheme for the protection of quantum state transmission when a single use of the physical channel is considered. Moreover, it paves the way to the application of control theoretical tools to the study of noisy channels. We define the notion of complexity of a noisy channel, as a measure of how demanding is to engineer specific manipulations of a channel. We provide some examples of both deterministic and probabilistic protocols leading to a decreased complexity.

id: 0811.3015
title: How to play macroscopic quantum game
authors: A.A.Grib, G.N.Parfionov
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3015
abstract: Quantum games are usually considered as games with strategies defined not by the standard Kolmogorovian probabilistic measure but by the probability amplitude used in quantum physics. The reason for the use of the probability amplitude or "quantum probabilistic measure", is the nondistributive lattice occurring in physical situations with quantum microparticles. In our paper we give examples of getting nondistributive orthomodular lattices in some special macroscopic situations without use of quantum microparticles.

id: 0811.3017
title: Time-domain scars: resolving the spectral form factor in phase space
authors: Thomas Dittrich, Leonardo A. Pachon
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:150401,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3017
abstract: We study the relationship of the spectral form factor with quantum as well as classical probabilities to return. Defining a quantum return probability in phase space as a trace over the propagator of the Wigner function allows us to identify and resolve manifolds in phase space that contribute to the form factor. They can be associated to classical invariant manifolds such as periodic orbits, but also to non-classical structures like sets of midpoints between periodic points. By contrast to scars in wavefunctions, these features are not subject to the uncertainty relation and therefore need not show any smearing. They constitute important exceptions from a continuous convergence in the classical limit of the Wigner towards the Liouville propagator. We support our theory with numerical results for the quantum cat map and the harmonically driven quartic oscillator.

id: 0811.3049
title: Preparation of Decoherence Free Cluster States with Optical Superlattices
authors: Liang Jiang, Ana Maria Rey, Oriol Romero-Isart, Juan Jose Garcia-Ripoll, Anna Sanpera, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022309 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3049
abstract: We present a protocol to prepare decoherence free cluster states using ultracold atoms loaded in a two dimensional superlattice. The superlattice geometry leads to an array of 2*2 plaquettes, each of them holding four spin-1/2 particles that can be used for encoding a single logical qubit in the two-fold singlet subspace, insensitive to uniform magnetic field fluctuations in any direction. Dynamical manipulation of the supperlattice yields distinct inter and intra plaquette interactions and permits to realize one qubit and two qubit gates with high fidelity, leading to the generation of universal cluster states for measurement based quantum computation. Our proposal based on inter and intra plaquette interactions also opens the path to study polymerized Hamiltonians which support ground states describing arbitrary quantum circuits.

id: 0811.3100
title: Optimal entanglement generation for efficient hybrid quantum repeaters
authors: Naoya Sota, Koji Azuma, Ryo Namiki, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3100
abstract: We propose a realistic protocol to generate entanglement between quantum memories at neighboring nodes in hybrid quantum repeaters. Generated entanglement includes only one type of error, which enables efficient entanglement distillation. In contrast to the known protocols with such a property, our protocol with ideal detectors achieves the theoretical limit of the success probability and the fidelity to a Bell state, promising higher efficiencies in the repeaters. We also show that the advantage of our protocol remains even with realistic threshold detectors.

id: 0811.3127
title: Fidelity approach to quantum phase transitions
authors: Shi-Jian Gu
comments: 41 pages, 31 figures. We apologize if we omit acknowledging your relevant works. Do tell. An updated version with clearer figures can be found at: this http URL
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 24, 4371(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3127
abstract: We review briefly the quantum fidelity approach to quantum phase transitions in a pedagogical manner. We try to relate all established but scattered results on the leading term of the fidelity into a systematic theoretical framework, which might provide an alternative paradigm for understanding quantum critical phenomena. The definition of the fidelity and the scaling behavior of its leading term, as well as their explicit applications to the one-dimensional transverse-field Ising model and the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model, are introduced at the graduate-student level. In addition, we survey also other types of fidelity approach, such as the fidelity per site, reduced fidelity, thermal-state fidelity, operator fidelity, etc; as well as relevant works on the fidelity approach to quantum phase transitions occurring in various many-body systems.

id: 0811.3128
title: A No-Go Theorem for Gaussian Quantum Error Correction
authors: Julien Niset, Jaromir Fiurasek, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, REVTeX4
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:120501,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3128
abstract: It is proven that Gaussian operations are of no use for protecting Gaussian states against Gaussian errors in quantum communication protocols. Specifically, we introduce a new quantity characterizing any single-mode Gaussian channel, called entanglement degradation, and show that it cannot decrease via Gaussian encoding and decoding operations only. The strength of this no-go theorem is illustrated with some examples of Gaussian channels.

id: 0811.3129
title: Violation of local realism with freedom of choice
authors: Thomas Scheidl, Rupert Ursin, Johannes Kofler, Sven Ramelow, Xiao-Song Ma, Thomas Herbst, Lothar Ratschbacher, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Nathan K. Langford, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables, published online before print: this http URL
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 107, 19708 (2010) [open access article]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3129
abstract: Bell's theorem shows that local realistic theories place strong restrictions on observable correlations between different systems, giving rise to Bell's inequality which can be violated in experiments using entangled quantum states. Bell's theorem is based on the assumptions of realism, locality, and the freedom to choose between measurement settings. In experimental tests, "loopholes" arise which allow observed violations to still be explained by local realistic theories. Violating Bell's inequality while simultaneously closing all such loopholes is one of the most significant still open challenges in fundamental physics today. In this paper, we present an experiment that violates Bell's inequality while simultaneously closing the locality loophole and addressing the freedom-of-choice loophole, also closing the latter within a reasonable set of assumptions. We also explain that the locality and freedom-of-choice loopholes can be closed only within non-determinism, i.e. in the context of stochastic local realism.

id: 0811.3135
title: The quantum-classical transition in thermally seeded parametric downconversion
authors: Ivo P Degiovanni, Marco Genovese, Valentina Schettini, Maria Bondani, Alessandra Andreoni, Matteo G A Paris
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 79, 063836 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3135
abstract: We address the pair of conjugated field modes obtained from parametric-downconversion as a convenient system to analyze the quantum-classical transition in the continuous variable regime. We explicitly evaluate intensity correlations, negativity and entanglement for the system in a thermal state and show that a hierarchy of nonclassicality thresholds naturally emerges in terms of thermal and downconversion photon number. We show that the transition from quantum to classical regime may be tuned by controlling the intensities of the seeds and detected by intensity measurements. Besides, we show that the thresholds are not affected by losses, which only modify the amount of nonclassicality. The multimode case is also analyzed in some detail.

id: 0811.3157
title: Spin mixing in colliding spinor condensates: formation of an effective barrier
authors: M. Guilleumas, B. Julia-Diaz, J. Mur-Petit, A. Polls
comments: Accepted for publication at the Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhysics Letters 84, 60005 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3157
abstract: The dynamics of F=1 spinor condensates initially prepared in a double-well potential is studied in the mean field approach. It is shown that a small seed of $m=0$ atoms on a system with initially well separated m=1 and m=-1 condensates has a dramatic effect on their mixing dynamics, acting as an effective barrier for a remarkably long time. We show that this effect is due to the spinor character of the system, and provides an observable example of the interplay between the internal spin dynamics and the macroscopic evolution of the magnetization in a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate.

id: 0811.3171
title: Quantum algorithm for solving linear systems of equations
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Avinatan Hassidim, Seth Lloyd
comments: 15 pages. v2 is much longer, with errors fixed, run-time improved and a new BQP-completeness result added. v3 is the final published version and mostly adds clarifications and corrections to v2
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. vol. 15, no. 103, pp. 150502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3171
abstract: Solving linear systems of equations is a common problem that arises both on its own and as a subroutine in more complex problems: given a matrix A and a vector b, find a vector x such that Ax=b. We consider the case where one doesn't need to know the solution x itself, but rather an approximation of the expectation value of some operator associated with x, e.g., x'Mx for some matrix M. In this case, when A is sparse, N by N and has condition number kappa, classical algorithms can find x and estimate x'Mx in O(N sqrt(kappa)) time. Here, we exhibit a quantum algorithm for this task that runs in poly(log N, kappa) time, an exponential improvement over the best classical algorithm.

id: 0811.3177
title: Theory versus experiment for vacuum Rabi oscillations in lossy cavities
authors: Marcin Wilczewski, Marek Czachor
comments: typo in eq. (60) corrected; (older comments: 14 figures (1 added), value of Q improved, a section on the Peres-Horodecki test of separability added, various small improvements; v3 includes discussion of finite time resolution, v4 includes microscopic derivation of the master equation)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033836 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3177
abstract: The 1996 Brune {\it et al.} experiment on vacuum Rabi oscillation is analyzed by means of alternative models of atom-reservoir interaction. Agreement with experimental Rabi oscillation data can be obtained if one defines jump operators in the dressed-state basis, and takes into account thermal fluctuations between dressed states belonging to the same manifold. Such low-frequency transitions could be ignored in a closed cavity, but the cavity employed in the experiment was open, which justifies our assumption. The cavity quality factor corresponding to the data is $Q=3.31\cdot 10^{10}$, whereas $Q$ reported in the experiment was $Q=7\cdot 10^7$. The rate of decoherence arising from opening of the cavity can be of the same order as an analogous correction coming from finite time resolution $\Delta t$ (formally equivalent to collisional decoherence). Peres-Horodecki separability criterion shows that the rate at which the atom-field state approaches a separable state is controlled by fluctuations between dressed states from the same manifold, and not by the rate of transitions towards the ground state. In consequence, improving the $Q$ factor we do not improve the coherence properties of the cavity.

id: 0811.3208
title: Quantum algorithms for highly non-linear Boolean functions
authors: Martin Roetteler
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Proceedings of the 21st Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA'10). This updated version of the paper contains a new exponential separation between classical and quantum query complexity
journal: Proceedings of the 21st Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA'10), pp. 448-457, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3208
abstract: Attempts to separate the power of classical and quantum models of computation have a long history. The ultimate goal is to find exponential separations for computational problems. However, such separations do not come a dime a dozen: while there were some early successes in the form of hidden subgroup problems for abelian groups--which generalize Shor's factoring algorithm perhaps most faithfully--only for a handful of non-abelian groups efficient quantum algorithms were found. Recently, problems have gotten increased attention that seek to identify hidden sub-structures of other combinatorial and algebraic objects besides groups. In this paper we provide new examples for exponential separations by considering hidden shift problems that are defined for several classes of highly non-linear Boolean functions. These so-called bent functions arise in cryptography, where their property of having perfectly flat Fourier spectra on the Boolean hypercube gives them resilience against certain types of attack. We present new quantum algorithms that solve the hidden shift problems for several well-known classes of bent functions in polynomial time and with a constant number of queries, while the classical query complexity is shown to be exponential. Our approach uses a technique that exploits the duality between bent functions and their Fourier transforms.

id: 0811.3254
title: Covariant feedback Control of arbitrary qudit state against Depolarizing Noise is impossible
authors: ShengLi Zhang, XuBo Zou, Chuanfeng Li, ChenHui Jin, GuangCan Guo
comments: submitted for publication on June 29, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3254
abstract: In this paper, we prove that it is impossible to construct a convariant quantum feedback control instruments which aim to correct the channel noise imposed on an unknown qubit. The proof is based on the searching for the optimal quantum control protocol and it turns out there exist no better %\textit{Complete Positive Trace %Preserving}(CPTP) maps complete positive and covariant quantum operations which provide a higher fidelity than the trivial Identity operators. The generalization of the investigation to bipartite entangled pure state is also included.

id: 0811.3275
title: New Method to Reveal the Conflict Between Local Realism and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Koji Nagata, Jaewook Ahn
comments: To appear in Journal of the Korean Physical Society. We have introduced an additional assumption that the detector efficiency is perfect (i.e., 100%). We thank Professor Douglas G. Danforth for valuable comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3275
abstract: We formulate the expectation value of the Bell-Zukowski operator acting on qubit states of a two-particle Bell experiment. By using the equivalence between a set of N copies of a two-qubit experiment and a standard two-setting Bell experiment in an entangled 2N-particle state, we obtain an inequality, which we may call the Bell-Zukowski inequality. It determines whether the measured correlation functions of two-particle states can be modeled locally and realistically. In this Bell experiment of two particles, the conflict between local realism and quantum mechanics is discussed in conjunction with the violation of the Bell-Zukowski inequality. The main point of the result is that the Bell-Zukowski operator can be represented by the Bell-Mermin operator. The threshold visibility of two-particle interference analyzed in this scheme shows good agreement with the value to cause a violation of the Bell-Zukowski inequality.

id: 0811.3290
title: Efimov states with strong three-body losses
authors: F¨¦lix Werner
comments: accepted for publication in Europhys. Lett
journal: Europhysics Letters (EPL) 86 (2009) 66006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3290
abstract: We determine analytically how Efimov trimer states are modified by three-body losses within the model of Braaten and Hammer. We find a regime where the energies approach the positive real axis and the decay rates vanish.

id: 0811.3312
title: Reply to Comment by Galapon on 'Almost-periodic time observables for bound quantum systems'
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: 3 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 42 (2009) 018002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3312
abstract: In a recent paper [1] (also at this http URL), I made several critical remarks on a 'Hermitian time operator' proposed by Galapon [2] (also at this http URL). Galapon has correctly pointed out that remarks pertaining to 'denseness' of the commutator domain are wrong [3]. However, the other remarks still apply, and it is further noted that a given quantum system can be a member of this domain only at a set of times of total measure zero.

id: 0811.3329
title: Entangled photons from a strongly coupled quantum dot-cavity system
authors: Robert Johne, Nikolay A. Gippius, Guillaume Malpuech
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 155317 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3329
abstract: A quantum dot strongly coupled to a photonic crystal has been recently proposed as a source of entangled photon pairs [R. Johne et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 240404 (2008)]. The biexction decay via intermediate polariton states can be used to overcome the natural splitting between the exciton states coupled to the horizontally and vertically polarized light modes, so that high degrees of entanglement can be expected. We investigate theoretically the features of realistic dot-cavity systems, including the effect of the different oscillator strength of excitons resonances coupled to the different polarizations of light. We show that in this case, an independent adjustment of the cavity resonances is needed in order to keep a high entanglement degree. We also consider the case when the biexciton-exciton transition is also strongly coupled to a cavity mode. We show that a very fast emission rate can be achieved allowing the repetition rates in the THz range. Such fast emission should however be paid for by a very complex tuning of the many strongly coupled resonances involved and by a loss of quantum efficiency. Altogether a strongly coupled dot-cavity system seems to be very promising as a source of entangled photon pairs.

id: 0811.3344
title: Geometry of Entanglement Sudden Death: Explicit Examples
authors: Raphael C. Drumond, Marcelo O. Terra Cunha
comments: Contribution written to the Procceedings of 5th Vaxjo Conference on Foundations of Probability and Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3344
abstract: In open quantum systems, entanglement can vanish faster than coherence. This phenomenon is usually called sudden death of entanglement. In [M. O. Terra Cunha, New J. Phys. 9, 237 (2007)] a geometrical explanation was offered and a classification of all possible scenarios was given. Some classes were exemplified, but it was still an open question whether there were examples for the other ones. This was solved in [R.C. Drumond and M.O. Terra Cunha, arXiv:0809.4445v1]. Here we briefly review the problem, state our results in a precise way, discuss the generality of the approach, and add some speculative desirable generalizations.

id: 0811.3364
title: Quantum control gates with weak cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Qing Lin, Jian Li
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 022301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3364
abstract: In this paper, with the weak cross-Kerr nonlinearity, we first present a special experimental scheme called C-path gate with which the realization of all possible bipartite POVMs of two-photon polarization states can be simpler and nearly deterministic. Following the same technique, the schemes of the realization of quantum control gates have been proposed, including the CNOT gate (1/2), Fredkin gate (1/8), Toffoli gate (2/23), CU gate and even MCU gate. All these gates are scalable with the certain probabilities which are larger than those gates in linear optics. Less resource are required and the structures of these gates are so simple that we think they are feasible with current technology and may be useful for the realization of universal computation in optics.

id: 0811.3376
title: Improved implementation of nonclassicality test for a single particle
authors: Giorgio Brida, Ivo Pietro Degiovanni, Marco Genovese, Fabrizio Piacentini, Valentina Schettini, Nicolas Gisin, Sergey V. Polyakov, Alan Migdall
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79 (2009) 044102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3376
abstract: Recently a test of nonclassicality for a single qubit was proposed [R. Alicki and N. Van Ryn, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 062001 (2008)]. We present an optimized experimental realization of this test leading to a 46 standard deviation violation of classicality. This factor of 5 improvement over our previous result was achieved by moving from the infrared to the visible where we can take advantage of higher efficiency and lower noise photon detectors.

id: 0811.3391
title: Signatures of unstable semiclassical trajectories in tunneling
authors: D.G. Levkov, A.G. Panin, S.M. Sibiryakov
comments: Journal version; 48 pages, 16 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 205102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3391
abstract: It was found recently that processes of multidimensional tunneling are generally described at high energies by unstable semiclassical trajectories. We study two observational signatures related to the instability of trajectories. First, we find an additional power-law dependence of the tunneling probability on the semiclassical parameter as compared to the standard case of potential tunneling. The second signature is substantial widening of the probability distribution over final-state quantum numbers. These effects are studied using modified semiclassical technique which incorporates stabilization of the tunneling trajectories. The technique is derived from first principles. We obtain expressions for the inclusive and exclusive tunneling probabilities in the case of unstable semiclassical trajectories. We also investigate the "phase transition" between the cases of stable and unstable trajectories across certain "critical" value of energy. Finally, we derive the relation between the semiclassical probabilities of tunneling from the low-lying and highly excited initial states. This puts on firm ground a conjecture made previously in the semiclassical description of collision-induced tunneling in field theory.

id: 0811.3399
title: Photoionisation loading of large Sr+ ion clouds with ultrafast pulses
authors: S¨¦bastien Removille, Romain Dubessy, Quentin Glorieux, Samuel Guibal, Thomas Coudreau, Luca Guidoni, Jean-Pierre Likforman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3399
abstract: This paper reports on photoionisation loading based on ultrafast pulses of singly-ionised strontium ions in a linear Paul trap. We take advantage of an autoionising resonance of Sr neutral atoms to form Sr+ by two-photon absorption of femtosecond pulses at a wavelength of 431nm. We compare this technique to electron-bombardment ionisation and observe several advantages of photoionisation. It actually allows the loading of a pure Sr+ ion cloud in a low radio-frequency voltage amplitude regime. In these conditions up to 4x10^4 laser-cooled Sr+ ions were trapped.

id: 0811.3408
title: Phase estimation for thermal Gaussian states
authors: M. Aspachs, J. Calsamiglia, R. Munoz-Tapia, E. Bagan
comments: typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033834 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3408
abstract: We give the optimal bounds on the phase-estimation precision for mixed Gaussian states in the single-copy and many-copy regimes. Specifically, we focus on displaced thermal and squeezed thermal states. We find that while for displaced thermal states an increase in temperature reduces the estimation fidelity, for squeezed thermal states a larger temperature can enhance the estimation fidelity. The many-copy optimal bounds are compared with the minimum variance achieved by three important single-shot measurement strategies. We show that the single-copy canonical phase measurement does not always attain the optimal bounds in the many-copy scenario. Adaptive homodyning schemes do attain the bounds for displaced thermal states, but for squeezed states they yield fidelities that are insensitive to temperature variations and are, therefore, sub-optimal. Finally, we find that heterodyne measurements perform very poorly for pure states but can attain the optimal bounds for sufficiently mixed states. We apply our results to investigate the influence of losses in an optical metrology experiment. In the presence of losses squeezed states cease to provide Heisenberg limited precision and their performance is close to that of coherent states with the same mean photon number.

id: 0811.3409
title: Coherent Patterning of Matter Waves with Subwavelength Localization
authors: J. Mompart, V. Ahufinger, G. Birkl
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 053638 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3409
abstract: We propose the Subwavelength Localization via Adiabatic Passage (SLAP) technique to coherently achieve state-selective patterning of matter waves well beyond the diffraction limit. The SLAP technique consists in coupling two partially overlapping and spatially structured laser fields to three internal levels of the matter wave yielding state-selective localization at those positions where the adiabatic passage process does not occur. We show that by means of this technique matter wave localization down to the single nanometer scale can be achieved. We analyze in detail the potential implementation of the SLAP technique for nano-lithography with an atomic beam of metastable Ne* and for coherent patterning of a two-component 87Rb Bose-Einstein condensate.

id: 0811.3412
title: The Detectability Lemma and Quantum Gap Amplification
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Itai Arad, Zeph Landau, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 30 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3412
abstract: The quantum analogue of a constraint satisfaction problem is a sum of local Hamiltonians - each local Hamiltonian specifies a local constraint whose violation contributes to the energy of the given quantum state. Formalizing the intuitive connection between the ground (minimal) energy of the Hamiltonian and the minimum number of violated constraints is problematic, since the number of constraints being violated is not well defined when the terms in the Hamiltonian do not commute. The detectability lemma proved in this paper provides precisely such a quantitative connection. We apply the lemma to derive a quantum analogue of a basic primitive in classical complexity: amplification of probabilities by random walks on expander graphs. It holds under the restriction that the interaction graph of the local Hamiltonian is an expander. Our proofs are based on a novel structure imposed on the Hilbert space that we call the $XY$ decomposition, which enables a reduction from the quantum non-commuting case to the commuting case (where many classical arguments go through). The results may have several interesting implications. First, proving a quantum analogue to the PCP theorem is one of the most important challenges in quantum complexity theory. Our quantum gap amplification lemma may be viewed as the quantum analogue of the first of the three main steps in Dinur's PCP proof. Quantum gap amplification may also be related to spectral gap amplification, and in particular, to fault tolerance of adiabatic computation. Finally, the detectability lemma, and the $XY$ decomposition provide a handle on the structure of local Hamiltonians and their ground states.

id: 0811.3431
title: Operator Methods for the Time Evolution of Wave Functions
authors: K. P. Michnicki
comments: 18 pages; This paper has been withdrawn as it has not been parsed correctly
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3431
abstract: A method based off of operator consideration for solving the time evolution of a wave function is developed. The method is applied to free space, constant force and harmonic oscillator potentials where general solutions are derived for the wave function time evolutions for these potentials. Solving the Heisenberg equations of motion is discussed. A method to obtain exact solutions to Heisenberg's equations of motion is developed based off of solutions of classical equations of motion. Approximation methods for the time evolution of operators and wave functions are developed. A connection between classical and quantum chaos is made where it is realized that whenever a classical system behaves chaotically, the quantum system will as well.

id: 0811.3444
title: Leggett's theorem without inequalities
authors: Guido Bacciagaluppi
comments: 13 pages. As compared to v1, this version includes the corrections in proof. Published in L. Accardi, G. Adenier, C. Fuchs, G. Jaeger, A. Yu. Khrennikov, J.-{\AA}. Larsson and S. Stenholm (eds), Foundations of Probability and Physics-5, American Institute of Physics Conference Proceedings, Vol. 1101 (New York: AIP, 2009), pp. 233-240
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3444
abstract: We prove a no-go theorem for a class of hidden variables theories that satisfy parameter independence. Specifically, we show that, assuming two conditions, there are no non-trivial hidden variables models of the quantum predictions for product measurements on two systems in any maximally entangled state in a Hilbert space of dimension at least 3x3. The two conditions are parameter independence and a condition that we call conditional parameter independence. The result is analogous to the recent no-go theorems based on Leggett's inequalities and their generalisations.

id: 0811.3453
title: Super fidelity and related metric
authors: Zhi-Hao Ma, Fu-Lin Zhang, Zhi-Hua Chen, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3453
abstract: We report a new metric of quantum states. This metric is build up from super-fidelity, which has deep connection with the Uhlmann-Jozsa fidelity and plays an important role in quantifying entanglement. We find that the new metric possess some interesting properties.

id: 0811.3498
title: Course of lectures on physical constructivism
authors: Yuri Ozhigov
comments: Four lectures on 58 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3498
abstract: In this course, I talk about the source of mathematical constructivism and its role in the future development of theoretical physics. I describe what physical constructivism is and why it is necessary for the penetration of exact methods of theoretical physics to the area of complex systems, which formally belong to the others natural disciplines. I describe the concrete heuristic for the creating of models of constructive quantum theory the method of collective behavior. I represent the constructive viewpoint on the quantum computer, which treats it as the model object of many particle quantum physics, and the practical recommendation concerning its building. Due to the known inertia of the educational system constructive methods in mathematics remains mostly unknown to the wide physical community, and I hope that this course will stimulate the interest to the new possibilities, which these methods open. These possibilities represent interest to natural scientists and for programmers as well.

id: 0811.3509
title: Specific heat anomalies of open quantum systems
authors: Gert-Ludwig Ingold, Peter H?nggi, Peter Talkner
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, new title and some modifications of the main text
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 061105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3509
abstract: The evaluation of the specific heat of an open, damped quantum system is a subtle issue. One possible route is based on the thermodynamic partition function which is the ratio of the partition functions of system plus bath and of the bath alone. For the free damped particle it has been shown, however, that the ensuing specific heat may become negative for appropriately chosen environments. Being an open system this quantity then naturally must be interpreted as the change of the specific heat obtained as the difference between the specific heat of the heat bath coupled to the system degrees of freedom and the specific heat of the bath alone. While this difference may become negative, the involved specific heats themselves are always positive; thus, the known thermodynamic stability criteria are perfectly guaranteed. For a damped quantum harmonic oscillator, instead of negative values, under appropriate conditions one can observe a dip in the difference of specific heats as a function of temperature. Stylized minimal models containing a single oscillator heat bath are employed to elucidate the occurrence of the anomalous temperature dependence of the corresponding specific heat values. Moreover, we comment on the consequences for the interpretation of the density of states based on the thermal partitionfunction.

id: 0811.3561
title: Observation of spatial quantum correlations induced by multiple scattering of non-classical light
authors: Stephan Smolka, Alexander Huck, Ulrik L. Andersen, Ad Lagendijk, Peter Lodahl
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters, 102, 193901 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3561
abstract: We present the experimental realization of spatial quantum correlations of photons that are induced by multiple scattering of squeezed light. The quantum correlation relates photons propagating along two different light trajectories through the random medium and is infinite in range. Both positive and negative spatial quantum correlations are observed when varying the quantum state incident to the multiple scattering medium, and the magnitude of the correlations is controlled by the number of photons. The experimental results are in excellent agreement with recent theoretical proposals by implementing the full quantum model of multiple scattering.

id: 0811.3581
title: Relaxation due to random collisions with a many-qudit environment
authors: Giuseppe Gennaro, Giuliano Benenti, G. Massimo Palma
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3581
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of a system qudit of dimension mu sequentially interacting with the nu-dimensional qudits of a chain playing the ore of an environment. Each pairwise collision has been modeled as a random unitary transformation. The relaxation to equilibrium of the purity of the system qudit, averaged over random collisions, is analytically computed by means of a Markov chain approach. In particular, we show that the steady state is the one corresponding to the steady state for random collisions with a single environment qudit of effective dimension nu_e=nu*mu. Finally, we numerically investigate aspects of the entanglement dynamics for qubits (mu=nu=2) and show that random unitary collisions can create multipartite entanglement between the system qudit and the qudits of the chain.

id: 0811.3589
title: Bit Commitment from Non-Signaling Correlations
authors: Severin Winkler, Juerg Wullschleger, Stefan Wolf
comments: New title. Changes in the introduction and the preliminaries
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. 57, No. 3, pp. 1770 -1779, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3589
abstract: Central cryptographic functionalities such as encryption, authentication, or secure two-party computation cannot be realized in an information-theoretically secure way from scratch. This serves as a motivation to study what (possibly weak) primitives they can be based on. We consider as such starting points general two-party input-output systems that do not allow for message transmission, and show that they can be used for realizing unconditionally secure bit commitment as soon as they are non-trivial, i.e., cannot be securely realized from distributed randomness only.

id: 0811.3603
title: Multipartite secret key distillation and bound entanglement
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Pawel Horodecki
comments: Revtex, 24 pages, 7 figures, minor improvements, proof of Theorem III.2 corrected, some references added, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 80, 042307 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3603
abstract: Recently it has been shown that quantum cryptography beyond pure entanglement distillation is possible and a paradigm for the associated protocols has been established. Here we systematically generalize the whole paradigm to the multipartite scenario. We provide constructions of new classes of multipartite bound entangled states, i.e., those with underlying twisted GHZ structure and nonzero distillable cryptographic key. We quantitatively estimate the key from below with help of the privacy squeezing technique.

id: 0811.3604
title: Positive maps, majorization, entropic inequalities, and detection of entanglement
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Julia Stasi¨½ska
comments: the published version, 25 pages in NJP format, 6 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 11, 053018 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3604
abstract: In this paper, we discuss some general connections between the notions of positive map, weak majorization and entropic inequalities in the context of detection of entanglement among bipartite quantum systems. First, basing on the fact that any positive map $\Lambda:M_{d}(\mathbb{C})\to M_{d}(\mathbb{C})$ can be written as the difference between two completely positive maps $\Lambda=\Lambda_{1}-\Lambda_{2}$, we propose a possible way to generalize the Nielsen--Kempe majorization criterion. Then we present two methods of derivation of some general classes of entropic inequalities useful for the detection of entanglement. While the first one follows from the aforementioned generalized majorization relation and the concept of the Schur--concave decreasing functions, the second is based on some functional inequalities. What is important is that, contrary to the Nielsen--Kempe majorization criterion and entropic inequalities, our criteria allow for the detection of entangled states with positive partial transposition when using indecomposable positive maps. We also point out that if a state with at least one maximally mixed subsystem is detected by some necessary criterion based on the positive map $\Lambda$, then there exist entropic inequalities derived from $\Lambda$ (by both procedures) that also detect this state. In this sense, they are equivalent to the necessary criterion $[I\ot\Lambda](\varrho_{AB})\geq 0$. Moreover, our inequalities provide a way of constructing multi--copy entanglement witnesses and therefore are promising from the experimental point of view. Finally, we discuss some of the derived inequalities in the context of recently introduced protocol of state merging and possibility of approximating the mean value of a linear entanglement witness.

id: 0811.3607
title: W-like bound entangled states and secure key distillation
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Pawel Horodecki
comments: Revtex, 7 pages, 3 figures, published version with updated references
journal: Europhysics Letters 85, 50001 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3607
abstract: We construct multipartite entangled states with underlying W-type structure satisfying positive partial transpose (PPT) condition under any (N-1)|1 partition. Then we show how to distill N-partite secure key form the states using two different methods: direct application of local filtering and novel random key distillation scheme in which we adopt the idea form recent results on entanglement distillation. Open problems and possible implications are also discussed.

id: 0811.3609
title: Growth of Knowledge and Entropy in Quantum Physics
authors: Alan Forrester
comments: 35 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3609
abstract: Most attempts to argue for the second law of thermodynamics fail because (1) they use the unviable frequency theory of probability and (2) they do not explain why the arrow of time seen in experiments is aligned with the thermodynamic arrow of time. I use the decision theoretic interpretation of quantum probability from the many worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics to solve the probability problem. I then derive a correlation between the knowledge arrow of time and the entropy arrow of time using physical constraints on knowledge creation imposed by Popper's evolutionary theory of knowledge and the many worlds interpretation.

id: 0811.3612
title: Photon-Photon Entanglement with a Single Trapped Atom
authors: B. Weber, H. P. Specht, T. Mueller, J. Bochmann, M. Muecke, D. L. Moehring, G. Rempe
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 030501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3612
abstract: An experiment is performed where a single rubidium atom trapped within a high-finesse optical cavity emits two independently triggered entangled photons. The entanglement is mediated by the atom and is characterized both by a Bell inequality violation of S=2.5, as well as full quantum-state tomography, resulting in a fidelity exceeding F=90%. The combination of cavity-QED and trapped atom techniques makes our protocol inherently deterministic - an essential step for the generation of scalable entanglement between the nodes of a distributed quantum network.

id: 0811.3616
title: A note on quantum error correction with continuous variables
authors: Peter van Loock
comments: slightly more than 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3616
abstract: We demonstrate that continuous-variable quantum error correction based on Gaussian ancilla states and Gaussian operations (for encoding, syndrome extraction, and recovery) can be very useful to suppress the effect of non-Gaussian error channels. For a certain class of stochastic error models, reminiscent of those typically considered in the qubit case, quantum error correction codes designed for single-channel errors may enhance the transfer fidelities even when errors occur in every channel employed for transmitting the encoded state. In fact, in this case, the error-correcting capability of the continuous-variable scheme turns out to be higher than that of its discrete-variable analogues.

id: 0811.3634
title: Accurate Microwave Control and Real-Time Diagnostics of Neutral Atom Qubits
authors: W. Rakreungdet, J. H. Lee, K. F. Lee, B. E. Mischuck, Enrique Montano, P. S. Jessen
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3634
abstract: We demonstrate accurate single-qubit control in an ensemble of atomic qubits trapped in an optical lattice. The qubits are driven with microwave radiation, and their dynamics tracked by optical probe polarimetry. Real-time diagnostics is crucial to minimize systematic errors and optimize the performance of single-qubit gates, leading to fidelities of 0.99 for single-qubit pi rotations. We show that increased robustness to large, deliberately introduced errors can be achieved through the use of composite rotations. However, during normal operation the combination of very small intrinsic errors and additional decoherence during the longer pulse sequences precludes any significant performance gain in our current experiment.

id: 0811.3660
title: The Consumption of Reference Resources
authors: G. A. White, J. A. Vaccaro, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 4 pages 6x9 page format, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3660
abstract: Under the operational restriction of the U(1)-superselection rule, states that contain coherences between eigenstates of particle number constitute a resource. Such resources can be used to facilitate operations upon systems that otherwise cannot be performed. However, the process of doing this consumes reference resources. We show this explicitly for an example of a unitary operation that is forbidden by the U(1)-superselection rule.

id: 0811.3674
title: Quantum Correlations in Multipartite States. Study Based on the Wootters-Mermin Theorem
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: LaTeX2E, 31 page, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3674
abstract: Decomposition of any N-partite state (density operator) into clusters (that do not overlap) is studied in detail with a view to learn as much as possible about the correlations implied by the state. The Wootters-Mermin theorem, stating that the totality of all strings of cluster events (projectors) determines the state in any finite- or infinite-dimensional state space, is a slightly sharpened and generalized form of the original results of Wootters and Mermin. It is applied to tensor factorization of the state into states of clusters (uncorrelated decomposition) and it is shown that a finest uncorrelated decomposition always exists, and that its coarsenings and only they are other possible uncorrelated cluster decompositions. Distant effects witin homogeneous cluster states, which are, by definition, the tensor factors in the finest uncorrelated decomposition, are discussed. The entire study is viewed by the author as a possible further elaboration of Mermin's Ithaca program.

id: 0811.3696
title: Nonseparability, Potentiality and the Context-Dependence of Quantum Objects
authors: Vassilios Karakostas
comments: 
journal: Journal for General Philosophy of Science (2007) 38: 279-297
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3696
abstract: Standard quantum mechanics undeniably violates the notion of separability that classical physics accustomed us to consider as valid. By relating the phenomenon of quantum nonseparability to the all-important concept of potentiality, we effectively provide a coherent picture of the puzzling entangled correlations among spatially separated systems. We further argue that the generalized phenomenon of quantum nonseparability implies contextuality for the production of well-defined events in the quantum domain, whereas contextuality entails in turn a structural-relational conception of quantal objects, viewed as carriers of dispositional properties. It is finally suggested that contextuality, if considered as a conditionalization preparation procedure of the object to be measured, naturally leads to a separable concept of reality whose elements are experienced as distinct, well-localized objects having determinate properties. In this connection, we find it necessary to distinguish the meaning of the term reality from the criterion of reality for us. The implications of the latter considerations for the notion of objectivity in quantum mechanics are also discussed.

id: 0811.3734
title: Quantum error correction beyond qubits
authors: Takao Aoki, Go Takahashi, Tadashi Kajiya, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Samuel L. Braunstein, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: realization of a Gaussian error correction protocol suitable for non-Gaussian error correction
journal: Nature Physics 5, 541 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3734
abstract: Quantum computation and communication rely on the ability to manipulate quantum states robustly and with high fidelity. Thus, some form of error correction is needed to protect fragile quantum superposition states from corruption by so-called decoherence noise. Indeed, the discovery of quantum error correction (QEC) turned the field of quantum information from an academic curiosity into a developing technology. Here we present a continuous-variable experimental implementation of a QEC code, based upon entanglement among 9 optical beams. In principle, this 9-wavepacket adaptation of Shor's original 9-qubit scheme allows for full quantum error correction against an arbitrary single-beam (single-party) error.

id: 0811.3739
title: Nonlocal Entanglement Transformations Achievable by Separable Operations
authors: Eric Chitambar, Runyao Duan
comments: v2 has rephrased Theorem 1 and corrected Kraus operators in Theorem 2. Additional comments are welcomed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 110502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3739
abstract: For manipulations of multipartite quantum systems, it was well known that all local operations assisted by classical communication (LOCC) constitute a proper subset of the class of separable operations. Recently, Gheorghiu and Griffiths found that LOCC and general separable operations are equally powerful for transformations between bipartite pure states. In this letter we extend this comparison to mixed states and show that in general separable operations are strictly stronger than LOCC when transforming a mixed state to a pure entangled state. A remarkable consequence of our finding is the existence of entanglement monotone which may increase under separable operations.

id: 0811.3771
title: Relaxed uncertainty relations and information processing
authors: Greg Ver Steeg, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 33 pages, 1 figure. v2: improved notation, to appear in QIC
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 9 (9&10), 0801-0832, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3771
abstract: We consider a range of "theories" that violate the uncertainty relation for anti-commuting observables derived in [JMP, 49, 062105 (2008)]. We first show that Tsirelson's bound for the CHSH inequality can be derived from this uncertainty relation, and that relaxing this relation allows for non-local correlations that are stronger than what can be obtained in quantum mechanics. We continue to construct a hierarchy of related non-signaling theories, and show that on one hand they admit superstrong random access encodings and exponential savings for a particular communication problem, while on the other hand it becomes much harder in these theories to learn a state. We show that the existence of these effects stems from the absence of certain constraints on the expectation values of commuting measurements from our non-signaling theories that are present in quantum theory.

id: 0811.3785
title: The controlled teleportation of an arbitrary two-atom entangled state in driven cavity QED
authors: Chuan-Jia Shan, Ji-Bing Liu, Tang-Kun Liu, Yan-Xia Huang, Hong Li
comments: 10 pages
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics,Published online: 31 December 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3785
abstract: In this paper, we propose a scheme for the controlled teleportation of an arbitrary two-atom entangled state $|\phi>_{12}=a|gg>_{12}+b|ge>_{12}+c|eg>_{12}+d|ee>_{12}$ in driven cavity QED. An arbitrary two-atom entangled state can be teleported perfectly with the help of the cooperation of the third side by constructing a three-atom GHZ entangled state as the controlled channel. This scheme does not involve apparent (or direct) Bell-state measurement and is insensitive to the cavity decay and the thermal field. The probability of the success in our scheme is 1.0.

id: 0811.3853
title: Many-body theory for systems with particle conversion: Extending the multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree method
authors: Ofir E. Alon, Alexej I. Streltsov, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 46 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3853
abstract: We derive a multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree theory for systems with particle conversion. In such systems particles of one kind can convert to another kind and the total number of particles varies in time. The theory thus extends the scope of the available and successful multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree methods -- which were solely formulated for and applied to systems with a fixed number of particles -- to new physical systems and problems. As a guiding example we treat explicitly a system where bosonic atoms can combine to form bosonic molecules and vise versa. In the theory for particle conversion, the time-dependent many-particle wavefunction is written as a sum of configurations made of a different number of particles, and assembled from sets of atomic and molecular orbitals. Both the expansion coefficients and the orbitals forming the configurations are time-dependent quantities that are fully determined according to the Dirac-Frenkel time-dependent variational principle. Particular attention is paid to the reduced density matrices of the many-particle wavefunction that appear in the theory and enter the equations of motion. There are two kinds of reduced density matrices: particle-conserving reduced density matrices which directly only couple configurations with the same number of atoms and molecules, and particle non-conserving reduced density matrices which couple configurations with a different number of atoms and molecules. Closed-form and compact equations of motion are derived for contact as well as general two-body interactions, and their properties are analyzed and discussed.

id: 0811.3906
title: Lie-Semigroup Structures for Reachability and Control of Open Quantum Systems: Viewing Markovian Quantum Channels as Lie Semigroups and GKS-Lindblad Generators as Lie Wedge
authors: G. Dirr, U. Helmke, I. Kurniawan, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: As accepted for "Reports on Mathematical Physics": includes new section relating divisibility of semigroups to Markovian quantum channels; 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 64 (2009) 93--121
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3906
abstract: In view of controlling finite dimensional open quantum systems, we provide a unified Lie-semigroup framework describing the structure of completely positive trace-preserving maps. It allows (i) to identify the Kossakowski-Lindblad generators as the Lie wedge of a subsemigroup, (ii) to link properties of Lie semigroups such as divisibility with Markov properties of quantum channels, and (iii) to characterise reachable sets and controllability in open systems. We elucidate when time-optimal controls derived for the analogous closed system already give good fidelities in open systems and when a more detailed knowledge of the open system (e.g., in terms of the parameters of its Kossakowski-Lindblad master equation) is actually required for state-of-the-art optimal-control algorithms. -- As an outlook, we sketch the structure of a new, potentially more efficient numerical approach explicitly making use of the corresponding Lie wedge.

id: 0811.3967
title: Dynamical Coupling between a Bose-Einstein Condensate and a Cavity Optical Lattice
authors: Stephan Ritter, Ferdinand Brennecke, Kristian Baumann, Tobias Donner, Christine Guerlin, Tilman Esslinger
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B 95, 213 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3967
abstract: A Bose-Einstein condensate is dispersively coupled to a single mode of an ultra-high finesse optical cavity. The system is governed by strong interactions between the atomic motion and the light field even at the level of single quanta. While coherently pumping the cavity mode the condensate is subject to the cavity optical lattice potential whose depth depends nonlinearly on the atomic density distribution. We observe bistability already below the single photon level and strong back-action dynamics which tunes the system periodically out of resonance.

id: 0811.3971
title: Prospects for application of ultracold Sr$_2$ molecules in precision measurements
authors: S. Kotochigova, T. Zelevinsky, Jun Ye
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3971
abstract: Precision measurements with ultracold molecules require development of robust and sensitive techniques to produce and interrogate the molecules. With this goal, we theoretically analyze factors that affect frequency measurements between rovibrational levels of the Sr$_2$ molecule in the electronic ground state. This measurement can be used to constrain the possible time variation of the proton-electron mass ratio. Sr$_2$ is expected to be a strong candidate for achieving high precision due to the spinless nature and ease of cooling and perturbation-free trapping of Sr \cite{Zelevinsky2008}. The analysis includes calculations of two-photon transition dipole moments between deeply and weakly bound vibrational levels, lifetimes of intermediate excited states, and Stark shifts of the vibrational levels by the optical lattice field, including possibilities of Stark-cancellation trapping.

id: 0811.3980
title: Time-reversal frameness and superselection
authors: Gilad Gour, Barry C. Sanders, Peter S. Turner
comments: 10 pp
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 50: 102105 (Oct 2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3980
abstract: We show that appropriate superpositions of motional states are a reference frame resource that enables breaking of time -reversal superselection so that two parties lacking knowledge about the other's direction of time can still communicate. We identify the time-reversal reference frame resource states and determine the corresponding frameness monotone, which connects time-reversal frameness to entanglement. In contradistinction to other studies of reference frame quantum resources, this is the first analysis that involves an antiunitary rather than unitary representation.

id: 0811.3993
title: Atomic Bloch-Zener oscillations for sensitive force measurements in a cavity
authors: B. Prasanna Venkatesh, M. Trupke, E. A. Hinds, D. H. J. O'Dell
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Updated version including cavity heating effects
journal: Physical Review A 80, 063834 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3993
abstract: Cold atoms in an optical lattice execute Bloch-Zener oscillations when they are accelerated. We have performed a theoretical investigation into the case when the optical lattice is the intra-cavity field of a driven Fabry-Perot resonator. When the atoms oscillate inside the resonator, we find that their back-action modulates the phase and intensity of the light transmitted through the cavity. We solve the coupled atom-light equations self-consistently and show that, remarkably, the Bloch period is unaffected by this back-action. The transmitted light provides a way to observe the oscillation continuously, allowing high precision measurements to be made with a small cloud of atoms.

id: 0811.4003
title: Signatures of non-classicality in mixed-state quantum computation
authors: Animesh Datta, Sevag Gharibian
comments: Published version, containing additional discussion on the role of non-classicality in the locking of classical correlations
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 79, 042325, (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4003
abstract: We investigate signatures of non-classicality in quantum states, in particular, those involved in the DQC1 model of mixed-state quantum computation [Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 5672 (1998)]. To do so, we consider two known non-classicality criteria. The first quantifies disturbance of a quantum state under locally noneffective unitary operations (LNU), which are local unitaries acting invariantly on a subsystem. The second quantifies measurement induced disturbance (MID) in the eigenbasis of the reduced density matrices. We study the role of both figures of non-classicality in the exponential speedup of the DQC1 model and compare them vis-a-vis the interpretation provided in terms of quantum discord. In particular, we prove that a non-zero quantum discord implies a non-zero shift under LNUs. We also use the MID measure to study the locking of classical correlations [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 067902 (2004)] using two mutually unbiased bases (MUB). We find the MID measure to exactly correspond to the number of locked bits of correlation. For three or more MUBs, it predicts the possibility of superior locking effects.

id: 0811.4017
title: Exciton-photon interaction in a quantum dot embedded in a photonic microcavity
authors: Majid Sodagar, Milad Khoshnegar, Amin Eftekharian, Sina Khorasani
comments: Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics (to appear)
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atmoic, Molecular and Optical Physics, vol. 42, no. 8, 085402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4017
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of exciton-photon interaction in a microcavity made out of a photonic crystal slab. Here we have analyzed a disk-like quantum dot where an exciton is formed. Excitonic eigen-functions in addition to their eigen-energies are found through direct matrix diagonalization, while wave functions corresponding to unbound electron and hole are chosen as the basis set for this procedure. In order to evaluate these wave functions precisely, we have used Luttinger Hamiltonian in the case of hole while ignoring bands adjacent to conduction band for electron states. After analyzing Excitonic states, a photonic crystal based microcavity with a relatively high quality factor mode has been proposed and its lattice constant has been adjusted to obtain the prescribed resonant frequency. We use finite-difference time-domain method in order to simulate our cavity with sufficient precision. Finally, we formulate the coupling constants for exciton-photon interaction both where intra-band and inter-band transitions occur. By evaluating a sample coupling constant, it has been shown that the system can be in strong coupling regime and Rabi oscillations can occur for Excitonic state population.

id: 0811.4046
title: Entanglement purification protocol for a mixture of a pure entangled state and a pure product state
authors: Mikolaj Czechlewski, Andrzej Grudka, Satoshi Ishizaka, Antoni Wojcik
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 014303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4046
abstract: We present an entanglement purification protocol for a mixture of a pure entangled state and a pure product state, which are orthogonal to each other. The protocol is combination of bisection method and one-way hashing protocol. We give recursive formula for the rate of the protocol for different states, i.e. the number of maximally entangled two-qubit pairs obtained with the protocol per a single copy of the initial state. We also calculate numerically the rate for some states.

id: 0811.4105
title: Unexpected features of quantum degeneracies in a pairing model with two integrable limits
authors: J. Dukelsky, J. Okolowicz, M. Ploszajczak
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2009) L07001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4105
abstract: The evolution pattern of level crossings and exceptional points is studied in a non-integrable pairing model with two different integrable limits. One of the integrable limits has two independent parameter-dependent integrals of motion. We demonstrate, and illustrate in our model, that quantum integrability of a system with more than one parameter-dependent integral of motion is always signaled by level crossings of a complex-extended Hamiltonian. We also find that integrability implies a reduced number of exceptional points. Both properties could uniquely characterize quantum integrability in small Hilbert spaces.

id: 0811.4115
title: A possible experimental check of the uncertainty relations by means of homodyne measuring photon quadrature
authors: V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, A. Simoni, F. Ventriglia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4115
abstract: We suggest to use the photon homodyne detection experimental data for checking the Heisenberg and Schr\"{o}dinger-Robertson uncertainty relations, by means of measuring optical tomograms of the photon quantum states.

id: 0811.4142
title: On Bell's theorem, quantum communication, and entanglement detection
authors: Marek Zukowski
comments: 10 pages, for proceedings of Foundations of Probability and Physics-5 at Vaxjo University, Swedish Southeast Academy August 24-27, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4142
abstract: (A) Bell's theorem rests on a conjunction of three assumptions: realism, locality and ``free will''. A discussion of these assumptions will be presented. It will be also shown that, if one adds to the assumptions the principle or rotational symmetry of physical laws, a stronger version of the theorem emerges. (B) A link between Bell's theorem and communication complexity problems will be presented. This also includes experimental realizations, which surprisingly do not involve entanglement. (C) A new sufficient and necessary criterion for entanglement of general (mixed) states is be presented. It is derived using the same geometric starting point as the inclusion of the symmetry in (A). The set of entanglement identifiers (EI's) emerging via this method contains entanglement witnesses (EW's), but they form only a subset of all EI's. Thus the method is more powerful than the one based on EW's.

id: 0811.4185
title: Investigation of dephasing rates in an interacting Rydberg gas
authors: U. Raitzsch, R. Heidemann, H. Weimer, V. Bendkowsky, B. Butscher, P. Kollmann, R. L?w, H. P. B¨¹chler, T. Pfau
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 11 (2009) 055014 (13pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4185
abstract: We experimentally and theoretically investigate the dephasing rates of the coherent evolution of a resonantly driven pseudo spin emersed in a reservoir of pseudo spins. The pseudo spin is realized by optically exciting 87 Rb atoms to a Rydberg state. Hence, the upper spin states are coupled via the strong van der Waals interaction. Two different experimental techniques to measure the dephasing rates are shown: the 'rotary echo' technique known from nuclear magnetic resonance physics and electromagnetically induced transparency. The experiments are performed in a dense frozen Rydberg gas, either confined in a magnetic trap or in an optical dipole trap. Additionally, a numerical simulation is used to analyse the dephasing in the rotary echo experiments.

id: 0811.4188
title: Matrix product simulations of non-equilibrium steady states of quantum spin chains
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Marko Znidaric
comments: 19 pages, 9 eps-figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. 2009, P02035 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4188
abstract: Time-dependent density matrix renormalization group method with a matrix product ansatz is employed for explicit computation of non-equilibrium steady state density operators of several integrable and non-integrable quantum spin chains, which are driven far from equilibrium by means of Markovian couplings to external baths at the two ends. It is argued that even though the time-evolution can not be simulated efficiently due to fast entanglement growth, the steady states in and out of equilibrium can be typically accurately approximated, so that chains of length of the order n ~ 100 are accessible. Our results are demonstrated by performing explicit simulations of steady states and calculations of energy/spin densities/currents in several problems of heat and spin transport in quantum spin chains. Previously conjectured relation between quantum chaos and normal transport is re-confirmed with high acurracy on much larger systems.

id: 0811.4216
title: Exact coherent matter-wave soliton induced and controlled by laser field
authors: Wenhua Hai, Qiongtao Xie, Qianquan Zhu
comments: 4 pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4216
abstract: We find a set of exact solutions of coherent bright solitons in the quasi-one-dimensional (1D) Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) trapped in a harmonic potential, by using a Gaussian laser well (barrier) with oscillating position to balance the repulsive (attractive) interatomic interaction. The bright solitons do not deform in propagation and are controlled accurately by the laser driving which resonates with the trapping potential. The solitonic motion is more stable for the repulsive BEC than that of the attractive BEC. The results reveal a different kind of soliton trains compared to that reported recently in Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 164102 (2008) and suggest an experimental scheme for generating and controlling the coherent matter-wave solitons.

id: 0811.4227
title: Entanglement-assisted communication of classical and quantum information
authors: Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures, 1 table, simplification of capacity region--it now has the simple interpretation as the unit resource capacity region translated along the classically-enhanced father trade-off curve
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 56, no. 9, pp. 4682-4704, September 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4227
abstract: We consider the problem of transmitting classical and quantum information reliably over an entanglement-assisted quantum channel. Our main result is a capacity theorem that gives a three-dimensional achievable rate region. Points in the region are rate triples, consisting of the classical communication rate, the quantum communication rate, and the entanglement consumption rate of a particular coding scheme. The crucial protocol in achieving the boundary points of the capacity region is a protocol that we name the classically-enhanced father protocol. The classically-enhanced father protocol is more general than other protocols in the family tree of quantum Shannon theoretic protocols, in the sense that several previously known quantum protocols are now child protocols of it. The classically-enhanced father protocol also shows an improvement over a time-sharing strategy for the case of a qubit dephasing channel--this result justifies the need for simultaneous coding of classical and quantum information over an entanglement-assisted quantum channel. Our capacity theorem is of a multi-letter nature (requiring a limit over many uses of the channel), but it reduces to a single-letter characterization for at least three channels: the completely depolarizing channel, the quantum erasure channel, and the qubit dephasing channel.

id: 0811.4245
title: Globally controlled universal quantum computation with arbitrary subsystem dimension
authors: G. A. Paz-Silva, G.K. Brennen, J. Twamley
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052318 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4245
abstract: We introduce a scheme to perform universal quantum computation in quantum cellular automata (QCA) fashion in arbitrary subsystem dimension (not necessarily finite). The scheme is developed over a one spatial dimension $N$-element array, requiring only mirror symmetric logical encoding and global pulses. A mechanism using ancillary degrees of freedom for subsystem specific measurement is also presented.

id: 0811.4247
title: Constant-Time Quantum Algorithm For The Unstructured Search Problem
authors: Ahmed Younes
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4247
abstract: Given an item and a list of values of size $N$. It is required to decide if such item exists in the list. Classical computer can search for the item in O(N). The best known quantum algorithm can do the job in $O(\sqrt{N})$. In this paper, a quantum algorithm will be proposed that can search an unstructured list in O(1) to get the YES/NO answer with certainty.

id: 0811.4250
title: Degeneracies in a nonintegrable pairing model
authors: J. Okolowicz, M. Ploszajczak, J. Dukelsky
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures 27th International Workshop on Nuclear Theory, Rila Mountain, Bulgaria
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4250
abstract: The evolution pattern of exceptional points is studied in a non-integrable limit of the complex-extended 3-level Richardson-Gaudin model. The appearance of a pseudo-diabolic point from the fusion of two exceptional points is demonstrated in the anti-hermitian limit of the model and studied in some details.

id: 0811.4262
title: Restrictions on Transversal Encoded Quantum Gate Sets
authors: Bryan Eastin, Emanuel Knill
comments: 4 pages, v2: minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 110502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4262
abstract: Transversal gates play an important role in the theory of fault-tolerant quantum computation due to their simplicity and robustness to noise. By definition, transversal operators do not couple physical subsystems within the same code block. Consequently, such operators do not spread errors within code blocks and are, therefore, fault tolerant. Nonetheless, other methods of ensuring fault tolerance are required, as it is invariably the case that some encoded gates cannot be implemented transversally. This observation has led to a long-standing conjecture that transversal encoded gate sets cannot be universal. Here we show that the ability of a quantum code to detect an arbitrary error on any single physical subsystem is incompatible with the existence of a universal, transversal encoded gate set for the code.

id: 0811.4298
title: Dispersion forces and duality
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel, Hassan Safari, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 8 pages
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A 24 (8 & 9), 1796 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4298
abstract: We formulate a symmetry principle on the basis of the duality of electric and magnetic fields and apply it to dispersion forces. Within the context of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics, we rigorously establish duality invariance for the free electromagnetic field in the presence of causal magnetoelectrics. Dispersion forces are given in terms of the Green tensor for the electromagnetic field and the atomic response functions. After discussing the behavior of the Green tensor under a duality transformation, we are able to show that Casimir forces on bodies in free space as well as local-field corrected Casimir-Polder and van der Waals forces are duality invariant.

id: 0811.4307
title: Nonequilibrium thermal Casimir-Polder forces
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physica Scripta T 135, 014013 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4307
abstract: We study the nonequilibrium Casimir-Polder force on an atom prepared in an incoherent superposition of internal energy-eigenstates, which is placed in a magnetoelectric environment of nonuniform temperature. After solving the coupled atom--field dynamics within the framework of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics, we derive a general expression for the thermal Casimir-Polder force.

id: 0811.4310
title: Theoretical and Experimental Evidences of Material Phase Causality. Dynamics-Statistical Interpretation of the Wave Function
authors: I. G. Koprinkov
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4310
abstract: The internal phase dynamics of a quantum system is revealed in details. Theoretical and experimental evidences of existence of a causal relation of the phase of the wave function with the dynamics of the quantum system are presented sistematically for the first time. A new, dynamics-statistical interpretation of the quantum mechanics is introduced. A particle-wave duality picture incorporated in the wave function through its phase and amplitude is considered.

id: 0811.4337
title: Nonlinear dynamics of a cigar-shaped Bose-Einstein condensate coupled with a single cavity mode
authors: J. M. Zhang, F. C. Cui, D. L. Zhou, W. M. Liu
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A, 79, 033401 (2009) Some typos are corrected in the published version.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4337
abstract: We investigate the nonlinear dynamics of a combined system which is composed of a cigar-shaped Bose-Einstein condensate and an optical cavity. The two sides couple dispersively. This system is characterized by its nonlinearity: after integrating out the freedom of the cavity mode, the potential felt by the condensate depends on the condensate itself. We develop a discrete-mode approximation for the condensate. Based on this approximation, we map out the steady configurations of the system. It is found that due to the nonlinearity of the system, the nonlinear levels of the system can fold up in some parameter regimes. That will lead to the breakdown of adiabaticity. Analysis of the dynamical stability of the steady states indicates that the same level structure also results in optical bistability.

id: 0811.4350
title: Magnetic field sensing beyond the standard quantum limit using 10-spin NOON states
authors: Jonathan A. Jones, Steven D. Karlen, Joe Fitzsimons, Arzhang Ardavan, Simon C. Benjamin, G. A. D. Briggs, John J. L. Morton
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Science 324, 1166-1168 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4350
abstract: The concept of entanglement, in which coherent quantum states become inextricably correlated, has evolved from one of the most startling and controversial outcomes of quantum mechanics to the enabling principle of emerging technologies such as quantum computation and quantum sensors. The use of entangled particles in measurement permits the transcendence of the standard quantum limit in sensitivity, which scales as N^1/2 for N particles, to the Heisenberg limit, which scales as N. This approach has been applied to optical interferometry using entangled photons and spin pairs for the measurement of magnetic fields and improvements on atomic clocks. Here, we demonstrate experimentally an 9.4-fold increase in sensitivity to an external magnetic field of a 10-spin entangled state, compared with an isolated spin, using nuclear spins in a highly symmetric molecule. This approach scales in a favourable way compared to systems where qubit loss is prevalent, and paves the way for enhanced precision in magnetic field sensing

id: 0811.4398
title: Problems and paradoxes of the Lifshitz theory
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, uses jpconf.cls style. Invited plenary talk at "60 Years of the Casimir Effect," Brasilia, June 21-29, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4398
abstract: The problems and paradoxes of the Lifshitz theory in application to real dielectric and semiconductor materials are reviewed. It is shown that the inclusion of drift current of conduction electrons into the model of dielectric response results in contradictions with both thermodynamics and experimental data of different experimental groups. Physical reasons why the problems and paradoxes arise are analyzed and found to be connected with the violation of basic applicability condition of the Lifshitz theory, the thermal equilibrium. A recent alternative approach to the resolution of the problems based on the inclusion of screening effects and diffusion current is considered and demonstrated to be thermodynamically and experimentally inconsistent. It is argued that the inclusion of the diffusion current leads to an even deeper violation of thermal equilibrium. Phenomenologically, the Lifshitz theory with role of drift and diffusion currents neglected is shown to be free of problems and in agreement with both thermodynamics and all available experimental data.

id: 0811.4399
title: Quantum recoil effects in finite-time disentanglement of two distinguishable atoms
authors: F. Lastra, S. Wallentowitz, M. Orszag, M. Hernandez
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, submitted to Physical Review on august 22
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4399
abstract: Starting from the requirement of distinguishability of two atoms by their positions, it is shown that photon recoil has a strong influence on finite-time disentanglement and in some cases prevents its appearance. At near-field inter atomic distances well localized atoms, with maximally one atom being initially excited, may suffer disentanglement at a single finite time or even at a series of equidistant finite times, depending on their mean inter atomic distance and their initial electronic preparation.

id: 0811.4400
title: Non-commutative reading of the complex plane through Delone sequences
authors: S. Twareque Ali, Lubka Balkova, E.M.F. Curado, J. P. Gazeau, M.A. Rego-Monteiro, Ligia M.C.S. Rodrigues, K. Sekimoto
comments: 37 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4400
abstract: The Berezin-Klauder-Toeplitz ("anti-Wick") quantization or "non-commutative reading" of the complex plane, viewed as the phase space of a particle moving on the line, is derived from the resolution of the unity provided by the standard (or gaussian) coherent states. The construction properties of these states and their attractive properties are essentially based on the energy spectrum of the harmonic oscillator, that is on the natural numbers. This work is an attempt for following the same path by considering sequences of non-negative numbers which are not "too far" from the natural numbers. In particular, we examine the consequences of such perturbations on the non-commutative reading of the complex plane in terms of its probabilistic, functional, and localization aspects.

id: 0811.4428
title: Efficient discrete-time simulations of continuous-time quantum query algorithms
authors: R. Cleve, D. Gottesman, M. Mosca, R.D. Somma, D.L. Yonge-Mallo
comments: 12 pages, 6 figs
journal: Proc. 41st Ann. Symp. on Theory of Computing, 409-416 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4428
abstract: The continuous-time query model is a variant of the discrete query model in which queries can be interleaved with known operations (called "driving operations") continuously in time. Interesting algorithms have been discovered in this model, such as an algorithm for evaluating nand trees more efficiently than any classical algorithm. Subsequent work has shown that there also exists an efficient algorithm for nand trees in the discrete query model; however, there is no efficient conversion known for continuous-time query algorithms for arbitrary problems. We show that any quantum algorithm in the continuous-time query model whose total query time is T can be simulated by a quantum algorithm in the discrete query model that makes O[T log(T) / log(log(T))] queries. This is the first upper bound that is independent of the driving operations (i.e., it holds even if the norm of the driving Hamiltonian is very large). A corollary is that any lower bound of T queries for a problem in the discrete-time query model immediately carries over to a lower bound of \Omega[T log(log(T))/log (T)] in the continuous-time query model.

id: 0811.4453
title: Non-Hermitian Adiabatic Quantum Optimization
authors: Gennady P. Berman, Alexander I. Nesterov
comments: Minor corrections, 1 figure, 9 pages
journal: Int. J. Quanum Inform. 07, 1469 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4453
abstract: We propose a novel non-Hermitian adiabatic quantum optimization algorithm. One of the new ideas is to use a non-Hermitian auxiliary "initial'' Hamiltonian that provides an effective level repulsion for the main Hamiltonian. This effect enables us to develop an adiabatic theory which determines ground state much more efficiently than Hermitian methods.

id: 0811.4466
title: Conservation rules for entanglement transfer between qubits
authors: S. Chan, M.D. Reid, Z. Ficek
comments: Published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43, 215505 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4466
abstract: We consider an entangled but non-interacting qubit pair a_{1} and b_{1} that are independently coupled to a set of local qubit systems, a_{I} and b_{J}, of 0-bit value, respectively. We derive rules for the transfer of entanglement from the pair a_{1}-b_{1} to an arbitrary pair a_{I}-b_{J}, for the case of qubit-number conserving local interactions. It is shown that the transfer rule depends strongly on the initial entangled state. If the initial entanglement is in the form of the Bell state corresponding to anti-correlated qubits, the sum of the square of the non-local pairwise concurrences is conserved. If the initial state is the Bell state with correlated qubits, this sum can be reduced, even to zero in some cases, to reveal a complete and abrupt loss of all non-local pairwise entanglement. We also identify that for the nonlocal bipartitions A-b_{J} involving all qubits at one location, with one qubit b_{J} at the other location, the concurrences satisfies a simple addition rule for both cases of the Bell states, that the sum of the square of the nonlocal concurrences is conserved.

id: 0811.4472
title: Complete Characterization of Mixing Time for the Continuous Quantum Walk on the Hypercube with Markovian Decoherence Model
authors: Milosh Drezgich, Andrew P. Hines, Mohan Sarovar, Shankar Sastry
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures. Published version. Spelling of author name changed, no content changes in v4
journal: Quantum Inf. & Comp., vol. 9, p. 856 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4472
abstract: The n-dimensional hypercube quantum random walk (QRW) is a particularily appealing example of a quantum walk because it has a natural implementation on a register on $n$ qubits. However, any real implementation will encounter decoherence effects due to interactions with uncontrollable degrees of freedom. We present a complete characterization of the mixing properties of the hypercube QRW under a physically relevant Markovian decoherence model. In the local decoherence model considered the non-unitary dynamics are modeled as a sum of projections on individual qubits to an arbitrary direction on the Bloch sphere. We prove that there is always classical (asymptotic) mixing in this model and specify the conditions under which instantaneous mixing \textit{always} exists. And we show that the latter mixing property, as well as the classical mixing time, depend heavily on the exact environmental interaction and its strength. Therefore, algorithmic applications of the QRW on the hypercube, if they intend to employ mixing properties, need to consider both the walk dynamics and the precise decoherence model.

id: 0811.4481
title: Strength and Weakness in Grover's Quantum Search Algorithm
authors: Ahmed Younes
comments: Review paper, 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4481
abstract: Grover's quantum search algorithm is considered as one of the milestone in the field of quantum computing. The algorithm can search for a single match in a database with $N$ records in $O(\sqrt{N})$ assuming that the item must exist in the database with quadratic speedup over the best known classical algorithm. This review paper discusses the performance of Grover's algorithm in case of multiple matches where the problem is expected to be easier. Unfortunately, we will find that the algorithm will fail for $M>3N/4$, where $M$ is the number of matches in the list.

id: 0811.4517
title: Towards surface quantum optics with Bose-Einstein condensates in evanescent waves
authors: Helmar Bender, Philippe Courteille, Claus Zimmermann, Sebastian Slama
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4517
abstract: We present a surface trap which allows for studying the coherent interaction of ultracold atoms with evanescent waves. The trap combines a magnetic Joffe trap with a repulsive evanescent dipole potential. The position of the magnetic trap can be controlled with high precision which makes it possible to move ultracold atoms to the surface of a glass prism in a controlled way. The optical potential of the evanescent wave compensates for the strong attractive van der Waals forces and generates a potential barrier at only a few hundred nanometers from the surface. The trap is tested with Rb Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC), which are stably positioned at distances from the surfaces below one micrometer.

id: 0811.4527
title: Representation of entanglement by negative quasi-probabilities
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; An optimization procedure for the quasi-probabilities has been added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042337 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4527
abstract: Any bipartite quantum state has quasi-probability representations in terms of separable states. For entangled states these quasi-probabilities necessarily exhibit negativities. Based on the general structure of composite quantum states, one may reconstruct such quasi-propabilities from experimental data. Because of ambiguity, the quasi-probabilities obtained by the bare reconstruction are insufficient to identify entanglement. An optimization procedure is introduced to derive quasi-probabilities with a minimal amount of negativity. Negativities of optimized quasi-probabilities unambiguously prove entanglement, their positivity proves separability.

id: 0811.4542
title: Logical independence and quantum randomness
authors: Tomasz Paterek, Johannes Kofler, Robert Prevedel, Peter Klimek, Markus Aspelmeyer, Anton Zeilinger, Caslav Brukner
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, published version plus additional experimental appendix
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 013019 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4542
abstract: We propose a link between logical independence and quantum physics. We demonstrate that quantum systems in the eigenstates of Pauli group operators are capable of encoding mathematical axioms and show that Pauli group quantum measurements are capable of revealing whether or not a given proposition is logically dependent on the axiomatic system. Whenever a mathematical proposition is logically independent of the axioms encoded in the measured state, the measurement associated with the proposition gives random outcomes. This allows for an experimental test of logical independence. Conversely, it also allows for an explanation of the probabilities of random outcomes observed in Pauli group measurements from logical independence without invoking quantum theory. The axiomatic systems we study can be completed and are therefore not subject to Goedel's incompleteness theorem.

id: 0811.4588
title: Entanglement transmission and generation under channel uncertainty: Universal quantum channel coding
authors: I. Bjelakovic, H. Boche, J. Noetzel
comments: 45 pages, no figures. Section 6.2 rewritten due to an error in equation (72) of the old version. Added table of contents, added section 'Conclusions and further remarks'. Accepted for publication in 'Communications in Mathematical Physics'
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4588
abstract: We determine the optimal rates of universal quantum codes for entanglement transmission and generation under channel uncertainty. In the simplest scenario the sender and receiver are provided merely with the information that the channel they use belongs to a given set of channels, so that they are forced to use quantum codes that are reliable for the whole set of channels. This is precisely the quantum analog of the compound channel coding problem. We determine the entanglement transmission and entanglement-generating capacities of compound quantum channels and show that they are equal. Moreover, we investigate two variants of that basic scenario, namely the cases of informed decoder or informed encoder, and derive corresponding capacity results.

id: 0811.4605
title: Effects of time delay in feedback control of linear quantum systems
authors: Kazunori Nishio, Kenji Kashima, Jun-ichi Imura
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4605
abstract: We investigate feedback control of linear quantum systems subject to feedback-loop time delays. In particular, we examine the relation between the potentially achievable control performance and the time delays, and provide theoretical guidelines for the future experimental setup in two physical systems, which are typical in this research field. The evaluation criterion for the analysis is given by the optimal control performance formula, the derivation of which is from the classical control theoretic results about the input-output delay systems.

id: 0811.4608
title: Superfluidity of a perfect quantum crystal
authors: V.A. Golovko
comments: 24 pages with 2 figures, version accepted for publication in Eur.Phys.J. B
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4608
abstract: In recent years, experimental data were published which point to the possibility of the existence of superfluidity in solid helium. To investigate this phenomenon theoretically we employ a hierarchy of equations for reduced density matrices which describes a quantum system that is in thermodynamic equilibrium below the Bose-Einstein condensation point, the hierarchy being obtained earlier by the author. It is shown that the hierarchy admits solutions relevant to a perfect crystal (immobile) in which there is a frictionless flow of atoms, which testifies to the possibility of superfluidity in ideal solids. The solutions are studied with the help of the bifurcation method and some their peculiarities are found out. Various physical aspects of the problem, among them experimental ones, are discussed as well.

id: 0811.4633
title: Breakdown of the rotating-wave approximation in entanglement description of spin anti-correlated states
authors: Jun Jing, Zhi-Guo Lu, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 044305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4633
abstract: It is well established that an entanglement encoded in the Bell states of a two-qubit system with correlated spins exhibits completely different evolution properties than that encoded in states with the anti-correlated spins. A complete and abrupt loss of the entanglement, called the entanglement sudden death, can be found to occur for the spin correlated states, but the entanglement evolves without any discontinuity or decays asymptotically for the spin anti-correlated states. We consider the evolution of an initial entanglement encoded in the spin anti-correlated states and demonstrate that the asymptotic behavior predicted before occurs only in the weak coupling limit or equivalently when the rotating-wave approximation (RWA) is made on the interaction Hamiltonian of the qubits with the field. If we do not restrict ourselves to the RWA, we find that the entanglement undergoes a discontinuity, the sudden death phenomenon. We illustrate this behavior by employing an efficient scheme for entanglement evolution between two cold-trapped atoms located inside a single-mode cavity. Although only a single excitation is initially present in the system, we find that the two-photon excited state, which plays the key role for the discontinuity in the behavior of the entanglement, gains a population over a short time of the evolution. When the RWA is made on the interaction, the two-photon excited state remains unpopulated for all times and the discontinuity is absent. We attribute this phenomenon to the principle of complementarity between the evolution time and energy, and the presence of the counter-rotating terms in the interaction Hamiltonian.

id: 0811.4662
title: Quantum Crossing Symmetry as Heart of Ghost Imaging
authors: D. B. Ion, M.L. Ion, L. Rusu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4662
abstract: In this paper it is shown that the key to understanding the ghost imaging mystery are the crossing symmetric photon reactions in the nonlinear media. Then, an intuitive mechanism for the description of the ghost imaging in terms of the quantum mirror (QM) is presented. Moreover, we prove that the ghost imaging laws depend only on the energy-momentum conservation and not on the photons entanglement.

id: 0811.4679
title: Entanglement entropy and the determination of an unknown quantum state
authors: Gerardo Aquino, Filippo Giraldi
comments: 5 pages 2 figures, accepted for publication on Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A, 78, 062115 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4679
abstract: An initial unknown quantum state can be determined with a single measurement apparatus by letting it interact with an auxiliary, "Ancilla", system as proposed by Allahverdyan, Balian and Nieuwenhuizen [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 120402 (2004)]. In the case of two qubits, this procedure allows to reconstruct the initial state of the qubit of interest S by measuring three commuting observables and therefore by means of a single apparatus, for the total system S + A at a later time. The determinant of the matrix of the linear transformation connecting the measurements of three commuting observables at time t > 0 to the components of the polarization vector of S at time t = 0 is used as an indicator of the reconstructability of the initial state of the system S. We show that a connection between the entanglement entropy of the total system S + A and such a determinant exists, and that for a pure state a vanishing entanglement individuates, without a need for any measurement, those intervals of time for which the reconstruction procedure is least efficient. This property remains valid for a generic dimension of S. In the case of a mixed state this connection is lost.

id: 0811.4695
title: Information Transferring Ability of the Different Phases of a finite XXZ Spin Chain
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Sougato Bose
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures. Highly revised edition
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012304 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4695
abstract: We study the transmission of both classical or quantum information through all the phases of a finite XXZ spin chain. This characterizes the merit of the different phases in terms of their ability to act as a quantum wire. As far as quantum information is concerned, we need only consider the transmission of entanglement as the direct transmission of a quantum state is equivalent. The isotropic anti-ferromagnetic spin chain is found to be the optimal point of the phase diagram for the transmission of quantum entanglement when one considers both the amount of transmitted entanglement, as well as the velocity with which it is transmitted. But this optimal point in the phase diagram moves to the Neel phase when decoherence or thermal fluctuations are taken to account. This chain may also be able to transfer classical information even when, due to a large magnitude of the noise, quantum information is not transmitted at all. For a certain range of anisotropies of the model, a curious feature is found in the flow of quantum information inside the chain, namely, a hopping mode of entanglement transfer which skips the odd numbered sites. Our predictions will potentially be testable in several physical systems.

id: 0811.4731
title: Coherence of single spins coupled to a nuclear spin bath of varying density
authors: N. Mizuochi, P. Neumann, F. Rempp, J. Beck, V. Jacques, P. Siyushev, K. Nakamura, D. Twitchen, H. Watanabe, S. Yamasaki, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, 1 movie (avi), 1 supplementary material (pdf)
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 80, 041201(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4731
abstract: The dynamics of single electron and nuclear spins in a diamond lattice with different 13C nuclear spin concentration is investigated. It is shown that coherent control of up to three individual nuclei in a dense nuclear spin cluster is feasible. The free induction decays of nuclear spin Bell states and single nuclear coherences among 13C nuclear spins are compared and analyzed. Reduction of a free induction decay time T2* and a coherence time T2 upon increase of nuclear spin concentration has been found. For diamond material with depleted concentration of nuclear spin, T2* as long as 30 microseconds and T2 of up to 1.8 ms for the electron spin has been observed. The 13C concentration dependence of T2* is explained by Fermi contact and dipolar interactions with nuclei in the lattice. It has been found that T2 decreases approximately as 1/n, where n is 13C concentration, as expected for an electron spin interacting with a nuclear spin bath.

id: 0811.4756
title: Feasibility of free space quantum key distribution with coherent polarization states
authors: D. Elser, T. Bartley, B. Heim, Ch. Wittmann, D. Sych, G. Leuchs
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, extensions in sections 2, 3.1, 3.2 and 4. This is an author-created, un-copyedited version of an article accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics (Special Issue on Quantum Cryptography: Theory and Practice). IOP Publishing Ltd is not responsible for any errors or omissions in this version of the manuscript or any version derived from it
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 045014 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4756
abstract: We demonstrate for the first time the feasibility of free space quantum key distribution with continuous variables under real atmospheric conditions. More specifically, we transmit coherent polarization states over a 100m free space channel on the roof of our institute's building. In our scheme, signal and local oscillator are combined in a single spatial mode which auto-compensates atmospheric fluctuations and results in an excellent interference. Furthermore, the local oscillator acts as spatial and spectral filter thus allowing unrestrained daylight operation.

id: 0811.0128
title: From multiple scattering to van der Waals interactions: exact results for eccentric cylinders
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Prachi Parashar, Jef Wagner
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, paper written in honor of Iver Brevik on the occasion of his 70th birthday; revision corrects a few typos and updates a reference
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0128
abstract: In this paper, dedicated to the career of Iver Brevik, we review the derivation of the retarded van der Waals or Casimir-Polder interaction between polarizable molecules from the general multiple scattering formulation of Casimir interactions between bodies. We then apply this van der Waals potential to examine the interaction between tenuous cylindrical bodies, including eccentric cylinders, and revisit the vanishing self-energy of a tenuous dielectric cylinder. In each case, closed-form expressions are obtained.

id: 0811.0281
title: Representations of the orthosymplectic Lie superalgebra osp(1|4) and paraboson coherent states
authors: R. Chakrabarti, N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 085207 (16pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0281
abstract: We introduce and obtain multimode paraboson coherent states. In appropriate subspaces these coherent states provide a decomposition of unity where the measure, when expressed using the cat-type states, is positive definite. Bicoherent states where the mutually commuting lowering operators are diagonalized are also obtained. Matrix elements in the coherent state basis are calculated.

id: 0811.0295
title: Equilibrium long-ranged charge correlations at the surface of a conductor coupled to the electromagnetic radiation II
authors: Bernard Jancovici, Ladislav Samaj
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79 (2009) 021111
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0295
abstract: Results of a previous article with the same title are retrieved by a different method. A one-component plasma is bounded by a plane surface. The plasma is fully coupled to the electromagnetic field, therefore the charge correlations are retarded. The quantum correlation function of the surface charge densities, at times different by $t$, at asymptotical large distances $R$, at inverse temperature $\beta$, decays as $-1/(8\pi^2\beta R^3)$, a surprisingly simple result: the decay is independent of Planck's constant $\hbar$ and of the time difference $t$. The present paper is based on the analysis of the collective vibration modes of the system.

id: 0811.0435
title: A New Fundamental Duality in Nuclei and its Implications for Quantum Mechanics
authors: S. Afsar Abbas
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0435
abstract: The Liquid Drop Models (LDM) and the Independent Particle Models (IPM) have been known to provide two conflicting pictures of the nucleus. The IPM being quantum mechanical, is believed to provide a fundamental picture of the nucleus and hence has been focus of the still elusive unified theory of the nucleus. It is believed that the LDM at best is an effective and limited model of the nucleus. Here, through a comprehensive study of one nucleon separation energy, we give convincing evidence that actually the LDM is as fundamental and as basic for the description of the nucleus as the IPM is. As such the LDM and the IPM provide simultaneously co-exiting complementary duality of the nuclear phenomena. This fundamental duality also provides solution to the decades old Coester Band problem in the nucleus. Similarity and differences with respect to the well known wave-particle duality, as envisaged in Bohr's Complementarity Principle, is pointed out. Thereafter implications of this new Duality in the nucleus for quantum mechanics is discussed.

id: 0811.0702
title: Multipartite entanglement in qubit systems
authors: Paolo Facchi
comments: 42 pages
journal: Rend. Lincei Mat. Appl. 20 (2009) 25-67
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0702
abstract: We introduce a potential of multipartite entanglement for a system of n qubits, as the average over all balanced bipartitions of a bipartite entanglement measure, the purity. We study in detail its expression and look for its minimizers, the maximally multipartite entangled states. They have a bipartite entanglement that does not depend on the bipartition and is maximal for all possible bipartitions. We investigate their structure and consider several examples for small n.

id: 0811.0816
title: Time Evolution of Entropy in Gravitational Collapse
authors: Eric Greenwood
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: JCAP 0906:032,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0816
abstract: We study the time evolution of the entropy of a collapsing spherical domain wall, from the point of view of an asymptotic observer, by investigating the entropy of the entire system (i.e. domain wall and radiation) and induced radiation alone during the collapse. By taking the difference, we find the entropy of the collapsing domain wall, since this is the object which will form a black hole. We find that for large values of time (times larger than $t/R_s\approx8$), the entropy of the collapsing domain wall is a constant, which is of the same order as the Bekenstein-Hawking entropy.

id: 0811.0911
title: Interacting Anyonic Fermions in a Two-Body Color Code Model
authors: H. Bombin, M. Kargarian, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: RevTeX 4, 2 figures, longer version
journal: Phys.Rev.B80:075111,2009
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0911
abstract: We introduce a two-body quantum Hamiltonian model of spin-1/2 on a 2D spatial lattice with exact topological degeneracy in all coupling regimes. There exists a gapped phase in which the low-energy sector reproduces an effective color code model. High energy excitations fall into three families of anyonic fermions that turn out to be strongly interacting. The model exhibits a Z_2xZ_2 gauge group symmetry and string-net integrals of motion, which are related to the existence of topological charges that are invisible to moving high-energy fermions.

id: 0811.0922
title: Can the "Darmstadt oscillations" be treated as two closely spaced mass-eigenstates of the H-like mother ions ?
authors: M. Faber, A. N. Ivanov, P. Kienle, E. L. Kryshen, M. Pitschmann, N. I. Troitskaya
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0922
abstract: We discuss the proposal that the "Darmstadt oscillations" of the orbital K-shell electron capture decay (EC) rate of the H-like heavy ions are caused by quantum beats of two coherently excited, closely spaced mass-eigenstates of decaying H-like heavy ions. We show that such a mechanism to explain the time modulation of the EC-decay rates of the H-like heavy ions leads to the time modulation of the beta^+ decay rate of these ions with the same period. Such a time-dependence of the beta^+ decay rate of the H-like heavy ions contradicts the experimental data of GSI.

id: 0811.0970
title: Possible Minkowskian Language in Two-level Systems
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: based on an invited talk presented at the 12th International Conference on Quantum Optics and Quantum Information (Vilnius, Lithuania, September 2008), to be published in the proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0970
abstract: One hundred years ago, in 1908, Hermann Minkowski completed his proof that Maxwell's equations are covariant under Lorentz transformations. During this process, he introduced a four-dimensional space called the Minkowskian space. In 1949, P. A. M. Dirac showed the Minkowskian space can be handled with the light-cone coordinate system with squeeze transformations. While the squeeze is one of the fundamental mathematical operations in optical sciences, it could serve useful purposes in two-level systems. Some possibilities are considered in this report. It is shown possible to cross the light-cone boundary in optical and two-level systems while it is not possible in Einstein's theory of relativity.

id: 0811.0973
title: Fluctuation theorems in driven open quantum systems
authors: Peter Talkner, Michele Campisi, Peter H?nggi
comments: 12 pages
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2009) P02025
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0973
abstract: The characteristic function for the joint measurement of the changes of two commuting observables upon an external forcing of a quantum system is derived. In particular, the statistics of the internal energy, the exchanged heat and the work of a quantum system that {\it weakly} couples to its environment is determined in terms of the energy changes of the system and the environment due to the action of a classical, external force on the system. If the system and environment initially are in a canonical equilibrium, the work performed on the system is shown to satisfy the Tasaki-Crooks theorem and the Jarzynski equality.

id: 0811.1049
title: Valence Bond States: Link models
authors: E. Rico, R. H¨¹bener, S. Montangero, N. Moran, B. Pirvu, J. Vala, H.J. Briegel
comments: 20 pages, 15 figures; added references, corrected some typos, new sections. Published version
journal: Annals Phys.324:1875-1896,2009
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1049
abstract: An isotropic anti-ferromagnetic quantum state on a square lattice is characterized by symmetry arguments only. By construction, this quantum state is the result of an underlying valence bond structure without breaking any symmetry in the lattice or spin spaces. A detailed analysis of the correlations of the quantum state is given (using a mapping to a 2D classical statistical model and methods in field theory like mapping to the non-linear sigma model or bosonization techniques) as well as the results of numerical treatments (regarding exact diagonalization and variational methods). Finally, the physical relevance of the model is motivated. A comparison of the model to known anti-ferromagnetic Mott-Hubbard insulators is given by means of the two-point equal-time correlation function obtained i) numerically from the suggested state and ii) experimentally from neutron scattering on cuprates in the anti-ferromagnetic insulator phase.

id: 0811.1511
title: Shape invariance in prepotential approach to exactly solvable models
authors: Choon-Lin Ho
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1511
abstract: In supersymmetric quantum mechanics, exact-solvability of one-dimensional quantum systems can be classified only with an additional assumption of integrability, the so-called shape invariance condition. In this paper we show that in the prepotential approach we proposed previously, shape invariance is automatically satisfied and needs not be assumed.

id: 0811.1537
title: Multiband bosons in optical lattices
authors: J. Larson, A. Collin, J.-P. Martikainen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033603 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1537
abstract: We study a gas of repulsively interacting bosons in an optical lattice and explore the physics beyond the lowest band Hubbard model. Utilizing a generalized Gutzwiller ansatz, we find how the lowest band physics is modified by the inclusion of the first excited bands. In contrast to the prediction of the lowest band Bose-Hubbard model, a reentrant behavior of superfluidity is envisaged as well as decreasing width of the Mott lobes at strong coupling.

id: 0811.1769
title: Fractional Quantum Mechanics
authors: Nick Laskin
comments: 27 pages
journal: Physical Review E62 (Sept 2000) 3135-3145
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1769
abstract: A path integral approach to quantum physics has been developed. Fractional path integrals over the paths of the L\'evy flights are defined. It is shown that if the fractality of the Brownian trajectories leads to standard quantum and statistical mechanics, then the fractality of the L\'evy paths leads to fractional quantum mechanics and fractional statistical mechanics. The fractional quantum and statistical mechanics have been developed via our fractional path integral approach. A fractional generalization of the Schr\"odinger equation has been found. A relationship between the energy and the momentum of the nonrelativistic quantum-mechanical particle has been established. The equation for the fractional plane wave function has been obtained. We have derived a free particle quantum-mechanical kernel using Fox's H function. A fractional generalization of the Heisenberg uncertainty relation has been established. Fractional statistical mechanics has been developed via the path integral approach. A fractional generalization of the motion equation for the density matrix has been found. The density matrix of a free particle has been expressed in terms of the Fox's H function. We also discuss the relationships between fractional and the well-known Feynman path integral approaches to quantum and statistical mechanics.

id: 0811.2393
title: Finding critical points using improved scaling Ansaetze
authors: M. Roncaglia, L. Campos Venuti, C. Degli Esposti Boschi
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures. New version including more general Ansaetze basically applicable to all cases
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2015) P04005
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2393
abstract: Analyzing in detail the first corrections to the scaling hypothesis, we develop accelerated methods for the determination of critical points from finite size data. The output of these procedures are sequences of pseudo-critical points which rapidly converge towards the true critical points. In fact more rapidly than previously existing methods like the Phenomenological Renormalization Group approach. Our methods are valid in any spatial dimensionality and both for quantum or classical statistical systems. Having at disposal fast converging sequences, allows to draw conclusions on the basis of shorter system sizes, and can be extremely important in particularly hard cases like two-dimensional quantum systems with frustrations or when the sign problem occurs. We test the effectiveness of our methods both analytically on the basis of the one-dimensional XY model, and numerically at phase transitions occurring in non integrable spin models. In particular, we show how a new Homogeneity Condition Method is able to locate the onset of the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless transition making only use of ground-state quantities on relatively small systems.

id: 0811.2419
title: Large-Distance Asymptotic Behavior of the Correlation Functions of 1D Impenetrable Anyons at Finite Temperatures
authors: Ovidiu I. Patu, Vladimir E. Korepin, Dmitri V. Averin
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX4
journal: EPL 86 (2009) 40001
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2419
abstract: The large-distance asymptotic behavior of the field-field correlators has been computed for one-dimensional impenetrable anyons at finite temperatures. The asymptotic behavior agrees with the predictions of conformal field theory at low temperatures and reproduces the known results for impenetrable bosons and free fermions in appropriate limits. We have also obtained an integrable system of partial nonlinear differential equations which completely characterizes the 2-point correlation functions. The system is the same as for bosons but with different initial conditions.

id: 0811.2452
title: A new method for producing ultracold molecular ions
authors: Eric R. Hudson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2452
abstract: We propose a new method for the production of ultracold molecular ions. This method utilizes sympathetic cooling due to the strong collisions between appropriately chosen molecular ions and laser-cooled neutral atoms to realize ultracold, internal ground-state molecular ions. In contrast to other experiments producing cold molecular ions, our proposed method efficiently cools both the internal and external molecular ion degrees of freedom. The availability of an ultracold, absolute ground-state sample of molecular ions would have broad impact to fields as diverse as quantum chemistry, astrophysics, and fundamental physics; and may lead to the development of a robust, scalable quantum computer.

id: 0811.2516
title: Operational Quantum Mechanics, Quantum Axiomatics and Quantum Structures
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 6 pages
journal: In D. Greenberger, K. Hentschel and F. Wienert (Eds.), Compendium of Quantum Physics Concepts, Experiments, History and Philosophy (pp. 434-440). Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer, 2009.
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2516
abstract: The role of operational quantum mechanics, quantum axiomatics and quantum structures in general is presented as a contribution to a compendium on quantum physics, its history and philosophy.

id: 0811.2677
title: Kondo Cloud Mediated Long Range Entanglement After Local Quench in a Spin Chain
authors: Pasquale Sodano, Abolfazl Bayat, Sougato Bose
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. All comments are welcome.
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 100412(R) (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2677
abstract: We show that, in the gapless Kondo Regime, a single local quench at one end of a Kondo spin chain induces a fast and long lived oscillatory dynamics. This quickly establishes a high quality entanglement between the spins at the opposite ends of the chain. This entanglement is mediated by the Kondo Cloud, attains a constant high value independent of the length for large chains, and shows thermal robustness. In contrast, when the Kondo cloud is absent, e.g. in the gapped dimer regime, only finite size end to end effects can create some entanglement on a much longer time-scale for rather short chains. By decoupling one end of the chain during the dynamics one can distinguish between this end-end effect which vanishes, and the global Kondo cloud mediated entanglement, which persists. This quench approach paves the way to detect the elusive Kondo cloud through the entanglement between two individual spins. Our results show that non-perturbative cooperative phenomena from condensed matter may be exploited for quantum information.

id: 0811.2694
title: Non-hermitian models in higher dimensions
authors: Pulak Ranjan Giri
comments: 3 pages, no figure, revtex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2694
abstract: It is know that PT-symmetric models have real spectra provided the symmetry is not spontaneously broken. Even pseudo-hermitian models have real spectra, which enlarge the the class of non-hermitian models possessing real spectra. We however consider non-hermitian models in higher dimensions which are not necessarily explicit PT-symmetric nor pseudo-hermitian. We show that the models may generate real spectra depending upon the coupling constants of the Hamiltonian. Our models thus further generalize the class of non-hermitian systems, which possess real spectra.

id: 0811.2814
title: Semi-classical limit and minimum decoherence in the Conditional Probability Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Vincent Corbin, Neil J. Cornish
comments: 8 pages, references added
journal: Found.Phys.39:474-485,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2814
abstract: The Conditional Probability Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics replaces the abstract notion of time used in standard Quantum Mechanics by the time that can be read off from a physical clock. The use of physical clocks leads to apparent non-unitary and decoherence. Here we show that a close approximation to standard Quantum Mechanics can be recovered from conditional Quantum Mechanics for semi-classical clocks, and we use these clocks to compute the minimum decoherence predicted by the Conditional Probability Interpretation.

id: 0811.2942
title: Cooling carbon nanotubes to the phononic ground state with constant electron current
authors: Stefano Zippilli, Giovanna Morigi, Adrian Bachtold
comments: 4 pages, 4 fugures, version published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 096804 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2942
abstract: We present a quantum theory of cooling of a mechanical resonator using back-action with constant electron current. The resonator device is based on a doubly clamped nanotube, which mechanically vibrates and acts as a double quantum dot for electron transport. Mechanical vibrations and electrons are coupled electrostatically using an external gate. The fundamental eigenmode is cooled by absorbing phonons when electrons tunnel through the double quantum dot. We identify the regimes in which ground state cooling can be achieved for realistic experimental parameters.

id: 0811.3134
title: Weyl laws for partially open quantum maps
authors: Emmanuel Schenck
comments: 35 pages, 5 figures. Corrected typos. Some proofs clarified
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3134
abstract: We study a toy model for "partially open" wave-mechanical system, like for instance a dielectric micro-cavity, in the semiclassical limit where ray dynamics is applicable. Our model is a quantized map on the 2-dimensional torus, with an additional damping at each time step, resulting in a subunitary propagator, or "damped quantum map". We obtain analogues of Weyl's laws for such maps in the semiclassical limit, and draw some more precise estimates when the classical dynamic is chaotic.

id: 0811.3162
title: Double-quantum-coherence attosecond x-ray spectroscopy of spatially separated, spectrally overlapping core-electron transitions
authors: Igor V. Schweigert, Shaul Mukamel
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052509 (2008)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3162
abstract: X-ray four-wave mixing signals generated in the $k_1 + k_2 - k_3$ phase-matching direction are simulated for N1s transitions in para-nitroanline and two-ring hydrocarbons disubstituted with an amine and a nitroso groups. The two-dimensional x-ray correlation spectra (2DXCS) provide background-free probes of couplings between core-electron transitions even for multiple core shells of the same type. Features attributed to couplings between spatially-separated core transitions connected by delocalized valence excitations provide information about molecular geometry and electronic structure unavailable from linear near-edge x-ray absorption (XANES).

id: 0811.3554
title: Likelihood method and Fisher information in construction of physical models
authors: E.W. Piotrowski, J. Sladkowski, J. Syska, S. Zajac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Status Solidi B 246, No. 5, 1033 (2009)
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3554
abstract: The subjects of the paper are the likelihood method (LM) and the expected Fisher information (FI) considered from the point od view of the construction of the physical models which originate in the statistical description of phenomena. The master equation case and structural information principle are derived. Then, the phenomenological description of the information transfer is presented. The extreme physical information (EPI) method is reviewed. As if marginal, the statistical interpretation of the amplitude of the system is given. The formalism developed in this paper would be also applied in quantum information processing and quantum game theory.

id: 0811.3600
title: The Fisher's information and quantum-classical field theory: classical statistics similarity
authors: Jacek Syska
comments: 
journal: Phys.StatusSolidi244:2531-2537,2007
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3600
abstract: The classical statistics indication for the impossibility to derive quantum mechanics from classical mechanics is proved. The formalism of the statistical Fisher information is used. Next the Fisher information as a tool of the construction of a self-consistent field theory, which joins the quantum theory and classical field theory, is proposed.

id: 0811.3757
title: von Neumann entropy and on-site localization for perpetually coupled qubits
authors: Kingshuk Majumdar
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 79 115134 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3757
abstract: We used the von Neumann entropy to study the single and many-particle on-site localizations of stationary states for an anisotropic Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain. With a constructed bounded sequence of on-site energies for single and many-particle systems we demonstrate that the von Neumann entropy approaches zero indicating strong on-site localizations for all states. On the contrary, random on-site energy sequence does not lead to strong on-site confinement of all states. Our numerical results indicate that the von Neumann entropy provides a new insight to analyze on-site localizations for these systems.

id: 0811.3762
title: The quantum optical Josephson interferometer
authors: Dario Gerace, Hakan E. Tureci, A. Imamoglu, Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: NATURE PHYSICS vol. 5, pp. 281-284 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3762
abstract: The interplay between coherent tunnel coupling and on-site interactions in dissipation-free bosonic systems has lead to many spectacular observations, ranging from the demonstration of number-phase uncertainty relation to quantum phase transitions. To explore the effect of dissipation and coherent drive on tunnel coupled interacting bosonic systems, we propose a device that is the quantum optical analog of a Josephson interferometer. It consists of two coherently driven linear optical cavities connected via a central cavity with a single-photon nonlinearity. The Josephson-like oscillations in the light emitted from the central cavity as a function of the phase difference between two pumping fields can be suppressed by increasing the strength of the nonlinear coupling. Remarkably, we find that in the limit of ultra-strong interactions in the center-cavity, the coupled system maps on to an effective Jaynes-Cummings system with a nonlinearity determined by the tunnel coupling strength. In the limit of a single nonlinear cavity coupled to two linear waveguides, the degree of photon antibunching from the nonlinear cavity provides an excellent measure of the transition to the nonlinear regime where Josephson oscillations are suppressed.

id: 0811.3806
title: Slow relaxation of rapidly rotating black holes
authors: Shahar Hod
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:084035,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3806
abstract: We study analytically the relaxation phase of perturbed, rapidly rotating black holes. In particular, we derive a simple formula for the fundamental quasinormal resonances of near-extremal Kerr black holes. The formula is expressed in terms of the black-hole physical parameters: omega=m Omega-i2 pi T(n+1/2), where T and Omega are the temperature and angular velocity of the black hole, and m is the azimuthal harmonic index of a co-rotating equatorial mode. This formula implies that the relaxation period tau sim 1/Im(omega) of the black hole becomes extremely long as the extremal limit T to 0 is approached. The analytically derived formula is shown to agree with direct numerical computations of the black-hole resonances. We use our results to demonstrate analytically the fact that near-extremal Kerr black holes saturate the recently proposed universal relaxation bound.

id: 0811.3843
title: Topology induced anomalous defect production by crossing a quantum critical point
authors: A. Bermudez, D. Patan¨¨, L. Amico, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Phys. Rev. Lett. (to be published)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 135702 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3843
abstract: We study the influence of topology on the quench dynamics of a system driven across a quantum critical point. We show how the appearance of certain edge states, which fully characterise the topology of the system, dramatically modifies the process of defect production during the crossing of the critical point. Interestingly enough, the density of defects is no longer described by the Kibble-Zurek scaling, but determined instead by the non-universal topological features of the system. Edge states are shown to be robust against defect production, which highlights their topological nature.

id: 0811.3856
title: Levy flights, dynamical duality and fractional quantum mechanics
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: Misprints corrected, minor amendments, subm. to Acta Phys. Pol. B, presented at 21st Marian Smoluchowski Symposium
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. B 40, 1087-1101, (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3856
abstract: We discuss dual time evolution scenarios which, albeit running according to the same real time clock, in each considered case may be mapped among each other by means of an analytic continuation in time. This dynamical duality is a generic feature of diffusion-type processes. Technically that involves a familiar transformation from a non-Hermitian Fokker-Planck operator to the Hermitian operator (e.g. Schroedinger Hamiltonian), whose negative is known to generate a dynamical semigroup. Under suitable restrictions upon the generator, the semigroup admits an analytic continuation in time and ultimately yields dual motions. We analyze an extension of the duality concept to Levy flights, free and with an external forcing, while presuming that the corresponding evolution rule (fractional dynamical semigroup) is a dual counterpart of the quantum motion (fractional unitary dynamics).

id: 0811.3865
title: Quantum computation with doped silicon cavities
authors: M. Abanto, L. Davidovich, Belita Koiller, R. L. de Matos Filho
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3865
abstract: We propose a quantum computer architecture involving substitutional donors in photonic-crystal silicon cavities and the optical initialization, manipulation, and detection processes already demonstrated in ion traps and other atomic systems. Our scheme considerably simplifies the implementation of the building blocks for the successful operation of silicon-based solid-state quantum computers, including positioning of the donors, realization of one- and two-qubit gates, initialization and readout of the qubits. Detailed consideration of the processes involved, using state-of-the-art values for the relevant parameters, indicates that this architecture might lead to errors per gate compatible with scalable quantum computation.

id: 0811.3909
title: Microwave Photon Detector in Circuit QED
authors: G. Romero, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, E. Solano
comments: accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 173602 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3909
abstract: Quantum optical photodetection has occupied a central role in understanding radiation-matter interactions. It has also contributed to the development of atomic physics and quantum optics, including applications to metrology, spectroscopy, and quantum information processing. The quantum microwave regime, originally explored using cavities and atoms, is seeing a novel boost with the generation of nonclassical propagating fields in circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED). This promising field, involving potential developments in quantum information with microwave photons, suffers from the absence of photodetectors. Here, we design a metamaterial composed of discrete superconducting elements that implements a high-efficiency microwave photon detector. Our design consists of a microwave guide coupled to an array of metastable quantum circuits, whose internal states are irreversibly changed due to the absorption of photons. This proposal can be widely applied to different physical systems and can be generalized to implement a microwave photon counter.

id: 0811.3961
title: Practical scheme for a light-induced gauge field in an atomic Bose gas
authors: Kenneth J. G¨¹nter, Marc Cheneau, Tarik Yefsah, Steffen P. Rath, Jean Dalibard
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 011604(R) (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.3961
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate an Abelian gauge field in an atomic gas using two crossed laser beams. If the internal atomic state follows adiabatically the eigenstates of the atom-laser interaction, Berry's phase gives rise to a vector potential that can nucleate vortices in a Bose gas. The present scheme operates even for a large detuning with respect to the atomic resonance, making it applicable to alkali-metal atoms without significant heating due to spontaneous emission. We test the validity of the adiabatic approximation by integrating the set of coupled Gross-Pitaevskii equations associated with the various internal atomic states, and we show that the steady state of the interacting gas indeed exhibits a vortex lattice, as expected from the adiabatic gauge field.

id: 0811.4147
title: Coupling internal atomic states in a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate via an optical lattice: Extended Mott-superfluid transitions
authors: Jonas Larson, Jani-Petri Martikainen
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033605 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4147
abstract: An ultracold gas of coupled two-component atoms in an optical field is studied. Due to the internal two-level structure of the atoms, three competing energy terms exist; atomic kinetic, atomic internal, and atom-atom interaction energies. A novel outcome of this interplay, not present in the regular Bose-Hubbard model, is that in the single band and tight binding approximations four different phases appear: two superfluid and two Mott phases. When passing through the critical point between the two superfluid or the two Mott phases, a swapping of the internal atomic populations takes place. By means of the strong coupling expansion, we find the full phase diagram for the four different phases.

id: 0811.4238
title: Effectively Emergent Quantum Mechanics
authors: Qasem Exirifard
comments: 2 p
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4238
abstract: We consider non minimal coupling between matters and gravity in modified theories of gravity. In contrary to the current common sense, we report that quantum mechanics can effectively emerge when the space-time geometry is sufficiently flat. In other words, quantum mechanics might play no role when and where the space-time geometry is highly curved. We study the first two simple models of Effectively Emergent Quantum Mechanics(EEQM): R-dependent EEQM and G-dependent EEQM where R is the Ricci scalar and G is the Gauss-Bonnet Lagrangian density. We discuss that these EEQM theories might be fine tuned to remain consistent with all the implemented experiments and performed observations. In particular, we observe that G-dependent EEQM softens the problem of quantum gravity.

id: 0811.4387
title: Randomized benchmarking and process tomography for gate errors in a solid-state qubit
authors: J. M. Chow, J. M. Gambetta, L. Tornberg, Jens Koch, Lev S. Bishop, A. A. Houck, B. R. Johnson, L. Frunzio, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, plus supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 090502 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4387
abstract: We present measurements of single-qubit gate errors for a superconducting qubit. Results from quantum process tomography and randomized benchmarking are compared with gate errors obtained from a double pi pulse experiment. Randomized benchmarking reveals a minimum average gate error of 1.1+/-0.3% and a simple exponential dependence of fidelity on the number of gates. It shows that the limits on gate fidelity are primarily imposed by qubit decoherence, in agreement with theory.

id: 0811.4631
title: Noise-driven informatics: secure classical communications via wire and noise-based computing
authors: Laszlo B. Kish
comments: Invited talk at Princeton University (Middleton meeting) to be published as a chapter in a book by Springer
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.4631
abstract: In this paper, we show recent results indicating that using electrical noise as information carrier offers outstanding potentials reminding of quantum informatics. One example is noise-based computing and logic that shows certain similarities to quantum logic. However, due to the lack of the collapse of wavefunction and due to the immediate accessibility of superposition components, the use of noise-based and quantum computers will probably be different. Another example is secure communications where, out of the unconditional security at idealistic situations, a practical security beyond known quantum solutions can be achieved and has been demonstrated. Here the keys to security are the robustness of classical information, and the second law of thermodynamics. These offer the avoidance of making error statistics and single bit security. It has the potential to restrict the practical applications of quantum communicators to the situations where no wire can be used but optical communication via fiber or via space is possible.

id: 0811.0349
title: Schwinger Pair Production at Finite Temperature in QED
authors: Sang Pyo Kim, Hyun Kyu Lee, Yongsung Yoon
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:045024,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.0349
abstract: We use the evolution operator method to find the Schwinger pair-production rate at finite temperature in scalar and spinor QED by counting the vacuum production, the induced production and the stimulated annihilation from the initial ensemble. It is shown that the pair-production rate for each state is factorized into the mean number at zero temperature and the initial thermal distribution for bosons and fermions.

id: 0811.2108
title: Indirect spin dephasing via charge state decoherence in optical control schemes in quantum dots
authors: A. Grodecka, P. Machnikowski, J. F?rstner
comments: Final extended version, 6 pages, 2 new figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042331 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2108
abstract: We demonstrate that an optically driven spin of a carrier in a quantum dot undergoes indirect dephasing via conditional optically induced charge evolution even in the absence of any direct interaction between the spin and its environment. A generic model for the indirect dephasing with a three-component system with spin, charge, and reservoir is proposed. This indirect decoherence channel is studied for the optical spin manipulation in a quantum dot with a microscopic description of the charge-phonon interaction taking into account its non-Markovian nature.

id: 0811.1782
title: Detection and Cloaking of Molecular Objects in Coherent Nanostructures Using Inelastic Electron Tunneling Spectroscopy
authors: J. Fransson, H. C. Manoharan, A. V. Balatsky
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, accepted in the Nano Letters
journal: Nano Lett. 10, 1600 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1782
abstract: We address quantum invisibility in the context of electronics in nanoscale quantum structures. We make use of the freedom of design that quantum corrals provide and show that quantum mechanical objects can be hidden inside the corral, with respect to inelastic electron scattering spectroscopy in combination with scanning tunneling microscopy, and we propose a design strategy. A simple illustration of the invisibility is given in terms of an elliptic quantum corral containing a molecule, with a local vibrational mode, at one of the foci. Our work has implications to quantum information technology and presents new tools for nonlocal quantum detection and distinguishing between different molecules.

id: 0811.1448
title: An embedding theorem for Hilbert categories
authors: Chris Heunen
comments: 24 pages
journal: Theory and Applications of Categories, Vol. 22, 2009, No. 13, pp 321-344
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1448
abstract: We axiomatically define (pre-)Hilbert categories. The axioms resemble those for monoidal Abelian categories with the addition of an involutive functor. We then prove embedding theorems: any locally small pre-Hilbert category whose monoidal unit is a simple generator embeds (weakly) monoidally into the category of pre-Hilbert spaces and adjointable maps, preserving adjoint morphisms and all finite (co)limits. An intermediate result that is important in its own right is that the scalars in such a category necessarily form an involutive field. In case of a Hilbert category, the embedding extends to the category of Hilbert spaces and continuous linear maps. The axioms for (pre-)Hilbert categories are weaker than the axioms found in other approaches to axiomatizing 2-Hilbert spaces. Neither enrichment nor a complex base field is presupposed. A comparison to other approaches will be made in the introduction.

id: 0811.1457
title: Quantifiers for quantum logic
authors: Chris Heunen
comments: 16 pages; improved proof of theorem 15 and layout
journal: 
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1457
abstract: We consider categorical logic on the category of Hilbert spaces. More generally, in fact, any pre-Hilbert category suffices. We characterise closed subobjects, and prove that they form orthomodular lattices. This shows that quantum logic is just an incarnation of categorical logic, enabling us to establish an existential quantifier for quantum logic, and conclude that there cannot be a universal quantifier.

id: 0811.2113
title: Compactly accessible categories and quantum key distribution
authors: Chris Heunen
comments: 26 pages
journal: LMCS 4 (4:9) 2008
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2113
abstract: Compact categories have lately seen renewed interest via applications to quantum physics. Being essentially finite-dimensional, they cannot accomodate (co)limit-based constructions. For example, they cannot capture protocols such as quantum key distribution, that rely on the law of large numbers. To overcome this limitation, we introduce the notion of a compactly accessible category, relying on the extra structure of a factorisation system. This notion allows for infinite dimension while retaining key properties of compact categories: the main technical result is that the choice-of-duals functor on the compact part extends canonically to the whole compactly accessible category. As an example, we model a quantum key distribution protocol and prove its correctness categorically.

id: 0811.2098
title: Maximizing the electric field strength in the foci of high numerical aperture optics
authors: Markus Sondermann, Norbert Lindlein, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, rewritten Sec. II (contains now a revised derivation of the central formula which was in Sec. V in former versions), rewritten Sec. V (some additional examples added -> new Fig. 8), inclusion of some references to publications that appeared since the last version
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2098
abstract: Several applications require spatial distributions of the incident electric field that maximize the electric field at a focal point for a given input power. The field distributions are derived for various optical systems in a direct way based on fundamental physical properties. The results may prove useful for a wide range of applications, e.g., microscopy, scattering experiments or excitation of single atoms. For commonly used distributions - fundamental Gaussian modes and doughnut modes - we give the upper bounds of the achievable field amplitudes.

