id: 0812.0006
title: Scaling of entanglement entropy and superselection rules
authors: I. Klich, L. S. Levitov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0006
abstract: Particle number conservation in fermionic systems restricts the allowed local operations on bi-partite systems. We show how this restriction is related to measurement entropy of particle fluctuations and compute it for several regimes of practical relevance. The accessible entanglement entropy restricted by particle number conservation is equal, to leading order, to the full entanglement entropy. The correction is bounded by the log of the variance of particle number fluctuations. The results are applied to generic Fermi systems in dimension d>1 as well as to several critical systems in d=1.

id: 0812.0028
title: Anomalies in electrostatic calibrations for the measurement of the Casimir force in a sphere-plane geometry
authors: W.J. Kim, M. Brown-Hayes, D.A.R. Dalvit, J.H. Brownell, R. Onofrio
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 78, 020101(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0028
abstract: We have performed precision electrostatic calibrations in the sphere-plane geometry and observed anomalous behavior. Namely, the scaling exponent of the electrostatic signal with distance was found to be smaller than expected on the basis of the pure Coulombian contribution and the residual potential found to be distance dependent. We argue that these findings affect the accuracy of the electrostatic calibrations and invite reanalysis of previous determinations of the Casimir force.

id: 0812.0044
title: All path-symmetric pure states achieve their maximal phase sensitivity in conventional two-path interferometry
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033822 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0044
abstract: It is shown that the condition for achieving the quantum Cramer-Rao bound of phase estimation in conventional two-path interferometers is that the state is symmetric with regard to an (unphysical) exchange of the two paths. Since path symmetry is conserved under phase shifts, the maximal phase sensitivity can be achieved at arbitrary bias phases, indicating that path symmetric states can achieve their quantum Cramer-Rao bound in Bayesian estimates of a completely unknown phase.

id: 0812.0074
title: Relative entropy of entanglement of rotationally invariant states
authors: Zhen Wang, Zhixi Wang
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 372(2008),7033-7037
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0074
abstract: We calculate the relative entropy of entanglement for rotationally invariant states of spin-1/2 and arbitrary spin-$j$ particles or of spin-1 particle and spin-$j$ particle with integer $j$. A lower bound of relative entropy of entanglement and an upper bound of distillable entanglement are presented for rotationally invariant states of spin-1 particle and spin-$j$ particle with half-integer $j$.

id: 0812.0093
title: Preferred basis without decoherence
authors: L. Vanni, R. Laura
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0093
abstract: The aim of this paper is to argue that the "preferred basis problem" is not a real problem in measurement. We will show that, given an apparatus, among the infinite corrrelations that can be established in the final state by means of a change of basis, one and only one makes physical sense. It is the apparatus, through its interaction Hamiltonian, what selects a single basis and determines the observable to be measured, even without decoherence.

id: 0812.0135
title: Antiferromagnet-based nuclear spin model of scalable quantum register with inhomogeneous magnetic field
authors: A. A. Kokin, V. A. Kokin
comments: LaTex 35 pages, 9 EPS figires
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0135
abstract: As a nuclear spin model of scalable quantum register, the one-dimensional chain of the magnetic atoms with nuclear spins 1/2 substituting the basic atoms in the plate of nuclear spin free easy-axis 3D antiferromagnet is considered. It is formulated the generalized antiferromagnet Hamiltonian in spin-wave approximation (low temperatures) considering the inhomogeneous external magnetic field, which is directed along the easy axis normally to plane of the plate and has a constant gradient along the nuclear spin chain. Assuming a weak gradient, the asymptotic expression for coefficients of unitary transformations to the diagonal form of antiferromagnet Hamiltonian is found. With this result the expression for indirect interspin coupling, which is due to hyperfine nuclear electron coupling in atoms and the virtual spin wave propagation in antiferromagnet ground state, was evaluated. It is shown that the inhomogeneous magnetic field essentially modifies the characteristics of indirect interspin coupling. The indirect interaction essentially grows and even oscillates in relation to the interspin distance when the local field value in the middle point of two considered nuclear spin is close to the critical field for quantum phase transition of spin-flop type in bulk antiferromagnet or close to antiferromagnetic resonance. Thus, the external magnetic field, its gradient, microwave frequency and power can play the role of control parameters for qubit states. Finally, the one and two qubit states decoherence and longitudinal relaxation rate are caused by the interaction of nuclear spins with virtual spin waves in antiferromagnet ground state are calculated.

id: 0812.0222
title: Cryogenic spectroscopy of ultra-low density colloidal lead chalcogenide quantum dots on chip-scale optical cavities towards single quantum dot near-infrared cavity QED
authors: Ranojoy Bose, Jie Gao, James F. McMillan, Alex D. Williams, Chee Wei Wong
comments: * new additional figures and text * 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0222
abstract: We present evidence of cavity quantum electrodynamics from a sparse density of strongly quantum-confined Pb-chalcogenide nanocrystals (between 1 and 10) approaching single-dot levels on moderately high-Q mesoscopic silicon optical cavities. Operating at important near-infrared (1500-nm) wavelengths, large enhancements are observed from devices and strong modifications of the QD emission are achieved. Saturation spectroscopy of coupled QDs is observed at 77K, highlighting the modified nanocrystal dynamics for quantum information processing.

id: 0812.0238
title: Quantum violation of macroscopic realism and the transition to classical physics
authors: Johannes Kofler
comments: PhD Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0238
abstract: The descriptions of the quantum realm and the macroscopic classical world differ significantly not only in their mathematical formulations but also in their foundational concepts and philosophical consequences. When and how physical systems stop to behave quantum mechanically and begin to behave classically is still heavily debated in the physics community and subject to theoretical and experimental research. This dissertation puts forward an approach to the quantum-to-classical transition fully within quantum theory and conceptually different from already existing models: It neither needs to refer to the uncontrollable environment of a system (decoherence) nor to change the quantum laws itself (collapse models), but puts the stress on the limits of observability of quantum phenomena due to the imprecision of our measurement apparatuses. For a certain class of time evolutions it is this mere restriction to coarse-grained measurements which is sufficient to see the natural emergence of macroscopic realism and even the classical Newtonian laws out of the full quantum formalism. But there also exist "non-classical" Hamiltonians for which a classical spatiotemporal description of the system's time evolution remains impossible even under fuzzy measurements or decoherence. It is argued that such Hamiltonians are unlikely to be spontaneously realized in nature because of their high complexity. The last part addresses the question of the origin of quantum randomness and proposes a link with mathematical undecidability.

id: 0812.0273
title: Entanglement of bosonic modes of nonplanar molecules
authors: S Sivakumar
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0273
abstract: Entanglement of bosonic modes of material oscillators is studied in the context of two bilinearly coupled, nonlinear oscillators. These oscillators are realizable in the vibrational-cum-bending motions of C-H bonds in dihalomethanes. The bilinear coupling gives rise to invariant subspaces in the Hilbert space of the two oscillators. The number of separable states in any invariant subspace is one more than the dimension of the space. The dynamics of the oscillators when the initial state belongs to an invariant subspace is studied. In particular, the dynamics of the system when the initial state is such that the total energy is concentrated in one of the modes is studied and compared with the evolution of the system when the initial state is such wherein the modes share the total energy. The dynamics of quantities such as entropy, mean of number of quanta in the two modes and variances in the quadratures of the two modes are studied. Possibility of generating maximally entangled states is indicated.

id: 0812.0303
title: End-to-end entanglement in Bose-Hubbard chains
authors: Jose Reslen, Sougato Bose
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012330 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0303
abstract: We study the ground state as well as the dynamics of chains of bosons with local repulsive interactions and nearest-neighbour exchange using numerical techniques based on density matrix decimation. We explore the development of entanglement between the terminal sites of such chains as mechanisms are invoked to concentrate population in these sites. We find that long-range entanglement in the ground state emerges as a result of hopping taking place at the whole chain length in systems with appropriate hopping coefficients. Additionally, we find appropriate perturbations to increase the entanglement between the end sites above their ground state values.

id: 0812.0321
title: Large-N scaling behavior of the ground-state energy and fidelity in the Dicke Model
authors: Tao Liu, Yu-Yu Zhang, Qing-Hu Chen, Ke-Lin Wang
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A80, 023810(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0321
abstract: Within the numerically exact solution to the Dicke model proposed previously, we study the quantum criticality in terms of the ground-state (GS) energy, fidelity, and the order parameter. The finite size scaling analysis for the average fidelity susceptibility (FS) and second derivative of GS energy are performed. The correlation length exponent is obtained to be $\nu=2/3$, which is the same as that in Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model obtained previously, suggesting the same universality. It is observed that average FS and second derivative of GS energy show similar critical behavior, demonstrating the intrinsic relation in the Dicke model. The scaling behavior for the order parameter and the singular part of the GS energy at the critical point are also analyzed and the obtained exponents are consistent with the previous scaling hypothesis in 1/N expansion scheme.

id: 0812.0328
title: On electrostatic and Casimir force measurements between conducting surfaces in a sphere-plane configuration
authors: W.J. Kim, M. Brown-Hayes, D.A.R. Dalvit, J.H. Brownell, R. Onofrio
comments: 22 pages, 15 figures
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 161 (2009) 012004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0328
abstract: We report on measurements of forces acting between two conducting surfaces in a spherical-plane configuration in the 35 nm-1 micrometer separation range. The measurements are obtained by performing electrostatic calibrations followed by a residual analysis after subtracting the electrostatic-dependent component. We find in all runs optimal fitting of the calibrations for exponents smaller than the one predicted by electrostatics for an ideal sphere-plane geometry. We also find that the external bias potential necessary to minimize the electrostatic contribution depends on the sphere-plane distance. In spite of these anomalies, by implementing a parametrixation-dependent subtraction of the electrostatic contribution we have found evidence for short-distance attractive forces of magnitude comparable to the expected Casimir-Lifshitz force. We finally discuss the relevance of our findings in the more general context of Casimir-Lifshitz force measurements, with particular regard to the critical issues of the electrical and geometrical characterization of the involved surfaces.

id: 0812.0349
title: Nonlocality without nonlocality
authors: Steven Weinstein
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures (some color). Changes in version 2 include (1) a correction to the abstract: Bell's theorem is now said to demonstrate the impossibility of a local hidden variable theory, (2) the "non-spacelike" initial value problem is now the "mixed" initial value problem, (3)the figures should reproduce more clearly. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0349
abstract: Bell's theorem is purported to demonstrate the impossibility of a local "hidden variable" theory underpinning quantum mechanics. It relies on the well-known assumption of `locality', and also on a little-examined assumption called `statistical independence' (SI). Violations of this assumption have variously been thought to suggest "backward causation", a "conspiracy" on the part of nature, or the denial of "free will". It will be shown here that these are spurious worries, and that denial of SI simply implies nonlocal correlation between spacelike degrees of freedom. Lorentz-invariant theories in which SI does not hold are easily constructed: two are exhibited here. It is conjectured, on this basis, that quantum-mechanical phenomena may be modeled by a local theory after all.

id: 0812.0361
title: Stimulated Raman adiabatic passage analogs in classical physics
authors: A. A. Rangelov, N. V. Vitanov, B. W. Shore
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.B 42, 055504 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0361
abstract: Stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) is a well established technique for producing coherent population transfer in a three-state quantum system. We here exploit the resemblance between the Schrodinger equation for such a quantum system and the Newton equation of motion for a classical system undergoing torque to discuss several classical analogs of STIRAP, notably the motion of a moving charged particle subject to the Lorentz force of a quasistatic magnetic field, the orientation of a magnetic moment in a slowly varying magnetic field, the Coriolis effect and the inertial frame dragging effect. Like STIRAP, those phenomena occur for counterintuitively ordered field pulses and are robustly insensitive to small changes in the interaction properties.

id: 0812.0380
title: Quantum algorithms for algebraic problems
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Wim van Dam
comments: 52 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Reviews of Modern Physics
journal: Reviews of Modern Physics 82, 1-52 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0380
abstract: Quantum computers can execute algorithms that dramatically outperform classical computation. As the best-known example, Shor discovered an efficient quantum algorithm for factoring integers, whereas factoring appears to be difficult for classical computers. Understanding what other computational problems can be solved significantly faster using quantum algorithms is one of the major challenges in the theory of quantum computation, and such algorithms motivate the formidable task of building a large-scale quantum computer. This article reviews the current state of quantum algorithms, focusing on algorithms with superpolynomial speedup over classical computation, and in particular, on problems with an algebraic flavor.

id: 0812.0405
title: Bipartite states of low rank are almost surely entangled
authors: Mary Beth Ruskai, Elisabeth M. Werner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0405
abstract: We show that a bipartite state on a tensor product of two matrix algebras is almost surely entangled if its rank is not greater than that of one of its reduced density matrices.

id: 0812.0429
title: Photonic Feshbach Resonance
authors: D.Z. Xu, H. Ian, T. Shi, H. Dong, C.P. Sun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0429
abstract: Hermann Feshbach predicted fifty years ago that when two atomic nuclei are scattered within an open entrance channel-- the state observable at infinity, they may enter an intermediate closed channel -- the locally bounded state of the nuclei. If the energy of a bound state of in the closed channel is fine-tuned to match the relative kinetic energy, then the open channel and the closed channel "resonate", so that the scattering length becomes divergent. We find that this so-called Feshbach resonance phenomenon not only exists during the collisions of massive particles, but also emerges during the coherent transport of massless particles, that is, photons confined in the coupled resonator arrays \cite{lzhou08}. We implement the open and the closed channels inside a pair of such arrays, linked by a separated cavity or a tunable qubit. When a single photon is bounded inside the closed channel by setting the relevant physical parameters appropriately, the vanishing transmission appears to display this photonic Feshbach resonance. The general construction can be implemented through various experimentally feasible solid state systems, such as the couple defected cavities in photonic crystals. The numerical simulation based on finite-different time-domain(FDTD) method confirms our conceive about physical implementation.

id: 0812.0434
title: A Unified Quantum NOT Gate
authors: Z.W. Yu, X.T. Ni, L.C. Kwek, X.B. Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0434
abstract: We study the feasibility of implementing a quantum NOT gate (approximate) when the quantum state lies between two latitudes on the Bloch's sphere and present an analytical formula for the optimized 1-to-$M$ quantum NOT gate. Our result generalizes previous results concerning quantum NOT gate for a quantum state distributed uniformly on the whole Bloch sphere as well as the phase covariant quantum state. We have also shown that such 1-to-$M$ optimized NOT gate can be implemented using a sequential generation scheme via matrix product states (MPS).

id: 0812.0475
title: Photon creation from vacuum and interactions engineering in nonstationary circuit QED
authors: A. V. Dodonov
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures. Talk presented at the International Workshop "60 Years of Casimir Effect", 23 - 27 June, 2008, Brasilia
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 161, 012029 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0475
abstract: We study theoretically the nonstationary circuit QED system in which the artificial atom transition frequency, or the atom-cavity coupling, have a small periodic time modulation, prescribed externally. The system formed by the atom coupled to a single cavity mode is described by the Rabi Hamiltonian. We show that, in the dispersive regime, when the modulation periodicity is tuned to the `resonances', the system dynamics presents the dynamical Casimir effect, resonant Jaynes-Cummings or resonant Anti-Jaynes-Cummings behaviors, and it can be described by the corresponding effective Hamiltonians. In the resonant atom-cavity regime and under the resonant modulation, the dynamics is similar to the one occurring for a stationary two-level atom in a vibrating cavity, and an entangled state with two photons can be created from vacuum. Moreover, we consider the situation in which the atom-cavity coupling, the atomic frequency, or both have a small nonperiodic time modulation, and show that photons can be created from vacuum in the dispersive regime. Therefore, an analog of the dynamical Casimir effect can be simulated in circuit QED, and several photons, as well as entangled states, can be generated from vacuum due to the anti-rotating term in the Rabi Hamiltonian.

id: 0812.0499
title: Interferometry using spinor Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: R. Vasile, H. Makela, K.-A. Suominen
comments: 6 Pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0499
abstract: We study the time-evolution of an optically trapped spinor Bose-Einstein condensate under the influence of a dominating magnetic bias field in the z-direction, and a perpendicular smaller field that couples the spinor states. We show that if the bias field depends quadratically on time, the relative phases of the spinor components affect the populations of the final state. This allows one to measure the differences in the time-evolution of the relative phases, thereby realizing a multi-arm interferometer in a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate.

id: 0812.0507
title: Conditional preparation of arbitrary atomic Dicke states
authors: Karel Lemr, Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 043808 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0507
abstract: We propose an experimentally accessible procedure for conditional preparation of highly non-classical states of collective spin of an atomic ensemble. The quantum state engineering is based on a combination of QND interaction between atoms and light previously prepared in a non-Gaussian state using photon subtraction from squeezed vacuum beam, homodyne detection on the output light beam, and a coherent displacement of atomic state. The procedure is capable of non-deterministic preparation of a wide class of superpositions of atomic Dicke states. We present several techniques to optimize the performance of the protocol and maximize the trade-off between fidelity of prepared state and success probability of the scheme.

id: 0812.0509
title: Saturation effects in experiments on the thermal Casimir effect
authors: Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: EPL, 87 (2009) 14004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0509
abstract: We address three different problematic Casimir experiments in this work. The first is the classical Casimir force measured between two metal half spaces; here in the form of the Casimir pressure measurement between a gold sphere and a gold plate as performed by Decca et al. [Phys. Rev. D 75, 077101 (2007)]; theory predicts a large negative thermal correction, absent in the high precision experiment. The second experiment is the measurement of the Casimir force between a metal plate and a laser irradiated semiconductor membrane as performed by Chen et al. [Phys. Rev. B 76, 035338 (2007)]; the change in force with laser intensity is larger than predicted by theory. The third experiment is the measurement of the Casimir force between an atom and a wall in the form of the measurement by Obrecht et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 063201 (2007)] of the change in oscillation frequency of a Rb Bose-Einstein condensate trapped to a fused silica wall; the change is smaller than predicted by theory. We show that saturation effects can explain the discrepancies between theory and experiment observed in all these cases.

id: 0812.0557
title: Computation of Casimir forces for dielectrics or intrinsic semiconductors based on the Boltzmann transport equation
authors: Diego A. R. Dalvit, Steve K. Lamoreaux
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; Contribution to Proceedings of "60 Years of the Casimir Effect", Brasilia, June 2008
journal: J. Phys.: Conference Series 161, 012009 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0557
abstract: The interaction between drifting carriers and traveling electromagnetic waves is considered within the context of the classical Boltzmann transport equation to compute the Casimir-Lifshitz force between media with small density of charge carriers, including dielectrics and intrinsic semiconductors. We expand upon our previous work [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 101}, 163203 (2008)] and derive in some detail the frequency-dependent reflection amplitudes in this theory and compute the corresponding Casimir free energy for a parallel plate configuration. We critically discuss the the issue of verification of the Nernst theorem of thermodynamics in Casimir physics, and explicity show that our theory satisfies that theorem. Finally, we show how the theory of drifting carriers connects to previous computations of Casimir forces using spatial dispersion for the material boundaries.

id: 0812.0634
title: A multipixel silicon APD with ultralow dark count rate at liquid nitrogen temperature
authors: M. Akiba, K. Tsujino, K. Sato, M. Sasaki
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0634
abstract: The dark count rate of a multipixel photon counter (MPPC) was reduced to less than 0.2 cps by cooling the counter to 78.5 K. Characteristics of the MPPC other than the dark count rate were also detemined at 78.5 K and 295 K. The photodetection efficiency and the timing jitter at 78.5 K were comparable to those at 295 K. The MPPC had a count rate of up to 50 MHz at 78.5 K and above 100 MHz at 295 K. Detailed measurements were performed for detemining the afterpulse probability.

id: 0812.0636
title: Partially Unbiased Entangled Bases
authors: A. Kalev, F. C. Khanna, M. Revzen
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0636
abstract: In this contribution we group the operator basis for d^2 dimensional Hilbert space in a way that enables us to relate bases of entangled states with single particle mutually unbiased state bases (MUB), each in dimensionality d. We utilize these sets of operators to show that an arbitrary density matrix for this d^2 dimensional Hilbert space system is analyzed by via d^2+d+1 measurements, d^2-d of which involve those entangled states that we associate with MUB of the d-dimensional single particle constituents. The number $d^2+d+1$ lies in the middle of the number of measurements needed for bipartite state reconstruction with two-particle MUB (d^2+1) and those needed by single-particle MUB [(d^2+1)^2].

id: 0812.0645
title: Quantum communication through anisotropic Heisenberg XY spin chains
authors: Z.-M. Wang, M. S. Byrd, B. Shao, J. Zou
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, Vol. 373, 636 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0645
abstract: We study quantum communication through an anisotropic Heisenberg XY chain in a transverse magnetic field. We find that for some time $t$ and anisotropy parameter $\gamma$, one can transfer a state with a relatively high fidelity. In the strong-field regime, the anisotropy does not significantly affect the fidelity while in the weak-field regime the affect is quite pronounced. The most interesting case is the the intermediate regime where the oscillation of the fidelity with time is low and the high-fidelity peaks are relatively broad. This would, in principle, allow for quantum communication in realistic circumstances. Moreover, we calculate the purity, or tangle, as a measure of the entanglement between one spin and all the other spins in the chain and find that the stronger the anisotropy and exchange interaction, the more entanglement will be generated for a given time.

id: 0812.0678
title: Does a functional integral really need a Lagrangian?
authors: Denis Kochan
comments: 4 pages, published version, references added, comments are welcome
journal: Acta Polytech.50:57-61,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0678
abstract: Path integral formulation of quantum mechanics (and also other equivalent formulations) depends on a Lagrangian and/or Hamiltonian function that is chosen to describe the underlying classical system. The arbitrariness presented in this choice leads to a phenomenon called Quantization ambiguity. For example both $L_1=\dot{q}^2$ and $L_2=e^\dot{q}$ are suitable Lagrangians on a classical level ($\delta L_1=0=\delta L_2$), but quantum mechanically they are diverse. This paper presents a simple rearrangement of the path integral to a surface functional integral. It is shown that the surface functional integral formulation gives transition probability amplitude which is free of any Lagrangian/Hamiltonian and requires just the underlying classical equations of motion. A simple example examining the functionality of the proposed method is considered.

id: 0812.0694
title: Quantum annealing and the Schr?dinger-Langevin-Kostin equation
authors: Diego de Falco, Dario Tamascelli
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. To appear on Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79 (2009) 012315
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0694
abstract: We show, in the context of quantum combinatorial optimization, or quantum annealing, how the nonlinear Schr\"odinger-Langevin-Kostin equation can dynamically drive the system toward its ground state. We illustrate, moreover, how a frictional force of Kostin type can prevent the appearance of genuinely quantum problems such as Bloch oscillations and Anderson localization which would hinder an exhaustive search.

id: 0812.0709
title: Experimental entanglement distillation of mesoscopic quantum states
authors: Ruifang Dong, Mikael Lassen, Joel Heersink, Christoph Marquardt, Radim Filip, Gerd Leuchs, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures. It's the first submitted version to the Nature Physics. The final version is already published on Nature Physics vol.4, No.12, 919 - 923 (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0709
abstract: The distribution of entangled states between distant parties in an optical network is crucial for the successful implementation of various quantum communication protocols such as quantum cryptography, teleportation and dense coding [1-3]. However, owing to the unavoidable loss in any real optical channel, the distribution of loss-intolerant entangled states is inevitably inflicted by decoherence, which causes a degradation of the transmitted entanglement. To combat the decoherence, entanglement distillation, which is the process of extracting a small set of highly entangled states from a large set of less entangled states, can be used [4-14]. Here we report on the mesoscopic distillation of deterministically prepared entangled light pulses that have undergone non-Gaussian noise. The entangled light pulses [15-17] are sent through a lossy channel, where the transmission is varying in time similarly to light propagation in the atmosphere. By employing linear optical components and global classical communication, the entanglement is probabilistically increased.

id: 0812.0737
title: Implementing topological quantum manipulation with superconducting circuits
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, Shi-Liang Zhu, J. Q. You, Z. D. Wang
comments: 4 pages with 3 figures; V2: published version with minor updations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 040303(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0737
abstract: A two-component fermion model with conventional two-body interactions was recently shown to have anyonic excitations. We here propose a scheme to physically implement this model by transforming each chain of two two-component fermions to the two capacitively coupled chains of superconducting devices. In particular, we elaborate how to achieve the wanted operations to create and manipulate the topological quantum states, providing an experimentally feasible scenario to access the topological memory and to build the anyonic interferometry.

id: 0812.0738
title: Preparation of distilled and purified continuous variable entangled states
authors: Boris Hage, Aiko Samblowski, James DiGuglielmo, Alexander Franzen, Jaromir Fiurasek, Roman Schnabel
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 4, 915 - 918 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0738
abstract: The distribution of entangled states of light over long distances is a major challenge in the field of quantum information. Optical losses, phase diffusion and mixing with thermal states lead to decoherence and destroy the non-classical states after some finite transmission-line length. Quantum repeater protocols, which combine quantum memory, entanglement distillation and entanglement swapping, were proposed to overcome this problem. Here we report on the experimental demonstration of entanglement distillation in the continuous-variable regime. Entangled states were first disturbed by random phase fluctuations and then distilled and purified using interference on beam splitters and homodyne detection. Measurements of covariance matrices clearly indicate a regained strength of entanglement and purity of the distilled states. In contrast to previous demonstrations of entanglement distillation in the complementary discrete-variable regime, our scheme achieved the actual preparation of the distilled states, which might therefore be used to improve the quality of downstream applications such as quantum teleportation.

id: 0812.0753
title: Thermal effects on chaotic directed transport
authors: Gabriel G. Carlo, Maria E. Spina
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0753
abstract: We study a chaotic ratchet system under the influence of a thermal environment. By direct integration of the Lindblad equation we are able to analyze its behavior for a wide range of couplings with the environment, and for different finite temperatures. We observe that the enhancement of the classical and quantum currents due to temperature depend strongly on the specific properties of the system. This makes difficult to extract universal behaviors. We have also found that there is an analogy between the effects of the classical thermal noise and those of the finite $\hbar$ size. These results open many possibilities for their testing and implementation in kicked BECs and cold atoms experiments.

id: 0812.0755
title: Rising time of entanglement between scattering spins
authors: F. Ciccarello, M. Paternostro, G. M. Palma, M. Zarcone
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 165313 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0755
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of entanglement in a process where a mobile particle is scattered by static spins. We show that entanglement increases monotonically during a transient and then saturates to a steady-state value. For a quasi-monochromatic mobile particle, the transient time depends only on the group-velocity and width of the incoming wavepacket and is insensitive to the interaction strength and spin-number of the scattering particles. These features do not depend on the interaction model and can be seen in various physical settings.

id: 0812.0758
title: Couplers for Non-Locality Swapping
authors: Paul Skrzypczyk, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 11, 073014, (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0758
abstract: Studying generalized non-local theories brings insight to the foundations of quantum mechanics. Here we focus on non-locality swapping, the analogue of quantum entanglement swapping. In order to implement such a protocol, one needs a coupler that performs the equivalent of quantum joint measurements on generalized `box-like' states. Establishing a connection to Bell inequalities, we define consistent couplers for theories containing an arbitrary amount of non-locality, which leads us to introduce the concepts of perfect and minimal couplers. Remarkably, Tsirelson's bound for quantum non-locality naturally appears in our study.

id: 0812.0763
title: Distilling entanglement from Fermions
authors: M. Keyl
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure. Contribution to the Proceedings of the 40th Symposium on Mathematical Physics, Torun, Poland, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0763
abstract: Since Fermions are based on anti-commutation relations, their entanglement can not be studied in the usual way, such that the available theory has to be modified appropriately. Recent publications consider in particular the structure of separable and of maximally entangled states. In this talk we want to discuss local operations and entanglement distillation from bipartite, Fermionic systems. To this end we apply an algebraic point of view where algebras of local observables, rather than tensor product Hilbert spaces play the central role. We apply our scheme in particular to Fermionic Gaussian states where the whole discussion can be reduced to properties of the covariance matrix. Finally the results are demonstrated with free Fermions on an infinite, one-dimensional lattice.

id: 0812.0842
title: Experimental Determination of the Gain Distribution of an Avalanche Photodiode at Low Gains
authors: Kenji Tsujino, Makoto Akiba, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0842
abstract: A measurement system for determining the gain distributions of avalanche photodiodes (APDs) in a low gain range is presented. The system is based on an ultralow-noise charge--sensitive amplifier and detects the output carriers from an APD. The noise of the charge--sensitive amplifier is as low as 4.2 electrons at a sampling rate of 200 Hz. The gain distribution of a commercial Si APD with low average gains are presented, demonstrating the McIntyre theory in the low gain range.

id: 0812.0869
title: New Possibilities for Testing Local Realism in High Energy Physics
authors: Junli Li, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: published in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 4311-4314
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0869
abstract: The three photons from the dominant ortho-positronium decay and two vector mesons from the $\eta_c$ exclusive decays are found to be in tripartite and high-dimensional entangled states, respectively. These two classes of entangled states possess the Hardy type nonlocality and allow a priori for quantum mechanics vs local realism test via Bell inequalities. The experimental realizations are shown to be feasible, and a concrete scheme to fulfill the test in experiment via two-vector-meson entangled state is proposed.

id: 0812.0878
title: Quantum correlations of twophoton polarization states in the parametric down-conversion process
authors: Ivan S. Dotsenko, Volodymyr G. Voronov
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures; corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0878
abstract: We consider correlation properties of twophoton polarization states in the parametric down-conversion process. In our description of polarization states we take into account the simultaneous presence of colored and white noise in the density matrix. Within the considered model we study the dependence of the von Neumann entropy on the noise amount in the system and derive the separability condition for the density matrix of twophoton polarization state, using Perec-Horodecki criterion and majorization criterion. Then the dependence of the Bell operator (in CHSH form) on noise is studied. As a result, we give a condition for determining the presence of quantum correlation states in experimental measurements of the Bell operator. Finally, we compare our calculations with experimental data [doi:10.1103/PhysRevA.73.062110] and give a noise amount estimation in the photon polarization state considered there.

id: 0812.0891
title: Quantum state transfer in a q-deformed chain
authors: Sonia L'Innocente, Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Mancini
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 42, 475305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0891
abstract: We investigate the quantum state transfer in a chain of particles satisfying q-deformed oscillators algebra. This general algebraic setting includes the spin chain and the bosonic chain as limiting cases. We study conditions for perfect state transfer depending on the number of sites and excitations on the chain. They are formulated by means of irreducible representations of a quantum algebra realized through Jordan-Schwinger maps. Playing with deformation parameters, we can study the effects of nonlinear perturbations or interpolate between the spin and bosonic chain.

id: 0812.0906
title: An Entropy Inequality
authors: Meik Hellmund, Armin Uhlmann
comments: typos corrected, 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 9 (2009) 622-627
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0906
abstract: Let $S(\rho)=- Tr (\rho \log\rho)$ be the von Neumann entropy of an $N$-dimensional quantum state $\rho$ and $e_2(\rho)$ the second elementary symmetric polynomial of the eigenvalues of $\rho$. We prove the inequality $S(\rho) \le c(N) \sqrt{e_2(\rho)} $ where $c(N)=\log(N) \sqrt{\frac{2N}{N-1}}$. This generalizes an inequality given by Fuchs and Graaf \cite{fuchsgraaf} for the case of one qubit, i.e., N=2. Equality is achieved if and only if $\rho$ is either a pure or the maximally mixed state. This inequality delivers new bounds for quantities of interest in quantum information theory, such as upper bounds for the minimum output entropy and the entanglement of formation as well as a lower bound for the Holevo channel capacity.

id: 0812.0923
title: Bayesian estimation of one-parameter qubit gates
authors: Berihu Teklu, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G A Paris
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 42, 035502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0923
abstract: We address estimation of one-parameter unitary gates for qubit systems and seek for optimal probes and measurements. Single- and two-qubit probes are analyzed in details focusing on precision and stability of the estimation procedure. Bayesian inference is employed and compared with the ultimate quantum limits to precision, taking into account the biased nature of Bayes estimator in the non asymptotic regime. Besides, through the evaluation of the asymptotic a posteriori distribution for the gate parameter and the comparison with the results of Monte Carlo simulated experiments, we show that asymptotic optimality of Bayes estimator is actually achieved after a limited number of runs. The robustness of the estimation procedure against fluctuations of the measurement settings is investigated and the use of entanglement to improve the overall stability of the estimation scheme is also analyzed in some details.

id: 0812.0938
title: Entanglement concentration after a multi-interactions channel
authors: Eleonora Nagali, Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini, Miroslav Gavenda, Radim Filip
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures, to be published on Advanced Science Letters
journal: Advanced Science Letters 2, 448 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0938
abstract: Different procedures have been developed in order to recover entanglement after propagation over a noisy channel. Besides a certain amount of noise, entanglement is completely lost and the channel is called entanglement breaking. Here we investigate both theoretically and experimentally an entanglement concentration protocol for a mixed three-qubit state outgoing from a strong linear coupling of two-qubit maximally entangled polarization state with another qubit in a completely mixed state. Thanks to such concentration procedure, the initial entanglement can be probabilistically recovered. Furthermore, we analyse the case of sequential linear couplings with many depolarized photons showing that thanks to the concentration a full recovering of entanglement is still possible.

id: 0812.0959
title: Generation of Total Angular Momentum Eigenstates in Remote Qubits
authors: A. Maser, U. Schilling, T. Bastin, E. Solano, C. Thiel, J. von Zanthier
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, improved presentation. Accepted in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033833 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0959
abstract: We propose a scheme enabling the universal coupling of angular momentum of $N$ remote noninteracting qubits using linear optical tools only. Our system consists of $N$ single-photon emitters in a $\Lambda$-configuration that are entangled among their long-lived ground-state qubits through suitably designed measurements of the emitted photons. In this manner, we present an experimentally feasible algorithm that is able to generate any of the $2^N$ symmetric and nonsymmetric total angular momentum eigenstates spanning the Hilbert space of the $N$-qubit compound.

id: 0812.0963
title: Picosecond Timing Resolution Detection of Gamma Photons Utilizing Microchannel-plate Detectors: Experimental Tests of Quantum Nonlocality and Photon Localization
authors: Victor D. Irby
comments: As published in Meas. Sci. Technol. 15 (2004) 1799-1810
journal: Meas. Sci. Technol. 15 (2004) 1799-1810
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0963
abstract: The concept and subsequent experimental verification of the proportionality between pulse amplitude and detector transit time for microchannel plate detectors is presented. This discovery has led to considerable improvement in the overall timing resolution for detection of high energy gamma photons. Utilizing a 22Na positron source, a full width half maximum (FWHM) timing resolution of 138 ps has been achieved. This FWHM includes detector transit-time spread for both chevron-stack type detectors, timing spread due to uncertainties in annihilation location, all electronic uncertainty, and any remaining quantum mechanical uncertainty. The first measurement of the minimum quantum uncertainty in the time interval between detection of the two annihilation photons is reported. The experimental results give strong evidence against instantaneous spatial-localization of gamma photons due to measurement-induced nonlocal quantum wave-function collapse. The experimental results are also the first that imply momentum is conserved only after the quantum uncertainty in time has elapsed [H. Yukawa, Proc. Phys. -Math. Soc. Japan, 17, 48 (1935)].

id: 0812.0967
title: Secret Broadcasting of GHZ type state
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: This paper is withdrawn, as because the results are incorrect
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0967
abstract: Here we described a protocol by which one can broadcast GHZ-type states secretly. We have done this with the help of a cloning machine followed by subsequent measurements. We also made a comparative study of the amount of residual tangle present in these entangled states, obtained as outputs of the measurements.

id: 0812.0999
title: The macroscopic qubit delusion
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0999
abstract: There exists a large number of experimental and theoretical results supporting the picture of "macroscopic qubits" implemented, for instance, by Rydberg atoms, Josephson junctions or Bose-Einstein condensates - the systems which should rather emerge in localized semiclassical states. In this note it is shown how, under realistic conditions, the false qubit interpretation can be consistent with the restricted set of experimental data collected for semiclassical systems. The recent experiments displaying semiclassical character of Bose-Einstein condensates and possible quantumness tests for a single system are briefly invoked also.

id: 0812.1006
title: The BMV project: Search for photon oscillations into massive particles
authors: C. Robilliard, B. Pinto Da Souza, F. Bielsa, J. Mauchain, M. Nardone, G. Bailly, M. Fouch¨¦, R. Battesti, C. Rizzo
comments: Proceedings of PSAS'08, to be published in Can. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1006
abstract: In this contribution to PSAS08 we report on the research activities developed in our Toulouse group, in the framework of the BMV project, concerning the search for photon oscillations into massive particles, such as axion-like particles in the presence of a strong transverse magnetic field. We recall our main result obtained in collaboration with LULI at \'Ecole Polytechnique (Palaiseau, France). We also present the very preliminary results obtained with the BMV experiment which is set up at LNCMP (Toulouse, France).

id: 0812.1009
title: Survival Probability of a Local Excitation in a Non-Markovian Environment: Survival Collapse, Zeno and Anti-Zeno effects
authors: E. Rufeil Fiori, H. M. Pastawski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1009
abstract: The decay dynamics of a local excitation interacting with a non-Markovian environment, modeled by a semi-infinite tight-binding chain, is exactly evaluated. We identify distinctive regimes for the dynamics. Sequentially: (i) early quadratic decay of the initial-state survival probability, up to a spreading time $t_{S}$, (ii) exponential decay described by a self-consistent Fermi Golden Rule, and (iii) asymptotic behavior governed by quantum diffusion through the return processes and leading to an inverse power law decay. At this last cross-over time $t_{R}$ a survival collapse becomes possible. This could reduce the survival probability by several orders of magnitude. The cross-overs times $t_{S}$ and $t_{R}$ allow to assess the range of applicability of the Fermi Golden Rule and give the conditions for the observation of the Zeno and Anti-Zeno effect.

id: 0812.1056
title: Reply to Comment [arXiv:0810.3244v1] by R.S. Decca et al. on "Contribution of drifting carriers to the Casimir-Lifshitz and Casimir-Polder interactions with semiconductor materials"
authors: Diego A. R. Dalvit, Steve K. Lamoreaux
comments: 2 pages. See related Comments arXiv: 0810.3243v1, arXiv:0810.3247v1, and their respective Replies arXiv:0811.3081v1, arXiv:0811.3423v1
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 189304 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1056
abstract: We show that the claims expressed in the Comment arXiv:0810.3244v1 by R.S. Decca et al against our paper, D.A.R. Dalvit and S.K. Lamoreaux, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 101}, 163203 (2008), are wrong and manifestly inconsistent with basic principles of statistical physics.

id: 0812.1066
title: Pure Quantum Correlations Between Bright Optical Beams
authors: Yana Shang, Zhihui Yan, Xiaojun Jia, Xiaolong Su, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1066
abstract: The pure quantum correlations totally independent of the classical coherence of light have been experimentally demonstrated. By measuring the visibility of the interference fringes and the correlation variances of amplitude and phase quadratures between a pair of bright twin optical beams with different frequencies produced from a non-degenerate optical parametric oscillator, we found that when classical interference became worse even vanished, the quadrature quantum correlations were not influenced, completely. The presented experiment obviously shows the quantum correlations of light do not necessarily imply the classical coherence.

id: 0812.1096
title: Non-Markovian weak coupling limit of quantum Brownian motion
authors: Sabrina Maniscalco, Jyrki Piilo, Kalle-Antti Suominen
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1096
abstract: We derive and solve analytically the non-Markovian master equation for harmonic quantum Brownian motion proving that, for weak system-reservoir couplings and high temperatures, it can be recast in the form of the master equation for a harmonic oscillator interacting with a squeezed thermal bath. This equivalence guarantees preservation of positivity of the density operator during the time evolution and allows one to establish a connection between the dynamics of Schr\"odinger cat states in squeezed environments and environment-induced decoherence in quantum Brownian motion.

id: 0812.1111
title: Photon generation through decoherence in cavity QED: analytical analysis
authors: T. Werlang, A. V. Dodonov, E. I. Duzzioni, C. J. Villas-Boas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1111
abstract: The Rabi Hamiltonian describes the interaction between a two-level atom and a single mode of the quantized electromagnetic field. When the system is subject to the Markovian atomic dephasing reservoir, the anti-rotating term leads to the photon generation from vacuum. In the presence of Markovian damping reservoirs, the asymptotic mean photon number is higher than the thermal photon number expected in the absence of the anti-rotating term. We obtain approximate analytical expressions in the asymptotic regime for the photon creation rate in the pure dephasing case and the mean photon number and the atomic population inversion in the general case. Our analytical results are valid in the small mean photon number limit and they were tested by numerical analyses.

id: 0812.1148
title: The Invariant Set Postulate: A New Geometric Framework for the Foundations of Quantum Theory and the Role Played by Gravity
authors: T.N.Palmer
comments: Accepted for publication in Proceedings of the Royal Society A
journal: Proc.Roy.Soc.Lond.A465:3187-3207,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1148
abstract: A new law of physics is proposed, defined on the cosmological scale but with significant implications for the microscale. Motivated by nonlinear dynamical systems theory and black-hole thermodynamics, the Invariant Set Postulate proposes that cosmological states of physical reality belong to a non-computable fractal state-space geometry I, invariant under the action of some subordinate deterministic causal dynamics. An exploratory analysis is made of a possible causal realistic framework for quantum physics, based on key properties of I. For example, sparseness is used to relate generic counterfactual states to points not lying on I, thus providing a geometric basis for the essential contextuality of quantum physics and the role of the abstract Hilbert Space in quantum theory. Also, self-similarity, described in a symbolic setting, provides a possible "realistic" perspective on the essential role of complex numbers and quaternions in quantum theory. A new interpretation is given to the standard "mysteries" of quantum theory: superposition, measurement, nonlocality, emergence of classicality and so on. It is proposed that heterogeneities in the fractal geometry of I are manifestations of the phenomenon of gravity. Since quantum theory is inherently blind to the existence of such state-space geometries, the analysis here suggests that attempts to formulate unified theories of physics within a conventional quantum-theoretic framework are misguided, and that a successful quantum theory of gravity should unify the causal non-Euclidean geometry of space time with the atemporal fractal geometry of state space.

id: 0812.1154
title: Sympathetically cooled molecular ions: from principles to first applications
authors: Bernhard Roth, Stephan Schiller
comments: 52 pages, 41 figures; to appear in "Cold Molecules", R. Krems, B. Friedrich, and W. Stwalley, eds., Taylor and Francis (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1154
abstract: We review the current status of the field of sympathetically cooled molecular ions, i.e. the method used for cooling the translational degrees of freedom, the techniques applied for detection and analysis of the cold trapped ion ensembles produced as well as first applications. We summarize a few salient results and point out various possibilities for future developments.

id: 0812.1209
title: Transient dynamics and momentum redistribution in cold atoms via recoil-induced resonances
authors: Joel A. Greenberg, Daniel J. Gauthier
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033414 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1209
abstract: We use an optically dense, anisotropic magneto-optical trap to study recoil-induced resonances (RIRs) in the transient, high-gain regime. We find that two distinct mechanisms govern the atomic dynamics: the finite, frequency-dependent atomic response time, and momentum-space population redistribution. At low input probe intensities, the residual Doppler width of the atoms, combined with the finite atomic response time, result in a linear, transient hysteretic effect that modifies the locations, widths, and magnitudes of the resulting gain spectra depending on the sign of the scan chirp. When larger intensities (\textit{i.e.}, greater than a few $\mu$W/cm$^2$) are incident on the atomic sample for several $\mu$s, hole-burning in the atomic sample's momentum distribution leads to a coherent population redistribution that persists for approximately 100 $\mu$s. We propose using RIRs to engineer the atomic momentum distribution to enhance the nonlinear atom-photon coupling. We present a numerical model, and compare the calculated and experimental results to verify our interpretation.

id: 0812.1246
title: Physical model of continuous two-qubit parity measurement in a cavity-QED network
authors: Joseph Kerckhoff, Luc Bouten, Andrew Silberfarb, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 024305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1246
abstract: We propose and analyze a physical implementation of two-qubit parity measurements as required for continuous error correction, assuming a setup in which the individual qubits are strongly coupled to separate optical cavities. A single optical probe beam scatters sequentially from the two cavities and the continuous parity measurement is realized via fixed quadrature homodyne photo-detection. We present models based on quantum stochastic differential equations (QSDE's) for both an ideal continuous parity measurement and our proposed cavity quantum electrodynamics (cavity QED) implementation; a recent adiabatic elimination theorem for QSDE's is used to assert strong convergence of the latter to the former in an appropriate limit of physical parameters. Performance of the cavity QED scheme is studied via numerical simulation with experimentally realistic parameters.

id: 0812.1281
title: Directional Coupling for Quantum Computing and Communication
authors: Georgios M. Nikolopoulos
comments: close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 200502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1281
abstract: We introduce the concept of directional coupling, i.e., the selective transfer of a state between adjacent quantum wires, in the context of quantum computing and short-distance communication. Our analysis rests upon a mathematical analogy between a dual-channel directional coupler and a composite spin system.

id: 0812.1290
title: A Topos Formulation of Consistent Histories
authors: Cecilia Flori
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1290
abstract: Topos theory has been suggested by Doring and Isham as an alternative mathematical structure with which to formulate physical theories. In particular it has been used to reformulate standard quantum mechanics in such a way that a novel type of logic is used to represent propositions. In this paper we extend this formulation to include temporally-ordered collections of propositions as opposed to single-time propositions. That is to say, we have developed a quantum history formalism in the language of topos theory where truth values can be assigned to temporal propositions. We analyse the extent to which such truth values can be derived from the truth values of the constituent, single-time propositions.

id: 0812.1297
title: Entanglement control in coupled two-mode boson systems
authors: A. V. Chizhov, R. G. Nazmitdinov
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A78, 064302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1297
abstract: A two-mode boson model, widely used for the physics of fast rotating nuclei and Bose-Einstein condensates, is studied in the context of entanglement control. We derive an analytical expression for the entanglement between the fields in this model as a function of time. We found that depending on the interaction strengths between boson modes and the nature of the initial boson states the dynamical evolution of the entanglement and the squeezing can occur independently.

id: 0812.1312
title: Quantum Trajectory Analysis of the Two-Mode Three-Level Atom Microlaser
authors: Tarek A. Elsayed, Abdulaziz Aljalal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 063833 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1312
abstract: We consider a single atom laser (microlaser) operating on three-level atoms interacting with a two-mode cavity. The quantum statistical properties of the cavity field at steady state are investigated by the quantum trajectory method which is a Monte Carlo simulation applied to open quantum systems. It is found that a steady state solution exists even when the detailed balance condition is not guaranteed. The differences between a single mode microlaser and a two-mode microlaser are highlighted. The second-order correlation function g^2(T) of a single mode is studied and special attention is paid to the one-photon trapping state, for which a simple formula is derived for its correlation function. We show the effects of the velocity spread of the atoms used to pump the microlaser cavity on the second-order correlation function, trapping states, and phase transitions of the cavity field.

id: 0812.1336
title: Quantum Action Principle in Relativistic Mechanics
authors: Natalia Gorobey, Alexander Lukyanenko
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1336
abstract: A quantum version of the action principle is considered in the case of a free relativistic particle. The classical limit of the quantum action is obtained.

id: 0812.1362
title: Lie Groups and Quantum Mechanics
authors: P.G.L. Leacn, M.C. Nucci
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1362
abstract: Mathematical modeling should present a consistent description of physical phenomena. We illustrate an inconsistency with two Hamiltonians -- the standard Hamiltonian and an example found in Goldstein -- for the simple harmonic oscillator and its quantisation. Both descriptions are rich in Lie point symmetries and so one can calculate many Jacobi Last Multipliers and therefore Lagrangians. The Last Multiplier provides the route to the resolution of this problem and indicates that the great debate about the quantisation of dissipative systems should never have occurred.

id: 0812.1387
title: Effective three-body interactions of neutral bosons in optical lattices
authors: P.R. Johnson, E. Tiesinga, J.V. Porto, C.J. Williams
comments: Published version with updated discussion and corrections on two-body energies; same results for three-body energies
journal: NJP 11, 093022 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1387
abstract: We show that there are effective three- and higher-body interactions generated by the two-body collisions of atoms confined in the lowest vibrational states of a 3D optical lattice. The collapse and revival dynamics of approximate coherent states loaded into a lattice are a particularly sensitive probe of these higher-body interactions; the visibility of interference fringes depend on both two-, three-, and higher-body energy scales, and these produce an initial dephasing that can help explain the surprisingly rapid decay of revivals seen in experiments. If inhomogeneities in the lattice system are sufficiently reduced, longer timescale partial and nearly full revivals will be visible. Using Feshbach resonances or control of the lattice potential it is possible to tune the effective higher-body interactions and simulate effective field theories in optical lattices.

id: 0812.1404
title: Logical aspects of quantum (non-)individuality
authors: Decio Krause
comments: 24 pages,no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1404
abstract: In this paper I consider some logical and mathematical aspects of the discussion of the identity and individuality of quantum entities. I shall point out that for some aspects of the discussion, the logical basis cannot be put aside; on the contrary, it leads us to unavoidable conclusions which may have consequences in how we articulate certain concepts related to quantum theory. Behind the discussion, there is a general argument which suggests the possibility of a metaphysics of non-individuals, based on a reasonable interpretation of quantum basic entities. I close the paper with a suggestion that consists in emphasizing that quanta should be referred to by the cardinalities of the collections to which they belong, for which an adequate mathematical framework seems to be possible.

id: 0812.1455
title: Dynamics of a quantum phase transition with decoherence: the quantum Ising chain in a static spin environment
authors: Lukasz Cincio, Jacek Dziarmaga, Jakub Meisner, Marek M. Rams
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 094421 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1455
abstract: We consider a linear quench from the paramagnetic to ferromagnetic phase in the quantum Ising chain interacting with a static spin environment. Both decoherence from the environment and non-adiabaticity of the evolution near a critical point excite the system from the final ferromagnetic ground state. For weak decoherence and relatively fast quenches the excitation energy, proportional to the number of kinks in the final state, decays like an inverse square root of a quench time, but slow transitions or strong decoherence make it decay in a much slower logarithmic way. We also find that fidelity between the final ferromagnetic ground state and a final state after a quench decays exponentially with a size of a chain, with a decay rate proportional to average density of excited kinks, and a proportionality factor evolving from 1.3 for weak decoherence and fast quenches to approximately 1 for slow transitions or strong decoherence. Simultaneously, correlations between kinks randomly distributed along the chain evolve from a near-crystalline anti-bunching to a Poissonian distribution of kinks in a number of isolated Anderson localization centers randomly scattered along the chain.

id: 0812.1457
title: Experimental realization of programmable quantum gate
authors: Michal Micuda, Miroslav Jezek, Miloslav Dusek, Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062311 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1457
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a programmable single-qubit quantum gate. This device applies a unitary phase shift operation to a data qubit with the value of the phase shift being fully determined by the state of a program qubit. Our linear optical implementation is based on the encoding of qubits into polarization states of single photons, two-photon interference on a polarizing beam splitter, and measurement on the output program qubit. We fully characterize the programmable gate by quantum process tomography. The achieved average quantum process fidelity exceeding 97% illustrates very good performance of the gate for all values of the encoded phase shift. We also show that by using a different set of program states the device can operate as a programmable partial polarization filter.

id: 0812.1474
title: Entropic uncertainties for joint quantum measurements
authors: Thomas Brougham, Erika Andersson, Stephen M Barnett
comments: 13 pages, introduction re-written and extended discussion of results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1474
abstract: We investigate the uncertainty associated with a joint quantum measurement of two components of spin of a spin-1/2 particle and quantify this in terms of entropy. We consider two entropic quantities: the joint entropy and the sum of the marginal entropies, and obtain lower bounds for each of these quantities. For the case of joint measurements where we measure each spin observable equally well, these lower bounds are tight.

id: 0812.1488
title: Isospectrality of conventional and new extended potentials, second-order supersymmetry and role of PT symmetry
authors: B. Bagchi, C. Quesne, R. Roychoudhury
comments: 13 pages, no figure, some additions to introduction and conclusion, 4 more references; to be published in Special issue of Pramana - J. Phys
journal: Pramana J. Phys. 73 (2009) 337-347
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1488
abstract: We develop a systematic approach to construct novel completely solvable rational potentials. Second-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics dictates the latter to be isospectral to some well-studied quantum systems. $\cal PT$ symmetry may facilitate reconciling our approach to the requirement that the rationally-extended potentials be singularity free. Some examples are shown.

id: 0812.1498
title: Casimir pressure on a thin metal slab
authors: Marin-Slobodan Tomas, Zdravko Lenac
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures; presented at the International Workshop "60 Years of Casimir Effect", Brasilia, June 2008
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Series 161, 012017 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1498
abstract: We consider the vacuum-field pressure on boundaries of a metal slab in the middle of a cavity with perfectly reflecting mirrors adopting the plasma model for the metal and paying special attention to the surface plasmon polariton contribution to the pressure. We demonstrate that, with increasing cavity length, the pressure on a thin (d<<\lambda_P) slab in this system decreases from the Casimir pressure F_C at zero slab-mirror distances to the non-retarded force per unit area F_nr=1.19 (d/\lambda_P)F_C in the case of an isolated slab. In the first case the pressure is entirely due to the photonic modes propagating through the metal whereas in the second case it is entirely due to the (nonretarded) surface plasmon modes supported by the free-standing thin slab. In either case the pressure decreases with the slab thickness. These considerations indicate that the vacuum-field pressure on a thin metal layer (and its modal structure) can be in a symmetric cavity significantly influenced when changing the cavity length.

id: 0812.1503
title: Trans-Coordinate Physics
authors: Richard A. Mould
comments: 22 pages, 6 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1503
abstract: Standard practice attempts to remove coordinate influence in physics through the use of invariant equations. Trans-coordinate physics proceeds differently by not introducing space-time coordinates in the first place. Differentials taken from a novel limiting process are defined for a particle's wave function, allowing the particle's dynamic principle to operate locally without the use of coordinates. These differentials replace the covariant differentials of Riemannian geometry. With coordinates out of the way regional conservation principles and the Einstein field equation are no longer fundamentally defined; although they are constructible along with coordinate systems so they continue to be analytically useful. Gravity waves as presently understood are not defined, so we conclude that the gravitational detectors LIGO and Weber bar will not work. We assume that gravitons alone are fundamentally responsible for gravity. It is shown how gravitational uncertainty can be reconciled with the certainty of quantum mechanical dynamics. Keywords: covariance, invariance, geometry, gravitons, metric spaces, state reduction; 03.65.a, 03.65.Ta, 04.20.Cv

id: 0812.1507
title: Systematic Perturbation Theory for Dynamical Coarse-Graining
authors: Gernot Schaller, Philipp Zedler, Tobias Brandes
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, version accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 79(3), 032110, (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1507
abstract: We demonstrate how the dynamical coarse-graining approach can be systematically extended to higher orders in the coupling between system and reservoir. Up to second order in the coupling constant we explicitly show that dynamical coarse-graining unconditionally preserves positivity of the density matrix -- even for bath density matrices that are not in equilibrium and also for time-dependent system Hamiltonians. By construction, the approach correctly captures the short-time dynamics, i.e., it is suitable to analyze non-Markovian effects. We compare the dynamics with the exact solution for highly non-Markovian systems and find a remarkable quality of the coarse-graining approach. The extension to higher orders is straightforward but rather tedious. The approach is especially useful for bath correlation functions of simple structure and for small system dimensions.

id: 0812.1516
title: Entangled-Photon Coincidence Fluorescence Imaging
authors: Giuliano Scarcelli, Seok Hyun Yun
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 16, 16189 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1516
abstract: We extend entangled coincidence (ghost) imaging to fluorescent samples. Given the entangled photon correlation, one photon of the pair carries information on where the other photon has been absorbed and has produced fluorescence in a sample. Fluorescent molecules serve as ''detectors breaking'' the entanglement.

id: 0812.1517
title: Subsystems and Independence in Relativistic Microscopic Physics
authors: Stephen J. Summers
comments: This is an expanded version of an invited talk given at the biennial meeting of the Philosophy of Science Association, held in Pittsburgh, PA, on November 6-9, 2008 ; some clarifications added and typos removed ; to appear in Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1517
abstract: The analyzability of the universe into subsystems requires a concept of the "independence" of the subsystems, of which the relativistic quantum world supports many distinct notions which either coincide or are trivial in the classical setting. The multitude of such notions and the complex relations between them will only be adumbrated here. The emphasis of the discussion is placed upon the warrant for and the consequences of a particular notion of subsystem independence, which, it is proposed, should be viewed as primary and, it is argued, provides a reasonable framework within which to sensibly speak of relativistic quantum subsystems.

id: 0812.1572
title: Bounding the dimension of bipartite quantum systems
authors: T. V¨¦rtesi, K.F. P¨¢l
comments: 9 pages, no figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042106 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1572
abstract: Let us consider the set of joint quantum correlations arising from two-outcome local measurements on a bipartite quantum system. We prove that no finite dimension is sufficient to generate all these sets. We approach the problem in two different ways by constructing explicit examples for every dimension d, which demonstrates that there exist bipartite correlations that necessitate d-dimensional local quantum systems in order to generate them. We also show that at least 10 two-outcome measurements must be carried out by the two parties altogether so as to generate bipartite joint correlations not achievable by two-dimensional local systems. The smallest explicit example we found involves 11 settings.

id: 0812.1592
title: Interferometry with independent Bose-Einstein ondensates: parity as an EPR/Bell quantum variable
authors: Franck Lalo?, William Mullin
comments: appendix added
journal: European Physical Journal B 70 (2009) 377-396
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1592
abstract: When independent Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC), described quantum mechanically by Fock (number) states, are sent into interferometers, the measurement of the output port at which the particles are detected provides a binary measurement, with two possible results $\pm1$. With two interferometers and two BEC's, the parity (product of all results obtained at each interferometer) has all the features of an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen quantity, with perfect correlations predicted by quantum mechanics when the settings (phase shifts of the interferometers) are the same. When they are different, significant violations of Bell inequalities are obtained. These violations do not tend to zero when the number $N$ of particles increases, and can therefore be obtained with arbitrarily large systems, but a condition is that all particles should be detected. We discuss the general experimental requirements for observing such effects, the necessary detection of all particles in correlation, the role of the pixels of the CCD detectors, and that of the alignments of the interferometers in terms of matching of the wave fronts of the sources in the detection regions. Another scheme involving three interferometers and three BEC's is discussed; it leads to Greenberger Horne Zeilinger (GHZ) sign contradictions, as in the usual GHZ case with three particles, but for an arbitrarily large number of them. Finally, generalizations of the Hardy impossibilities to an arbitrarily large number of particles are introduced. BEC's provide a large versality for observing violations of local realism in a variety of experimental arrangements.

id: 0812.1606
title: Ultracold molecules: vehicles to scalable quantum information processing
authors: Kathy-Anne Brickman Soderberg, Nathan Gemelke, Cheng Chin
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 11 055022 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1606
abstract: We describe a novel scheme to implement scalable quantum information processing using Li-Cs molecular state to entangle $^{6}$Li and $^{133}$Cs ultracold atoms held in independent optical lattices. The $^{6}$Li atoms will act as quantum bits to store information, and $^{133}$Cs atoms will serve as messenger bits that aid in quantum gate operations and mediate entanglement between distant qubit atoms. Each atomic species is held in a separate optical lattice and the atoms can be overlapped by translating the lattices with respect to each other. When the messenger and qubit atoms are overlapped, targeted single spin operations and entangling operations can be performed by coupling the atomic states to a molecular state with radio-frequency pulses. By controlling the frequency and duration of the radio-frequency pulses, entanglement can either be created or swapped between a qubit messenger pair. We estimate operation fidelities for entangling two distant qubits and discuss scalability of this scheme and constraints on the optical lattice lasers.

id: 0812.1626
title: Generating "squeezed" superpositions of coherent states using photon addition and subtraction
authors: P. Marek, H. Jeong, M. S. Kim
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 063811 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1626
abstract: We study how photon addition and subtraction can be used to generate squeezed superpositions of coherent states in free-traveling fields (SSCSs) with high fidelities and large amplitudes. It is shown that an arbitrary $N$-photon subtraction results in the generation of a SSCS with nearly the perfect fidelity ($F>0.999$) regardless of the number of photons subtracted. In this case, the amplitude of the SSCS increases as the number of the subtracted photons gets larger. For example, two-photon subtraction from a squeezed vacuum state of 6.1dB can generate a SSCS of $\alpha=1.26$, while in the case of the four-photon subtraction a SSCS of a larger amplitude $\alpha=1.65$ is obtained under the same condition. When a photon is subtracted from a squeezed vacuum state and another photon is added subsequently, a SSCS with a lower fidelity ($F\approx 0.96$) yet higher amplitude ($\alpha\approx2$) can be generated. We analyze some experimental imperfections including inefficiency of the detector used for the photon subtraction.

id: 0812.1632
title: Quantum particle displacement by a moving localized potential trap
authors: Er'el Granot, Avi Marchewka
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1632
abstract: We describe the dynamics of a bound state of an attractive $\delta$-well under displacement of the potential. Exact analytical results are presented for the suddenly moved potential. Since this is a quantum system, only a fraction of the initially confined wavefunction remains confined to the moving potential. However, it is shown that besides the probability to remain confined to the moving barrier and the probability to remain in the initial position, there is also a certain probability for the particle to move at double speed. A quasi-classical interpretation for this effect is suggested. The temporal and spectral dynamics of each one of the scenarios is investigated.

id: 0812.1677
title: On the existence of the "classical trajectories" of atoms in the Stern-Gerlach experiment
authors: M. Dugic, M. Arsenijevic, J. Jeknic-Dugic
comments: Latex, 13 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1677
abstract: The widely accepted interpretation of the Stern-Gerlach experiment assumes the objective atomic trajectories (the "classical trajectories") in front of the screen. Following this interpretation, we perform an {\it ab initio} analysis of the experiment and conclude that the objective trajectories do not physically exist. The alternative to our conclusion is substantially to change the model of the experiment.

id: 0812.1693
title: Transient chirp in high speed photonic crystal quantum dots lasers with controlled spontaneous emission
authors: Remy Braive, Sylvain Barbay, Isabelle Sagnes, Audrey Miard, Isabelle Robert-Philip, Alexios Beveratos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1693
abstract: We report on a series of experiments on the dynamics of spontaneous emission controlled nanolasers. The laser cavity is a photonic crystal slab cavity, embedding self-assembled quantum dots as gain material. The implementation of cavity electrodynamics effects increases significantly the large signal modulation bandwidth, with measured modulation speeds of the order of 10 GHz while keeping an extinction ratio of 19 dB. A linear transient wavelength shift is reported, corresponding to a chirp of less than 100 pm for a 35-ps laser pulse. We observe that the chirp characteristics are independent of the repetition rate of the laser up to 10 GHz.

id: 0812.1725
title: Jahn-Teller induced Berry phase in spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Jonas Larson, Erik Sjoqvist
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 043627 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1725
abstract: We demonstrate that Berry phases may greatly affect the dynamics of spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensates. The effective model Hamiltonian under consideration is shown to be equivalent to the Exe Jahn-Teller model first introduced in molecular physics. The corresponding conical intersection is identified and the Berry phase acquired for a wave packet encircling the intersection studied. It is found that this phase manifests itself in the density profile of the condensate, making it a directly measurable quantity via time-of-flight detection. Moreover, the non-Abelian gauge structure of the system is addressed and we verify how it affects the dynamics.

id: 0812.1730
title: Optical quantum memory with generalized time-reversible atom-light interactions
authors: S.A. Moiseev, W. Tittel
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, modified introduction and improved theoretical description
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1730
abstract: We examine a quantum memory scheme based on controllable dephasing of atomic coherence of a non-resonant, inhomogeneously broadened Raman transition. We show that it generalizes the physical conditions for time-reversible interaction between light and atomic ensembles from weak to strong fields and from linear to non-linear interactions. We also develop a unified framework for different realizations exploiting either controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening or atomic frequency combs, and discuss new aspects related to storage and manipulation of quantum states.

id: 0812.1747
title: Parameter estimation with cluster states
authors: Matthias Rosenkranz, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures. References updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1747
abstract: We propose a scheme for parameter estimation with cluster states. We find that phase estimation with cluster states under a many-body Hamiltonian and separable measurements leads to a precision at the Heisenberg limit. As noise models we study the dephasing, depolarizing, and pure damping channels. Decoherence reduces the sensitivity but our scheme remains superior over several reference schemes with states such as maximally entangled states and product states. For small cluster states and fixed evolution times it remains at the Heisenberg limit for approximately 2 times as many qubits than alternative schemes.

id: 0812.1760
title: Efficiency of structured adiabatic quantum computation
authors: Juan Jose Garcia-Ripoll, Mari Carmen Ba?uls
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1760
abstract: We show enough evidence that a structured version of Adiabatic Quantum Computation (AQC) is efficient for most satisfiability problems. More precisely, when the success probability is fixed beforehand, the computational resources grow subexponentially in the number of qubits. Our study focuses on random satisfiability and exact cover problems, developing a multi-step algorithm that solves clauses one by one. Relating the computational cost to classical properties of the problem, we collect significant statistics with up to N=140 qubits, around the phase transitions, which is where the hardest problems appear.

id: 0812.1822
title: Design of flexible ultrahigh-Q microcavities in diamond-based photonic crystal slabs
authors: Snjezana Tomljenovic-Hanic, Andrew D. Greentree, C. Martijn de Sterke, Steven Prawer
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures (1 in colour)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1822
abstract: We design extremely flexible ultrahigh-Q diamond-based double-heterostructure photonic crystal slab cavities by modifying the refractive index of the diamond. The refractive index changes needed for ultrahigh-Q cavities with $Q ~ 10^7$, are well within what can be achieved ($\Delta n \sim 0.02$). The cavity modes have relatively small volumes $V<2 (\lambda /n)^3$, making them ideal for cavity quantum electro-dynamic applications. Importantly for realistic fabrication, our design is flexible because the range of parameters, cavity length and the index changes, that enables an ultrahigh-Q is quite broad. Furthermore as the index modification is post-processed, an efficient technique to generate cavities around defect centres is achievable, improving prospects for defect-tolerant quantum architectures.

id: 0812.1830
title: Inadequacy of a classical interpretation of quantum projective measurements via Wigner functions
authors: Amir Kalev, Ady Mann, Pier A. Mello, Michael Revzen
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1830
abstract: We study the possibility of giving a classical interpretation to quantum projective measurements for a particle described by a pure Gaussian state whose Wigner function is non-negative. We analyze the case of a projective measurement which gives rise to a proper Wigner function, i.e., taking on, as its values, the eigenvalues of the projector. We find that, despite having this property, this kind of projector produces a state whose Wigner function ceases to be non-negative and hence precludes its interpretation as a classical probability density. We also study the general case in which the projected state has a non-negative Wigner function; but then we find that the Wigner function of the projector is not a proper one. Thus, we conclude that a non-negative Wigner function is inadequate to serve as a hidden variable model for quantum processes in which projective measurements take place.

id: 0812.1880
title: Daylight operation of a free space, entanglement-based quantum key distribution system
authors: Matthew P. Peloso, Ilja Gerhardt, Caleb Ho, Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 045007 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1880
abstract: Many quantum key distribution (QKD) implementations using a free space transmission path are restricted to operation at night time in order to distinguish the signal photons used for a secure key establishment from background light. Here, we present a lean entanglement-based QKD system overcoming that imitation. By implementing spectral, spatial and temporal filtering techniques, we were able to establish a secure key continuously over several days under varying light and weather conditions.

id: 0812.1886
title: Off-resonant entanglement generation in a lossy cavity
authors: F. Francica, S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, F. Plastina, K.-A. Suominen
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1886
abstract: We provide an exact and complete characterization of the entanglement dynamics of two qubits coupled to a common structured reservoir at zero temperature. We derive the conditions to maximize reservoir-induced entanglement for an initially factorized state of the two-qubit system. In particular, when the two qubits are placed inside a lossy cavity, we show that high values of entanglement can be obtained, even in the bad cavity limit, in the dispersive regime. Finally we show that, under certain conditions, the entanglement dynamics exhibits quantum beats and we explain their physical origin in terms of the interference between two different transitions coupling the dressed states of the system.

id: 0812.1903
title: On the accuracy of the PFA: analogies between Casimir and electrostatic forces
authors: Francisco D. Mazzitelli, Fernando C. Lombardo, Paula I. Villar
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, Proceedings of the meeting "60 years of Casimir effect", Brasilia, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1903
abstract: We present an overview of the validity of the Proximity Force Approximation (PFA) in the calculation of Casimir forces between perfect conductors for different geometries, with particular emphasis for the configuration of a cylinder in front of a plane. In all cases we compare the exact numerical results with those of PFA, and with asymptotic expansions that include the next to leading order corrections. We also discuss the similarities and differences between the results for Casimir and electrostatic forces.

id: 0812.1914
title: Dynamics of thermal Casimir-Polder forces on polar molecules
authors: S.A. Ellingsen, S.Y. Buhmann, S. Scheel
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, minor corrections and additions
journal: Physical Review A 79 (5), 052903 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1914
abstract: We study the influence of thermal Casimir-Polder forces on the near-surface trapping of cold polar molecules, with emphasis on LiH and YbF near an Au surface at room temperature. We show that for a molecule initially prepared in its electronic and rovibrational ground state, the Casimir-Polder force oscillates with the molecule-wall separation. The non-resonant force contribution and the evanescent part of the resonant force contribution almost exactly cancel at high temperature which results in a saturation of the (attractive) force in this limit. A dynamical calculation reveals how the spatial oscillations die out as thermalisation of the molecule with its environment sets in.

id: 0812.1932
title: Comment on "Regional Versus Global Entanglement in Resonating-Valence-Bond States"
authors: Fabien Alet, Daniel Braun, Gr¨¦goire Misguich
comments: 1 page, 1 figure, slightly longer than published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 248901 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1932
abstract: In a recent Letter [Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 170502 (2007); quant-ph/0703227], Chandran and coworkers study the entanglement properties of valence bond (VB) states. Their main result is that VB states do not contain (or only an insignificant amount of) two-site entanglement, whereas they possess multi-body entanglement. Two examples ("RVB gas and liquid") are given to illustrate this claim, which essentially comes from a lower bound derived for spin correlators in VB states. We show in this Comment that (i) for the "RVB liquid" on the square lattice, the calculations and conclusions of Chandran et al. are incorrect. (ii) A simple analytical calculation gives the exact value of the correlator for the "RVB gas", showing that the bound found by Chandran et al. is tight. (iii) The lower bound for spin correlators in VB states is equivalent to a celebrated result of Anderson dating from more than 50 years ago.

id: 0812.1937
title: Trans-Coordinate States
authors: Richard A. Mould
comments: 12 pages, 2 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1937
abstract: A meaning is given to the state of a system that is consistent with the trans-coordinate physics previously proposed by the author. The collapse of such a state is described using the previously proposed q-rules. A Hamiltonian is defined for these states and it is shown that their square modulus is conserved. Keywords: invariance, state reduction, wave collapse.

id: 0812.1941
title: Zero-mode analysis of quantum statistical physics
authors: A. Bessa, C.A.A. de Carvalho, E.S. Fraga
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.E81:011103,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1941
abstract: We present a unified formulation for quantum statistical physics based on the representation of the density matrix as a functional integral. We identify the stochastic variable of the effective statistical theory that we derive as a boundary configuration and a zero mode relevant to the discussion of infrared physics. We illustrate our formulation by computing the partition function of an interacting one-dimensional quantum mechanical system at finite temperature from the path-integral representation for the density matrix. The method of calculation provides an alternative to the usual sum over periodic trajectories: it sums over paths with coincident endpoints, and includes non-vanishing boundary terms. An appropriately modified expansion into Matsubara modes provides a natural separation of the zero-mode physics. This feature may be useful in the treatment of infrared divergences that plague the perturbative approach in thermal field theory.

id: 0812.1976
title: High fidelity entanglement of 43Ca+ hyperfine clock states
authors: G. Kirchmair, J. Benhelm, F. Z?hringer, R. Gerritsma, C. F. Roos, R. Blatt
comments: author name spelling changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 020304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1976
abstract: In an experiment using the odd calcium isotope 43Ca+ we combine the merits of a high fidelity entangling operation on an optical transition (optical qubit) with the long coherence times of two 'clock' states in the hyperfine ground state (hyperfine qubit) by mapping between these two qubits. For state initialization, state detection, global qubit rotations and mapping operations, errors smaller than 1% are achieved whereas the entangling gate adds errors of 2.3%. Based on these operations, we create Bell states with a fidelity of 96.9(3)% in the optical qubit and a fidelity of 96.7(3)% when mapped to the hyperfine states. In the latter case, the entanglement is preserved for 96(3) ms, exceeding the duration of a single gate operation by three orders of magnitude.

id: 0812.1985
title: The Quantum No-Stretching: A geometrical interpretation of the no-cloning theorem
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, pp2416-2419 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1985
abstract: We consider the ideal situation in which a space rotation is transferred from a quantum spin j to a quantum spin l different from j. Quantum-information theoretical considerations lead to the conclusion that such operation is possible only for lj. For l>j the optimal stretching transformation is derived. We show that for qubits the present no-stretching theorem is equivalent to the usual no-cloning theorem.

id: 0812.2032
title: Spatial Resolution Enhancement in Quantum Imaging beyond the Diffraction Limit Using Entangled Photon-Number State
authors: Jianming Wen, Morton H. Rubin, Yanhua Shih
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, has been submitted for publication. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2032
abstract: In this paper we study the resolution of images illuminated by sources composed of $N+1$ photons in which one non-degenerate photon is entangled with $N$ degenerate photons. The $N$ degenerate photons illuminate an object and are collected by an $N$ photon detector. The signal from the $N$ photon detector is measured in coincidence with the non-degenerate photon giving rise to a ghost image. We discuss the case of three photons in various configurations and generalize to $N+1$. Using the Rayleigh criterion, we find that the system may give an improvement in resolution by a factor of $N$ compared to using a classical source. For the case that the $N$-photon number detector is a point detector, a coherent image is obtained. If the $N$-photon detector is a bucket detector, the image is incoherent. The visibility of the image in both cases is 1. In the opposite case in which the non-degenerate photon is scattered by the object, then, using an $N$-photon point detector may reduce the Airy disk by a factor of $N$.

id: 0812.2087
title: A dynamic scheme for generating number squeezing in Bose-Einstein condensates through nonlinear interactions
authors: S. A. Haine, M. T. Johnsson
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 023611 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2087
abstract: We develop a scheme to generate number squeezing in a Bose-Einstein condensate by utilizing interference between two hyperfine levels and nonlinear atomic interactions. We describe the scheme using a multimode quantum field model and find agreement with a simple analytic model in certain regimes. We demonstrate that the scheme gives strong squeezing for realistic choices of parameters and atomic species. The number squeezing can result in noise well below the quantum limit, even if the initial noise on the system is classical and much greater than that of a poisson distribution.

id: 0812.2110
title: Effect of a strong laser on spin precession
authors: Arsen Khvedelidze
comments: Presented at XIII International Conference Selected Problems of Modern Theoretical Physics, June 23 - 27, 2008, Dubna, Russia, 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2110
abstract: The semiclassical dynamics of a charged spin-1/2 particle in an intense electromagnetic plane wave is analyzed beyond the electric dipole approximation and taking into account the leading relativistic corrections to the Pauli equation. It is argued that the adiabatic spin evolution driven by a low intensity radiation changes its character drastically as an intensity of a laser is increasing. Particularly, it is shown that a charged particle exposes a spin flip resonance at a certain pick value of a laser field strength, which is determined by a particle's gyromagnetic ratio.

id: 0812.2127
title: Classical spin systems and the quantum stabilizer formalism: general mappings and applications
authors: R. H¨¹bener, M. Van den Nest, W. D¨¹r, H. J. Briegel
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures, minor corrections, version as accepted in JMP
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 083303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2127
abstract: We present general mappings between classical spin systems and quantum physics. More precisely, we show how to express partition functions and correlation functions of arbitrary classical spin models as inner products between quantum stabilizer states and product states, thereby generalizing mappings for some specific models established in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 117207 (2007)]. For Ising- and Potts-type models with and without external magnetic field, we show how the entanglement features of the corresponding stabilizer states are related to the interaction pattern of the classical model, while the choice of product states encodes the details of interaction. These mappings establish a link between the fields of classical statistical mechanics and quantum information theory, which we utilize to transfer techniques and methods developed in one field to gain insight into the other. For example, we use quantum information techniques to recover well known duality relations and local symmetries of classical models in a simple way, and provide new classical simulation methods to simulate certain types of classical spin models. We show that in this way all inhomogeneous models of q-dimensional spins with pairwise interaction pattern specified by a graph of bounded tree-width can be simulated efficiently. Finally, we show relations between classical spin models and measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 0812.2151
title: Quantum Zeno switch for single-photon coherent transport
authors: Lan Zhou, S. Yang, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062109 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2151
abstract: Using a dynamical quantum Zeno effect, we propose a general approach to control the coupling between a two-level system (TLS) and its surroundings, by modulating the energy level spacing of the TLS with a high frequency signal. We show that the TLS--surroundings interaction can be turned on or off when the ratio between the amplitude and the frequency of the modulating field is adjusted to be a zero of a Bessel function. The quantum Zeno effect of the TLS can also be observed by the vanishing of the photon reflection at these zeros. Based on these results, we propose a quantum switch to control the transport of a single photon in a 1D waveguide. Our analytical results agree well with numerical results using Floquet theory.

id: 0812.2177
title: Entanglement evolution of a two-qubit system with decay beyond rotating-wave approximation
authors: Qing Yang, Ming Yang, Da-Chuang Li, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2177
abstract: Two noninteracting atoms, initially entangled in Bell states, are coupled to a one-mode cavity. Based on the reduced non-perturbative quantum master equation, the entanglement evolution of the two atoms with decay is investigated beyond rotating-wave approximation. It is shown that the counter-rotating wave terms have great influence on the disentanglement behavior. The phenomenon of entanglement sudden death and entanglement sudden birth will occur.

id: 0812.2209
title: Frequency-dependent Drude damping in Casimir force calculations
authors: R. Esquivel-Sirvent
comments: Proceedings of the meeting "60 years of Casimir effect", Brasilia, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2209
abstract: The Casimir force is calculated between Au thin films that are described by a Drude model with a frequency dependent damping function. The model parameters are obtained from available experimental data for Au thin films. Two cases are considered; annealed and nonannealed films that have a different damping function. Compared with the calculations using a Drude model with a constant damping parameter, we observe changes in the Casimir force of a few percent. This behavior is only observed in films of no more than 300 $\AA$ thick.

id: 0812.2213
title: Pull-in control in microswitches using acoustic Casimir forces
authors: R. Esquivel-Sirvent, L. I. Reyes
comments: 
journal: Euro Physics Letters vol. 84 (2008) 48002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2213
abstract: In this paper we present a theoretical calculation of the acoustic Casimir pressure in a model micro system. Unlike the quantum case, the acoustic Casimir pressure can be made attractive or repulsive depending on the frequency bandwidth of the acoustic noise. As a case study, a one degree of freedom simple-lumped system in an acoustic resonant cavity is considered. We show that the frequency bandwidth of the acoustic field can be tuned to increase the stability in existing microswitch systems by selecting the sign of the force. The acoustic intensity and frequency bandwidth are introduced as two additional control parameters of the microswitch.

id: 0812.2242
title: The Quantum Locker Puzzle
authors: David Avis, Anne Broadbent
comments: 4 pages
journal: Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Quantum, Nano and Micro Technologies (ICQNM 2009), 2009, pp. 63-66
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2242
abstract: The locker puzzle is a game played by multiple players against a referee. It has been previously shown that the best strategy that exists cannot succeed with probability greater than 1-ln2 \approx 0.31, no matter how many players are involved. Our contribution is to show that quantum players can do much better--they can succeed with probability 1. By making the rules of the game significantly stricter, we show a scenario where the quantum players still succeed perfectly, while the classical players win with vanishing probability. Other variants of the locker puzzle are considered, as well as a cheating referee.

id: 0812.2266
title: Quantum and classical structures in nondeterminstic computation
authors: Dusko Pavlovic
comments: 15 pages; QI 2009; spelled out the proof in Sec. 3.4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2266
abstract: In categorical quantum mechanics, classical structures characterize the classical interfaces of quantum resources on one hand, while on the other hand giving rise to some quantum phenomena. In the standard Hilbert space model of quantum theories, classical structures over a space correspond to its orthonormal bases. In the present paper, we show that classical structures in the category of relations correspond to biproducts of abelian groups. Although relations are, of course, not an interesting model of quantum computation, this result has some interesting computational interpretations. If relations are viewed as denotations of nondeterministic programs, it uncovers a wide variety of non-standard quantum structures in this familiar area of classical computation. Ironically, it also opens up a version of what in philosophy of quantum mechanics would be called an ontic-epistemic gap, as it provides no direct interface to these nonstandard quantum structures.

id: 0812.2307
title: A Note on Normal Forms of Quantum States and Separability
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 8 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 50(2008) 1307-1311
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2307
abstract: We study the normal form of multipartite density matrices. It is shown that the correlation matrix (CM) separability criterion can be improved from the normal form we obtained under filtering transformations. Based on CM criterion the entanglement witness is further constructed in terms of local orthogonal observables for both bipartite and multipartite systems.

id: 0812.2326
title: Narrowband tunable filter based on velocity-selective optical pumping in an atomic vapor
authors: Alessandro Cere, Valentina Parigi, Marta Abad, Florian Wolfgramm, Ana Predojevic, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 3 Pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2326
abstract: We demonstrate a tunable, narrow-band filter based on optical-pumping-induced circular dichroism in rubidium vapor. The filter achieves a peak transmission of 14.6%, a linewidth of 80 MHz, and an out-of-band extinction >35 dB. The transmission peak can be tuned within the range of the Doppler linewidth of the D1 line of atomic rubidium at 795 nm. While other atomic filters work at frequencies far from absorption, the presented technique provides light resonant with atomic media, useful for atom-photon interaction experiments. The technique could readily be extended to other alkali atoms.

id: 0812.2338
title: Implementation of Clifford gates in the Ising-anyon topological quantum computer
authors: Andre Ahlbrecht, Lachezar S. Georgiev, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2338
abstract: We give a general proof for the existence and realizability of Clifford gates in the Ising topological quantum computer. We show that all quantum gates that can be implemented by braiding of Ising anyons are Clifford gates. We find that the braiding gates for two qubits exhaust the entire two-qubit Clifford group. Analyzing the structure of the Clifford group for n \geq 3 qubits we prove that the the image of the braid group is a non-trivial subgroup of the Clifford group so that not all Clifford gates could be implemented by braiding in the Ising topological quantum computation scheme. We also point out which Clifford gates cannot in general be realized by braiding.

id: 0812.2368
title: Completeness of classical spin models and universal quantum computation
authors: Gemma De las Cuevas, Wolfgang D¨¹r, Maarten Van den Nest, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 43 pages, 28 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2009) P07001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2368
abstract: We study mappings between distinct classical spin systems that leave the partition function invariant. As recently shown in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 110501 (2008)], the partition function of the 2D square lattice Ising model in the presence of an inhomogeneous magnetic field, can specialize to the partition function of any Ising system on an arbitrary graph. In this sense the 2D Ising model is said to be "complete". However, in order to obtain the above result, the coupling strengths on the 2D lattice must assume complex values, and thus do not allow for a physical interpretation. Here we show how a complete model with real -and, hence, "physical"- couplings can be obtained if the 3D Ising model is considered. We furthermore show how to map general q-state systems with possibly many-body interactions to the 2D Ising model with complex parameters, and give completeness results for these models with real parameters. We also demonstrate that the computational overhead in these constructions is in all relevant cases polynomial. These results are proved by invoking a recently found cross-connection between statistical mechanics and quantum information theory, where partition functions are expressed as quantum mechanical amplitudes. Within this framework, there exists a natural correspondence between many-body quantum states that allow universal quantum computation via local measurements only, and complete classical spin systems.

id: 0812.2378
title: Minimum-error discrimination of quantum states: New bounds and comparison
authors: Daowen Qiu, Lvjun Li
comments: 25 pages; some new results have been added while some proofs have been shortened; comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2378
abstract: The minimum-error probability of ambiguous discrimination for two quantum states is the well-known {\it Helstrom limit} presented in 1976. Since then, it has been thought of as an intractable problem to obtain the minimum-error probability for ambiguously discriminating arbitrary $m$ quantum states. In this paper, we obtain a new lower bound on the minimum-error probability for ambiguous discrimination and compare this bound with six other bounds in the literature. Moreover, we show that the bound between ambiguous and unambiguous discrimination does not extend to ensembles of more than two states. Specifically, the main technical contributions are described as follows: (1) We derive a new lower bound on the minimum-error probability for ambiguous discrimination among arbitrary $m$ mixed quantum states with given prior probabilities, and we present a necessary and sufficient condition to show that this lower bound is attainable. (2) We compare this new lower bound with six other bounds in the literature in detail, and, in some cases, this bound is optimal. (3) It is known that if $m=2$, the optimal inconclusive probability of unambiguous discrimination $Q_{U}$ and the minimum-error probability of ambiguous discrimination $Q_{E}$ between arbitrary given $m$ mixed quantum states have the relationship $Q_{U}\geq 2Q_{E}$. In this paper, we show that, however, if $m>2$, the relationship $Q_{U}\geq 2Q_{E}$ may not hold again in general, and there may be no supremum of $Q_{U}/Q_{E}$ for more than two states, which may also reflect an essential difference between discrimination for two-states and multi-states. (4) A number of examples are constructed.

id: 0812.2385
title: Quantum mechanical evolution towards thermal equilibrium
authors: Noah Linden, Sandu Popescu, Anthony J. Short, Andreas Winter
comments: 12.1 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2385
abstract: The circumstances under which a system reaches thermal equilibrium, and how to derive this from basic dynamical laws, has been a major question from the very beginning of thermodynamics and statistical mechanics. Despite considerable progress, it remains an open problem. Motivated by this issue, we address the more general question of equilibration. We prove, with virtually full generality, that reaching equilibrium is a universal property of quantum systems: Almost any subsystem in interaction with a large enough bath will reach an equilibrium state and remain close to it for almost all times. We also prove several general results about other aspects of thermalisation besides equilibration, for example, that the equilibrium state does not depend on the detailed micro-state of the bath.

id: 0812.2404
title: Entanglement generation and perfect state transfer in ferromagnetic qubit chains
authors: Giulia Gualdi, Irene Marzoli, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 11, 063038 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2404
abstract: We propose to use ferromagnetic systems for entanglement generation and distribution together with perfect state transfer between distant parties in a qubit chain. The scheme relies on an effective 2-qubit dynamics, realized by leaving two empty sites in a uniformly filled chain. This allows long-range interacting qubit chains to serve as quantum channels for both tasks with optimal performances. Remarkably, the entanglement between sender and receiver sites is independent of both the transmission distance and of system size. This property opens new perspectives for short and mid-range quantum communication with qubit chains.

id: 0812.2425
title: Efficient multiparticle entanglement via asymmetric Rydberg blockade
authors: M. Saffman, K. Molmer
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 240502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2425
abstract: We present an efficient method for producing $N$ particle entangled states using Rydberg blockade interactions. Optical excitation of Rydberg states that interact weakly, yet have a strong coupling to a second control state is used to achieve state dependent qubit rotations in small ensembles. On the basis of quantitative calculations we predict that an N=8 Schr\"odinger cat state can be produced with a fidelity of 84% in cold Rb atoms.

id: 0812.2445
title: Characterizing heralded single-photon sources with imperfect measurement devices
authors: M. Razavi, I. S?llner, E. Bocquillon, C. Couteau, R. Laflamme, G. Weihs
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures; corrected Eq. (11) and the description follows Eq. (22)
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42, 114013 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2445
abstract: Any characterization of a single-photon source is not complete without specifying its second-order degree of coherence, i.e., its $g^{(2)}$ function. An accurate measurement of such coherence functions commonly requires high-precision single-photon detectors, in whose absence, only time-averaged measurements are possible. It is not clear, however, how the resulting time-averaged quantities can be used to properly characterize the source. In this paper, we investigate this issue for a heralded source of single photons that relies on continuous-wave parametric down-conversion. By accounting for major shortcomings of the source and the detectors--i.e., the multiple-photon emissions of the source, the time resolution of photodetectors, and our chosen width of coincidence window--our theory enables us to infer the true source properties from imperfect measurements. Our theoretical results are corroborated by an experimental demonstration using a PPKTP crystal pumped by a blue laser, that results in a single-photon generation rate about 1.2 millions per second per milliwatt of pump power. This work takes an important step toward the standardization of such heralded single-photon sources.

id: 0812.2520
title: Approach to Thermal Equilibrium in the Caldeira-Leggett Model
authors: Fethi M Ramazanoglu
comments: 26 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2520
abstract: We provide an explicit analytical calculation that shows the asymptotic approach of the one dimensional Caldeira-Leggett model to thermal equilibrium in the high temperature and weak coupling limit. We investigate a free particle and a harmonic oscillator system, using both the Lindblad and the non-Lindblad type master equations for each case, and show that thermal equilibrium is reached exactly for the free particle and aproximately for the harmonic oscillator, irrespective of the initial preparation of the system. We also generalize our calculation to higher dimensions.

id: 0812.2556
title: A Canonical Relativistic Approach to Quantize Electromagnetic Field in the Presence of Moving Magneto-Dielectric Media
authors: M.Amooshahi
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: Euro. Phys. J. D 54 (2009) 115-118
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2556
abstract: A canonical relativistic formulation is introduced to quantize electromagnetic field in the presence of a polarizable and magnetizable moving medium. The medium is modeled by a continuum of four vectors in a phenomenological way. The covariant wave equation for the vector potential and the covariant constitutive equation of the medium are obtained as the Euler- Lagrange equations using the Lagrangian of the total system. A tensor of the third rank which couples the electromagnetic field with the medium is introduced and the susceptibility tensor of the medium is obtained in terms of the coupling tensor. Also the noise polarization tensor is calculated in terms of the coupling tensor and the creation and annihilation operators of the four vectors modeling the medium.

id: 0812.2582
title: A proposal of implementing Hardy's thought-experiment with particles that never met
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2582
abstract: Hardy's thought-experiment is the strongest argument against the idea of continuous trajectories of particles from the source to the detector. This idea seems to result as an unavoidable conclusion from some simple experiments. In its original form, Hardy's thought-experiment was proposed for two independent particles, a positron and an electron. The two either meet and annihilate, or don't meet but become entangled. An important feature of entanglements with particles that never meet is the difficulty they raise in front of the assumption of "hidden communication" between the particles. Indeed, if the particles don't meet, they can't have information of one another and it is difficult to explain how can they communicate. In order to implement Hardy's paradox with particles that never meet, the present article proposes to use photons from three different lasers, one laser emitting UV rays, and the other two emitting at the wavelength of the signal photon, respectively the idler photon obtained from the down-conversion of the UV rays. The role of the annihilation in Hardy's experiment will be played by the destructive interference between a down-conversion pair and two photons from the low-energy lasers.

id: 0812.2614
title: Path Integral Solution of PT-/non-PT-Symmetric and non-Hermitian Morse Potential
authors: Nalan Kandirmaz, Ramazan Sever
comments: 11 Pages
journal: Chinese J. Phys. 47, 47(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2614
abstract: Path integral solutions are obtained for the the PT-/non-PT-Symmetric and non-Hermitian Morse Potential. Energy eigenvalues and the corresponding wave functions are obtained.

id: 0812.2615
title: Connection between Wigner distribution of nonclassical fields and collapse-revival of atomic dynamics
authors: C. H. Raymond Ooi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2615
abstract: The transient evolution of nonclassical radiation fields interacting with an atom in a cavity is correlated to the atomic dynamics. Connection between the atomic phases of collapse and revival, and the Wigner function pattern is explored. Initial classical coherent field can evolve into nonclassical field. Schrodinger cat state field is generate during the atomic collapse phase. For initial Schrodinger cat field state, the state dissolves with time but revives during the atomic phase that corresponds with the initial phase. More intricate but orderly characteristics are found between the collapse-revival dynamics and the patterns of the Wigner function for initial thermal field.

id: 0812.2633
title: Ghost imaging with a single detector
authors: Yaron Bromberg, Ori Katz, Yaron Silberberg
comments: See video at this http URL Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2633
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate pseudothermal ghost imaging and ghost diffraction using only a single single-pixel detector. We achieve this by replacing the high resolution detector of the reference beam with a computation of the propagating field, following a recent proposal by Shapiro [J. H. Shapiro, arXiv:0807.2614 (2008)]. Since only a single detector is used, this provides an experimental evidence that pseudothermal ghost imaging does not rely on non-local quantum correlations. In addition, we show the depth-resolving capability of this ghost imaging technique.

id: 0812.2661
title: Electromagnetically induced spatial light modulation
authors: L. Zhao, T. Wang, S. F. Yelin
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, 34, 1930 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2661
abstract: We theoretically report that, utilizing electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT), the transverse spatial properties of weak probe fields can be fast modulated by using optical patterns (e.g. images) with desired intensity distributions in the coupling fields. Consequently, EIT systems can function as high-speed optically addressed spatial light modulators. To exemplify our proposal, we indicate the generation and manipulation of Laguerre-Gaussian beams based on either phase or amplitude modulation in hot vapor EIT systems.

id: 0812.2674
title: Degenerate quantum codes and the quantum Hamming bound
authors: Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli, Andreas Klappenecker
comments: Reformulated one of the results, corrected an erroneous remark and added a few more results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032318 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2674
abstract: The parameters of a nondegenerate quantum code must obey the Hamming bound. An important open problem in quantum coding theory is whether or not the parameters of a degenerate quantum code can violate this bound for nondegenerate quantum codes. In this paper we show that Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) codes with alphabet $q\geq 5$ cannot beat the quantum Hamming bound. We prove a quantum version of the Griesmer bound for the CSS codes which allows us to strengthen the Rains' bound that an $[[n,k,d]]_2$ code cannot correct more than $\floor{(n+1)/6}$ errors to $\floor{(n-k+1)/6}$. Additionally, we also show that the general quantum codes $[[n,k,d]]_q$ with $k+d\leq {(1-2eq^{-2})n}$ cannot beat the quantum Hamming bound.

id: 0812.2681
title: Preparation of many-body states for quantum simulation
authors: Nicholas J. Ward, Ivan Kassal, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 10 pages, content as in JCP
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 130, 194105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2681
abstract: While quantum computers are capable of simulating many quantum systems efficiently, the simulation algorithms must begin with the preparation of an appropriate initial state. We present a method for generating physically relevant quantum states on a lattice in real space. In particular, the present algorithm is able to prepare general pure and mixed many-particle states of any number of particles. It relies on a procedure for converting from a second-quantized state to its first-quantized counterpart. The algorithm is efficient in that it operates in time that is polynomial in all the essential descriptors of the system, such the number of particles, the resolution of the lattice, and the inverse of the maximum final error. This scaling holds under the assumption that the wavefunction to be prepared is bounded or its indefinite integral known and that the Fock operator of the system is efficiently simulatable.

id: 0812.2698
title: Is Quantum Logic a Logic?
authors: Mladen Pavicic, Norman D. Megill
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure, published in "Handbook of Quantum Logic and Quantum Structures," Vol. "Quantum Logic," Eds. Kurt Engesser, Dov Gabbay, and Daniel Lehmann, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2008, pp. 23-47
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2698
abstract: It is shown that quantum logic is a logic in the very same way in which classical logic is a logic. Soundness and completeness of both quantum and classical logics have been proved for novel lattice models that are not orthomodular and therefore cannot be distributive either - as opposed to the standard lattice models that are orthomodular and distributive for the respective logics. Hence, we cannot attribute the orthomodularity to quantum logic itself, and we cannot attribute the distributivity to classical logic itself. The valuations of logics with respect of novel models turn out to be non-numerical, and therefore truth values and truth tables cannot in general be ascribed to the propositions of logics themselves but only to the variables of some of their models -for example, the two-valued Boolean algebra. Logics are, first of all, axiomatic deductive systems, and if we stop short of considering their semantics (models, valuations, etc.), then both quantum and classical logics will have a completely equal footing in the sense of being two deductive systems that differ from each other in a few axioms and nothing else. There is no ground for considering either of the two logics more "proper" than the other. Semantics of these logics belong to their models, and we show that there are bigger differences between the two aforementioned classical models than between two corresponding quantum and classical models.

id: 0812.2737
title: Electromagnetic field quantization in an anisotropic magnetodielectric medium with spatial-temporal dispersion
authors: M.Amooshahi, F.Kheirandish
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Theor. 41 (2008) 275402-14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2737
abstract: By modeling a linear, anisotropic and inhomogeneous magnetodielectric medium with two independent set of harmonic oscillators, electromagnetic field is quantized in such a medium. The electric and magnetic polarizations of the medium are expressed as linear combinations of the ladder operators describing the magnetodielectric medium. The Maxwell and the constitutive equations of the medium are obtained as the Heisenberg equations of the total system. The electric and magnetic susceptibilities of the medium are obtained in terms of the tensors coupling the medium with the electromagnetic field. The explicit forms of the electromagnetic field operators are obtained in terms of the ladder operators of the medium.

id: 0812.2774
title: Two Mode Photon Bunching Effect as Witness of Quantum Criticality in Circuit QED
authors: Qing Ai, Ying-Dan Wang, Guilu Long, C. P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Science in China Series G-Physics Mechanics Astron 2009, 52(12) 1898-1905
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2774
abstract: We suggest a scheme to probe critical phenomena at a quantum phase transition (QPT) using the quantum correlation of two photonic modes simultaneously coupled to a critical system. As an experimentally accessible physical implementation, a circuit QED system is formed by a capacitively coupled Josephson junction qubit array interacting with one superconducting transmission line resonator (TLR). It realizes an Ising chain in the transverse field (ICTF) which interacts with the two magnetic modes propagating in the TLR. We demonstrate that in the vicinity of criticality the originally independent fields tend to display photon bunching effects due to their interaction with the ICTF. Thus, the occurrence of the QPT is reflected by the quantum characteristics of the photonic fields.

id: 0812.2798
title: Measurement of the short-range attractive force between Ge plates using a torsion balance
authors: W. J. Kim, A. O. Sushkov, D. A. R. Dalvit, S. K. Lamoreaux
comments: 5 pages and 4 figures, version 2
journal: Physical Review Letters 103, 060401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2798
abstract: We have measured the short-range attractive force between crystalline Ge plates, and found contributions from both the Casimir force and an electrical force possibly generated by surface patch potentials. Using a model of surface patch effects that generates an additional force due to a distance dependence of the apparent contact potential, the electrical force was parameterized using data at distances where the Casimir force is relatively small. Extrapolating this model, to provide a correction to the measured force at distances less than 5 $\mu$m, shows a residual force that is in agreement, within experimental uncertainty, with five models that have been used to calculate the Casimir force.

id: 0812.2800
title: A measure of non-Gaussianity for quantum states
authors: J. Solomon Ivan, M. Sanjay Kumar, R. Simon
comments: 10 Pages 4 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2800
abstract: We propose a measure of non-Gaussianity for quantum states of a system of $n$ oscillator modes. Our measure is based on the quasi-probability $Q(\alpha), \alpha\in{\cal C}^n$. Since any measure of non-Gaussianity is necessarily an attempt at making a quantitative statement on the departure of the shape of the $Q$ function from Gaussian, any good measure of non-Gaussianity should be invariant under transformations which do not alter the shape of the $Q$ functions, namely displacements, passage through passive linear systems, and uniform scaling of all the phase space variables: $Q(\alpha)\to \lambda^{2n}Q(\lambda \alpha)$. Our measure which meets this `shape criterion' is computed for a few families of states, and the results are contrasted with existing measures of non-Gaussianity. The shape criterion implies, in particular, that the non-Gaussianity of the photon-added thermal states should be independent of temperature.

id: 0812.2805
title: Compatibility conditions on local and global spectra for $n$-mode Gaussian states
authors: J. Solomon Ivan, R. Simon
comments: 10 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2805
abstract: Compatibility conditions between the (global) spectrum of an $n$-mode Gaussian state and the spectra of the individual modes are presented, making optimal use of beam splitter and (two-mode) squeezing transformations. An unexpected bye-product of our elementary approach is the result that every two-mode Gaussian state is uniquely determined, modulo local transformations, by its global spectrum and local spectra -- a property shared not even by a pair of qubits.

id: 0812.2840
title: Comprehensive Characterization of InGaAs/InP Avalanche Photodiodes at 1550 nm with an Active Quenching ASIC
authors: Jun Zhang, Rob Thew, Jean-Daniel Gautier, Nicolas Gisin, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 8 pages, 15 figures, 1 table. Accepted by IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics
journal: IEEE J. Quantum Electron., vol. 45, no. 7, pp. 792-799, July 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2840
abstract: We present an active quenching application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), for use in conjunction with InGaAs/InP avalanche photodiodes (APDs), for 1550 nm single-photon detection. To evaluate its performance, we first compare its operation with that of standard quenching electronics. We then test 4 InGaAs/InP APDs using the ASIC, operating both in the free-running and gated modes, to study more general behavior. We investigate not only the standard parameters under different working conditions but also parameters such as charge persistence and quenching time. We also use the multiple trapping model to account for the afterpulsing behavior in the gated mode, and further propose a model to take account of the afterpulsing effects in the free-running mode. Our results clearly indicate that the performance of APDs with an on-chip quenching circuit significantly surpasses the conventional quenching electronics, and makes them suitable for practical applications, e.g., quantum cryptography.

id: 0812.2869
title: Theory of measurement-based quantum computing
authors: Jonathan Robert Niel de Beaudrap
comments: Ph.D. thesis in Combinatorics and Optimization. 199 pages main text, 26 PDF figures. Official electronic version available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2869
abstract: In the study of quantum computation, data is represented in terms of linear operators which form a generalized model of probability, and computations are most commonly described as products of unitary transformations, which are the transformations which preserve the quality of the data in a precise sense. This naturally leads to "unitary circuit models", which are models of computation in which unitary operators are expressed as a product of "elementary" unitary transformations. However, unitary transformations can also be effected as a composition of operations which are not all unitary themselves: the "one-way measurement model" is one such model of quantum computation. In this thesis, we examine the relationship between representations of unitary operators and decompositions of those operators in the one-way measurement model. In particular, we consider different circumstances under which a procedure in the one-way measurement model can be described as simulating a unitary circuit, by considering the combinatorial structures which are common to unitary circuits and two simple constructions of one-way based procedures. These structures lead to a characterization of the one-way measurement patterns which arise from these constructions, which can then be related to efficiently testable properties of graphs. We also consider how these characterizations provide automatic techniques for obtaining complete measurement-based decompositions, from unitary transformations which are specified by operator expressions bearing a formal resemblance to path integrals. These techniques are presented as a possible means to devise new algorithms in the one-way measurement model, independently of algorithms in the unitary circuit model.

id: 0812.2876
title: Direct sampling of optical coherence using quantum interference
authors: Jungsang Kim, David J. Brady
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2876
abstract: We describe a detector that measures the mutual coherence of two optical fields directly using quantum interference, free from photon noise of the individual irradiances. Our approach utilizes Raman transition in an atomic system where the state evolution is driven by the mutual coherence of the fields interacting with the atoms. Feedback control is used to balance the interaction of the fields being characterized, providing a measure of the mutual coherence. We show that the sensitivity of the coherence measurement can be enhanced significantly above that of conventional interferometric methods when the mutual coherence of the two fields is weak.

id: 0812.2877
title: Entanglement of Formation is Non-monotonic with Concurrence-A Simple Proof
authors: Indrani Chattopadhyay, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, revtex
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol. 7, No. 6, (2008), 243-249
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2877
abstract: In this paper we explore the non-monotonic nature of entanglement of formation with respect to concurrence for pure bipartite states. For pure bipartite system, one of the basic physical reason of this non-monotonicity character is due to the existence of incomparable states, i.e., the pure bipartite states which are not convertible to each other by LOCC with certainty.

id: 0812.2919
title: Complex structure of electron and density functional theory
authors: K. Koshelev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2919
abstract: Effective model for electron as two particle system is considered. The first particle in the system is chargeless mass of electron. The second one is massless charge of electron. Based on this model it is shown that density of energy for the particle is proportional to the probability density and the following formula stands $\rho_E(x)=mc^2\rho(x)$.

id: 0812.2982
title: Eigenvalue Problem in Two Dimension for An Irregular Boundary
authors: S. Chakraborty, J. K. Bhattacharjee, S. P. Khastgir
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, v2 matches the journal version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 195301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2982
abstract: An analytical perturbative method is suggested for solving the Helmholtz equation (\bigtriangledown^{2} + k^{2}){\psi} = 0 in two dimensions where {\psi} vanishes on an irregular closed curve. We can thus find the energy levels of a quantum mechanical particle confined in an infinitely deep potential well in two dimensions having an irregular boundary or the vibration frequencies of a membrane whose edge is an irregular closed curve. The method is tested by calculating the energy levels for an elliptical and a supercircular boundary and comparing with the results obtained numerically. Further, the phenomenon of level crossing due to shape variation is also discussed.

id: 0812.2993
title: The Dynamics of the Bounds of Squared Concurrence
authors: Zhao Liu, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures accepted by PRA
journal: Phys.Rev.A,79,032306(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2993
abstract: We study the dynamics of upper and lower bounds of squared concurrence.Our results are similar to that of Konard et al. and can help the estimation of high-dimension bipartite entanglement in experiments.

id: 0812.3001
title: Are random pure states useful for quantum computation?
authors: Michael J. Bremner, Caterina Mora, Andreas Winter
comments: No. But we need 5 pages to say why
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 190502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3001
abstract: We show the following: a randomly chosen pure state as a resource for measurement-based quantum computation, is - with overwhelming probability - of no greater help to a polynomially bounded classical control computer, than a string of random bits. Thus, unlike the familiar "cluster states", the computing power of a classical control device is not increased from P to BQP, but only to BPP. The same holds if the task is to sample from a distribution rather than to perform a bounded-error computation. Furthermore, we show that our results can be extended to states with significantly less entanglement than random states.

id: 0812.3013
title: Wigner function for twisted photons
authors: I. Rigas, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, A. B. Klimov, J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy 108 (2010) 206-212
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3013
abstract: A comprehensive theory of the Weyl-Wigner formalism for the canonical pair angle-angular momentum is presented, with special emphasis in the implications of rotational periodicity and angular-momentum discreteness.

id: 0812.3015
title: Experimental test of nonclassicality criteria
authors: T. Kiesel, W. Vogel, B. Hage, J. DiGuglielmo, A. Samblowski, R. Schnabel
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3015
abstract: We experimentally examine the nonclassical character of a class of non-Gaussian states known as phase-diffused squeezed states. These states may show no squeezing effect at all, and therefore provide an interesting example to test nonclassicality criteria. The characteristic function of the Glauber-Sudarshan representation (P function) proves to be a powerful tool to detect nonclassicality. Using this criterion we find that phase-diffused squeezed states are always nonclassical, even if the squeezing effect vanishes. Testing other criteria of nonclassicality based on higher-order squeezing and the positive semidefinitness of special matrices of normally ordered moments, it is found that these criteria fail to reveal the nonclassicality for some of the prepared phase-diffused squeezed states.

id: 0812.3016
title: Metrics Of Quantum States
authors: Zhi-Hao Ma, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3016
abstract: In this paper, we study metrics of quantum states. These metrics are natural generalization of trace metric and Bures metric. We will prove that the metrics are joint convex and contractive under quantum operation. Our results can find important application in studying the geometry of quantum states and is useful to detect entanglement.

id: 0812.3033
title: Surface Enhanced van der Waals force
authors: Marin-Slobodan Tomas
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; presented at CEWQO08, Belgrade, Serbia, 30 May-03 June 2008
journal: Phys. Scr. T135, 014020 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3033
abstract: We consider the van der Waals interaction of an excited atom and a ground state atom across a vacuum-medium interface under the circumstances of the resonant coupling of the excited atom to a surface polariton mode of the system. We demonstrate that the nonretarded interaction potential between the atoms is in this case the same as in an effective medium described by the average dielectric function of the media in contact except for the different local-field correction factor. The estimate performed for the vacuum-sapphire interface shows that the nonretarded van der Waals (atom*-atom) force can be at the surface mode resonance enhanced by almost three orders of magnitude in comparison with its free-space value. Owing to the local-field effect in the present configuration this enhancement factor is larger then previously estimated for atoms in front of the same medium by (almost) an order of magnitude.

id: 0812.3034
title: Quantum transients
authors: A. del Campo, G. Garcia-Calderon, J. G. Muga
comments: review article, 76 pp, 36 figures, more content, typos corrected
journal: Physics Reports 476, 1-50 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3034
abstract: Quantum transients are temporary features of matter waves before they reach a stationary regime. Transients may arise after the preparation of an unstable initial state or due to a sudden interaction or a change in the boundary conditions. Examples are diffraction in time, buildup processes, decay, trapping, forerunners or pulse formation, as well as other phenomena recently discovered, such as the simultaneous arrival of a wave peak at arbitrarily distant observers. The interest on these transients is nowadays enhanced by new technological possibilities to control, manipulate and measure matter waves.

id: 0812.3051
title: Towards a dynamical theory of observation
authors: George Jaroszkiewicz
comments: Accepted for publication in Proc. Roy. Soc. A. This extended version now includes application of the quantum formalism to the Elitzur-Vaidman bomb-tester and Hardy paradox experiments, demonstrating the physical significance of the faulty/decommissioned state concept. 14 pages, using RevTex double column format, with two new figures and additional references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3051
abstract: We introduce a model of classical and quantum observation based on contextuality and dynamically evolving apparatus. Power sets of classical bits model the four classical states of elementary detectors, viz. the two normal yes/no signal states, the faulty or decommissioned state and the non-existence state. Operators over power set registers are used to describe various physical scenarios such as the construction and decommissioning of physical devices in otherwise empty laboratories, the dynamics of signal states over those detectors, the extraction of information from those states, and multiple observers. We apply our quantum formalism to the Elitzur-Vaidman bomb-tester experiment and the Hardy paradox experiment.

id: 0812.3058
title: Where Bell went wrong
authors: Th. M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 7 pages AIP-tex; to appear in AIP Conf. Ser. Vaxjo 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3058
abstract: It is explained on a physical basis how absence of contextuality allows Bell inequalities to be violated, without bringing an implication on locality or realism. The point is that the initial values of the hidden variables of the detectors are mutually exclusive for different detector settings. Therefore they have no reason to possess a common probability distribution and hence no reason to satisfy Bell inequalities. To motivate this, we connect first to the local realistic theory Stochastic Electrodynamics, and then put the argument more broadly. Thus even if Bell Inequality Violation is demonstrated beyond reasonable doubt, it will have no say on local realism.

id: 0812.3072
title: Quantum Logic and Quantum Computation
authors: Mladen Pavicic, Norman D. Megill
comments: 37 pages, 13 figures, published in Handbook of Quantum Logic and Quantum Structures: Quantum Structures (Edited by Kurt Engesser, Dov M. Gabbay and Daniel Lehmann), Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2007, pp. 755-792
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3072
abstract: We use classes of Hilbert lattice equations for an alternative representation of Hilbert lattices and Hilbert spaces of arbitrary quantum systems that might enable a direct introduction of the states of the systems into quantum computers. More specifically, we look for a way to feed a quantum computer with algebraic equations of n-th order underlying an infinite dimensional Hilbert space description of quantum systems. A number of new results on states defined on Hilbert lattices are presented and discussed and a number of recently obtained results in the field of Hilbert space equations are reviewed.

id: 0812.3088
title: Efficient formation of ground state ultracold molecules via STIRAP from the continuum at a Feshbach resonance
authors: Elena Kuznetsova, Susanne F. Yelin, Marko Gacesa, Philippe Pellegrini, Robin C?t¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3088
abstract: We develop a complete theoretical description of photoassociative Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage (STIRAP) near a Feshbach resonance in a thermal atomic gas. We show that it is possible to use low intensity laser pulses to directly excite the continuum at a Feshbach resonance and transfer nearly the entire atomic population to the lowest rovibrational level in the molecular ground state. In case of a broad resonance, commonly found in several diatomic alkali molecules, our model predicts a transfer efficiency $\eta$ up to 97% for a given atom pair, and up to 70% when averaged over an atomic ensemble. The laser intensities and pulse durations needed for optimal transfer are $10^2-10^3$ W/cm$^2$ and several $\mu$s. Such efficiency compares to or surpasses currently available techniques for creating stable diatomic molecules, and the versatility of this approach simplifies its potential use for many molecular species.

id: 0812.3143
title: Algorithm for simulation of quantum many-body dynamics using dynamical coarse graining
authors: M. Khasin, R. Kosloff
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A. Substantial changes made in response to the report of the referee
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3143
abstract: An algorithm for simulation of quantum many-body dynamics having su(2) spectrum-generating algebra is developed. The algorithm is based on the idea of dynamical coarse-graining. The original unitary dynamics of the target observables, the elements of the spectrum-generating algebra, is simulated by a surrogate open-system dynamics, which can be interpreted as weak measurement of the target observables, performed on the evolving system. The open-system state can be represented by a mixture of pure states, localized in the phase-space. The localization reduces the scaling of the computational resources with the Hilbert space dimension n by factor n^{3/2}/ln n compared to conventional sparse-matrix methods. The guidelines for the choice of parameters for the simulation are presented and the scaling of the computational resources with the Hilbert space dimension of the system is estimated. The algorithm is applied to the simulation of the dynamics of systems of 2*10^4 and 2*10^6 cold atoms in the double-well trap, described by the two-sites Bose-Hubbard model.

id: 0812.3174
title: Discrimination of two mixed quantum states with maximum confidence and minimum probability of inconclusive results
authors: Ulrike Herzog
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3174
abstract: We study an optimized measurement that discriminates two mixed quantum states with maximum confidence for each conclusive result, thereby keeping the overall probability of inconclusive results as small as possible. When the rank of the detection operators associated with the two different conclusive outcomes does not exceed unity we obtain a general solution. As an application, we consider the discrimination of two mixed qubit states. Moreover, for the case of higher-rank detection operators we give a solution for particular states. The relation of the optimized measurement to other discrimination schemes is also discussed.

id: 0812.3211
title: Field-free molecular alignment induced by elliptically polarized laser pulses: non invasive 3 dimensional characterization
authors: E. Hertz, D. Daems, S. Gu¨¦rin, H.R. Jauslin, B. Lavorel, O. Faucher
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043423 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3211
abstract: An investigation of field-free molecular alignment produced by elliptically polarized laser pulses is reported. Experiments are conducted in CO$_2$ at room temperature. A non invasive all-optical technique, based on the cross defocusing of a probe pulse, is used to measure the alignment along two orthogonal directions that is sufficient to provide a 3 dimensional characterization. The field-free molecular alignment produced by a laser of elliptical polarization is in good agreement in terms of amplitude and shape with theoretical predictions. It turns out to be almost equivalent to the superposition of the effects that one would obtain with two individual cross-polarized pulses. The investigation highlights notably the occurrence of field-free two-direction alignment alternation for a suitably chosen degree of ellipticity. The analogy between this specific ellipticity and the well known "magic angle" used in time resolved spectroscopy to prevent rotational contributions is discussed.

id: 0812.3255
title: Local transformation of two EPR photon pairs into a three-photon W state
authors: Toshiyuki Tashima, Tetsuroh Wakatsuki, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:130502,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3255
abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate a transformation of two EPR photon pairs distributed among three parties into a three-photon W state using local operations and classical communication. We then characterize the final state using quantum state tomography on the three-photon state and on its marginal bipartite states. The fidelity of the final state to the ideal W state is $0.778\pm 0.043$ and the expectation value for its witness operator is $-0.111\pm 0.043$ implying the success of the proposed local transformation.

id: 0812.3292
title: Field test of a continuous-variable quantum key distribution prototype
authors: Simon Fossier, Eleni Diamanti, Thierry Debuisschert, Andr¨¦ Villing, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Philippe Grangier
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures, submitted to New Journal of Physics (Special issue on Quantum Cryptography)
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 045023 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3292
abstract: We have designed and realized a prototype that implements a continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocol based on coherent states and reverse reconciliation. The system uses time and polarization multiplexing for optimal transmission and detection of the signal and phase reference, and employs sophisticated error-correction codes for reconciliation. The security of the system is guaranteed against general coherent eavesdropping attacks. The performance of the prototype was tested over preinstalled optical fibres as part of a quantum cryptography network combining different quantum key distribution technologies. The stable and automatic operation of the prototype over 57 hours yielded an average secret key distribution rate of 8 kbit/s over a 3 dB loss optical fibre, including the key extraction process and all quantum and classical communication. This system is therefore ideal for securing communications in metropolitan size networks with high speed requirements.

id: 0812.3322
title: Freudenthal triple classification of three-qubit entanglement
authors: L. Borsten, D. Dahanayake, M. J. Duff, H. Ebrahim, W. Rubens
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, 6 tables, revtex; minor corrections, references added; version appearing in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:032326,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3322
abstract: We show that the three-qubit entanglement classes: (0) Null, (1) Separable A-B-C, (2a) Biseparable A-BC, (2b) Biseparable B-CA, (2c) Biseparable C-AB, (3) W and (4) GHZ correspond respectively to ranks 0, 1, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3 and 4 of a Freudenthal triple system defined over the Jordan algebra C+C+C. We also compute the corresponding SLOCC orbits.

id: 0812.3359
title: Cumulants and the moment algebra: tools for analysing weak measurements
authors: Johan Aberg, Graeme Mitchison
comments: Journal reference added, minor corrections
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 042103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3359
abstract: Recently it has been shown that cumulants significantly simplify the analysis of multipartite weak measurements. Here we consider the mathematical structure that underlies this, and find that it can be formulated in terms of what we call the moment algebra. Apart from resulting in simpler proofs, the flexibility of this structure allows generalizations of the original results to a number of weak measurement scenarios, including one where the weakly interacting pointers reach thermal equilibrium with the probed system.

id: 0812.3380
title: Electric field noise above surfaces: a model for heating rate scaling law in ion traps
authors: Romain Dubessy, Thomas Coudreau, Luca Guidoni
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 80, 3 (2009) 031402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3380
abstract: We present a model for the scaling laws of the electric field noise spectral density as a function of the distance, $d$, above a conducting surface. Our analytical approach models the patch potentials by introducing a correlation length, $\zeta$, of the electric potential on the surface. The predicted scaling laws are in excellent agreement with two different classes of experiments (cold trapped ions and cantilevers), that span at least four orders of magnitude of $d$. According to this model, heating rate in miniature ion traps could be greatly reduced by proper material engineering.

id: 0812.3429
title: Quantum Predictive Learning and Communication Complexity with Single Input
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3429
abstract: We define a new model of quantum learning that we call Predictive Quantum (PQ). This is a quantum analogue of PAC, where during the testing phase the student is only required to answer a polynomial number of testing queries. We demonstrate a relational concept class that is efficiently learnable in PQ, while in any "reasonable" classical model exponential amount of training data would be required. This is the first unconditional separation between quantum and classical learning. We show that our separation is the best possible in several ways; in particular, there is no analogous result for a functional class, as well as for several weaker versions of quantum learning. In order to demonstrate tightness of our separation we consider a special case of one-way communication that we call single-input mode, where Bob receives no input. Somewhat surprisingly, this setting becomes nontrivial when relational communication tasks are considered. In particular, any problem with two-sided input can be transformed into a single-input relational problem of equal classical one-way cost. We show that the situation is different in the quantum case, where the same transformation can make the communication complexity exponentially larger. This happens if and only if the original problem has exponential gap between quantum and classical one-way communication costs. We believe that these auxiliary results might be of independent interest.

id: 0812.3452
title: Coherent exciton transport and trapping on long-range interacting cycles
authors: Xinping Xu
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 011117 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3452
abstract: We consider coherent exciton transport modeled by continuous-time quantum walks (CTQWs) on long-range interacting cycles (LRICs), which are constructed by connecting all the two nodes of distance $m$ in the cycle graph. LRIC has a symmetric structure and can be regarded as the extensions of the cycle graph (nearest-neighboring lattice). For small values of $m$, the classical and quantum return probabilities show power law behavior $p(t)\sim t^{-0.5}$ and $\pi(t)\sim t^{-1}$, respectively. However, for large values of $m$, the classical and quantum efficiency scales as $p(t)\sim t^{-1}$ and $\pi(t)\sim t^{-2}$. We give a theoretical explanation of this transition using the method of stationary phase approximation (SPA). In the long time limit, depending on the network size $N$ and parameter $m$, the limiting probability distributions of quantum transport show various patterns. When the network size $N$ is an even number, we find an asymmetric transition probability of quantum transport between the initial node and its opposite node. This asymmetry depends on the precise values of $N$ and $m$. Finally, we study the transport processes in the presence of traps and find that the survival probability decays faster on networks of large $m$.

id: 0812.3457
title: Proposal for Direct, Local Measurement of Entanglement for Pure Bipartite Systems of Arbitrary Dimension
authors: Sang Min Lee, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3457
abstract: Based on the complementarity relation between entanglement of a composite system and the purity of a subsystem, we propose a simple method to measure the amount of entanglement. The method can be applied to a bipartite system in a pure state of any arbitrary dimension. It requires only single qudit rotations and straightforward probability measurements performed on one of the subsystems, and can thus be easily implemented experimentally using linear optical devices.

id: 0812.3510
title: Hamiltonian tomography in an access-limited setting without state initialization
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 187203 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3510
abstract: We propose a scheme for the determination of the coupling parameters in a chain of interacting spins. This requires only time-resolved measurements over a single particle, simple data post-processing and no state initialization or prior knowledge of the state of the chain. The protocol fits well into the context of quantum-dynamics characterization and is efficient even when the spin-chain is affected by general dissipative and dephasing channels. We illustrate the performance of the scheme by analyzing explicit examples and discuss possible extensions.

id: 0812.3533
title: X-entanglement of PDC photon pairs
authors: E. Brambilla, L. Caspani, O. Jedrkiewicz, L. A. Lugiato, A. Gatti
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3533
abstract: We investigate the spatio-temporal structure of the bi-photon entanglement in parametric down-conversion (PDC) and we demonstrate its non-factorable X-shaped geometry. Such a structure gives access to the ultra-broad bandwidth of PDC, and can be exploited to achieve a bi-photon temporal localization in the femtosecond range. This extreme localization is connected to our ability to resolve the photon positions in the source near-field. The non factorability opens the possibility of tailoring the temporal entanglement by acting on the spatial degrees of freedom of twin photons.

id: 0812.3546
title: Sudden death and sudden birth of entanglement in common structured reservoirs
authors: L. Mazzola, S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, K.-A. Suominen, B. M. Garraway
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3546
abstract: We study the exact entanglement dynamics of two qubits in a common structured reservoir. We demonstrate that, for certain classes of entangled states, entanglement sudden death occurs, while for certain initially factorized states, entanglement sudden birth takes place. The backaction of the non-Markovian reservoir is responsible for revivals of entanglement after sudden death has occurred, and also for periods of disentanglement following entanglement sudden birth.

id: 0812.3561
title: A classical explanation of quantization
authors: Gerhard Groessing, Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Herbert Schwabl
comments: 20 pages; version accepted for publication in Foundations of Physics
journal: Found. Phys. 41, 9 (2011), 1437-1453
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3561
abstract: In the context of our recently developed emergent quantum mechanics, and, in particular, based on an assumed sub-quantum thermodynamics, the necessity of energy quantization as originally postulated by Max Planck is explained by means of purely classical physics. Moreover, under the same premises, also the energy spectrum of the quantum mechanical harmonic oscillator is derived. Essentially, Planck's constant h is shown to be indicative of a particle's "zitterbewegung" and thus of a fundamental angular momentum. The latter is identified with quantum mechanical spin, a residue of which is thus present even in the non-relativistic Schroedinger theory.

id: 0812.3597
title: How Colors Influence Numbers: Photon Statistics of Parametric Downconversion
authors: Wolfgang Mauerer, Malte Avenhaus, Wolfram Helwig, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 4 {pages, figures}
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3597
abstract: Parametric downconversion (PDC) is a technique of ubiquitous experimental significance in the production of non-classical, photon-number correlated twin beams. Standard theory of PDC as a two-mode squeezing process predicts and homodyne measurements observe a thermal photon number distribution per beam. Recent experiments have obtained conflicting distributions. In this paper, we explain the observation by an a-priori theoretical model solely based on directly accessible physical quantities. We compare our predictions with experimental data and find excellent agreement.

id: 0812.3607
title: Symmetric extension in two-way quantum key distribution
authors: Geir Ove Myhr, Joseph M. Renes, Andrew C. Doherty, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures; v2: published version, hyperlinked references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042329 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3607
abstract: We introduce symmetric extensions of bipartite quantum states as a tool for analyzing protocols that distill secret key from quantum correlations. Whether the correlations are coming from a prepare-and-measure quantum key distribution scheme or from an entanglement-based scheme, the protocol has to produce effective states without a symmetric extension in order to succeed. By formulating the symmetric extension problem as a semidefinite program, we solve the problem for Bell-diagonal states. Applying this result to the six-state and BB84 schemes, we show that for the entangled states that cannot be distilled by current key distillation procedures, the failure can be understood in terms of a failure to break a symmetric extension.

id: 0812.3660
title: Alkaline-Earth-Metal Atoms as Few-Qubit Quantum Registers
authors: Alexey V. Gorshkov, Ana Maria Rey, Andrew J. Daley, Martin M. Boyd, Jun Ye, Peter Zoller, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. V2: as published in Phys. Rev. Lett.. Intro modified to properly acknowledge Phys. Rev. A 72, 052330 (2005). Detection section modified to make it clear that it is not necessary to go to the Paschen-Back regime if one uses off-resonant detection. Reference list modified
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 110503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3660
abstract: We propose and analyze a novel approach to quantum information processing, in which multiple qubits can be encoded and manipulated using electronic and nuclear degrees of freedom associated with individual alkaline-earth atoms trapped in an optical lattice. Specifically, we describe how the qubits within each register can be individually manipulated and measured with sub-wavelength optical resolution. We also show how such few-qubit registers can be coupled to each other in optical superlattices via conditional tunneling to form a scalable quantum network. Finally, potential applications to quantum computation and precision measurements are discussed.

id: 0812.3667
title: Spectrum conditions for symmetric extendible states
authors: Geir Ove Myhr, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062307 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3667
abstract: We analyze bipartite quantum states that admit a symmetric extension. Any such state can be decomposed into a convex combination of states that allow a _pure_ symmetric extension. A necessary condition for a state to admit a pure symmetric extension is that the spectra of the local and global density matrices are equal. This condition is also sufficient for two qubits, but not for any larger systems. Using this condition we present a conjectured necessary and sufficient condition for a two qubit state to admit symmetric extension, which we prove in some special cases. The results from symmetric extension carry over to degradable and anti-degradable channels and we use this to prove that all degradable channels with qubit output have a qubit environment.

id: 0812.3675
title: Space-Efficient Simulation of Quantum Computers
authors: Michael P. Frank, Uwe H. Meyer-Baese, Irinel Chiorescu, Liviu Oniciuc, Robert A. van Engelen
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, author reprint of final submitted manuscript
journal: Proceedings ACM-SE 47 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3675
abstract: Traditional algorithms for simulating quantum computers on classical ones require an exponentially large amount of memory, and so typically cannot simulate general quantum circuits with more than about 30 or so qubits on a typical PC-scale platform with only a few gigabytes of main memory. However, more memory-efficient simulations are possible, requiring only polynomial or even linear space in the size of the quantum circuit being simulated. In this paper, we describe one such technique, which was recently implemented at FSU in the form of a C++ program called SEQCSim, which we releasing publicly. We also discuss the potential benefits of this simulation in quantum computing research and education, and outline some possible directions for further progress.

id: 0812.3689
title: Dicke-Type Energy Level Crossings in Cavity-Induced Atom Cooling: Another Superradiant Cooling
authors: Masao Hirokawa
comments: 15 pages; 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3689
abstract: This paper is devoted to energy-spectral analysis for the system of a two-level atom coupled with photons in a cavity. It is shown that the Dicke-type energy level crossings take place when the atom-cavity interaction of the system undergoes changes between the weak coupling regime and the strong one. Using the phenomenon of the crossings we develop the idea of cavity-induced atom cooling proposed by the group of Ritsch, and we lay mathematical foundations of a possible mechanism for another superradiant cooling in addition to that proposed by Domokos and Ritsch. The process of our superradiant cooling can function well by cavity decay and by control of the position of the atom, at least in (mathematical) theory, even if there is neither atomic absorption nor atomic emission of photons.

id: 0812.3694
title: On continuous variable quantum algorithms for oracle identification problems
authors: Mark Adcock, Peter Hoyer, Barry C. Sanders
comments: RevTeX4, 15 pages with 10 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 11: 103035 (24 pp.), 21 October 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3694
abstract: We establish a framework for oracle identification problems in the continuous variable setting, where the stated problem necessarily is the same as in the discrete variable case, and continuous variables are manifested through a continuous representation in an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space. We apply this formalism to the Deutsch-Jozsa problem and show that, due to an uncertainty relation between the continuous representation and its Fourier-transform dual representation, the corresponding Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm is probabilistic hence forbids an exponential speed-up, contrary to a previous claim in the literature.

id: 0812.3695
title: Tripartite entanglement versus tripartite nonlocality in 3-qubit GHZ-class states
authors: S. Ghose, N. Sinclair, S. Debnath, P. Rungta, R. Stock
comments: Minor revisions, published version
journal: Physical Review Letters 102, 250404 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3695
abstract: We analyze the relationship between tripartite entanglement and genuine tripartite nonlocality for 3-qubit pure states in the GHZ class. We consider a family of states known as the generalized GHZ states and derive an analytical expression relating the 3-tangle, which quantifies tripartite entanglement, to the Svetlichny inequality, which is a Bell-type inequality that is violated only when all three qubits are nonlocally correlated. We show that states with 3-tangle less than 1/2 do not violate the Svetlichny inequality. On the other hand, a set of states known as the maximal slice states do violate the Svetlichny inequality, and exactly analogous to the two-qubit case, the amount of violation is directly related to the degree of tripartite entanglement. We discuss further interesting properties of the generalized GHZ and maximal slice states.

id: 0812.3696
title: Cavity-induced giant Kerr nonlinearities in a driven V-type atom
authors: Rong Tan, Gao-xiang Li, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 17 pages 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 (2009) 055507
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3696
abstract: We discuss a simple and experimentally realizable model for creation of enhanced Kerr nonlinearities accompanied by vanishing absorption. The model involves a V-type atom subjected to a strong drive laser, a weak probe laser and coupled to a single-mode cavity field. Working in the bad-cavity limit, we find that the simultaneous coupling of the cavity field to both atomic transitions creates a coherence between the transitions and thus can lead to quantum interference effects. We investigate the influences of the cavity field frequency, the cavity field-atom coupling constants and the atomic decay constants on the linear and the third-order (Kerr) nonlinear susceptibilities. We predict giant Kerr nonlinearities with vanishing absorption and attribute this effect to the combination of the Purcell effect and the cavity-induced quantum interference.

id: 0812.3701
title: Is a rubidium cell with long decay time always useful for generating a non-classical photon pair?
authors: Qun-Feng Chen, Xiao-Song Lu, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 3 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3701
abstract: We experimentally find an interesting and unexpected thing: a rubidium cell with long decay time can not be used to generate a non-classical correlated photon pair via the D2 transition of $^{87}$Rb using four-wave mixing configuration [Opt. Express {\bf 16}, 21708 (2008)]. In this work, we give a detail theoretical analysis on the EIT of hot $^{87}$Rb with different ground decay time, which shows a probable reason why a rubidium cell with long decay time is not a useful candidate for preparation of a non-classical photon pair via the D2 transition. The simulations agree well with the experimental results. We believe our find is very instructive to such kind of research.

id: 0812.3724
title: Markov triplets on CCR-algebras
authors: Anna Jencova, Denes Petz, Jozsef Pitrik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3724
abstract: The paper contains a detailed computation about the algebra of canonical commutation relation, the representation of the Weyl unitaries, the quasi-free states and their von Neumann entropy. The Markov triplet is defined by constant entropy increase. The Markov property of a quasi-free state is described by the representing block matrix. The proof is based on results on the statistical sufficiency in the quantum case. The relation to classical Gaussian Markov triplets is also described.

id: 0812.3736
title: Two destructive effects of decoherence on Bell inequality violation
authors: Fedor Levkovich-Maslyuk
comments: v2: added results for decoherence due to interactions of both particles + minor changes; v3: minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 054101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3736
abstract: We consider a system of two spin-1/2 particles, initially in an entangled Bell state. If one of the particles is interacting with an environment (e.g. a collection of N independent spins), the two-particle system undergoes decoherence. Using a simple model of decoherence, we show that this process has two consequences. First, the maximal amount by which the CHSH inequality is violated decays to zero. Second, the set of directions of measurement for which the inequality is violated is reduced in the course of decoherence. The volume of that set is bounded above by C|r|^2, where r is the decoherence factor. We obtain similar results for the case when each of the two particles is in interaction with a separate environment.

id: 0812.3756
title: Application of the New Form of the Semiclassical Quantization Condition
authors: N. N. Trunov
comments: 6 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3756
abstract: We demonstrate how a certain new form of the quantization condition proposed earlier can be used outside the class of potentials for which this form ensures exact spectra. Taking this form as a base we get an improved interpolating condition for the potential wells with coinciding an + and - infinities asymptotical values. Accuracy of the above conditions is discussed.

id: 0812.3757
title: Experimental demonstration of the stability of Berry's phase for a spin-1/2 particle
authors: S. Filipp, J. Klepp, Y. Hasegawa, C. Plonka-Spehr, U. Schmidt, P. Geltenbort, H. Rauch
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:030404,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3757
abstract: The geometric phase has been proposed as a candidate for noise resilient coherent manipulation of fragile quantum systems. Since it is determined only by the path of the quantum state, the presence of noise fluctuations affects the geometric phase in a different way than the dynamical phase. We have experimentally tested the robustness of Berry's geometric phase for spin-1/2 particles in a cyclically varying magnetic field. Using trapped polarized ultra-cold neutrons it is demonstrated that the geometric phase contributions to dephasing due to adiabatic field fluctuations vanish for long evolution times.

id: 0812.3766
title: Collapse and Revival of `Schr?dinger Cat' States
authors: C. E. A. Jarvis, D. A. Rodrigues, B. L. Gy?rffy, T. P. Spiller, A. J. Short, J. F. Annett
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. This is a heavily revised version of arXiv:0809.2025
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3766
abstract: We study the dynamics of the Jaynes-Cummings Model for an array of $N_q$ two level systems (or qubits) interacting with a quantized single mode electromagnetic cavity (or quantum bus). For an initial cavity coherent state $| \alpha >$ and the qubit system in a specified `basin of attraction' in its Hilbert space, we demonstrate the oscillation of a superposition of two macroscopic quantum states between the qubit system and the field mode. From the perspective of either the qubit or the field system, there is collapse and revival of a `Schr\"odinger Cat' state.

id: 0812.3770
title: Area laws and entanglement distillability of thermal states
authors: Daniel Cavalcanti, Alessandro Ferraro, Artur Garcia-Saez, Antonio Acin
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures. Contribution to proceedings of "Quantum Information and Many-Body Quantum Systems" Workshop, 26-31 Mar 2007, Pisa
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3770
abstract: We study the entanglement distillability properties of thermal states of many-body systems. Following the ideas presented in [D.Cavalcanti et al., arxiv:0705.3762], we first discuss the appearance of bound entanglement in those systems satisfying an entanglement area law. Then, we extend these results to other topologies, not necessarily satisfying an entanglement area law. We also study whether bound entanglement survives in the macroscopic limit of an infinite number of particles.

id: 0812.3772
title: Teleportation via maximally and non-maximally entangled mixed states
authors: S. Adhikari, S. Roy, B. Ghosh, A. S. Majumdar, N. Nayak
comments: 8 pages, Latex, 1 figure
journal: QIC 10, 0398 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3772
abstract: We study the efficacy of two-qubit mixed entangled states as resources for quantum teleportation. We first consider two maximally entangled mixed states, viz., the Werner state\cite{werner}, and a class of states introduced by Munro {\it et al.} \cite{munro}. We show that the Werner state when used as teleportation channel, gives rise to better average teleportation fidelity compared to the latter class of states for any finite value of mixedness. We then introduce a non-maximally entangled mixed state obtained as a convex combination of a two-qubit entangled mixed state and a two-qubit separable mixed state. It is shown that such a teleportation channel can outperform another non-maximally entangled channed, viz., the Werner derivative for a certain range of mixedness. Further, there exists a range of parameter values where the former state satisfies a Bell-CHSH type inequality and still performs better as a teleportation channel compared to the Werner derivative even though the latter violates the inequality.

id: 0812.3782
title: Distance dependence of entanglement generation via a bosonic heat bath
authors: Thomas Zell, Friedemann Queisser, Rochus Klesse
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, new title, final version to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3782
abstract: Within a generalized Caldeira-Leggett model we analyze the conditions under which a bosonic heat bath can entangle two microscopic quantum systems at a distance $r$. We find that the attainable entanglement is extremely distance-sensitive. Significant entanglement can only be achieved if the systems are within a {\em microscopic} distance that is of order of the cut-off wavelength $\lambda$ of the system-bath interaction. At larger distances the maximal entanglement is exponentially suppressed with a decay length of order $\lambda$. We conclude that entanglement generation via a heat bath is not suitable for entangling remote objects.

id: 0812.3791
title: Entanglement of qubits via a nonlinear resonator
authors: M. Kurpas, J. Dajka, E. Zipper
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3791
abstract: Coherent coupling of two qubits mediated by a nonlinear resonator is studied. It is shown that the amount of entanglement accessible in the evolution depends both on the strength of nonlinearity in the Hamiltonian of the resonator and on the initial preparation of the system. The created entanglement survives in the presence of decoherence.

id: 0812.3808
title: A dissipative scheme to approach the boundary of two-qubit entangled mixed states
authors: S. Campbell, M. Paternostro
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX4, Accepted for publication by Physics Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79,032314 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3808
abstract: We discuss the generation of states close to the boundary-family of maximally entangled mixed states as defined by the use of concurrence and linear entropy. The coupling of two qubits to a dissipation-affected bosonic mode is able to produce a bipartite state having, for all practical purposes, the entanglement and purity properties of one of such boundary states. We thoroughly study the effects that thermal and squeezed character of the bosonic mode have in such a process and we discuss tolerance to qubit phase-damping mechanisms. The non-demanding nature of the scheme makes it realizable in a matter-light based physical set-up, which we address in some details.

id: 0812.3812
title: Competing many-body interactions in systems of trapped ions
authors: A. Bermudez, D. Porras, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: RevTex4 file, color figures
journal: Rap. Comm. Phys. Rev. A 79, 060303 (R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3812
abstract: We propose and theoretically analyse an experimental configuration in which lasers induce 3-spin interactions between trapped ions.By properly choosing the intensities and frequencies of the lasers, 3-spin couplings may be dominant or comparable to 2-spin terms and magnetic fields. In this way, trapped ions can be used to study exotic quantum phases which do not have a counterpart in nature. We study the conditions for the validity of the effective 3-spin Hamiltonian, and predict qualitatively the quantum phase diagram of the system.

id: 0812.3818
title: Entanglement in open quantum dynamics
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; talk at the 15th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (CEWQO 2008), Belgrade, Serbia (2008); to appear in: Physica Scripta - Topical issue (2009)
journal: Physica Scripta, Topical Issue T135, 014033 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3818
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems based on completely positive quantum dynamical semigroups, we give a description of the continuous-variable entanglement for a system consisting of two independent harmonic oscillators interacting with a general environment. Using Peres-Simon necessary and sufficient criterion for separability of two-mode Gaussian states, we describe the generation and evolution of entanglement in terms of the covariance matrix for an arbitrary Gaussian input state. For some values of diffusion and dissipation coefficients describing the environment, the state keeps for all times its initial type: separable or entangled. In other cases, entanglement generation or entanglement collapse (entanglement sudden death) take place or even a periodic collapse and revival of entanglement. We show that for certain classes of environments the initial state evolves asymptotically to an entangled equilibrium bipartite state, while for other values of the coefficients describing the environment, the asymptotic state is separable. We calculate also the logarithmic negativity characterizing the degree of entanglement of the asymptotic state.

id: 0812.3819
title: Quantum ground-state cooling and tripartite entanglement with three-mode optoacoustic interactions
authors: Haixing Miao, Chunnong Zhao, Ju Li, David G. Blair
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 063801 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3819
abstract: We present a quantum analysis of three-mode optoacoustic parametric interactions in an optical cavity, in which two orthogonal transverse optical-cavity modes are coupled to one acoustic mode through radiation pressure. Due to the optimal frequency matching -- the frequency separation of two cavity modes is equal to the acoustic-mode frequency -- the carrier and sideband fields simultaneously resonate and coherently build up. This mechanism significantly enhances the optoacoustic couplings in the quantum regime. It allows exploration of quantum behavior of optoacoustic interactions in small-scale table-top experiments. We show explicitly that given an experimentally achievable parameter, three-mode scheme can realize quantum ground-state cooling of milligram scale mechanical oscillators and create robust stationary tripartite optoacoustic quantum entanglements.

id: 0812.3832
title: Distinguishability measures between ensembles of quantum states
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, John Calsamiglia
comments: 31 pages, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032336 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3832
abstract: A quantum ensemble $\{(p_x, \rho_x)\}$ is a set of quantum states each occurring randomly with a given probability. Quantum ensembles are necessary to describe situations with incomplete a priori information, such as the output of a stochastic quantum channel (generalized measurement), and play a central role in quantum communication. In this paper, we propose measures of distance and fidelity between two quantum ensembles. We consider two approaches: the first one is based on the ability to mimic one ensemble given the other one as a resource and is closely related to the Monge-Kantorovich optimal transportation problem, while the second one uses the idea of extended-Hilbert-space (EHS) representations which introduce auxiliary pointer (or flag) states. Both types of measures enjoy a number of desirable properties. The Kantorovich measures, albeit monotonic under deterministic quantum operations, are not monotonic under generalized measurements. In contrast, the EHS measures are. We present operational interpretations for both types of measures. We also show that the EHS fidelity between ensembles provides a novel interpretation of the fidelity between mixed states--the latter is equal to the maximum of the fidelity between all pure-state ensembles whose averages are equal to the mixed states being compared. We finally use the new measures to define distance and fidelity for stochastic quantum channels and positive operator-valued measures (POVMs). These quantities may be useful in the context of tomography of stochastic quantum channels and quantum detectors.

id: 0812.3844
title: Two-dimensional weakly interacting Bose gas: equation of state
authors: G.E. Astrakharchik, J. Boronat, J. Casulleras, I.L. Kurbakov, Yu.E. Lozovik
comments: New data points added at smaller densities. Correspondingly Table I, Figs. 1 and 2 are updated. Results by L. Pricoupenko (Ref [15]) are given in Table II. Comment [25] by Y. Castin is added. Minor changes in response to referee comments
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 051602(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3844
abstract: The equation of state of a weakly interacting two-dimensional Bose gas is studied at zero temperature by means of quantum Monte Carlo methods. Going down to as low densities as na^2 ~ 10^{-100} permits us for the first time to obtain agreement on beyond mean-field level between predictions of perturbative methods and direct many-body numerical simulation, thus providing an answer to the fundamental question of the equation of state of a two-dimensional dilute Bose gas in the universal regime (i.e. entirely described by the gas parameter na^2). We also show that the measure of the frequency of a breathing collective oscillation in a trap at very low densities can be used to test the universal equation of state of a two-dimensional Bose gas.

id: 0812.3907
title: Microfabricated Chip Traps for Ions
authors: J. M. Amini, J. Britton, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: To be included as a chapter in the forthcoming book "Atom Chips" edited by J. Reichel and V. Vuletic (to be published by WILEY-VCH)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3907
abstract: This submission is an introduction to microfabricated ion traps. We cover the basics of Paul traps, various geometries for realizing the traps, a number of design considerations, and, finally, a review of existing microfabricated traps.

id: 0812.3922
title: Optimal covariant quantum networks
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Proceedings of QCMC 2008, AIP Conf. Proc. 1110, 47 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3922
abstract: A sequential network of quantum operations is efficiently described by its quantum comb, a non-negative operator with suitable normalization constraints. Here we analyze the case of networks enjoying symmetry with respect to the action of a given group of physical transformations, introducing the notion of covariant combs and testers, and proving the basic structure theorems for these objects. As an application, we discuss the optimal alignment of reference frames (without pre-established common references) with multiple rounds of quantum communication, showing that i) allowing an arbitrary amount of classical communication does not improve the alignment, and ii) a single round of quantum communication is sufficient.

id: 0812.3959
title: Evolution of entanglement for quantum mixed states
authors: Chang-shui Yu, X X Yi, He-shan Song
comments: 6 pages and 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062330 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3959
abstract: A simple relation is introduced for concurrence to describe how much the entanglement of bipartite system is at least left if either (or both) subsystem undergoes an arbitrary physical process. This provides a lower bound for concurrence of mixed states (pure states are included) in contrast to the upper bound given by Konrad et al [Nature Physics \textbf{4}, 99 (2008)]. Our results are also suitable for a general high dimensional bipartite quantum systems.

id: 0812.3963
title: A simple method for the evaluation of the information content and complexity in atoms. A proposal for scalability
authors: C.P. Panos, N.S. Nikolaidis, K.Ch. Chatzisavvas, C.C. Tsouros
comments: Preprint, 25 pages, 15 figures, 1 Table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3963
abstract: We present a very simple method for the calculation of Shannon, Fisher, Onicescu and Tsallis entropies in atoms, as well as SDL and LMC complexity measures, as functions of the atomic number Z. Fractional occupation probabilities of electrons in atomic orbitals are employed, instead of the more complicated continuous electron probability densities in position and momentum spaces, used so far in the literature. Our main conclusions are compatible with the results of more sophisticated approaches and correlate fairly with experimental data. We obtain for the Tsallis entropic index the value q=1.031, which shows that atoms are very close to extensivity. A practical way towards scalability of the quantification of complexity for systems with more components than the atom is indicated. We also discuss the issue if the complexity of the electronic structure of atoms increases with Z. A Pair of Order-Disorder Indices (PODI), which can be introduced for any quantum many-body system, is evaluated in atoms. We conclude that "atoms are ordered systems, which do not grow in complexity as Z increases".

id: 0812.4048
title: Atomic quantum superposition state generation via optical probing
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Uffe V. Poulsen, Antonio Negretti, Klaus Molmer
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 023841 (2009) .
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4048
abstract: We analyze the performance of a protocol to prepare an atomic ensemble in a superposition of two macroscopically distinguishable states. The protocol relies on conditional measurements performed on a light field, which interacts with the atoms inside an optical cavity prior to detection, and we investigate cavity enhanced probing with continuous beams of both coherent and squeezed light. The stochastic master equations used in the analysis are expressed in terms of the Hamiltonian of the probed system and the interaction between the probed system and the probe field and are thus quite generally applicable.

id: 0812.4053
title: Memory for Light as a Quantum Process
authors: M. Lobino, C. Kupchak, E. Figueroa, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 102, 203601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4053
abstract: We report complete characterization of an optical memory based on electromagnetically induced transparency. We recover the superoperator associated with the memory, under two different working conditions, by means of a quantum process tomography technique that involves storage of coherent states and their characterization upon retrieval. In this way, we can predict the quantum state retrieved from the memory for any input, for example, the squeezed vacuum or the Fock state. We employ the acquired superoperator to verify the nonclassicality benchmark for the storage of a Gaussian distributed set of coherent states.

id: 0812.4061
title: Physical qubits from charged particles: IR divergences in quantum information
authors: J. Leon, E. Martin-Martinez
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX. Version 2: Some references updated
journal: Physical Review A 79, 052309 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4061
abstract: We consider soft photons effects (IR structure of QED) on the construction of physical qubits. Soft-photons appear when we build charged qubits from the asymptotic states of QED. This construction is necessary in order to include the effect of soft photons on entanglement measures. The nonexistence of free charged particles (due to the long range of QED interactions) lead us to question the sense of the very concept of free charged qubit. In this letter, using the "dressing" formalism, we build physical charged qubits from dressed fields which have the correct asymptotic behavior, are gauge invariant, their propagators have a particle pole structure and are free from infrared divergences. Finally, we discuss the impact of the soft corrections on the entanglement measures.

id: 0812.4067
title: Gapped Two-body Hamiltonian whose Unique Ground State is Universal for One-way Quantum Computation
authors: Xie Chen, Bei Zeng, Zhengcheng Gu, Beni Yoshida, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 220501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4067
abstract: Many-body entangled quantum states studied in condensed matter physics can be primary resources for quantum information, allowing any quantum computation to be realized using measurements alone, on the state. Such a universal state would be remarkably valuable, if only it were thermodynamically stable and experimentally accessible, by virtue of being the unique ground state of a physically reasonable Hamiltonian made of two-body, nearest neighbor interactions. We introduce such a state, composed of six-state particles on a hexagonal lattice, and describe a general method for analyzing its properties based on its projected entangled pair state representation.

id: 0812.4072
title: Qubit residence time measurements with a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: D.Sokolovski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4072
abstract: We show that an electrostatic qubit located near a Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in a symmetric double-well potential can be used to measure the duration the qubit has spent in one of its quantum states. The stronq, medium and weak measurement regimes are analysed and a new type of Zeno effect is discussed. The analogy between the residence and the traversal (tunnelling) times is highlighted.

id: 0812.4074
title: Effect of Landau-Zener tunneling by the varying sweeping rate of external field
authors: Jin-Bao Wang, Guo-Ping Tong
comments: 9pages,2figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4074
abstract: We study the effect of Landau-Zener (LZ) tunneling caused by the varying sweeping rate of external field, formulating and approximately solving the problem with many levels of the LZ tunneling rate. Comparing with the steadily vary about sweeping field, the LZ tunneling rate will be essentially changed because of the unsteady variation of the sweeping field in time. Thus could help us to make the particles with in lower states transit periodically to upper states within the finite time.

id: 0812.4095
title: The Bounded Anharmonic Oscillators: a simple approach
authors: F. Maiz, M. Nasr
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4095
abstract: We have developed a simple method to solve anharmonic oscillators equations. The idea of our method is mainly based on the partitioning of the potential curve into (n+1) small intervals, solving the Schr\"odinger equation in each subintervals, and writing the continuity conditions of each solutions at each subintervals boundary, which leads to the energy quantification condition, so to the energy levels, and finally, one can calculate the exact wave function associated to each energy level. Our method has been applied to three examples: the well-known square well, the bounded and unbounded harmonic oscillators, the Morse potential, and some anharmonic oscillators bounded by two infinite walls. Our method is more realistic, simpler, with high degree of accuracy, both satisfactory and not computationally complicated, and applicable for any forms of potential. Our results agree very well with the preceding ones.

id: 0812.4097
title: Strict Relationship: Potential - energy levels
authors: F. Maiz, M. Nasr
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4097
abstract: We have developed a new simple method to build the exact analytical expression of the eigenenergy as a function of the potential. The idea of our method is mainly based on the partitioning of the potential curve, solving the Schr\"odinger equation, realizing a discrete form of the energy quantification condition, and finally, deriving its integral form which permit to create a simple relation: Energy-potential. Our method has been applied to three examples: the well-known square well, the harmonic oscillators, and the Morse potential. Our non numerical method is more realistic, simpler, with high degree of accuracy, both satisfactory and not computationally complicated, and applicable for any forms of potential. Our results agree very well with the preceding ones.

id: 0812.4106
title: Spin-1/2 Heisenberg ladder: variation of entanglement and fidelity measures close to quantum critical points
authors: Amit Tribedi, Indrani Bose
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4106
abstract: We consider a two-chain, spin-1/2 antiferromagnetic Heisenberg spin ladder in an external magnetic field H. The spin ladder is known to undergo second order quantum phase transitions (QPTs) at two critical values, Hc1 and Hc2, of the magnetic field. There are now known examples of strongly coupled (rung exchange interaction much stronger than nearest-neighbour intrachain exchange interaction) organic ladder compounds in which QPTs have been experimentally observed. In this paper, we investigate whether well-known bipartite entanglement meaures like one-site von Neumann entropy, two-site von Neumann entropy and concurrence develop special features close to the quantum critical points. As suggested by an earlier theorem, the first derivatives of the measures with respect to magnetic field are expected to diverge as H tends to Hc1 and Hc2. Based on numerical diagonalization data and a mapping of the strongly-coupled ladder Hamiltonian onto the XXZ chain Hamiltonian, for which several analytical results are known, we find that the derivatives of the entanglement measures diverge as H tends to Hc2 but remain finite as H tend to Hc1. The reason for this discrepancy is analysed. We further calculate two recently proposed quantum information theoretic measures, the reduced fidelity and reduced fidelity susceptibility, and show that these measures provide appropriate signatures of the QPTs occuring at the critical points H=Hc1 and H=Hc2.

id: 0812.4118
title: Bohm's quantum potential and quantum force in superconductor
authors: A.V. Nikulov
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, the Invited talk was presented at the conference "Foundations of Probability and Physics-5" Vaxjo University, Sweden, August 24-27, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4118
abstract: The Bohm's quantum potential, introduced in 1952, and the quantum force in superconductor, introduced in 2001, allow to describe non-local force-free momentum transfer observed in the Ahronov-Bohm effects. Comparison of the Ahronov-Bohm effects in the two-slit interference experiment and in superconductor ring reveals fundamental difference between the Schrodinger wave function and the wave function describing macroscopic quantum phenomena. The Ginzburg-Landau wave function describing the superconductivity phenomenon can not collapse and an additional postulate, which was implied first by L.D. Landau, must be used for the description of macroscopic quantum phenomena. It is note that quantum principles and postulates should not be universal till the quantum formalism is only phenomenological theory but no description of an unique reality. A simple Gedankenexperiment is considered which challenges the universality of the Heisenberg uncertainty relation and the Bohr's complementarity principle.

id: 0812.4145
title: An explicit realization of fractional statistics in one dimension
authors: S. Sree Ranjani, P. K. Panigrahi, A. K. Kapoor, A. Khare
comments: 12 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 324, 1176 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4145
abstract: An explicit realization of anyons is provided, using the three-body Calogero model. The fact that in the coupling domain, $-1/4<g<0$, the angular spectrum can have a band structure, leads to the manifestation of the desired phase in the wave function, under the exchange of the paticles. Concurrently, the momentum corresponding to the angular variable is quantized, exactly akin to the relative angular momentum quantization in two dimensional anyonic system

id: 0812.4167
title: On the relation between Schmidt coefficients and entanglement
authors: Paolo Aniello, Cosmo Lupo
comments: 
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 16, 127 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4167
abstract: We consider the Schmidt decomposition of a bipartite density operator induced by the Hilbert-Schmidt scalar product, and we study the relation between the Schmidt coefficients and entanglement. First, we define the Schmidt equivalence classes of bipartite states. Each class consists of all the density operators (in a given bipartite Hilbert space) sharing the same set of Schmidt coefficients. Next, we review the role played by the Schmidt coefficients with respect to the separability criterion known as the `realignment' or `computable cross norm' criterion; in particular, we highlight the fact that this criterion relies only on the Schmidt equivalence class of a state. Then, the relevance -- with regard to the characterization of entanglement -- of the `symmetric polynomials' in the Schmidt coefficients and a new family of separability criteria that generalize the realignment criterion are discussed. Various interesting open problems are proposed.

id: 0812.4203
title: Scalability of GHZ and random-state entanglement in the presence of decoherence
authors: Leandro Aolita, Daniel Cavalcanti, Antonio Ac¨ªn, Alejo Salles, Markus Tiersch, Andreas Buchleitner, Fernando de Melo
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032322 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4203
abstract: We derive analytical upper bounds for the entanglement of generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states coupled to locally depolarizing and dephasing environments, and for local thermal baths of arbitrary temperature. These bounds apply for any convex quantifier of entanglement, and exponential entanglement decay with the number of constituent particles is found. The bounds are tight for depolarizing and dephasing channels. We also show that randomly generated initial states tend to violate these bounds, and that this discrepancy grows with the number of particles.

id: 0812.4214
title: Minimal classical communication and measurement complexity for quantum information splitting
authors: Zhan-jun Zhang, Chi-Yee Cheung
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B 41 (2008) 015503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4214
abstract: We present two quantum information splitting schemes using respectively tripartite GHZ and asymmetric W states as quantum channels. We show that, if the secret state is chosen from a special ensemble and known to the sender (Alice), then she can split and distribute it to the receivers Bob and Charlie by performing only a single-qubit measurement and broadcasting an one-cbit message. It is clear that no other schemes could possibly achieve the same goal with simpler measurement and less classical communication. In comparison, existing schemes work for arbitrary quantum states which need not be known to Alice, however she is required to perform a two-qubit Bell measurement and communicate a two-cbit message. Hence there is a trade off between flexibility and measurement complexity plus classical resource. In situations where our schemes are applicable, they will greatly reduce the measurement complexity and at the same time cut the communication overhead by one half.

id: 0812.4246
title: Unconditional security proof of long-distance continuous-variable quantum key distribution with discrete modulation
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Philippe Grangier
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 180504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4246
abstract: We present a continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocol combining a discrete modulation and reverse reconciliation. This protocol is proven unconditionally secure and allows the distribution of secret keys over long distances, thanks to a reverse reconciliation scheme efficient at very low signal-to-noise ratio.

id: 0812.4262
title: Degeneracy Breaking of Hydrogen Atom
authors: Agung Trisetyarso, Pantur Silaban
comments: 6 pages, Master Thesis (2002)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4262
abstract: The three dimensional rotation group, SO(3), is a symmetry group of the normal hydrogen atom. Each reducible representation of this group can be associated with a degenerate energy level. If this atom is placed in an external magnetic field, the interaction between the orbital magnetic moment with this field will lead to a symmetry breaking where the symmetry group of the atom is a new group distinct from the SO(3) group. This phenomenon describes the normal Zeeman effect, where a degenerate energy level splits into several new energy levels. It is explicitly shown that each of the new energy levels can be associated with an irreducible representation of the new symmetry group.

id: 0812.4301
title: Quantum key distribution secure against the efficiency loophole
authors: Xiongfeng Ma, Tobias Moroder, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4301
abstract: An efficiency-loophole-free quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme is proposed, which involves no hardware change but a modification in the data post-processing step. The scheme applies to a generic class of detection systems which allow correlations between the detection efficiency and the outcomes. We study the system transmittance and the detection error rate that allow implementing this scheme. We also consider the case that a quantum memory is used to boost the performance and investigate the criteria of the readout probability. The simulation result shows that the lowest tolerable system transmittance (readout probability) is 50%, while the necessary efficiency for an efficiency-loophole-free Bell's inequality test is 82.8%.

id: 0812.4314
title: Improvement of continuous-variable quantum key distribution systems by using optical preamplifiers
authors: Simon Fossier, Eleni Diamanti, Thierry Debuisschert, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Philippe Grangier
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, submitted to J. Phys. B (special issue on Few Atoms Optics)
journal: J. Phys. B 42, 114014 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4314
abstract: Continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocols, based on Gaussian modulation of the quadratures of coherent states, have been implemented in recent experiments. A present limitation of such systems is the finite efficiency of the detectors, which can in principle be compensated for by the use of classical optical preamplifiers. Here we study this possibility in detail, by deriving the modified secret key generation rates when an optical parametric amplifier is placed at the output of the quantum channel. After presenting a general set of security proofs, we show that the use of preamplifiers does compensate for all the imperfections of the detectors when the amplifier is optimal in terms of gain and noise. Imperfect amplifiers can also enhance the system performance, under conditions which are generally satisfied in practice.

id: 0812.4323
title: Quantum Process Tomography via L1-norm Minimization
authors: Robert L. Kosut
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, corrected typos, minor content clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4323
abstract: For an initially well designed but imperfect quantum information system, the process matrix is almost sparse in an appropriate basis. Existing theory and associated computational methods (L1-norm minimization) for reconstructing sparse signals establish conditions under which the sparse signal can be perfectly reconstructed from a very limited number of measurements (resources). Although a direct extension to quantum process tomography of the L1-norm minimization theory has not yet emerged, the numerical examples presented here, which apply L1-norm minimization to quantum process tomography, show a significant reduction in resources to achieve a desired estimation accuracy over existing methods.

id: 0812.4362
title: Coupling between scattering channels with SUSY transformations for equal thresholds
authors: Andrey M Pupasov, Boris F Samsonov, Jean-Marc Sparenberg, Daniel Baye
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 195303, (19pp), 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4362
abstract: Supersymmetric (SUSY) transformations of the multi-channel Schr\"odinger equation with equal thresholds and arbitrary partial waves in all channels are studied. The structures of the transformation function and the superpotential are analyzed. Relations between Jost and scattering matrices of superpartner potentials are obtained. In particular, we show that a special type of SUSY transformation allows us to introduce a coupling between scattering channels starting from a potential with an uncoupled scattering matrix. The possibility for this coupling to be trivial is discussed. We show that the transformation introduces bound and virtual states with a definite degeneracy at the factorization energy. A detailed study of the potential and scattering matrices is given for the $2\times 2$ case. The possibility of inverting coupled-channel scattering data by such a SUSY transformation is demonstrated by several examples ($s-s$, $s-p$ and $s-d$ partial waves).

id: 0812.4381
title: Entanglement and the Mott insulator - superfluid phase transition in bosonic atom chains
authors: R. J. Costa Farias, M. C. de Oliveira
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4381
abstract: We analyze the developing of bipartite and multipartite entanglement through the Mott-Insulator - Superfluid quantum phase transition. Starting from a Mott insulator state, where a filling factor $\nu = N/M = 1$ per lattice site is considered, we derive an exact expression for a completely connected graph configuration of bosons and show how bipartite and multipartite entanglement signals the phase transition predicted in previous works. Moreover, through the transition bipartite entanglement shows to be monogamous.

id: 0812.4387
title: Generalized Purity and Quantum Phase Transition for Bose-Einstein condensates in a Symmetric Double Well
authors: Thiago F. Viscondi, K. Furuya, M.C. de Oliveira
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013610 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4387
abstract: The generalized purity is employed for investigating the process of coherence loss and delocalization of the Q-function in the Bloch sphere of a two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate in a symmetrical double well with cross-collision. Quantum phase transition of the model is signaled by the generalized purity as a function of an appropriate parameter of the Hamiltonian and the number of particles (N). A power law dependence of the critical parameter with N is derived.

id: 0812.4391
title: Temporal and Spatial Dependence of Quantum Entanglement from a Field Theory Perspective
authors: Shih-Yuin Lin, B. L. Hu
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures. Minor changes. Some plots are re-expressed in logarithmic negativity. No change in the overall results
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:085020,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4391
abstract: We consider the entanglement dynamics between two Unruh-DeWitt detectors at rest separated at a distance $d$. This simple model when analyzed properly in quantum field theory shows many interesting facets and helps to dispel some misunderstandings of entanglement dynamics. We find that there is spatial dependence of quantum entanglement in the stable regime due to the phase difference of vacuum fluctuations the two detectors experience, together with the interference of the mutual influences from the backreaction of one detector on the other. When two initially entangled detectors are still outside each other's light cone, the entanglement oscillates in time with an amplitude dependent on spatial separation $d$. When the two detectors begin to have causal contact, an interference pattern of the relative degree of entanglement (compared to those at spatial infinity) develops a parametric dependence on $d$. The detectors separated at those $d$ with a stronger relative degree of entanglement enjoy longer disentanglement times. In the cases with weak coupling and large separation, the detectors always disentangle at late times. For sufficiently small $d$, the two detectors can have residual entanglement even if they initially were in a separable state, while for $d$ a little larger, there could be transient entanglement created by mutual influences. However, we see no evidence of entanglement creation outside the light cone for initially separable states.

id: 0812.4423
title: A quantum algorithm to solve nonlinear differential equations
authors: Sarah K. Leyton, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4423
abstract: In this paper we describe a quantum algorithm to solve sparse systems of nonlinear differential equations whose nonlinear terms are polynomials. The algorithm is nondeterministic and its expected resource requirements are polylogarithmic in the number of variables and exponential in the integration time. The best classical algorithm runs in a time scaling linearly with the number of variables, so this provides an exponential improvement. The algorithm is built on two subroutines: (i) a quantum algorithm to implement a nonlinear transformation of the probability amplitudes of an unknown quantum state; and (ii) a quantum implementation of Euler's method.

id: 0812.4428
title: A Chebychev propagator for inhomogeneous Schr?dinger equations
authors: Mamadou Ndong, Hillel Tal-Ezer, Ronnie Kosloff, Christiane P. Koch
comments: explicit description of algorithm and two appendices added version accepted by J Chem Phys
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 130, 124108 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4428
abstract: We present a propagation scheme for time-dependent inhomogeneous Schr\"odinger equations which occur for example in optimal control theory or in reactive scattering calculations. A formal solution based on a polynomial expansion of the inhomogeneous term is derived. It is subjected to an approximation in terms of Chebychev polynomials. Different variants for the inhomogeneous propagator are demonstrated and applied to two examples from optimal control theory. Convergence behavior and numerical efficiency are analyzed.

id: 0812.4449
title: Extra Shared Entanglement Reduces Memory Demand in Quantum Convolutional Coding
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Todd A. Brun
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 79, 032313 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4449
abstract: We show how extra entanglement shared between sender and receiver reduces the memory requirements for a general entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional code. We construct quantum convolutional codes with good error-correcting properties by exploiting the error-correcting properties of an arbitrary basic set of Pauli generators. The main benefit of this particular construction is that there is no need to increase the frame size of the code when extra shared entanglement is available. Then there is no need to increase the memory requirements or circuit complexity of the code because the frame size of the code is directly related to these two code properties. Another benefit, similar to results of previous work in entanglement-assisted convolutional coding, is that we can import an arbitrary classical quaternary code for use as an entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional code. The rate and error-correcting properties of the imported classical code translate to the quantum code. We provide an example that illustrates how to import a classical quaternary code for use as an entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional code. We finally show how to "piggyback" classical information to make use of the extra shared entanglement in the code.

id: 0812.4453
title: Entanglement and permutational symmetry
authors: Geza Toth, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 5 pages, no figures, revtex4; v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 170503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4453
abstract: We study the separability of permutationally symmetric quantum states. We show that for bipartite symmetric systems most of the relevant entanglement criteria coincide. However, we provide a method to generate examples of bound entangled states in symmetric systems, for the bipartite and the multipartite case. These states shed some new light on the nature of bound entanglement.

id: 0812.4502
title: Weak Values with Decoherence
authors: Yutaka Shikano, Akio Hosoya
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 025304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4502
abstract: The weak value of an observable is experimentally accessible by weak measurements as theoretically analyzed by Aharonov et al. and recently experimentally demonstrated. We introduce a weak operator associated with the weak values and give a general framework of quantum operations to the W operator in parallel with the Kraus representation of the completely positive map for the density operator. The decoherence effect is also investigated in terms of the weak measurement by a shift of a probe wave function of continuous variable. As an application, we demonstrate how the geometric phase is affected by the bit flip noise.

id: 0812.4505
title: Coherent interference effects in a nano-assembled optical cavity-QED system
authors: Paul E. Barclay, Charles Santori, Kai-Mei Fu, Raymond G. Beausoleil, Oskar Painter
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17, Issue 10, pp. 8081-8097 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4505
abstract: Diamond nanocrystals containing NV color centers are positioned with 100-nanometer-scale accuracy in the near-field of a high-Q SiO2 microdisk cavity using a fiber taper. The cavity modified nanocrystal photoluminescence is studied, with Fano-like quantum interference features observed in the far-field emission spectrum. A quantum optical model of the system is proposed, from which the NV- zero phonon line coherent coupling rate to the microdisk is estimated to be 28 MHz for a nearly optimally placed nanocrystal.

id: 0812.4511
title: Embedding classical into quantum computation
authors: Richard Jozsa
comments: Invited paper for MMICS 2008 - Thomas Beth memorial conference
journal: LNCS 5393 Beth Festschrift, J Calmet, W. Geiselmann, J. Mueller-Quade (Eds.), pp43-49 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4511
abstract: We describe a simple formalism for generating classes of quantum circuits that are classically efficiently simulatable and show that the efficient simulation of Clifford circuits (Gottesman-Knill theorem) and of matchgate circuits (Valiant's theorem) appear as two special cases. Viewing these simulatable classes as subsets of the space of all quantum computations, we may consider minimal extensions that suffice to regain full quantum computational power, which provides an approach to exploring the efficacy of quantum over classical computation.

id: 0812.4514
title: Quantum generalized Reed-Solomon codes: Unified framework for quantum MDS codes
authors: Zhuo Li, Li-Juan Xing, Xin-Mei Wang
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 2008, 77, 012308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4514
abstract: We construct a new family of quantum MDS codes from classical generalized Reed-Solomon codes and derive the necessary and sufficient condition under which these quantum codes exist. We also give code bounds and show how to construct them analytically. We find that existing quantum MDS codes can be unified under these codes in the sense that when a quantum MDS code exists, then a quantum code of this type with the same parameters also exists. Thus as far as is known at present, they are the most important family of quantum MDS codes.

id: 0812.4566
title: An electron Talbot interferometer
authors: Benjamin J. McMorran, Alexander D. Cronin
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, updated version with abstract
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4566
abstract: The Talbot effect, in which a wave imprinted with transverse periodicity reconstructs itself at regular intervals, is a diffraction phenomenon that occurs in many physical systems. Here we present the first observation of the Talbot effect for electron de Broglie waves behind a nanofabricated transmission grating. This was thought to be difficult because of Coulomb interactions between electrons and nanostructure gratings, yet we were able to map out the entire near-field interference pattern, the "Talbot carpet", behind a grating. We did this using a Talbot interferometer, in which Talbot interference fringes from one grating are moire'-filtered by a 2nd grating. This arrangement has served for optical, X-ray, and atom interferometry, but never before for electrons. Talbot interferometers are particularly sensitive to distortions of the incident wavefronts, and to illustrate this we used our Talbot interferometer to measure the wavefront curvature of a weakly focused electron beam. Here we report how this wavefront curvature demagnified the Talbot revivals, and we discuss applications for electron Talbot interferometers.

id: 0812.4578
title: Robust and Reliable Transfer of a Quantum State Through a Spin Chain
authors: Zhao-Ming Wang, Mark S. Byrd, Bin Shao, Jian Zou
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 80, 022330(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4578
abstract: We present several protocols for reliable quantum state transfer through a spin chain. We use a simple two-spin encoding to achieve a remarkably high fidelity transfer for an arbitrary quantum state. The fidelity of the transfer also decreases very slowly with increasing chain length. We find that we can also increase the reliability by taking advantage of a local memory and/or confirm transfer using a second spin-chain.

id: 0812.4612
title: Tri-partite Entanglement Witnesses and Sudden Death
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 7 pages, 4 (composite) figures, accepted PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012318 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4612
abstract: I explore entanglement dynamics in a three qubit system comparing the ability of entanglement witnesses to detect tri-partite entanglement to the phenomenon of entanglement sudden death (ESD). Using a system subject to dephasing I invoke entanglement witnesses to detect tri-partite GHZ and W-type entanglement and compare the evolution of their detection capabilites with the evolution of the negativity, bi-partite concurrence, and tri-partite negativity. Interestingly, I find a state in which there is no concurrence or tri-partite negativity but there is entanglement. Finally, I utilize a three qubit quantum error correction (QEC) code to address how ESD affects the abilities of quantum error correction.

id: 0812.4614
title: I, Quantum Robot: Quantum Mind control on a Quantum Computer
authors: Paola Zizzi
comments: 13 pages; revised version for publication, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Robotics (cs.RO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4614
abstract: The logic which describes quantum robots is not orthodox quantum logic, but a deductive calculus which reproduces the quantum tasks (computational processes, and actions) taking into account quantum superposition and quantum entanglement. A way toward the realization of intelligent quantum robots is to adopt a quantum metalanguage to control quantum robots. A physical implementation of a quantum metalanguage might be the use of coherent states in brain signals.

id: 0812.4621
title: Feedback control on geometric phase in dissipative two-level systems
authors: H. Y. Sun, P. L. Shu, C. Li, X. X. Yi
comments: 4 pages,2 figures
journal: PRA 79,022119 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4621
abstract: The effect of feedback on a two-level dissipative system is studied in this paper. The results show that it is possible to control the phase in the open system even if its state can not be manipulated from an arbitrary initial one to an arbitrary final one. The dependence of the geometric phase on the control parameters is calculated and discussed.

id: 0812.4622
title: Toric-boson model: Toward a topological quantum memory at finite temperature
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Claudio Castelnovo, Claudio Chamon
comments: updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 245122 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4622
abstract: We discuss the existence of stable topological quantum memory at finite temperature. At stake here is the fundamental question of whether it is, in principle, possible to store quantum information for macroscopic times without the intervention from the external world, that is, without error correction. We study the toric code in two dimensions with an additional bosonic field that couples to the defects, in the presence of a generic environment at finite temperature: the toric-boson model. Although the coupling constants for the bare model are not finite in the thermodynamic limit, the model has a finite spectrum. We show that in the topological phase, there is a finite temperature below which open strings are confined and therefore the lifetime of the memory can be made arbitrarily (polynomially) long in system size. The interaction with the bosonic field yields a long-range attractive force between the end points of open strings but leaves closed strings and topological order intact.

id: 0812.4625
title: Entanglement in eight-qubit graph states
authors: Adan Cabello, Antonio J. Lopez-Tarrida, Pilar Moreno, Jose R. Portillo
comments: REVTeX4, 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 2219
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4625
abstract: Any 8-qubit graph state belongs to one of the 101 equivalence classes under local unitary operations within the Clifford group. For each of these classes we obtain a representative which requires the minimum number of controlled-Z gates for its preparation, and calculate the Schmidt measure for the 8-partite split, and the Schmidt ranks for all bipartite splits. This results into an extension to 8 qubits of the classification of graph states proposed by Hein, Eisert, and Briegel [Phys. Rev. A 69, 062311 (2004)].

id: 0812.4631
title: Generation of pure continuous-variable entangled cluster states of four separate atomic ensembles in a ring cavity
authors: Gao-xiang Li, Sha-sha Ke, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033827 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4631
abstract: A practical scheme is proposed for creation of continuous variable entangled cluster states of four distinct atomic ensembles located inside a high-finesse ring cavity. The scheme does not require a set of external input squeezed fields, a network of beam splitters and measurements. It is based on nothing else than the dispersive interaction between the atomic ensembles and the cavity mode and a sequential application of laser pulses of a suitably adjusted amplitudes and phases. We show that the sequential laser pulses drive the atomic "field modes" into pure squeezed vacuum states. The state is then examined against the requirement to belong to the class of cluster states. We illustrate the method on three examples of the entangled cluster states, the so-called continuous variable linear, square and T-type cluster states.

id: 0812.4635
title: Optimal quantum multi-parameter estimation and application to dipole- and exchange-coupled qubits
authors: Kevin C. Young, Mohan Sarovar, Robert Kosut, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 13 pages. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 79, 062301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4635
abstract: We consider the problem of quantum multi-parameter estimation with experimental constraints and formulate the solution in terms of a convex optimization. Specifically, we outline an efficient method to identify the optimal strategy for estimating multiple unknown parameters of a quantum process and apply this method to a realistic example. The example is two electron spin qubits coupled through the dipole and exchange interactions with unknown coupling parameters -- explicitly, the position vector relating the two qubits and the magnitude of the exchange interaction are unknown. This coupling Hamiltonian generates a unitary evolution which, when combined with arbitrary single-qubit operations, produces a universal set of quantum gates. However, the unknown parameters must be known precisely to generate high-fidelity gates. We use the Cram\'er-Rao bound on the variance of a point estimator to construct the optimal series of experiments to estimate these free parameters, and present a complete analysis of the optimal experimental configuration. Our method of transforming the constrained optimal parameter estimation problem into a convex optimization is powerful and widely applicable to other systems.

id: 0812.4682
title: Topics in quantum information and the theory of open quantum systems
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov
comments: Ph.D. thesis, University of Southern California, 2008, 256 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4682
abstract: This thesis examines seven topics in the areas of deterministic open-quantum-system dynamics, quantum measurements, and quantum error correction (QEC). The first topic concerns weak measurements and their universality as a means of generating quantum operations. It is shown that every generalized measurement can be implemented as a sequence of weak (infinitesimal) measurements. The second topic is an application of this result to the theory of entanglement. Necessary and sufficient differential conditions for entanglement monotones are derived and are used to find a new entanglement monotone for three-qubit states. The third topic is a study of the performance of different master equations for the description of non-Markovian dynamics. The system studied is a qubit coupled to a spin bath via the Ising interaction. The fourth topic investigates continuous QEC in the presence of non-Markovian noise. It is shown that due to the existence of a Zeno regime in non-Markovian dynamics, the performance of continuous QEC exhibits a quadratic improvement for a sufficiently high time resolution of the error-correcting operations. The fifth topic studies the conditions for correctability of subsystem codes under continuous dynamics. Necessary and sufficient conditions on the Lindbladian and the system-environment Hamiltonian are derived. The sixth topic examines the robustness of operator QEC codes against initialization errors. A new measure of fidelity for encoded information is introduced and is used to show that operator codes are robust against imperfect initialization without the need for restriction of the standard operator QEC conditions. The last topic concerns holonomic quantum computation (HQC) and stabilizer codes. A fault-tolerant scheme for HQC is presented, proving the scalability of the holonomic approach.

id: 0812.4686
title: Spatial multimode entanglement within one laser beam
authors: J. Janousek, K. Wagner, J-F. Morizur, N. Treps, P. K. Lam, C. C. Harb, H-A. Bachor
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4686
abstract: Optical entanglement is a key requirement for many quantum communication protocols. Conventionally entanglement is formed between two distinct beams, with the quantum correlations being measured at separate locations. We show entanglement between the modes within one beam. Our technique is particularly elegant and a major advance towards practical systems with minimum complexity. We demonstrate three major experimental achievements: (i) only one source is required to produce squeezed light in two orthogonal spatial modes, (ii) the entanglement is formed through lenses and beam rotation, without the need of a beam splitter and (iii) the quantum correlations are measured directly and simultaneously using a multi pixel, quadrant detector.

id: 0812.4726
title: A scheme for generating entangled cluster state of atomic ensembles
authors: Ya-Fei Yu, Feng Mei, Zhi-Ming Zhang, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4726
abstract: It was shown in Ref.[Phys.Rev.A 77,045802(2008)] that the dynamics of a control atom and an atomic sample interacting dispersively with a cavity can be discribed by the Jaynes-Cummings model and the collective mode of the atomic sample can be analogous with a bosonic mode. Here, by analogizing the behaviour of the atomic sample with the one of the cavity, we propose a scheme to generate cluster states of atomic ensembles by Cavity QED.

id: 0812.4735
title: Multimode quantum properties of a self-imaging OPO: squeezed vacuum and EPR beams generation
authors: L. Lopez, Beno?t Chalopin, Arnaud Rivi¨¨re De La Souch¨¨re, Claude Fabre, Agn¨¨s Ma?tre, Nicolas Treps
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4735
abstract: We investigate the spatial quantum properties of the light emitted by a perfectly spatially degenerate optical parametric oscillator (self-imaging OPO). We show that this device produces local squeezing for areas bigger than a coherence are that depends on the crystal length and pump width. Furthermore, it generates local EPR beams in the far field. We show, calculating the eigenmodes of the system, that it is highly multimode for realistic experimental parameters.

id: 0812.4749
title: Resonant Cascaded Down-Conversion
authors: Christian Weedbrook, Ben Perrett, Karen V. Kheruntsyan, Peter D. Drummond, Raphael C. Pooser, Olivier Pfister
comments: 7 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4749
abstract: We analyze an optical parametric oscillator (OPO) in which cascaded down-conversion occurs inside a cavity resonant for all modes but the initial pump. Due to the resonant cascade design, the OPO present two \chi^2 level oscillation thresholds that are therefore remarkably lower than for a \chi^3 OPO. This is promising for reaching the regime of an effective third-order nonlinearity well above both thresholds. Such a \chi^2 cascaded device also has potential applications in frequency conversion to far infra-red regimes. But, most importantly, it can generate novel multi-partite quantum correlations in the output radiation, which represent a step beyond squeezed or entangled light. The output can be highly non-Gaussian, and therefore not describable by any semi-classical model.

id: 0812.4775
title: Single-slit diffraction and the Heisenberg principle for position and momentum
authors: W. G?rlich, I. Hoffmann, T. Sch¨¹rmann
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures, references added, measurement setup impoved, content unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4775
abstract: Monochromatic light is prepared by a single slit of spatial width {\Delta}x. The diffraction pattern is considered to obtain the corresponding probability density of the momentum. Let P be the probability weight to measure a momentum in a finite window of width {\Delta}p. For small {\Delta}p the asymptotic law P ~ {\Delta}x{\Delta}p/h is verified, while h is Planck's constant of action.

id: 0812.4808
title: On the Informational Aspects of Interfering Quantum States
authors: Yu.I. Bogdanov, A.Yu. Bogdanov, S.A. Nuyanzin, A.K. Gavrichenko
comments: 24 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4808
abstract: In present work we study informational measures for the problem of interference of quantum particles. We demonstrate that diffraction picture in the far field, which is given by probability density of particle momentum distribution, represents a mixture of probability densities of corresponding Schmidt modes, while the number of modes is equal to the number of slits at the screen. Also, for the first time we introduce informational measures to study the quality of interference picture and analyze the relation between visibility of interference picture and Schmidt number. Furthermore, we consider interference aspects of the problem of a quantum particle tunneling between two potential wells. This framework is applied to describing various isotopic modifications of ammonia molecule. Finally, we calculate limits on the maximum possible degree of entanglement between quantum system and its environment, which is imposed by measurements

id: 0812.4811
title: Bell-type Models and Statistical Description of Quantum Systems
authors: Yu.I. Bogdanov
comments: 33 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4811
abstract: We consider dynamics of hidden variables for measurements in a generalized bell-type model for a single spin using natural assumptions. The evolution of the system, which can be expressed as dynamic chaos is studied. The equilibrium state that the system evolves to asymptotically is consistent with the predictions of quantum theory. The thesis of incompleteness of quantum mechanics in dynamic interpretation and completeness in statistical interpretation are developed. Conceptual problems of quantum mechanics such as violations of Bell inequalities, negative probabilities, complementarity principle, Einstein's locality and others are discussed.

id: 0812.4824
title: Generation of entangled photon pairs in optical cavity-QED: Operating in the bad cavity limit
authors: R. Garc¨ªa-Maraver, K. Eckert, R. Corbal¨¢n, J. Mompart
comments: 9 pages and 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 (2008) 045505 (5pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4824
abstract: We propose an optical cavity-QED scheme for the deterministic generation of polarization entangled photon pairs that operates with high fidelity even in the bad cavity limit. The scheme is based on the interaction of an excited four-level atom with two empty optical cavity modes via an adiabatic passage process. Monte-Carlo wave function simulations are used to evaluate the fidelity of the cavity-QED source and its entanglement capability in the presence of decoherence. In the bad cavity limit, fidelities close to one are predicted for state-of-the-art experimental parameter values.

id: 0812.4835
title: Semi-Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Michel Boyer, Ran Gelles, Dan Kenigsberg, Tal Mor
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4835
abstract: Secure key distribution among two remote parties is impossible when both are classical, unless some unproven (and arguably unrealistic) computation-complexity assumptions are made, such as the difficulty of factorizing large numbers. On the other hand, a secure key distribution is possible when both parties are quantum. What is possible when only one party (Alice) is quantum, yet the other (Bob) has only classical capabilities? Recently, a semi-quantum key distribution protocol was presented (Boyer, Kenigsberg and Mor, Physical Review Letters, 2007), in which one of the parties (Bob) is classical, and yet, the protocol is proven to be completely robust against an eavesdropping attempt. Here we extend that result much further. We present two protocols with this constraint, and prove their robustness against attacks: we prove that any attempt of an adversary to obtain information (and even a tiny amount of information) necessarily induces some errors that the legitimate parties could notice. One protocol presented here is identical to the one referred to above, however, its robustness is proven here in a much more general scenario. The other protocol is very different as it is based on randomization.

id: 0812.4863
title: Polarization-based Light-Atom Quantum Interface with an All-optical Trap
authors: Marcin Kubasik, Marco Koschorreck, Mario Napolitano, Sebasti¨¢n R. de Echaniz, Herbert Crepaz, J¨¹rgen Eschner, Eugene S. Polzik, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4863
abstract: We describe the implementation of a system for studying light-matter interactions using an ensemble of $10^6$ cold rubidium 87 atoms, trapped in a single-beam optical dipole trap. In this configuration the elongated shape of the atomic cloud increases the strength of the collective light-atom coupling. Trapping all-optically allows for long storage times in a low decoherence environment. We are able to perform several thousands of measurements on one atomic ensemble with little destruction. We report results on paramagnetic Faraday rotations from a macroscopically polarized atomic ensemble. Our results confirm that strong light-atom coupling is achievable in this system which makes it attractive for single-pass quantum information protocols.

id: 0812.4880
title: Real-Valued Charged Fields and Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics II
authors: Andrey Akhmeteli
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4880
abstract: In the first part of this work (this http URL), it was shown that the Klein-Gordon-Maxwell electrodynamics in the unitary gauge allows natural elimination of the particle wave function and describes independent evolution of the electromagnetic field. Therefore, the electromagnetic field can be regarded as the guiding field in the Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics. An extension of those results to the Dirac-Maxwell electrodynamics was less general, but represented at least an interesting toy model of quantum theory. Another model based on the Dirac-Maxwell electrodynamics is considered in this work. The model also typically allows elimination of the wave function and describes independent evolution of the electromagnetic field.

id: 0812.4887
title: From Bell Inequalities to Tsirelson's Theorem: A Survey
authors: David Avis, Sonoko Moriyama, Masaki Owari
comments: 25 pages
journal: IEICE Trans. on Fundamentals, vol. E92-A, No.5, pp.1254-1267, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4887
abstract: The first part of this paper contains an introduction to Bell inequalities and Tsirelson's theorem for the non-specialist. The next part gives an explicit optimum construction for the "hard" part of Tsirelson's theorem. In the final part we describe how upper bounds on the maximal quantum violation of Bell inequalities can be obtained by an extension of Tsirelson's theorem, and survey very recent results on how exact bounds may be obtained by solving an infinite series of semidefinite programs.

id: 0812.4894
title: Collective Rydberg excitations of an atomic gas confined in a ring lattice
authors: B. Olmos, R. Gonz¨¢lez-F¨¦rez, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 043419 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4894
abstract: We study the excitation dynamics of Rydberg atoms in a one-dimensional lattice with periodic boundary conditions where the atomic Rydberg states are resonantly excited from the electronic ground state. Our description of the corresponding dynamics is numerically exact within the perfect blockade regime, i.e. no two atoms in a given range can be excited. The time-evolution of the mean Rydberg density, density-density correlations as well as entanglement properties are analyzed in detail. We demonstrate that the short time dynamics is universal and dominated by quantum phenomena, while for larger time the characteristics of the lattice become important and the classical features determine the dynamics. The results of the perfect blockade approach are compared to the predictions of an effective Hamiltonian which includes the interaction of two neighboring Rydberg atoms up to second order perturbation theory.

id: 0812.4915
title: General Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger theorem of cluster states
authors: Li Tang, Zeqian Chen, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, We believe the paper may be of particular interest to the readers of your journal because the study it reports stated a complete construction of the GHZ theorem for the cluster states of N-qubit in the case of the one-dimensional lattice
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4915
abstract: In this paper, we show that there are eight distinct forms of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) argument for the four-qubit cluster state $|\phi_4>$ and forty eight distinct forms for the five-qubit cluster state $|\phi_5>$ in the case of the one-dimensional lattice. The proof is obtained by regarding the pair qubits as a single object and constructing the new Pauli-like operators. The method can be easily extended to the case of the N-qubit system and the associated Bell inequalities are also discussed. Consequently, we present a complete construction of the GHZ theorem for the cluster states of N-qubit in the case of the one-dimensional lattice.

id: 0812.4939
title: Stored light and EIT at high optical depths
authors: M. Klein, Y. Xiao, M. Hohensee, D.F. Phillips, R.L. Walsworth
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Proc. SPIE. Version here is slightly modified, including a different title and a redone Fig. 5
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4939
abstract: We report a preliminary experimental study of EIT and stored light in the high optical depth regime. In particular, we characterize two ways to mitigate radiation trapping, a decoherence mechanism at high atomic density: nitrogen as buffer gas, and a long, narrow cell geometry. Initial results show the promise of both approaches in minimizing radiation trapping, but also reveal problems such as optical pumping into trapped end-states. We also observe distortion in EIT lineshapes at high optical depth, a result of interference from four-wave mixing. Experimental results are in good qualitative agreement with theoretical predictions.

id: 0812.4941
title: On Galilean and Lorentz invariance in pilot-wave dynamics
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 13 pages. Published in 1997, recently latexed
journal: Phys. Lett. A 228 (1997) 215--222
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4941
abstract: It is argued that the natural kinematics of the pilot-wave theory is Aristotelian. Despite appearances, Galilean invariance is not a fundamental symmetry of the low-energy theory. Instead, it is a fictitious symmetry that has been artificially imposed. It is concluded that the search for a Lorentz-invariant extension is physically misguided.

id: 0812.5009
title: Existence Criterion of Genuine Tripartite Entanglement
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032322 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.5009
abstract: In this paper, an intuitive mathematical formulation is provided to generalize the residual entanglement for tripartite systems of qubits [Phys. Rev. A 61, 052306 (2000)] to the tripartite systems in higher dimension. The spirit lies in the tensor treatment of tripartite pure states [Phys. Rev. A 72, 022333 (2005)]. A distinct characteristic of the present generalization is that the formulation for higher dimensional systems is invariant under permutation of the subsystems, hence is employed as a criterion to test the existence of genuine tripartite entanglement. Furthermore, the formulation for pure states can be conveniently extended to the case of mixed states by utilizing the Kronecker product approximate technique. As applications, we give the analytic approximation of the criterion for weakly mixed tripartite quantum states and consider the existence of genuine tripartite entanglement of some weakly mixed states.

id: 0812.5040
title: Quantum communication using a bounded-size quantum reference frame
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph, Robert W. Spekkens, Peter S. Turner
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, comments welcome; v2 published version
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 063013 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.5040
abstract: Typical quantum communication schemes are such that to achieve perfect decoding the receiver must share a reference frame with the sender. Indeed, if the receiver only possesses a bounded-size quantum token of the sender's reference frame, then the decoding is imperfect, and we can describe this effect as a noisy quantum channel. We seek here to characterize the performance of such schemes, or equivalently, to determine the effective decoherence induced by having a bounded-size reference frame. We assume that the token is prepared in a special state that has particularly nice group-theoretic properties and that is near-optimal for transmitting information about the sender's frame. We present a decoding operation, which can be proven to be near-optimal in this case, and we demonstrate that there are two distinct ways of implementing it (corresponding to two distinct Kraus decompositions). In one, the receiver measures the orientation of the reference frame token and reorients the system appropriately. In the other, the receiver extracts the encoded information from the virtual subsystems that describe the relational degrees of freedom of the system and token. Finally, we provide explicit characterizations of these decoding schemes when the system is a single qubit and for three standard kinds of reference frame: a phase reference, a Cartesian frame (representing an orthogonal triad of spatial directions), and a reference direction (representing a single spatial direction).

id: 0812.5043
title: Numerical Test of Born-Oppenheimer Approximation in Chaotic Systems
authors: Jeong-Bo Shim, Mahir S. Hussein, Martina Hentschel
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.5043
abstract: We study the validity of the Born-Oppenheimer approximation in chaotic dynamics. Using numerical solutions of autonomous Fermi accelerators, we show that the general adiabatic conditions can be interpreted as the narrowness of the chaotic region in phase space.

id: 0812.5065
title: An experimental apparatus for measuring the Casimir effect at large distances
authors: P Antonini, G Bimonte, G Bressi, G Carugno, G Galeazzi, G Messineo, G Ruoso
comments: Proceedings of the workshop On the 60 Years on Casimir Effect
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.161:012006,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.5065
abstract: An experimental set-up for the measurement of the Casimir effect at separations larger than a few microns is presented. The apparatus is based on a mechanical resonator and uses a homodyne detection technique to sense the Casimir force in the plane-parallel configuration. First measurements in the 3-10 micrometer range show an unexpected large force probably due to patch effects.

id: 0812.5095
title: Optimized Dynamical Decoupling in a Model Quantum Memory
authors: Michael J. Biercuk, Hermann Uys, Aaron P. VanDevender, Nobuyasu Shiga, Wayne M. Itano, John J. Bollinger
comments: Subject to press embargo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.5095
abstract: We present experimental measurements on a model quantum system that demonstrate our ability to dramatically suppress qubit error rates by the application of optimized dynamical decoupling pulse sequences in a variety of experimentally relevant noise environments. We provide the first demonstration of an analytically derived pulse sequence developed by Uhrig, and find novel sequences through active, real-time experimental feedback. These new sequences are specially tailored to maximize error suppression without the need for a priori knowledge of the ambient noise environment. We compare these sequences against the Uhrig sequence, and the well established CPMG-style spin echo, demonstrating that our locally optimized pulse sequences outperform all others under test. Numerical simulations show that our locally optimized pulse sequences are capable of suppressing errors by orders of magnitude over other existing sequences. Our work includes the extension of a treatment to predict qubit decoherence under realistic conditions, including the use of finite-duration, square $\pi$ pulses, yielding strong agreement between experimental data and theory for arbitrary pulse sequences. These results demonstrate the robustness of qubit memory error suppression through dynamical decoupling techniques across a variety of qubit technologies.

id: 0812.5115
title: Novel Mechanisms for repulsive Casimir forces
authors: Oded Kenneth, Israel Klich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.5115
abstract: We present two novel models for repulsive Casimir interaction between positive perturbations. One example relies on non locality of the dielectric response and one relies on interference between (attractive) modes. Such examples are impossible to achieve in 1d massless theories, as they are prohibited by a generalization of the result of Lambrecht, Jaekel and Reynaud [Phys.Lett. A 225 (1997)] to non local dielectrics and to negative perturbations

id: 0812.0068
title: Centrifugal deformations of the gravitational kink
authors: Paolo Maraner, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:2616-2619,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0068
abstract: The Kaluza-Klein reduction of 4d conformally flat spacetimes is reconsidered. The corresponding 3d equations are shown to be equivalent to 2d gravitational kink equations augmented by a centrifugal term. For space-like gauge fields and non-trivial values of the centrifugal term the gravitational kink solutions describe a spacetime that is divided in two disconnected regions.

id: 0812.0203
title: Universal entanglement entropy in 2D conformal quantum critical points
authors: Benjamin Hsu, Michael Mulligan, Eduardo Fradkin, Eun-Ah Kim
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, v2 references updated, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 115421 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0203
abstract: We study the scaling behavior of the entanglement entropy of two dimensional conformal quantum critical systems, i.e. systems with scale invariant wave functions. They include two-dimensional generalized quantum dimer models on bipartite lattices and quantum loop models, as well as the quantum Lifshitz model and related gauge theories. We show that, under quite general conditions, the entanglement entropy of a large and simply connected sub-system of an infinite system with a smooth boundary has a universal finite contribution, as well as scale-invariant terms for special geometries. The universal finite contribution to the entanglement entropy is computable in terms of the properties of the conformal structure of the wave function of these quantum critical systems. The calculation of the universal term reduces to a problem in boundary conformal field theory.

id: 0812.0218
title: Quantum trajectory equation for multiple qubits in circuit QED: Generating entanglement by measurement
authors: Chantal L. Hutchison, J. M. Gambetta, Alexandre Blais, F. K. Wilhelm
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Canadian Journal of Physics 87, 225 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0218
abstract: In this paper we derive an effective master equation and quantum trajectory equation for multiple qubits in a single resonator and in the large resonator decay limit. We show that homodyne measurement of the resonator transmission is a weak measurement of the collective qubit inversion. As an example of this result, we focus on the case of two qubits and show how this measurement can be used to generate an entangled state from an initially separable state. This is realized without relying on an entangling Hamiltonian. We show that, for {\em current} experimental values of both the decoherence and measurement rates, this approach can be used to generate highly entangled states. This scheme takes advantage of the fact that one of the Bell states is decoherence-free under Purcell decay.

id: 0812.0562
title: Higher Order Decompositions of Ordered Operator Exponentials
authors: Nathan Wiebe, Dominic W. Berry, Peter Hoyer, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 065203 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0562
abstract: We present a decomposition scheme based on Lie-Trotter-Suzuki product formulae to represent an ordered operator exponential as a product of ordinary operator exponentials. We provide a rigorous proof that does not use a time-displacement superoperator, and can be applied to non-analytic functions. Our proof provides explicit bounds on the error and includes cases where the functions are not infinitely differentiable. We show that Lie-Trotter-Suzuki product formulae can still be used for functions that are not infinitely differentiable, but that arbitrary order scaling may not be achieved.

id: 0812.0577
title: Quantization of the Jackiw-Teitelboim model
authors: Clisthenis P. Constantinidis, Alejandro Perez, Olivier Piguet
comments: Published version, a short note (not present in the published version) on the quantization of the null sector has been added
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:084007,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0577
abstract: We study the phase space structure of the Jackiw-Teitelboim model in its connection variables formulation where the gauge group of the field theory is given by local SL(2,R) (or SU(2) for the Euclidean model), i.e. the de Sitter group in two dimensions. In order to make the connection with two dimensional gravity explicit, a partial gauge fixing of the de Sitter symmetry can be introduced that reduces it to spacetime diffeomorphisms. This can be done in different ways. Having no local physical degrees of freedom, the reduced phase space of the model is finite dimensional. The simplicity of this gauge field theory allows for studying different avenues for quantization, which may use various (partial) gauge fixings. We show that reduction and quantization are noncommuting operations: the representation of basic variables as operators in a Hilbert space depend on the order chosen for the latter. Moreover, a representation that is natural in one case may not even be available in the other leading to inequivalent quantum theories.

id: 0812.0605
title: The Production of Time
authors: Adam Helfer
comments: 10 pages, fqxi essay submission
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0605
abstract: I suggest that measurement in quantum theory should be regarded as a sense of time (of things happening), which is as important as the conventional relativistic notion of time. A key question -- of basic physical interest whether one accepts the arguments here or not -- is, What physical criteria determine when a measurement takes place? I suggest a way in which the answer to this may be bound up with the resolution of some pathologies associated with the stress-energy operator, and may at the same time determine the cosmic flow of time. The problem of reconciling the quantum sense of time (measurement) and the conventional relativistic one gives some indication that the the correct "quantization" of gravity is essentially different from that of other fields.

id: 0812.0743
title: A Novel Clustering Algorithm Based on Quantum Games
authors: Qiang Li, Yan He, Jing-ping Jiang
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, 5 tables
journal: 2009 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 445303
subjects: Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0743
abstract: Enormous successes have been made by quantum algorithms during the last decade. In this paper, we combine the quantum game with the problem of data clustering, and then develop a quantum-game-based clustering algorithm, in which data points in a dataset are considered as players who can make decisions and implement quantum strategies in quantum games. After each round of a quantum game, each player's expected payoff is calculated. Later, he uses a link-removing-and-rewiring (LRR) function to change his neighbors and adjust the strength of links connecting to them in order to maximize his payoff. Further, algorithms are discussed and analyzed in two cases of strategies, two payoff matrixes and two LRR functions. Consequently, the simulation results have demonstrated that data points in datasets are clustered reasonably and efficiently, and the clustering algorithms have fast rates of convergence. Moreover, the comparison with other algorithms also provides an indication of the effectiveness of the proposed approach.

id: 0812.0815
title: Loss of superfluidity by fermions in the boson Hubbard model on an optical lattice
authors: Roman M. Lutchyn, Sumanta Tewari, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 1 eps figure, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 011606(R) (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0815
abstract: The experimentally observed loss of superfluidity by introducing fermions to the boson Hubbard system on an optical lattice is explained. We show that the virtual transitions of the bosons to the higher Bloch bands, coupled with the contact boson-fermion interactions of either sign, result in an effective increase of the boson on-site repulsion. If this renormalization of the on-site potential is dominant over the fermion screening of the boson interactions, the Mott insulating lobes of the Bose-Hubbard phase diagram will be enhanced for either sign of the boson-fermion interactions. We discuss implications for cold atom experiments where the expansion of the Mott lobes by fermions has been conclusively established.

id: 0812.0935
title: The Casimir effect: from quantum to critical fluctuations
authors: Andrea Gambassi
comments: Talk delivered at the International Workshop "60 Years of Casimir Effect", Brasilia, 23-27 June 2008 (17 pages, 7 figures)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 161 (2009) 012037
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0935
abstract: The Casimir effect in quantum electrodynamics (QED) is perhaps the best-known example of fluctuation-induced long-ranged force acting on objects (conducting plates) immersed in a fluctuating medium (quantum electromagnetic field in vacuum). A similar effect emerges in statistical physics, where the force acting, e.g., on colloidal particles immersed in a binary liquid mixture is affected by the classical thermal fluctuations occurring in the surrounding medium. The resulting Casimir-like force acquires universal features upon approaching a critical point of the medium and becomes long-ranged at criticality. In turn, this universality allows one to investigate theoretically the temperature dependence of the force via representative models and to stringently test the corresponding predictions in experiments. In contrast to QED, the Casimir force resulting from critical fluctuations can be easily tuned with respect to strength and sign by surface treatments and temperature control. We present some recent advances in the theoretical study of the universal properties of the critical Casimir force arising in thin films. The corresponding predictions compare very well with the experimental results obtained for wetting layers of various fluids. We discuss how the Casimir force between a colloidal particle and a planar wall immersed in a binary liquid mixture has been measured with femto-Newton accuracy, comparing these experimental results with the corresponding theoretical predictions.

id: 0812.0941
title: Generalized quantum potentials in scale relativity
authors: Laurent Nottale
comments: 33 pages, submitted for publication
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 275306 (28pp)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0941
abstract: We first recall that the system of fluid mechanics equations (Euler and continuity) that describes a fluid in irrotational motion subjected to a generalized quantum potential (in which the constant is no longer reduced to the standard quantum constant hbar) is equivalent to a generalized Schrodinger equation. Then we show that, even in the case of the presence of vorticity, it is also possible to obtain, for a large class of systems, a Schrodinger-like equation of the vectorial field type from the continuity and Euler equations including a quantum potential. The same kind of transformation also applies to a classical charged fluid subjected to an electromagnetic field and to an additional potential having the form of a quantum potential. Such a fluid can therefore be described by an equation of the Ginzburg-Landau type, and is expected to show some superconducting-like properties. Moreover, a Schrodinger form can be obtained for the fluctuating rotational motion of a solid. In this case the mass is replaced by the tensor of inertia, and a generalized form of the quantum potential is derived. We finally reconsider the case of a standard diffusion process, and we show that, after a change of variable, the diffusion equation can also be given the form of a continuity and Euler system including an additional potential energy. Since this potential is exactly the opposite of a quantum potential, the quantum behavior may be considered, in this context, as an anti-diffusion.

id: 0812.1063
title: Observation of Two-source Interference in the Photoproduction Reaction $Au Au \to Au Au ¦Ñ^0$
authors: B. I. Abelev
comments: Slightly revised version, to appear in PRL. 6 pages with 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:112301,2009
subjects: Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1063
abstract: In ultra-peripheral relativistic heavy-ion collisions, a photon from the electromagnetic field of one nucleus can fluctuate to a quark-antiquark pair and scatter from the other nucleus, emerging as a $\rho^0$. The $\rho^0$ production occurs in two well-separated (median impact parameters of 20 and 40 fermi for the cases considered here) nuclei, so the system forms a 2-source interferometer. At low transverse momenta, the two amplitudes interfere destructively, suppressing $\rho^0$ production. Since the $\rho^0$ decay before the production amplitudes from the two sources can overlap, the two-pion system can only be described with an entangled non-local wave function, and is thus an example of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox. We observe this suppression in 200 GeV per nucleon-pair gold-gold collisions. The interference is $87% \pm 5% {\rm (stat.)}\pm 8%$ (syst.) of the expected level. This translates into a limit on decoherence due to wave function collapse or other factors, of 23% at the 90% confidence level.

id: 0812.1116
title: Manifestations of topological effects in graphene
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 20 pages, 15 figures, invited article, to appear in Contemporary Physics
journal: Cont. Phys. 50, 375 - 389 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1116
abstract: Graphene is a monoatomic layer of graphite with Carbon atoms arranged in a two dimensional honeycomb lattice configuration. It has been known for more than sixty years that the electronic structure of graphene can be modelled by two-dimensional massless relativistic fermions. This property gives rise to numerous applications, both in applied sciences and in theoretical physics. Electronic circuits made out of graphene could take advantage of its high electron mobility that is witnessed even at room temperature. In the theoretical domain the Dirac-like behavior of graphene can simulate high energy effects, such as the relativistic Klein paradox. Even more surprisingly, topological effects can be encoded in graphene such as the generation of vortices, charge fractionalization and the emergence of anyons. The impact of the topological effects on graphene's electronic properties can be elegantly described by the Atiyah-Singer index theorem. Here we present a pedagogical encounter of this theorem and review its various applications to graphene. A direct consequence of the index theorem is charge fractionalization that is usually known from the fractional quantum Hall effect. The charge fractionalization gives rise to the exciting possibility of realizing graphene based anyons that unlike bosons or fermions exhibit fractional statistics. Besides being of theoretical interest, anyons are a strong candidate for performing error free quantum information processing.

id: 0812.1469
title: Liquid-Drop and Independent-Particle Models Revisited
authors: S. Afsar Abbas
comments: 7 pages, 2 figurs
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1469
abstract: Traditionally, the difference in binding energy from the experimental value with respect to the theoretical liquid-drop model value, has been seen as indication of independent-particle character along with magicity for particular number of protons and neutrons. We study this carefully to demonstrate that it actually indicates that the liquid-drop and the independent-particle phases of the nucleus have equal fundamental primacy and coexist simultaneously in a nucleus to provide a complete and a consistent description of the same.

id: 0812.1490
title: Non-commutativity as a measure of inequivalent quantization
authors: Pulak Ranjan Giri
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, revtex
journal: J.Phys.A42:355206,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1490
abstract: We show that the strength of non-commutativity could play a role in determining the boundary condition of a physical problem. As a toy model we consider the inverse square problem in non-commutative space. The scale invariance of the system is known to be explicitly broken by the scale of non-commutativity \Theta. The resulting problem in non-commutative space is analyzed. It is shown that despite the presence of higher singular potential coming from the leading term of the expansion of the potential to first order in \Theta, it can have a self-adjoint extensions. The boundary conditions are obtained, belong to a 1-parameter family and related to the strength of non-commutativity.

id: 0812.1761
title: Optimal Matrix Product States for the Heisenberg Spin Chain
authors: Jos¨¦ I. Latorre, Vicent Pic¨®
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures; typos added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 265302.
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1761
abstract: We present some exact results for the optimal Matrix Product State (MPS) approximation to the ground state of the infinite isotropic Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain. Our approach is based on the systematic use of Schmidt decompositions to reduce the problem of approximating for the ground state of a spin chain to an analytical minimization. This allows to show that results of standard simulations, e.g. density matrix renormalization group and infinite time evolving block decimation, do correspond to the result obtained by this minimization strategy and, thus, both methods deliver optimal MPS with the same energy but, otherwise, different properties. We also find that translational and rotational symmetries cannot be maintained simultaneously by the MPS ansatz of minimum energy and present explicit constructions for each case. Furthermore, we analyze symmetry restoration and quantify it to uncover new scaling relations. The method we propose can be extended to any translational invariant Hamiltonian.

id: 0812.1807
title: Three-dimensional Finite Difference-Time Domain Solution of Dirac Equation
authors: Neven Simicevic
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1807
abstract: The Dirac equation is solved using three-dimensional Finite Difference-Time Domain (FDTD) method. $Zitterbewegung$ and the dynamics of a well-localized electron are used as examples of FDTD application to the case of free electrons.

id: 0812.1870
title: New Basic Form of the Semiclassical Quantization Condition
authors: N.N.Trunov
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1870
abstract: A certain modification of the semiclassical quantization condition based on the summarization of the known power expansion in the squared Planck constant is proposed. Corresponding deviation from exact spectra arises only together with the deviation of the studied potential from the supersymmetric one so that on the base of the presented method a new kind of the perturbation theory not connected with the Planck constant may be developed

id: 0812.1928
title: Quantum quenches from integrability: the fermionic pairing model
authors: Alexandre Faribault, Pasquale Calabrese, Jean-Sebastien Caux
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2009) P03018
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1928
abstract: Understanding the non-equilibrium dynamics of extended quantum systems after the trigger of a sudden, global perturbation (quench) represents a daunting challenge, especially in the presence of interactions. The main difficulties stem from both the vanishing time scale of the quench event, which can thus create arbitrarily high energy modes, and its non-local nature, which curtails the utility of local excitation bases. We here show that nonperturbative methods based on integrability can prove sufficiently powerful to completely characterize quantum quenches: we illustrate this using a model of fermions with pairing interactions (Richardson's model). The effects of simple (and multiple) quenches on the dynamics of various important observables are discussed. Many of the features we find are expected to be universal to all kinds of quench situations in atomic physics and condensed matter.

id: 0812.1946
title: Categorical Foundation of Quantum Mechanics and String Theory
authors: A. Nicolaidis
comments: To appear in International Journal of Modern Physics A
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A24:1175-1183,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1946
abstract: The unification of Quantum Mechanics and General Relativity remains the primary goal of Theoretical Physics, with string theory appearing as the only plausible unifying scheme. In the present work, in a search of the conceptual foundations of string theory, we analyze the relational logic developed by C. S. Peirce in the late nineteenth century. The Peircean logic has the mathematical structure of a category with the relation $R_{ij}$ among two individual terms $S_i$ and $S_j$, serving as an arrow (or morphism). We introduce a realization of the corresponding categorical algebra of compositions, which naturally gives rise to the fundamental quantum laws, thus indicating category theory as the foundation of Quantum Mechanics. The same relational algebra generates a number of group structures, among them $W_{\infty}$. The group $W_{\infty}$ is embodied and realized by the matrix models, themselves closely linked with string theory. It is suggested that relational logic and in general category theory may provide a new paradigm, within which to develop modern physical theories.

id: 0812.1990
title: Casimir Effect for Massless Fermions in One Dimension: A Force Operator Approach
authors: Dina Zhabinskaya, Jesse M. Kinder, E. J. Mele
comments: (4 pages, 3 figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. A, Rapid Communications)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1990
abstract: We calculate the Casimir interaction between two short range scatterers embedded in a background of one dimensional massless Dirac fermions using a force operator approach. We obtain the force between two finite width square barriers, and take the limit of zero width and infinite potential strength to study the Casimir force mediated by the fermions. For the case of identical scatterers we recover the conventional attractive one dimensional Casimir force. For the general problem with inequivalent scatterers we find that the magnitude and sign of this force depend on the relative spinor polarizations of the two scattering potentials which can be tuned to give an attractive, a repulsive, or a compensated null Casimir interaction.

id: 0812.2130
title: Entanglement of systems of dipolar coupled nuclear spins at the adiabatic demagnetization
authors: S.I. Doronin, E.B. Fel'dman, M.M. Kucherov, A.N. Pyrkov
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 21 (2009) 025601
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2130
abstract: We consider the adiabatic demagnetization in the rotating reference frame (ADRF) of a system of dipolar coupled nuclear spins $s=1/2$ in the external magnetic field. The demagnetization starts with the offset of the external magnetic field (in frequency units) from the Larmor frequency being several times greater than the local dipolar field. For different subsystem sizes, we have found from numerical simulations the temperatures at which subsystems of a one-dimensional nine-spin chain and a plane nine-spin cluster become entangled. These temperatures are of the order of microkelvins and are almost independent of the subsystem size. There is a weak dependence of the temperature on the space dimension of the system.

id: 0812.2278
title: A Topological Phase in a Quantum Gravity Model
authors: Michael H. Freedman
comments: A talk at Solvay conference October, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2278
abstract: I would claim that we do not have a suitably general definition of what a topological phase is, or more importantly, any robust understanding of how to enter one even in the world of mathematical models. The latter is, of course, the more important issue and the main subject of this note. But a good definition can sharpen our thinking and a poor definition can misdirect us. I will not attempt a final answer here but merely comment on the strengths and weaknesses of possible definitions and argue for some flexibility. In particular, I describe a rather simple class of ``quantum gravity'' models which are neither lattice nor field theoretic but appear to contain strong candidates for topological phases.

id: 0812.2414
title: Exploiting Geometric Degrees of Freedom in Topological Quantum Computing
authors: Haitan Xu, Xin Wan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012306 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2414
abstract: In a topological quantum computer, braids of non-Abelian anyons in a (2+1)-dimensional space-time form quantum gates, whose fault tolerance relies on the topological, rather than geometric, properties of the braids. Here we propose to create and exploit redundant geometric degrees of freedom to improve the theoretical accuracy of topological single- and two-qubit quantum gates. We demonstrate the power of the idea using explicit constructions in the Fibonacci model. We compare its efficiency with that of the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm and explain its connection to the leakage errors reduction in an earlier construction [Phys. Rev. A 78, 042325 (2008)].

id: 0812.2485
title: Two-Qubit State Tomography using a Joint Dispersive Read-Out
authors: S. Filipp, P. Maurer, P. J. Leek, M. Baur, R. Bianchetti, J. M. Fink, M. G?ppl, L. Steffen, J. M. Gambetta, A. Blais, A. Wallraff
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, version with high resolution figures available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 102, 200402 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2485
abstract: Quantum state tomography is an important tool in quantum information science for complete characterization of multi-qubit states and their correlations. Here we report a method to perform a joint simultaneous read-out of two superconducting qubits dispersively coupled to the same mode of a microwave transmission line resonator. The non-linear dependence of the resonator transmission on the qubit state dependent cavity frequency allows us to extract the full two-qubit correlations without the need for single shot read-out of individual qubits. We employ standard tomographic techniques to reconstruct the density matrix of two-qubit quantum states.

id: 0812.2597
title: The von Neumann entropy of networks
authors: Filippo Passerini, Simone Severini
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2597
abstract: We normalize the combinatorial Laplacian of a graph by the degree sum, look at its eigenvalues as a probability distribution and then study its Shannon entropy. Equivalently, we represent a graph with a quantum mechanical state and study its von Neumann entropy. At the graph-theoretic level, this quantity may be interpreted as a measure of regularity; it tends to be larger in relation to the number of connected components, long paths and nontrivial symmetries. When the set of vertices is asymptotically large, we prove that regular graphs and the complete graph have equal entropy, and specifically it turns out to be maximum. On the other hand, when the number of edges is fixed, graphs with large cliques appear to minimize the entropy.

id: 0812.2611
title: Vacuum squeezed light for atomic memories at the D2 cesium line
authors: Sidney Burks, J¨¦r¨¦mie Ortalo, Antonino Chiummo, Xiaojun Jia, Fabrizio Villa, Alberto Bramati, Julien Laurat, Elisabeth Giacobino
comments: 
journal: Optics express 17, 5 (2009) 3777
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2611
abstract: We report the experimental generation of squeezed light at 852 nm, locked on the Cesium D2 line. 50% of noise reduction down to 50 kHz has been obtained with a doubly resonant optical parametric oscillator operating below threshold, using a periodically-polled KTP crystal. This light is directly utilizable with Cesium atomic ensembles for quantum networking applications

id: 0812.2651
title: Dressed Collective Qubit States and the Tavis-Cummings Model in Circuit QED
authors: J. M. Fink, R. Bianchetti, M. Baur, M. Goeppl, L. Steffen, S. Filipp, P. J. Leek, A. Blais, A. Wallraff
comments: revised version: corrected typos, added references; 5 pages, 5 figures, version with high resolution figures available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 083601 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2651
abstract: We present an ideal realization of the Tavis-Cummings model in the absence of atom number and coupling fluctuations by embedding a discrete number of fully controllable superconducting qubits at fixed positions into a transmission line resonator. Measuring the vacuum Rabi mode splitting with one, two and three qubits strongly coupled to the cavity field, we explore both bright and dark dressed collective multi-qubit states and observe the discrete square root of N scaling of the collective dipole coupling strength. Our experiments demonstrate a novel approach to explore collective states, such as the W-state, in a fully globally and locally controllable quantum system. Our scalable approach is interesting for solid-state quantum information processing and for fundamental multi-atom quantum optics experiments with fixed atom numbers.

id: 0812.2678
title: Using Sideband Transitions for Two-Qubit Operations in Superconducting Circuits
authors: P. J. Leek, S. Filipp, P. Maurer, M. Baur, R. Bianchetti, J. M. Fink, M. G?ppl, L. Steffen, A. Wallraff
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, version with high resolution figures available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 180511(R) (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2678
abstract: We demonstrate time resolved driving of two-photon blue sideband transitions between superconducting qubits and a transmission line resonator. Using the sidebands, we implement a pulse sequence that first entangles one qubit with the resonator, and subsequently distributes the entanglement between two qubits. We show generation of 75% fidelity Bell states by this method. The full density matrix of the two qubit system is extracted using joint measurement and quantum state tomography, and shows close agreement with numerical simulation. The scheme is potentially extendable to a scalable universal gate for quantum computation.

id: 0812.2682
title: Quantum integrable systems in three-dimensional magnetic fields: the Cartesian case
authors: Alexander Zhalij
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2682
abstract: In this paper we construct integrable three-dimensional quantum-mechanical systems with magnetic fields, admitting pairs of commuting second-order integrals of motion. The case of Cartesian coordinates is considered. Most of the systems obtained are new and not related to the separation of variables in the corresponding Schr\"odinger equation.

id: 0812.2701
title: Electro-Optical Nanotraps for Neutral Atoms
authors: Brian Murphy, Lene Vestergaard Hau
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Fig. 1 appeared on the cover of the January 23, 2009 issue of PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 033003 (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2701
abstract: We propose a new class of nanoscale electro-optical traps for neutral atoms. A prototype is the toroidal trap created by a suspended, charged carbon nanotube decorated with a silver nanosphere dimer. An illuminating laser field, blue detuned from an atomic resonance frequency, is strongly focused by plasmons induced in the dimer and generates both a repulsive potential barrier near the nanostructure surface and a large viscous damping force that facilitates trap loading. Atoms with velocities of several meters per second may be loaded directly into the trap via spontaneous emission of just two photons.

id: 0812.2702
title: Standard Logics Are Valuation-Nonmonotonic
authors: Mladen Pavicic, Norman D. Megill
comments: 35 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Logic and Computation, 18 (6) 959-982 (2008)
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2702
abstract: It has recently been discovered that both quantum and classical propositional logics can be modelled by classes of non-orthomodular and thus non-distributive lattices that properly contain standard orthomodular and Boolean classes, respectively. In this paper we prove that these logics are complete even for those classes of the former lattices from which the standard orthomodular lattices and Boolean algebras are excluded. We also show that neither quantum nor classical computers can be founded on the latter models. It follows that logics are "valuation-nonmonotonic" in the sense that their possible models (corresponding to their possible hardware implementations) and the valuations for them drastically change when we add new conditions to their defining conditions. These valuations can even be completely separated by putting them into disjoint lattice classes by a technique presented in the paper.

id: 0812.2957
title: Stationary and transient leakage current in the Pauli spin blockade
authors: F. Qassemi, W. A. Coish, F. K. Wilhelm
comments: v1: 4 pages; v2: 4 pages+ additional supplementary material, version to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 176806 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2957
abstract: We study the effects of cotunneling and a non-uniform Zeeman splitting on the stationary and transient leakage current through a double quantum dot in the Pauli spin blockade regime. We find that the stationary current due to cotunneling vanishes at low temperature and large applied magnetic field, allowing for the dynamical preparation of a pure spin ground state, even at large voltage bias. Additionally, we analyze current that flows between blocking events, characterized, in general, by a fractional effective charge $e^*$. This charge can be used as a sensitive probe of spin relaxation mechanisms and can be used to determine the visibility of Rabi oscillations.

id: 0812.3052
title: Dephasing of entangled atoms as an improved test of quantum gravity
authors: Mark S. Everitt, Martin L. Jones, Benjamin T. H. Varcoe
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3052
abstract: In a recent article Wang et al. (Class. Quantum Grav. 23 (2006) L59), demonstrated that the phase of a particle fluctuates due to interactions with random deviations of a conformal gravitational field. Furthermore they demonstrated that atom interferometers are sensitive to these fluctuations and that sensitivity to Planck scale effects could be achieved with a sufficiently sensitive interferometer. In this paper we demonstrate that a class of entangled states, the N-atom Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states, provide a better scaling than atom interferometers and that current experiments are capable of making a significant impact in this field. We outline an experiment which uses atomic beams of rubidium atoms excited to Rydberg states. The atoms undergo controlled collisions in high quality factor microwave resonators in a sequence that makes the resulting state highly sensitive to conformal field fluctuations. We show that a significant advance in sensitivity is possible.

id: 0812.3087
title: Quantum Vacuum Experiments Using High Intensity Lasers
authors: Mattias Marklund, Joakim Lundin
comments: 9 pages, 8 figure
journal: Eur.Phys.J.D55:319-326,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3087
abstract: The quantum vacuum constitutes a fascinating medium of study, in particular since near-future laser facilities will be able to probe the nonlinear nature of this vacuum. There has been a large number of proposed tests of the low-energy, high intensity regime of quantum electrodynamics (QED) where the nonlinear aspects of the electromagnetic vacuum comes into play, and we will here give a short description of some of these. Such studies can shed light, not only on the validity of QED, but also on certain aspects of nonperturbative effects, and thus also give insights for quantum field theories in general.

id: 0812.3118
title: Correlation function of spectral staircase and particle number fluctuations in integrable systems
authors: R. A. Serota
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3118
abstract: We evaluate the correlation function of the spectral staircase and use it to evaluate the mesoscopic particle number fluctuations in integrable systems.

id: 0812.3142
title: Trial wave functions, molecular states, and ro-vibrational spectra in the lowest Landau level: A universal description for bosons and fermions
authors: Constantine Yannouleas, Uzi Landman
comments: 5 pages with two tables. Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3142
abstract: Through the introduction of a class of appropriate translationally invariant trial wave functions, we show that the strong correlations in the lowest Landau level (LLL) reflect in finite systems the emergence of intrinsic point-group symmetries associated with rotations and vibrations of molecules formed through particle localization. This molecular description is universal, being valid for both bosons and fermions, for both the yrast and excited states of the LLL spectra, and for both low and high angular momenta. This physical picture is fundamentally different from the "quantum-fluid" one associated with Jastrow-type trial functions.

id: 0812.3512
title: Spectral Discontinuities in Constrained Dynamical Models
authors: Sudipta Das, Subir Ghosh
comments: laTex, 17 pages, 5 figures, change in title, abstract, paper is rewritten, no changes in final result and conclusion, to appear in J.Phys.A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3512
abstract: As examples of models having interesting constraint structures, we derive a quantum mechanical model from the spatial freezing of a well known relativistic field theory - the chiral Schwinger model. We apply the Hamiltonian constraint analysis of Dirac [1] and find that the nature of constraints depends critically on a $c$-number parameter present in the model. Thus a change in the parameter alters the number of dynamical modes in an abrupt and non-perturbative way. We have obtained new {\it{real}} energy levels for the quantum mechanical model as we explore {\it{complex}} domains in the parameter space. These were forbidden in the parent chiral Schwinger field theory where the analogue Jackiw-Rajaraman parameter is restricted to be real. We explicitly show existence of modes that satisfy higher derivative Pais-Uhlenbeck form of dynamics [3]. We also show that the Cranking Model [7], well known in Nuclear Physics, can be interpreted as a spatially frozen version of another well studied relativistic field theory in 2+1-dimension- the Maxwell-Chern-Simons-Proca Model [8].

id: 0812.3577
title: Supersymmetric partners for the associated Lame potentials
authors: David J Fernandez C, Asish Ganguly
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, talk given at the XXVII ICGTMP, Yerevan (Armenia) August 2008
journal: Phys.Atom.Nucl.73:288-294,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3577
abstract: The general solution of the stationary Schrodinger equation for the associated Lame potentials with an arbitrary real energy is found. The supersymmetric partners are generated by employing seeds solutions for factorization energies inside the gaps.

id: 0812.3771
title: Canonical quantization of motion on submanifolds
authors: Alexey V. Golovnev
comments: 19 pages; 40th Symposium on Mathematical Physics held in Torun, Poland, June 25-28, 2008; in v.2 some references added
journal: Rept.Math.Phys.64:59-77,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3771
abstract: This is an extended version of the talk given by the Author at the 40th Symposium on Mathematical Physics held in Torun, Poland, June 25-28, 2008. We review the methods of canonical quantization of free particle motion on curved submanifolds considered as a system with second class constraints. The work is based on our previous articles, quant-ph/0508044 and quant-ph/0508111. However, some new results are also presented.

id: 0812.3905
title: Vertical distribution of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond formed by ion implantation and annealing
authors: Charles Santori, Paul E. Barclay, Kai-Mei C. Fu, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3905
abstract: Etching experiments were performed that reveal the vertical distribution of optically active nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond created in close proximity to a surface through ion implantation and annealing. The NV distribution depends strongly on the native nitrogen concentration, and spectral measurements of the neutral and negatively-charged NV peaks give evidence for electron depletion effects in lower-nitrogen material. The results are important for potential quantum information and magnetometer devices where NV centers must be created in close proximity to a surface for coupling to optical structures.

id: 0812.3929
title: An amplitude-phase (Ermakov-Lewis) approach for the Jackiw-Pi model of bilayer graphene
authors: K.V. Khmelnytskaya, H.C. Rosu
comments: FTC, 11 pp, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 42 (2009) 042004
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3929
abstract: In the context of bilayer graphene we use the simple gauge model of Jackiw and Pi to construct its numerical solutions in powers of the bias potential V according to a general scheme due to Kravchenko. Next, using this numerical solutions, we develop the Ermakov-Lewis approach for the same model. This leads us to numerical calculations of the Lewis-Riesenfeld phases that could be of forthcoming experimental interest for bilayer graphene. We also present a generalization of the Ioffe-Korsch nonlinear Darboux transformation

id: 0812.4305
title: Tsirelson's Problem
authors: V. B. Scholz, R. F. Werner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4305
abstract: The situation of two independent observers conducting measurements on a joint quantum system is usually modelled using a Hilbert space of tensor product form, each factor associated to one observer. Correspondingly, the operators describing the observables are then acting non-trivially only on one of the tensor factors. However, the same situation can also be modelled by just using one joint Hilbert space, and requiring that all operators associated to different observers commute, i.e. are jointly measurable without causing disturbance. The problem of Tsirelson is now to decide the question whether all quantum correlation functions between two independent observers derived from commuting observables can also be expressed using observables defined on a Hilbert space of tensor product form. Tsirelson showed already that the distinction is irrelevant in the case that the ambient Hilbert space is of finite dimension. We show here that the problem is equivalent to the question whether all quantum correlation functions can be approximated by correlation function derived from finite-dimensional systems. We also discuss some physical examples which fulfill this requirement.

id: 0812.4384
title: Measurement of Autler-Townes and Mollow transitions in a strongly driven superconducting qubit
authors: M. Baur, S. Filipp, R. Bianchetti, J. M. Fink, M. G?ppl, L. Steffen, P. J. Leek, A. Blais, A. Wallraff
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 243602 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4384
abstract: We present spectroscopic measurements of the Autler-Townes doublet and the sidebands of the Mollow triplet in a driven superconducting qubit. The ground to first excited state transition of the qubit is strongly pumped while the resulting dressed qubit spectrum is probed with a weak tone. The corresponding transitions are detected using dispersive read-out of the qubit coupled off-resonantly to a microwave transmission line resonator. The observed frequencies of the Autler-Townes and Mollow spectral lines are in good agreement with a dispersive Jaynes-Cummings model taking into account higher excited qubit states and dispersive level shifts due to off-resonant drives.

id: 0812.4513
title: Gap Estimation by means of Hyperbolic Deformation
authors: Hiroshi Ueda, Hiroki Nakano, Koichi Kusakabe, Tomotoshi Nishino
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures, submitted to JPSJ
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4513
abstract: We present a way of numerical gap estimation applicable for one-dimensional infinite uniform quantum systems. Using the density matrix renormalization group method for a non-uniform Hamiltonian, which has deformed interaction strength of $j$-th bond proportional to $\cosh \lambda j$, the uniform Hamiltonian is analyzed as a limit of $\lambda \to 0$. As a consequence of the deformation, an excited quasi-particle is weakly bounded around the center of the system, and kept away from the system boundary. Therefore, insensitivity of an estimated excitation gap of the deformed system to the boundary allows us to have the bulk excitation gap $\Delta(\lambda)$, and shift in $\Delta(\lambda)$ from $\Delta(0)$ is nearly linear in $\lambda$ when $\lambda \ll 1$. Efficiency of this estimation is demonstrated through application to the S=1 antiferromagnetic Heisenberg chain. Combining the above estimation and another one obtained from the technique of convergence acceleration for finite-size gaps estimated by numerical diagonalizations, we conclude that the Haldane gap is in $[0.41047905,~0.41047931]$.

id: 0812.4659
title: Hierarchy of QM SUSYs on a Bounded Domain
authors: Tomoaki Nagasawa, Satoshi Ohya, Kazuki Sakamoto, Makoto Sakamoto, Kosuke Sekiya
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: J.Phys.A42:265203,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4659
abstract: We systematically formulate a hierarchy of isospectral Hamiltonians in one-dimensional supersymmetric quantum mechanics on an interval and on a circle, in which two successive Hamiltonians form N=2 supersymmetry. We find that boundary conditions compatible with supersymmetry are severely restricted. In the case of an interval, a hierarchy of, at most, three isospectral Hamiltonians is possible with unique boundary conditions, while in the case of a circle an infinite tower of isospectral Hamiltonians can be constructed with two-parameter family of boundary conditions.

id: 0812.4670
title: Pulse calibration and non-adiabatic control of solid-state artificial atoms
authors: Jonas Bylander, Mark S. Rudner, Andrey V. Shytov, Sergio O. Valenzuela, David M. Berns, Karl K. Berggren, Leonid S. Levitov, William D. Oliver
comments: 4.1 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B vol. 80, 220506(R) (2009)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4670
abstract: Transitions in an artificial atom, driven non-adiabatically through an energy-level avoided crossing, can be controlled by carefully engineering the driving protocol. We have driven a superconducting persistent-current qubit with a large-amplitude, radio-frequency field. By applying a bi-harmonic waveform generated by a digital source, we demonstrate a mapping between the amplitude and phase of the harmonics produced at the source and those received by the device. This allows us to image the actual waveform at the device. This information is used to engineer a desired time dependence, as confirmed by detailed comparison with simulation.

id: 0812.4908
title: Twistor String Structure of the Kerr-Schild Geometry and Consistency of the Dirac-Kerr System
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 11 p. 2 figs. Dedicated to Jubilee of Prof. S.D.Odintsov, based on the talk at the 5th Math. Phys. Meeting, July 2008, Belgrad
journal: THE PROBLEMS OF MODERN COSMOLOGY. A volume in honour of Professor S.D. Odintsov in the occasion of his 50 th birthday. pp.129-136, Tomsk, 2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4908
abstract: Kerr-Schild (KS) geometry of the rotating black-holes and spinning particles is based on the associated with Kerr theorem twistor structure which is defined by an analytic curve $F(Z)=0$ in the projective twistor space $Z \in CP^3 .$ On the other hand, there is a complex Newman representation which describes the source of Kerr-Newman solution as a "particle" propagating along a complex world-line $X(\t)\in CM^4,$ and this world-line determines the parameters of the Kerr generating function $F(Z).$ The complex world line is really a world-sheet, $\t= t + i \sigma,$ and the Kerr source may be considered as a complex Euclidean string extended in the imaginary time direction $\sigma$. The Kerr twistor structure turns out to be adjoined to the Kerr complex string source, forming a natural twistor-string construction similar to the Nair-Witten twistor-string. We show that twistor polarization of the Kerr-Newman solution may be matched with the {\it massless} solutions of the Dirac equation, providing consistency of the Dirac-Kerr model of spinning particle (electron). It allows us to extend the Nair-Witten concept on the scattering of the gauge amplitudes in twistor space to include massive KS particles.

id: 0812.4975
title: Thermal States of Anyonic Systems
authors: S. Iblisdir, D. Perez-Garcia, M. Aguado, J. Pachos
comments: 
journal: Nucl. Phys. B 829, 401-424 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4975
abstract: A study of the thermal properties of two-dimensional topological lattice models is presented. This work is relevant to assess the usefulness of these systems as a quantum memory. For our purposes, we use the topological mutual information $I_{\mathrm{topo}}$ as a "topological order parameter". For Abelian models, we show how $I_{\mathrm{topo}}$ depends on the thermal topological charge probability distribution. More generally, we present a conjecture that $I_{\mathrm{topo}}$ can (asymptotically) be written as a Kullback-Leitner distance between this probability distribution and that induced by the quantum dimensions of the model at hand. We also explain why $I_{\mathrm{topo}}$ is more suitable for our purposes than the more familiar entanglement entropy $S_{\mathrm{topo}}$. A scaling law, encoding the interplay of volume and temperature effects, as well as different limit procedures, are derived in detail. A non-Abelian model is next analysed and similar results are found. Finally, we also consider, in the case of a one-plaquette toric code, an environment model giving rise to a simulation of thermal effects in time.

id: 0812.5042
title: Observations on spacetime symmetry and non-commutativity
authors: Pulak Ranjan Giri, T. Shreecharan
comments: 3 pages, no figure, revtex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.5042
abstract: We consider both the co-ordinates and momenta to be non-commutative and define a non-commutative version of Lorentz symmetry which has a smooth limit to the standard Lorentz symmetry. The Poincar\acute{e} algebra in this spacetime has also been discussed.

id: 0812.5067
title: Chaotic dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate coupled to a qubit
authors: J. Martin, B. Georgeot, D. L. Shepelyansky
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures. Research done at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 066205 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.5067
abstract: We study numerically the coupling between a qubit and a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) moving in a kicked optical lattice, using Gross-Pitaevskii equation. In the regime where the BEC size is smaller than the lattice period, the chaotic dynamics of the BEC is effectively controlled by the qubit state. The feedback effects of the nonlinear chaotic BEC dynamics preserve the coherence and purity of the qubit in the regime of strong BEC nonlinearity. This gives an example of an exponentially sensitive control over a macroscopic state by internal qubit states. At weak nonlinearity quantum chaos leads to rapid dynamical decoherence of the qubit. The realization of such coupled systems is within reach of current experimental techniques.

id: 0812.3583
title: Unifying all classical spin models in a Lattice Gauge Theory
authors: G. De las Cuevas, W. D¨¹r, H. J. Briegel, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Published version. One new figure and some minor changes
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:230502,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3583
abstract: We show that the partition function of all classical spin models, including all discrete Standard Statistical Models and all abelian discrete Lattice Gauge Theories (LGTs), can be expressed as a special instance of the partition function of the 4D Z_2 LGT. In this way, all classical spin models with apparently very different features are unified in a single complete model, and a physical relation between all models is established. As applications of this result, we present a new method to do mean field theory for abelian discrete LGTs with d>3, and we show that the computation of the partition function of the 4D Z_2 LGT is a computationally hard (#P-hard) problem. We also extend our results to abelian continuous models, where we show the approximate completeness of the 4D Z_2 LGT. All results are proven using quantum information techniques.

id: 0812.5097
title: New Kinds of Quantum Statistics
authors: Frank Wilczek
comments: Talk at Seminaire Poincare (Bourbaphy), Paris, December 2007. To be published in the Proceedings. 6 pages, 4 figures. v2: Minor typos corrected, figures redrawn. v3: 2 more minor typos. Argh
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.5097
abstract: I review the quantum kinematics of identical particles, which suggests new possibilities, beyond bosons and fermions, in 2+1 dimensions; and how simple flux-charge constructions embody the new possibilities, leading to both abelian and nonabelian anyons. I briefly allude to experimental realizations, and also advertise a spinor construction of nonabelian statistics, that has a 3+1 dimensional extension.

id: 0812.2298
title: Efficient Isomorphism Testing for a Class of Group Extensions
authors: Francois Le Gall
comments: 17 pages, accepted to the STACS 2009 conference
journal: 
subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2298
abstract: The group isomorphism problem asks whether two given groups are isomorphic or not. Whereas the case where both groups are abelian is well understood and can be solved efficiently, very little is known about the complexity of isomorphism testing for nonabelian groups. In this paper we study this problem for a class of groups corresponding to one of the simplest ways of constructing nonabelian groups from abelian groups: the groups that are extensions of an abelian group A by a cyclic group of order m. We present an efficient algorithm solving the group isomorphism problem for all the groups of this class such that the order of A is coprime with m. More precisely, our algorithm runs in time almost linear in the orders of the input groups and works in the general setting where the groups are given as black-boxes.

id: 0812.0630
title: The Uniqueness Problem of Sequence Product on Operator Effect Algebra $\varepsilon (H)$
authors: Liu Weihua, Wu Junde
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0630
abstract: A quantum effect is an operator on a complex Hilbert space $H$ that satisfies $0\leq A\leq I$. We denote the set of all quantum effects by ${\cal E}(H)$. In this paper we prove, Theorem 4.3, on the theory of sequential product on ${\cal E}(H)$ which shows, in fact, that there are sequential products on ${\cal E}(H)$ which are not of the generalized L\"{u}ders form. This result answers a Gudder's open problem negatively.

id: 0812.2502
title: Not each sequential effect algebra is sharply dominating
authors: Shen Jun, Wu Junde
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2502
abstract: Let $E$ be an effect algebra and $E_S$ be the set of all sharp elements of $E$. $E$ is said to be sharply dominating if for each $a\in E$ there exists a smallest element $\widehat{a}\in E_s$ such that $a\leq \widehat{a}$. In 2002, Professors Gudder and Greechie proved that each $\sigma$-sequential effect algebra is sharply dominating. In 2005, Professor Gudder presented 25 open problems in International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 44, 2199-2205, the 3th problem asked: Is each sequential effect algebra sharply dominating? Now, we construct an example to answer the problem negatively.

id: 0812.0356
title: Polaritons and Pairing Phenomena in Bose--Hubbard Mixtures
authors: M. J. Bhaseen, M. Hohenadler, A. O. Silver, B. D. Simons
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 135301 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.0356
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments on cold atomic gases in ultra high finesse optical cavities, we consider the problem of a two-band Bose--Hubbard model coupled to quantum light. Photoexcitation promotes carriers between the bands and we study the non-trivial interplay between Mott insulating behavior and superfluidity. The model displays a global U(1) X U(1) symmetry which supports the coexistence of Mott insulating and superfluid phases, and yields a rich phase diagram with multicritical points. This symmetry property is shared by several other problems of current experimental interest, including two-component Bose gases in optical lattices, and the bosonic BEC-BCS crossover problem for atom-molecule mixtures induced by a Feshbach resonance. We corroborate our findings by numerical simulations.

id: 0812.2903
title: Theory of finite-entanglement scaling at one-dimensional quantum critical points
authors: Frank Pollmann, Subroto Mukerjee, Ari Turner, Joel E. Moore
comments: 4 pages + 2 pages supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2903
abstract: Studies of entanglement in many-particle systems suggest that most quantum critical ground states have infinitely more entanglement than non-critical states. Standard algorithms for one-dimensional many-particle systems construct model states with limited entanglement, which are a worse approximation to quantum critical states than to others. We give a quantitative theory of previously observed scaling behavior resulting from finite entanglement at quantum criticality: the scaling theory of finite entanglement is only superficially similar to finite-size scaling, and has a different physical origin. We find that finite-entanglement scaling is governed not by the scaling dimension of an operator but by the "central charge" of the critical point, which counts its universal degrees of freedom. An important ingredient is the recently obtained universal distribution of density-matrix eigenvalues at a critical point\cite{calabrese1}. The parameter-free theory is checked against numerical scaling at several quantum critical points.

id: 0812.2311
title: On extremal positive maps acting between type I factors
authors: Marcin Marciniak
comments: 21 pages; corrected typos, Remark 5.10 on page 20 added
journal: Banach Center Publications, vol. 89 (2010), pp. 201-221
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2311
abstract: The paper is devoted to the problem of classification of extremal positive maps acting between $B(K)$ and $B(H)$ where $K$ and $H$ are Hilbert spaces. It is shown that every positive map with the property that $\rank \phi(P)\leq 1$ for any one-dimensional projection $P$ is a rank 1 preserver. It allows to characterize all decomposable extremal maps as those which satisfy the above condition. Further, we prove that every extremal positive map which is 2-positive turns out to automatically completely positive. Finally we get the same conclusion for such extremal positive maps that $\rank \phi(P)\leq 1$ for some one-dimensional projection $P$ and satisfy the condition of local complete positivity. It allows us to give a negative answer for Robertson's problem in some special cases.

id: 0812.5104
title: On Quantum and Classical Error Control Codes: Constructions and Applications
authors: Salah A. Aly
comments: Parts of PhD dissertation, Texas A&M University
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.5104
abstract: It is conjectured that quantum computers are able to solve certain problems more quickly than any deterministic or probabilistic computer. A quantum computer exploits the rules of quantum mechanics to speed up computations. However, it is a formidable task to build a quantum computer, since the quantum mechanical systems storing the information unavoidably interact with their environment. Therefore, one has to mitigate the resulting noise and decoherence effects to avoid computational errors. In this work, I study various aspects of quantum error control codes -- the key component of fault-tolerant quantum information processing. I present the fundamental theory and necessary background of quantum codes and construct many families of quantum block and convolutional codes over finite fields, in addition to families of subsystem codes over symmetric and asymmetric channels. Particularly, many families of quantum BCH, RS, duadic, and convolutional codes are constructed over finite fields. Families of subsystem codes and a class of optimal MDS subsystem codes are derived over asymmetric and symmetric quantum channels. In addition, propagation rules and tables of upper bounds on subsystem code parameters are established. Classes of quantum and classical LDPC codes based on finite geometries and Latin squares are constructed.

id: 0812.2757
title: A simple model for Carnot heat engines
authors: Jacques Arnaud, Laurent Chusseau, Fabrice Philippe
comments: To appear in American Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2757
abstract: We present a (random) mechanical model consisting of two lottery-like reservoirs at altitude $E_h$ and $E_l<E_h$, respectively, in the earth's gravitational field. Both reservoirs consist of $N$ possible ball locations. The upper reservoir contains initially $n_h\le N$ weight-1 balls and the lower reservoir contains initially $n_l\le N$ weight-1 balls. Empty locations are treated as weight-0 balls. These reservoirs are being shaken up so that all possible ball configurations are equally likely to occur. A cycle consists of exchanging a ball randomly picked from the higher reservoir and a ball randomly picked from the lower reservoir. It is straightforward to show that the efficiency, defined as the ratio of the average work produced to the average energy lost by the higher reservoir is $\eta=1-E_l/E_h$. We then relate this system to a heat engine. This thermal interpretation is applicable only when the number of balls is large. We define the entropy as the logarithm of the number of ball configurations in a reservoir, namely $S(n)=\ln[N!/n!(N-n)!]$, with subscripts $h,l$ appended to $S$ and to $n$. When $n_l$ does not differ much from $n_h$, the system efficiency quoted above is found to coincide with the maximum efficiency $\eta=1-T_l/T_h$, where the $T$ are absolute temperatures defined from the above expression of $S$. Fluctuations are evaluated in Appendix A, and the history of the Carnot discovery (1824) is recalled in Appendix B. Only elementary physical and mathematical concepts are employed.

id: 0812.2388
title: Physics of risk and uncertainty in quantum decision making
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: Latex file, 30 pages. Published variant
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 71 (2009) 533-548
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2388
abstract: The Quantum Decision Theory, developed recently by the authors, is applied to clarify the role of risk and uncertainty in decision making and in particular in relation to the phenomenon of dynamic inconsistency. By formulating this notion in precise mathematical terms, we distinguish three types of inconsistency: time inconsistency, planning paradox, and inconsistency occurring in some discounting effects. While time inconsistency is well accounted for in classical decision theory, the planning paradox is in contradiction with classical utility theory. It finds a natural explanation in the frame of the Quantum Decision Theory. Different types of discounting effects are analyzed and shown to enjoy a straightforward explanation within the suggested theory. We also introduce a general methodology based on self-similar approximation theory for deriving the evolution equations for the probabilities of future prospects. This provides a novel classification of possible discount factors, which include the previously known cases (exponential or hyperbolic discounting), but also predicts a novel class of discount factors that decay to a strictly positive constant for very large future time horizons. This class may be useful to deal with very long-term discounting situations associated with intergenerational public policy choices, encompassing issues such as global warming and nuclear waste disposal.

id: 0812.1817
title: Least-Squares Approximation by Elements from Matrix Orbits Achieved by Gradient Flows on Compact Lie Groups
authors: C.K. Li, Y.T. Poon, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: 
journal: Math. Comput. 80 (2011), 1601-1621
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1817
abstract: Let $S(A)$ denote the orbit of a complex or real matrix $A$ under a certain equivalence relation such as unitary similarity, unitary equivalence, unitary congruences etc. Efficient gradient-flow algorithms are constructed to determine the best approximation of a given matrix $A_0$ by the sum of matrices in $S(A_1), ..., S(A_N)$ in the sense of finding the Euclidean least-squares distance $$\min \{\|X_1+ ... + X_N - A_0\|: X_j \in S(A_j), j = 1, >..., N\}.$$ Connections of the results to different pure and applied areas are discussed.

