id: 0901.0001
title: Controlled-NOT logic with nonresonant Josephson phase qubits
authors: Andrei Galiautdinov
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0001
abstract: We establish theoretical bounds on qubit detuning for high fidelity controlled-NOT logic gate implementations with weakly coupled Josephson phase qubits. It is found that the value of qubit detuning during the entangling pulses must not exceed 2g for two-step, and g for single-step control sequences, where g is the relevant coupling constant.

id: 0901.0013
title: Numerical analysis of decoy state quantum key distribution protocols
authors: Patrick Rice, Jim Harrington
comments: 30 pages, 15 figures; v2: minor edits
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0013
abstract: Decoy state protocols are a useful tool for many quantum key distribution systems implemented with weak coherent pulses, allowing significantly better secret bit rates and longer maximum distances. In this paper we present a method to numerically find optimal three-level protocols, and we examine how the secret bit rate and the optimized parameters are dependent on various system properties, such as session length, transmission loss, and visibility. Additionally, we show how to modify the decoy state analysis to handle partially distinguishable decoy states as well as uncertainty in the prepared intensities.

id: 0901.0042
title: A family of asymptotically good quantum codes based on code concatenation
authors: Zhuo Li, Li-Juan Xing, Xin-Mei Wang
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0042
abstract: We explicitly construct an infinite family of asymptotically good concatenated quantum stabilizer codes where the outer code uses CSS-type quantum Reed-Solomon code and the inner code uses a set of special quantum codes. In the field of quantum error-correcting codes, this is the first time that a family of asymptotically good quantum codes is derived from bad codes. Its occurrence supplies a gap in quantum coding theory.

id: 0901.0063
title: Experimental implementation of a four-player quantum game
authors: Christian Schmid, Adrian P. Flitney, Witlef Wieczorek, Nikolai Kiesel, Harald Weinfurter, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys.12:063031, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0063
abstract: Game theory is central to the understanding of competitive interactions arising in many fields, from the social and physical sciences to economics. Recently, as the definition of information is generalized to include entangled quantum systems, quantum game theory has emerged as a framework for understanding the competitive flow of quantum information. Up till now only two-player quantum games have been demonstrated. Here we report the first experiment that implements a four-player quantum Minority game over tunable four-partite entangled states encoded in the polarization of single photons. Experimental application of appropriate quantum player strategies give equilibrium payoff values well above those achievable in the classical game. These results are in excellent quantitative agreement with our theoretical analysis of the symmetric Pareto optimal strategies. Our result demonstrate for the first time how non-trivial equilibria can arise in a competitive situation involving quantum agents and pave the way for a range of quantum transaction applications.

id: 0901.0100
title: Reply to Comment on "Regional Versus Global Entanglement in Resonating-Valence-Bond States"
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 1 page, RevTeX4; answers Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 248901 (2008) as well as arXiv:0812.1932v1 [quant-ph]
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 248902 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0100
abstract: In Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 170502 (2007) (arXiv:quant-ph/0703227), we prove that resonating-valence-bond (RVB) states on arbitrary lattices possess genuine multiparty entanglement, and provide bounds on two-particle entanglement (and correlators). We also conjecture on the entanglement in large and small portions of the whole lattice. The proof, bound, and conjecture are not considered in the Comment in Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 248901 (2008) (arXiv:0812.1932v1 [quant-ph]). Next we take two examples: "RVB gas" and "RVB liquid". RVB liquid for arbitrary lattice size is not considered in the Comment. Two-party entanglement of RVB gas for relatively large lattice size is derived by an independent method in the Comment, and it agrees with our result. Multi-party entanglement of RVB gas is not considered in the Comment. Lastly, we consider an RVB liquid on a 4x4 square lattice and there was an error in the calculation of two-party entanglement in the second decimal place, as noted in the Comment. Note that this calculation was nowhere used in our Letter to derive other results. Moreover, the conclusion of "no two-particle entanglement" is still true for the RVB liquid on a 4x4 square lattice.

id: 0901.0108
title: Quantum computation of multifractal exponents through the quantum wavelet transform
authors: I. Garcia-Mata, O. Giraud, B. Georgeot
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review A 79, 052321 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0108
abstract: We study the use of the quantum wavelet transform to extract efficiently information about the multifractal exponents for multifractal quantum states. We show that, combined with quantum simulation algorithms, it enables to build quantum algorithms for multifractal exponents with a polynomial gain compared to classical simulations. Numerical results indicate that a rough estimate of fractality could be obtained exponentially fast. Our findings are relevant e.g. for quantum simulations of multifractal quantum maps and of the Anderson model at the metal-insulator transition.

id: 0901.0122
title: Gauge Boson Theory of Quantum State Reduction
authors: Vladimir S. Mashkevich
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX 2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0122
abstract: A theory of quantum state reduction is advanced. It is based on two principles: (1) Gauge decomposition; (2) Maximum entropy. To wit: (1) The reduction decomposition of a state vector is the Schmidt decomposition with respect to the states of a set of (dressed) gauge boson modes; (2) The reduction instant is that of the maximum entropy of a resulting mixed state. The theory determines states undergoing the reduction, its instant, resulting pure states and their probabilities. Applications: (Polarized) photon absorption and transmission, emission, particle detection, reduction of a superposition of states, nonintegral photon states, photon and matter-photon entanglement, processes with weak bosons, and the role of gluons.

id: 0901.0161
title: Generation of GHZ and W states for stationary qubits in spin network via resonance scattering
authors: L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 79, 042341 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0161
abstract: We propose a simple scheme to establish entanglement among stationary qubits based on the mechanism of resonance scattering between them and a single-spin-flip wave packet in designed spin network. It is found that through the natural dynamical evolution of an incident single-spin-flip wave packet in a spin network and the subsequent measurement of the output single-spin-flip wave packet,multipartite entangled states among n stationary qubits, Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) and W states can be generated.

id: 0901.0237
title: Quantum Resonance near Optimal Eavesdropping in Quantum Cryptography
authors: Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, DaeKil Park, Hungsoo Kim, Jin-Woo Son, Eui-Soon Yim, Seong-Keuck Cha, S. Tamaryan, Sahng-Kyoon Yoo
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0237
abstract: We find a resonance behavior in the disturbance when an eavesdropper chooses a near-optimal strategy intentionally or unintentionally when the usual Bennett-Brassard cryptographic scheme is performed between two trusted parties. This phenomenon tends to disappear when eavesdropping strategy moves far from the optimal one. Therefore, we conjecture that this resonant effect is a characteristic for the eavesdropping strategy near to optimal one. We argue that this effect makes the quantum cryptography more secure against the eavesdropper's attack.

id: 0901.0243
title: Quantized excitations of internal affine modes and their influence on Raman spectra
authors: J. J. S?awianowski, V. Kovalchuk, B. Go?ubowska, A. Martens, E. E. Ro?ko
comments: 51 pages, 6 figures
journal: Acta Physica Polonica B, vol. 41, no. 1, 2010, pp. 165-218
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0243
abstract: Discussed is the structure of classical and quantum excitations of internal degrees of freedom of multiparticle objects like molecules, fullerens, atomic nuclei, etc. Basing on some invariance properties under the action of isometric and affine transformations we reviewed some new models of the mutual interaction between rotational and deformative degrees of freedom. Our methodology and some results may be useful in the theory of Raman scattering and nuclear radiation.

id: 0901.0332
title: Overview of the structural unification of quantum mechanics and relativity using the algebra of quantions
authors: Florin Moldoveanu
comments: V3: Updated discussion section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0332
abstract: The purpose of this contribution is to provide an introduction for a general physics audience to the recent results of Emile Grgin that unifies quantum mechanics and relativity into the same mathematical structure. This structure is the algebra of quantions, a non-division algebra that is the natural framework for electroweak theory on curved space-time. Similar with quaternions, quantions preserve the core features of associativity and complex conjugation while giving up the unnecessarily historically biased property of division. Lack of division makes possible structural unification with relativity (one cannot upgrade the linear Minkowski space to a division algebra due to null light-cone vectors) and demands an adjustment from Born's standard interpretation of the wave function in terms of probability currents. This paper is an overview to the theory of quantions, followed by discussions.

id: 0901.0333
title: Operators for the Aharonov-Anandan and Samuel-Bhandari Phases
authors: P.-L. Giscard
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0333
abstract: We construct an operator for the Aharonov-Anandan phase for time independent Hamiltonians. This operator is shown to generate the motion of cyclic quantum systems through an equation of evolution involving only geometric quantities, i.e. the distance between quantum states, the geometric phase and the total length of evolution. From this equation, we derive an operator for the Samuel and Bhandari phase (SB-phase) for non cyclic evolutions. Finally we show how the SB-phase can be used to construct an operator corresponding to a quantum clock which commutator with the Hamiltonian has a canonical expectation value.

id: 0901.0336
title: Efficient all-optical switching using slow light within a hollow fiber
authors: M. Bajcsy, S. Hofferberth, V. Balic, T. Peyronel, M. Hafezi, A.S. Zibrov, V. Vuletic, M.D. Lukin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0336
abstract: We demonstrate a fiber-optical switch that is activated at tiny energies corresponding to few hundred optical photons per pulse. This is achieved by simultaneously confining both photons and a small laser-cooled ensemble of atoms inside the microscopic hollow core of a single-mode photonic-crystal fiber and using quantum optical techniques for generating slow light propagation and large nonlinear interaction between light beams.

id: 0901.0351
title: Experimental Quantum Teleportation and Multi-Photon Entanglement via Interfering Narrowband Photon Sources
authors: Jian Yang, Xiao-Hui Bao, Han Zhang, Shuai Chen, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042321 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0351
abstract: In this letter, we report a realization of synchronization-free quantum teleportation and narrowband three-photon entanglement through interfering narrowband photon sources. Since both the single-photon and the entangled photon pair utilized are completely autonomous, it removes the requirement of high demanding synchronization technique in long-distance quantum communication with pulsed spontaneous parametric down-conversion sources. The frequency linewidth of the three-photon entanglement realized is on the order of several MHz, which matches the requirement of atomic ensemble based quantum memories. Such a narrowband multi-photon source will have applications in some advanced quantum communication protocols and linear optical quantum computation.

id: 0901.0364
title: Collins diffraction formula and the Wigner function in entangled state representation
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Li-yun Hu
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0364
abstract: Based on the correspondence between Collins diffraction formula (optical Fresnel transform) and the transformation matrix element of a three-parameters two-mode squeezing operator in the entangled state representation (Opt. Lett. 31 (2006) 2622) we further explore the relationship between output field intensity determined by the Collins formula and the input field's probability distribution along an infinitely thin phase space strip both in spacial domain and frequency domain. The entangled Wigner function is introduced for recapitulating the result.

id: 0901.0368
title: Svetlichny's inequality and genuine tripartite nonlocality in three-qubit pure states
authors: Ashok Ajoy, Pranaw Rungta
comments: Modified version, 5 pages, 2 figures, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052334 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0368
abstract: The violation of the Svetlichny's inequality (SI) [Phys. Rev. D, 35, 3066 (1987)] is sufficient but not necessary for genuine tripartite nonlocal correlations. Here we quantify the relationship between tripartite entanglement and the maximum expectation value of the Svetlichny operator (which is bounded from above by the inequality) for the two inequivalent subclasses of pure three-qubit states: the GHZ-class and the W-class. We show that the maximum for the GHZ-class states reduces to Mermin's inequality [Phys. Rev. Lett. 65, 1838 (1990)] modulo a constant factor, and although it is a function of the three tangle and the residual concurrence, large number of states don't violate the inequality. We further show that by design SI is more suitable as a measure of genuine tripartite nonlocality between the three qubits in the the W-class states, and the maximum is a certain function of the bipartite entanglement (the concurrence) of the three reduced states, and only when their certain sum attains a certain threshold value, they violate the inequality.

id: 0901.0371
title: Generation and Direct Detection of Broadband Mesoscopic Polarization-Squeezed Vacuum
authors: T.Sh. Iskhakov, M.V. Chekhova, G. Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0371
abstract: Using a traveling-wave OPA with two orthogonally oriented type-I BBO crystals pumped by picosecond pulses, we generate vertically and horizontally polarized squeezed vacuum states within a broad range of wavelengths and angles. Depending on the phase between these states, fluctuations in one or another Stokes parameters are suppressed below the shot-noise limit. Due to the large number of photon pairs produced, no local oscillator is required, and 3dB squeezing is observed by means of direct detection.

id: 0901.0376
title: Universal Framework for Quantum Error-Correcting Codes
authors: Zhuo Li, Li-Juan Xing
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0376
abstract: We present a universal framework for quantum error-correcting codes, i.e., the one that applies for the most general quantum error-correcting codes. This framework is established on the group algebra, an algebraic notation for the nice error bases of quantum systems. The nicest thing about this framework is that we can characterize the properties of quantum codes by the properties of the group algebra. We show how it characterizes the properties of quantum codes as well as generates some new results about quantum codes.

id: 0901.0402
title: Spin-like current from phase space distributions
authors: Peter Holland
comments: 7 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 135304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0402
abstract: The spin 0 generalized phase space approach provides a general expression for local current which depends on the choice of distribution function and generally deviates from the Schrodinger current. It is shown that the continuity equation restricts the admissible bilinear distributions such that the current has a unique dependence on the wavefunction and coincides with the non-relativistic limit of the relativistic spin 1/2 current for a spin eigenstate, up to a constant vector. Examples of non-bilinear distributions that have the latter property are given.

id: 0901.0404
title: Dynamics of entanglement in Two-Qubit Open System Interacting with a Squeezed Thermal Bath via Dissipative interaction
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, V. Ravishankar, R. Srikanth
comments: 19 pages, 33 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 325 (4), 816--834 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0404
abstract: We study the dynamics of entanglement in a two-qubit system interacting with a squeezed thermal bath via a dissipative system-reservoir interaction with the system and reservoir assumed to be in a separable initial state. The resulting entanglement is studied by making use of a recently introduced measure of mixed state entanglement via a probability density function which gives a statistical and geometrical characterization of entanglement by exploring the entanglement content in the various subspaces spanning the two-qubit Hilbert space. We also make an application of the two-qubit dissipative dynamics to a simplified model of quantum repeaters.

id: 0901.0417
title: A short remark on negative energy densities and quantum inequalities
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Corrected typo in Eq. 2.5
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0417
abstract: In quantum field theory it is generally known that the energy density may be negative at a given point in spacetime. A number of papers have shown that there is a restriction on this energy density which is called a quantum inequality (QI). A QI is the lower bound to the "weighted average" of the energy density at a given point integrated over a time dependent sampling function. In this paper we give an example of a sampling function for which there is no QI.

id: 0901.0436
title: Quantum models of classical mechanics: maximum entropy packets
authors: P. Hajicek
comments: 26 pages, no figure. Introduction and the section on classical limit are extended, new references added. Definitive version accepted by Found. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0436
abstract: In a previous paper, a project of constructing quantum models of classical properties has been started. The present paper concludes the project by turning to classical mechanics. The quantum states that maximize entropy for given averages and variances of coordinates and momenta are called ME packets. They generalize the Gaussian wave packets. A non-trivial extension of the partition-function method of probability calculus to quantum mechanics is given. Non-commutativity of quantum variables limits its usefulness. Still, the general form of the state operators of ME packets is obtained with its help. The diagonal representation of the operators is found. A general way of calculating averages that can replace the partition function method is described. Classical mechanics is reinterpreted as a statistical theory. Classical trajectories are replaced by classical ME packets. Quantum states approximate classical ones if the product of the coordinate and momentum variances is much larger than Planck constant. Thus, ME packets with large variances follow their classical counterparts better than Gaussian wave packets.

id: 0901.0444
title: Coherence and control of quantum registers based on electronic spin in a nuclear spin bath
authors: P. Cappellaro, L. Jiang, J. S. Hodges, M. D. Lukin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 210502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0444
abstract: We consider a protocol for the control of few-qubit registers comprising one electronic spin embedded in a nuclear spin bath. We show how to isolate a few proximal nuclear spins from the rest of the environment and use them as building blocks for a potentially scalable quantum information processor. We describe how coherent control techniques based on magnetic resonance methods can be adapted to these electronic-nuclear solid state spin systems, to provide not only efficient, high fidelity manipulation of the registers, but also decoupling from the spin bath. As an example, we analyze feasible performances and practical limitations in a realistic setting associated with nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond.

id: 0901.0508
title: On the Salecker-Wigner-Peres clock and double barrier tunneling
authors: Marcos Cal?ada, Jos¨¦ T. Lunardi, Luiz A. Manzoni
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79 (2009) 012110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0508
abstract: In this work we revisit the Salecker-Wigner-Peres clock formalism and show that it can be directly applied to the phenomenon of tunneling. Then we apply this formalism to the determination of the tunneling time of a non relativistic wavepacket, sharply concentrated around a tunneling energy, incident on a symmetric double barrier potential. In order to deepen the discussion about the generalized Hartmann effect, we consider the case in which the clock runs only when the particle can be found inside the region \emph{between} the barriers and show that, whenever the probability to find the particle in this region is non negligible, the corresponding time (which in this case turns out to be a dwell time) increases with the barrier spacing.

id: 0901.0513
title: Towards a monolithic optical cavity for atom detection and manipulation
authors: S¨¦bastien Gleyzes, Abdelkrim El Amili, Ronald Cornelussen, Philippe Lalanne, Christoph I Westbrook, Alain Aspect, J¨¦r?me Est¨¨ve, Gauthier Moreau, Antony Martinez, Xavier Lafosse, Laurence Ferlazzo, Jean-Christophe Harmand, Dominique Mailly, Abderrahim Ramdane
comments: 
journal: European Physical Journal D 53, 1 (2009) 107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0513
abstract: We study a Fabry-Perot cavity formed from a ridge waveguide on a AlGaAs substrate. We experimentally determined the propagation losses in the waveguide at 780 nm, the wavelength of Rb atoms. We have also made a numerical and analytical estimate of the losses induced by the presence of the gap which would allow the interaction of cold atoms with the cavity field. We found that the intrinsic finesse of the gapped cavity can be on the order of F ~ 30, which, when one takes into account the losses due to mirror transmission, corresponds to a cooperativity parameter for our system C ~ 1.

id: 0901.0525
title: Derivation of sensitivity of a Geiger mode APDs detector from a given efficiency for QKD experiments
authors: Kiyotaka Hammura, David Williams
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0525
abstract: The detection sensitivity (DS) of the commercial single-photon-receiver based on InGaAs gate-mode avalanche photodiode is estimated. Instalment of a digital-blanking-system (DBS) to reduce dark current makes the difference between DS, which is an efficiency of the detector during its open-gate/active state, and the total/overall detection efficiency (DE). By numerical simulations, it is found that the average number of light-pulses, blanked by DBS, following a registered pulse is 0.333. DS is estimated at 0.216, which can be used for estimating DE for an arbitrary photon arriving rate and a gating frequency of the receiver.

id: 0901.0533
title: High fidelity transport of trapped-ion qubits through an X-junction trap array
authors: R.B. Blakestad, C. Ospelkaus, A.P. VanDevender, J.M. Amini, J. Britton, D. Leibfried, D.J. Wineland
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures Updated to reduce manuscript to four pages. Some non-essential information was removed, including some waveform information and more detailed information on the trap
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0533
abstract: We report reliable transport of 9Be+ ions through a 2-D trap array that includes a separate loading/reservoir zone and an "X-junction". During transport the ion's kinetic energy in its local well increases by only a few motional quanta and internal-state coherences are preserved. We also examine two sources of energy gain during transport: a particular radio-frequency (RF) noise heating mechanism and digital sampling noise. Such studies are important to achieve scaling in a trapped-ion quantum information processor.

id: 0901.0579
title: Large Scale Quantum Computation in an Anharmonic Linear Ion Trap
authors: G.-D. Lin, S.-L. Zhu, R. Islam, K. Kim, M.-S. Chang, S. Korenblit, C. Monroe, L.-M. Duan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 86 (2009) 60004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0579
abstract: We propose a large-scale quantum computer architecture by stabilizing a single large linear ion chain in a very simple trap geometry. By confining ions in an anharmonic linear trap with nearly uniform spacing between ions, we show that high-fidelity quantum gates can be realized in large linear ion crystals under the Doppler temperature based on coupling to a near-continuum of transverse motional modes with simple shaped laser pulses.

id: 0901.0612
title: Proof-of-Concept of Real-World Quantum Key Distribution with Quantum Frames
authors: Itzel Lucio Martinez, Philip Chan, Xiaofan Mo, Steve Hosier, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 25 pages, 14 figures, 4 tables
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 095001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0612
abstract: We propose and experimentally investigate a fibre-based quantum key distribution system, which employs polarization qubits encoded into faint laser pulses. As a novel feature, it allows sending of classical framing information via sequences of strong laser pulses that precede the quantum data. This allows synchronization, sender and receiver identification, and compensation of time-varying birefringence in the communication channel. In addition, this method also provides a platform to communicate implementation specific information such as encoding and protocol in view of future optical quantum networks. Furthermore, we report on our current effort to develop high-rate error correction.

id: 0901.0634
title: Local-field corrected van der Waals potentials in magnetodielectric multilayer systems
authors: Agnes Sambale, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch, Ho Trung Dung, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 79 (2), 022903 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0634
abstract: Within the framework of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics in linear, causal media, we study the van der Waals potentials of ground-state atoms in planar magnetodielectric host media. Our investigation extends earlier ones in two aspects: It allows for the atom to be embedded in a medium, thus covers many more realistic systems; and it takes account of the local-field correction. Two- and three-layer configurations are treated in detail both analytically and numerically. It is shown that an interplay of electric and magnetic properties in neighbouring media may give rise to potential wells or walls. Local-field corrections as high as 80% are found. By calculating the full potential including the translationally invariant and variant parts, we propose a way to estimate the (finite) value of the dispersion potential at the surface between two media. Connection with earlier work intended for biological applications is established.

id: 0901.0635
title: Any l-state improved quasi-exact analytical solutions of the spatially dependent mass Klein-Gordon equation for the scalar and vector Hulthen potentials
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Scr. 79, 035002(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0635
abstract: We present a new approximation scheme for the centrifugal term to obtain a quasi-exact analytical bound state solutions within the framework of the position-dependent effective mass radial Klein-Gordon equation with the scalar and vector Hulth\'{e}n potentials in any arbitrary $D$ dimension and orbital angular momentum quantum numbers $l.$ The Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method is used in the calculations. The relativistic real energy levels and corresponding eigenfunctions for the bound states with different screening parameters have been given in a closed form. It is found that the solutions in the case of constant mass and in the case of s-wave ($l=0$) are identical with the ones obtained in literature.

id: 0901.0664
title: Low-loss negative refraction by laser induced magneto-electric cross-coupling
authors: J¨¹rgen K?stel, Michael Fleischhauer, Susanne F. Yelin, Ronald L. Walsworth
comments: 13 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0664
abstract: We discuss the feasibility of negative refraction with reduced absorption in coherently driven atomic media. Coherent coupling of an electric and a magnetic dipole transition by laser fields induces magneto-electric cross-coupling and negative refraction at dipole densities which are considerably smaller than necessary to achieve a negative permeability. At the same time the absorption gets minimized due to destructive quantum interference and the ratio of negative refraction index to absorption becomes orders of magnitude larger than in systems without coherent cross-coupling. The proposed scheme allows for a fine-tuning of the refractive index. We derive a generalized expression for the impedance of a medium with magneto-electric cross coupling and show that impedance matching to vacuum can easily be achieved. Finally we discuss the tensorial properties of the medium response and derive expressions for the dependence of the refractive index on the propagation direction.

id: 0901.0671
title: Spatial entanglement using a quantum walk on a many-body system
authors: Sandeep K. Goyal, C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures. Published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 235303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0671
abstract: The evolution of a many-particle system on a one-dimensional lattice, subjected to a quantum walk can cause spatial entanglement in the lattice position, which can be exploited for quantum information/communication purposes. We demonstrate the evolution of spatial entanglement and its dependence on the quantum coin operation parameters, the number of particles present in the lattice and the number of steps of quantum walk on the system. Thus, spatial entanglement can be controlled and optimized using a many-particle discrete-time quantum walk.

id: 0901.0700
title: Three-Hilbert-Space Formulation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 001, 19 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0700
abstract: In paper [Znojil M., Phys. Rev. D 78 (2008), 085003, 5 pages, arXiv:0809.2874] the two-Hilbert-space (2HS, a.k.a. cryptohermitian) formulation of Quantum Mechanics has been revisited. In the present continuation of this study (with the spaces in question denoted as ${\cal H}^{\rm (auxiliary)}$ and ${\cal H}^{\rm (standard)}$) we spot a weak point of the 2HS formalism which lies in the double role played by ${\cal H}^{\rm (auxiliary)}$. As long as this confluence of roles may (and did!) lead to confusion in the literature, we propose an amended, three-Hilbert-space (3HS) reformulation of the same theory. As a byproduct of our analysis of the formalism we offer an amendment of the Dirac's bra-ket notation and we also show how its use clarifies the concept of covariance in time-dependent cases. Via an elementary example we finally explain why in certain quantum systems the generator $H_{\rm (gen)}$ of the time-evolution of the wave functions may differ from their Hamiltonian $H$.

id: 0901.0742
title: Far-off resonance conditional phase-shifter using the ac-Stark shift
authors: N. A. Proite, D. D. Yavuz
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0742
abstract: We propose a simple technique that achieves a conditional phase shift of pi radians between two weak lasers with energies at the 1000-photon level. The key idea is to set up a V-system with two far-off resonant lasers by coupling the ground state to two excited electronic states. The lasers interact through the ac Stark shift of the ground state and thereby acquire a large conditional phase shift.

id: 0901.0795
title: Proper Versus Improper Mixtures: Towards a Quaternionic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Fabio Masillo, Giuseppe Scolarici, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 10 pages, standard latex, accepted for publication in Theoretical and Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0795
abstract: The density operators obtained by taking partial traces do not represent proper mixtures of the subsystems of a compound physical system, but improper mixtures, since the coefficients in the convex sums expressing them never bear the ignorance interpretation. As a consequence, assigning states to these subsystems is problematical in standard quantum mechanics (subentity problem). Basing on the proposal provided in the SR interpretation of quantum mechanics, where improper mixtures are considered as true nonpure states conceptually distinct from proper mixtures, we show here that proper and improper mixtures can be represented by different density operators in the quaternionic formulation of quantum mechanics, hence they can be distinguished also from a mathematical viewpoint. A simple example related to the quantum theory of measurement is provided.

id: 0901.0801
title: An improved approximation scheme for the centrifugal term and the Hulthen potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: European Physical Journal A 39 (2009) 307-314.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0801
abstract: We present a new approximation scheme for the centrifugal term to solve the Schrodinger equation with the Hulthen potential for any arbitrary l state by means of a mathematical Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. We obtain the bound state energy eigenvalues and the normalized corresponding eigenfunctions expressed in terms of the Jacobi polynomials or hypergeometric functions for a particle exposed to this potential field. Our numerical results of the energy eigenvalues are found to be in high agreement with those results obtained by using the program based on a numerical integration procedure. The s-wave (l=0) analytic solution for the binding energies and eigenfunctions of a particle are also calculated. The physical meaning of the approximate analytical solution is discussed. The present approximation scheme is systematic and accurate.

id: 0901.0804
title: Continuum states in generalized Swanson models
authors: A. Sinha, P. Roy
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. vol. 42 (2009) 052002 (9pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0804
abstract: A one-to-one correspondence is known to exist between the spectra of the discrete states of the non Hermitian Swanson-type Hamiltonian $ H = {\cal{A}}^{\dagger} {\cal{A}} + \alpha {\cal{A}} ^2 + \beta {\cal{A}}^{\dagger 2} $, ($\alpha \neq \beta $), and an equivalent Hermitian Schr\"{o}dinger Hamiltonian $h$, the two Hamiltonians being related through a similarity transformation. In this work we consider the continuum states of $h$, and examine the nature of the corresponding states of $H$.

id: 0901.0811
title: Quantum memory as a perpetuum mobile? Stability v.s. reversibility of information processing
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 15 pages,no figures, amended text
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, vol.19 no.3 (2012) 1250016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0811
abstract: It is argued using a Gedankenexperiment that a scalable quantum memory could be used as a perpetuum mobile of the second kind and hence cannot be realized in Nature. The reasoning is based on the assumption that the Landauer's principle for measurements is a consequence of the second law of thermodynamics and not an independent postulate. This implies a modification of the Landauer's principle when applied for discrimination of equilibrium (metastable) states. While identification of the metastable state can be done at the infinitesimally low cost, a change of such a state involves dissipation of energy proportional to its stability factor.

id: 0901.0812
title: The relevance of random choice in tests of Bell inequalities with atomic qubits
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0812
abstract: It is pointed out that a loophole exists in experimental tests of Bell inequality using atomic qubits, due to possible errors in the rotation angles of the atomic states. A sufficient condition is derived for closing the loophole.

id: 0901.0836
title: Efficient routing of single photons by one atom and a microtoroidal cavity
authors: Takao Aoki, A. S. Parkins, D. J. Alton, C. A. Regal, Barak Dayan, E. Ostby, K. J. Vahala, H. J. Kimble
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0836
abstract: Single photons from a coherent input are efficiently redirected to a separate output by way of a fiber-coupled microtoroidal cavity interacting with individual Cesium atoms. By operating in an overcoupled regime for the input-output to a tapered fiber, our system functions as a quantum router with high efficiency for photon sorting. Single photons are reflected and excess photons transmitted, as confirmed by observations of photon antibunching (bunching) for the reflected (transmitted) light. Our photon router is robust against large variations of atomic position and input power, with the observed photon antibunching persisting for intracavity photon number 0.03 \lesssim n \lesssim 0.7.

id: 0901.0844
title: Entanglement and nonlocality of a single relativistic particle
authors: Jacob Dunningham, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0844
abstract: Recent work has argued that the concepts of entanglement and nonlocality must be taken seriously even in systems consisting of only a single particle. These treatments, however, are nonrelativistic and, if single particle entanglement is fundamental, it should also persist in a relativistic description. Here we consider a spin-1/2 particle in a superposition of two different velocities as viewed by an observer in a different relativistically-boosted inertial frame. We show that the entanglement survives right up to the speed of light and that the boosted observer would see single-particle violations of Bell's inequality. We also discuss how quantum gates could be implemented in this way and the possible implications for quantum information processing.

id: 0901.0870
title: Classical and Quantum Mechanics from the universal Poisson-Rinehart algebra of a manifold
authors: G.Morchio, F.Strocchi
comments: Talk given by the first author at the 40th Symposium on Mathematical Physics, Torun, June 25-28, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0870
abstract: The Lie and module (Rinehart) algebraic structure of vector fields of compact support over C infinity functions on a (connected) manifold M define a unique universal non-commutative Poisson * algebra. For a compact manifold, a (antihermitian) variable Z, central with respect to both the product and the Lie product, relates commutators and Poisson brackets; in the non-compact case, sequences of locally central variables allow for the addition of an element with the same role. Quotients with respect to the (positive) values taken by Z* Z define classical Poisson algebras and quantum observable algebras, with the Planck constant given by -iZ. Under standard regularity conditions, the corresponding states and Hilbert space representations uniquely give rise to classical and quantum mechanics on M.

id: 0901.0873
title: Pure single photon generation by type-I PDC with backward-wave amplification
authors: A. Christ, A. Eckstein, P. J. Mosley, C. Silberhorn
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, minor text changes and reformatting
journal: Opt. Express 17, 3441-3446 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0873
abstract: We explore a promising method of generating pure heralded single photons. Our approach is based on parametric downconversion in a periodically-poled waveguide. However, unlike conventional downconversion sources, the photon pairs are counter-propagating: one travels with the pump beam in the forward direction while the other is backpropagating towards the laser source. Our calculations reveal that these downconverted two-photon states carry minimal spectral correlations within each photon-pair. This approach offers the possibility to employ a new range of downconversion processes and materials like PPLN (previously considered unsuitable due to their unfavorable phasematching properties) to herald pure single photons over a broad frequency range.

id: 0901.0881
title: Two-dimensional cluster-state preparation with linear ion traps
authors: Harald Wunderlich, Christof Wunderlich, Kilian Singer, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: Polished and published version, amended author list, amended list of references
journal: Physical Review A (Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics) 79, 052324 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0881
abstract: We present schemes to prepare two-dimensional cluster states [H. J. Briegel and R. Raussendorf, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 86}, 910 (2001)] with atomic ions confined in a micro-structured linear ion trap and coupled by an engineered spin-spin interaction. In particular, we show how to prepare a $n \times 2$ cluster state by creating a linear cluster state and adding third-neighbor entanglement using selective recoupling techniques. The scheme is based on the capabilities provided by segmented linear Paul traps to confine ions in local potential wells and to separate and transport ions between these wells. Furthermore, we consider creating 3 and 4-qubit cluster states by engineering the coupling matrix such that through the periodicity of the time evolution unwanted couplings are canceled. All entangling operations are achieved by switching of voltages and currents, and do not require interaction with laser light.

id: 0901.0882
title: A glance at singlet states and four-partite correlations
authors: Maria Schimpf, Karl Svozil
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures, to appear in a special issue of Mathematica Slovaca dedicated to Sylvia Pulmannova
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0882
abstract: Group theoretic methods to construct all N-particle singlet states by iterative recursion are presented. These techniques are applied to the quantum correlations of four spin one-half particles in their singlet states. Multipartite quantized systems can be partitioned, and their observables grouped and redefined into condensed correlations.

id: 0901.0939
title: Collapses and revivals of stored orbital angular momentum of light in a cold atomic ensemble
authors: D. Moretti, D. Felinto, J. W. R. Tabosa
comments: Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A, 79, 023825 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0939
abstract: We report on the storage of orbital angular momentum of light in a cold ensemble of cesium atoms. We employ Bragg diffraction to retrieve the stored optical information impressed into the atomic coherence by the incident light fields. The stored information can be manipulated by an applied magnetic field and we were able to observe collapses and revivals due to the rotation of the stored atomic Zeeman coherence for times longer than 15 $\mu s$.

id: 0901.0943
title: Measuring the quality of a quantum reference frame: the relative entropy of frameness
authors: Gilad Gour, Iman Marvian, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 12 pages; many improvements in v2 including a weakening of the assumptions of the main theorem and better upper bounds for both the relative entropy of frameness for arbitrary compact Lie groups and the relative entropy of entanglement. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012307 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0943
abstract: In the absence of a reference frame for transformations associated with a group G, any quantum state that is non-invariant under the action of G may serve as a token of the missing reference frame. We here introduce a novel measure of the quality of such a token: the relative entropy of frameness. This is defined as the relative entropy distance between the state of interest and the nearest G-invariant state. Unlike the relative entropy of entanglement, this quantity is straightforward to calculate and we find it to be precisely equal to the G-asymmetry, a measure of frameness introduced by Vaccaro et al. It is shown to provide an upper bound on the mutual information between the group element encoded into the token and the group element that may be extracted from it by measurement. In this sense, it quantifies the extent to which the token successfully simulates a full reference frame. We also show, that despite a suggestive analogy from entanglement theory, the regularized relative entropy of frameness is zero and therefore does not quantify the rate of interconversion between the token and some standard form of quantum reference frame. Finally, we show how these investigations yield a novel approach to bounding the relative entropy of entanglement.

id: 0901.0951
title: Quantum Measurement Reliability versus Reversibility
authors: S. J. van Enk, M. G. Raymer
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Am. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0951
abstract: There is a constraining relation between the reliability of a quantum measurement and the extent to which the measurement process is, in principle, reversible. The greater the information that is gained, the less reversible the measurement dynamics become. To illustrate this relation, we develop a simple physical model for quantum measurement, as well as a hypothetical scheme by which the experimenters can determine the reliability and reversibility. We derive an "uncertainty" (constraining) relation between reliability and reversibility, which holds even when there is no interaction with any external environment other than the fundamental information recording device.

id: 0901.0952
title: Problems with Probability in Everett's Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 8 pages. The main objections to MWIs have been simplified and clarified in version 3. A more thorough description of other lines of reasoning is given in version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0952
abstract: In the many-worlds interpretations (MWIs) of Everett and others, if I am the observer, there are several versions of me but no version is singled out as the one corresponding to my perceptions. However, it can be shown that the probability law implies one version must be singled out. Thus MWIs do not provide a sufficient basis for probability. If we are to have an acceptable description of the physical universe, MWIs must be supplemented by some mechanism, such as hidden variables or collapse, that singles out one version of the observer as the perceiving version.

id: 0901.0956
title: Classical Interaction Cannot Replace Quantum Nonlocality
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0956
abstract: We present a two-player communication task that can be solved by a protocol of polylogarithmic cost in the simultaneous message passing model with classical communication and shared entanglement, but requires exponentially more communication in the classical interactive model. Our second result is a two-player nonlocality game with input length $n$ and output of polylogarithmic length, that can be won with probability 1-o(1) by players sharing polylogarithmic amount of entanglement. On the other hand, the game is lost with probability $\Omega(1)$ by players without entanglement, even if they are allowed to exchange up to k bits in interactive communication for certain $k\in\Omega(n^{1/4})$. These two results give almost the strongest possible (and the strongest known) indication of nonlocal properties of two-party entanglement.

id: 0901.0960
title: Entangled Quantum Key Distribution with a Biased Basis Choice
authors: C. Erven, X. Ma, R. Laflamme, G. Weihs
comments: v2: Revised paper based on referee reports, Theory section was revised (primarily regarding finite key effects), Results section almost completely rewritten with more experimental data. 16 pages, 5 figures. v1: 14 pages, 6 figures, higher resolution figures will be available in the published article
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 045025 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0960
abstract: We investigate a quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme which utilizes a biased basis choice in order to increase the efficiency of the scheme. The optimal bias between the two measurement bases, a more refined error analysis, and finite key size effects are all studied in order to assure the security of the final key generated with the system. We then implement the scheme in a local entangled QKD system that uses polarization entangled photon pairs to securely distribute the key. A 50/50 non-polarizing beamsplitter with different optical attenuators is used to simulate a variable beamsplitter in order to allow us to study the operation of the system for different biases. Over 6 hours of continuous operation with a total bias of 0.9837/0.0163 (Z/X), we were able to generate 0.4567 secure key bits per raw key bit as compared to 0.2550 secure key bits per raw key bit for the unbiased case. This represents an increase in the efficiency of the key generation rate by 79%.

id: 0901.0983
title: Grand-mother clocks and quiet lasers
authors: Jacques Arnaud, Laurent Chusseau, Fabrice Philippe
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0983
abstract: Galileo noted in the 16th century that the period of oscillation of a pendulum is almost independent of the amplitude. However, such a pendulum is damped by air friction. The latter may be viewed as resulting from air molecules getting in contact with the pendulum. It follows that air friction, not only damps the oscillation, but also introduces randomness. In the so-called ``grand-mother'' clock, discovered by Huygens in the 18th century, damping is compensated for, on the average, by an escapement mechanism driven by a falling weight. The purpose of this paper is to show that such a clock is, in its idealized form, a quiet oscillator. By ``quiet'' we mean that in spite of the randomness introduced by damping, the dissipated power (viewed as the oscillator output) does not fluctuate slowly. Comparison is made with quiet laser oscillators discovered theoretically in 1984. Because the input power does not fluctuate in both the mechanical oscillator and the quiet laser oscillator, the output power does not fluctuate at small Fourier frequencies, irrespectively of the detailed mechanisms involved.

id: 0901.1007
title: Faster transport with a directed quantum walk
authors: Stephan Hoyer, David A. Meyer
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures. To be published in Phys. Rev. A. v2: Minor wording changes. For Mathematica simulation source, see this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 024307 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1007
abstract: We give the first example of faster transport with a quantum walk on an inherently directed graph, on the directed line with a variable number of self-loops at each vertex. These self-loops can be thought of as adding a number of small dimensions. This is a discrete time quantum walk using the Fourier transform coin, where the walk proceeds a distance $\Theta(1)$ in constant time compared to $\Theta(1/n)$ classically, independent of the number of these small dimensions. The analysis proceeds by reducing this walk to a walk with a two dimensional coin.

id: 0901.1074
title: Quantum and semiclassical spin networks: from atomic and molecular physics to quantum computing and gravity
authors: V. Aquilanti, A.C.P. Bitencourt, C. da S. Ferreira, A. Marzuoli, M. Ragni
comments: 
journal: Phys.Scripta 78:058103,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1074
abstract: The mathematical apparatus of quantum--mechanical angular momentum (re)coupling, developed originally to describe spectroscopic phenomena in atomic, molecular, optical and nuclear physics, is embedded in modern algebraic settings which emphasize the underlying combinational aspects. SU(2) recoupling theory, involving Wigner's 3nj symbols, as well as the related problems of their calculations, general properties, asymptotic limits for large entries, play nowadays a prominent role also in quantum gravity and quantum computing applications. We refer to the ingredients of this theory -and of its extension to other Lie and quantum group- by using the collective term of `spin networks'. Recent progress is recorded about the already established connections with the mathematical theory of discrete orthogonal polynomials (the so-called Askey Scheme), providing powerful tools based on asymptotic expansions, which correspond on the physical side to various levels of semi-classical limits. These results are useful not only in theoretical molecular physics but also in motivating algorithms for the computationally demanding problems of molecular dynamics and chemical reaction theory, where large angular momenta are typically involved. As for quantum chemistry, applications of these techniques include selection and classification of complete orthogonal basis sets in atomic and molecular problems, either in configuration space (Sturmian orbitals) or in momentum space. In this paper we list and discuss some aspects of these developments -such as for instance the hyperquantization algorithm- as well as a few applications to quantum gravity and topology, thus providing evidence of a unifying background structure.

id: 0901.1076
title: Quantum mechanical virial theorem in systems with translational and rotational symmetry
authors: Domagoj Kuic
comments: 24 pages, accepted for publication in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 52 (2013) 1221-1239
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1076
abstract: Generalized virial theorem for quantum mechanical nonrelativistic and relativistic systems with translational and rotational symmetry is derived in the form of the commutator between the generator of dilations G and the Hamiltonian H. If the conditions of translational and rotational symmetry together with the additional conditions of the theorem are satisfied, the matrix elements of the commutator [G, H] are equal to zero on the subspace of the Hilbert space. Normalized simultaneous eigenvectors of the particular set of commuting operators which contains H, J^{2}, J_{z} and additional operators form an orthonormal basis in this subspace. It is expected that the theorem is relevant for a large number of quantum mechanical N-particle systems with translational and rotational symmetry.

id: 0901.1082
title: Ultralong trapping of light using double spin coherence gratings
authors: B.S. Ham, J. Hahn
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1082
abstract: Ultralong trapping of light has been observed in an optically dense three-level solid medium interacting with a pair of counterpropagating coupling fields. Unlike the light trapping based on standing-wave gratings excited by the same frequency pair of counterpropagating light fields (M. Bajcsy et al., Nature 426, 638 (2003)), the present method uses resonant Raman optical field-excited spin coherence gratings. The observed light trapping time is two orders of magnitude longer than the expected value of the spin dephasing time, where the extended storage time has potential for quantum information processing based on nonlinear optics.

id: 0901.1107
title: Ground State Entanglement in One Dimensional Translationally Invariant Quantum Systems
authors: Sandy Irani
comments: 22 pages. v2 is the published version, with additional clarifications, publisher's version available at this http URL
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 022101 (2010); doi:10.1063/1.3254321 (20 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1107
abstract: We examine whether it is possible for one-dimensional translationally-invariant Hamiltonians to have ground states with a high degree of entanglement. We present a family of translationally invariant Hamiltonians {H_n} for the infinite chain. The spectral gap of H_n is Omega(1/poly(n)). Moreover, for any state in the ground space of H_n and any m, there are regions of size m with entanglement entropy Omega(min{m,n}). A similar construction yields translationally-invariant Hamiltonians for finite chains that have unique ground states exhibiting high entanglement. The area law proven by Hastings gives a constant upper bound on the entanglement entropy for 1D ground states that is independent of the size of the region but exponentially dependent on 1/Delta, where Delta is the spectral gap. This paper provides a lower bound, showing a family of Hamiltonians for which the entanglement entropy scales polynomially with 1/Delta. Previously, the best known such bound was logarithmic in 1/Delta.

id: 0901.1108
title: Entanglement vs. gap for one-dimensional spin systems
authors: Daniel Gottesman, M. B. Hastings
comments: 16 pages. v2 is final published version with slight clarifications
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 025002 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1108
abstract: We study the relationship between entanglement and spectral gap for local Hamiltonians in one dimension. The area law for a one-dimensional system states that for the ground state, the entanglement of any interval is upper-bounded by a constant independent of the size of the interval. However, the possible dependence of the upper bound on the spectral gap Delta is not known, as the best known general upper bound is asymptotically much larger than the largest possible entropy of any model system previously constructed for small Delta. To help resolve this asymptotic behavior, we construct a family of one-dimensional local systems for which some intervals have entanglement entropy which is polynomial in 1/Delta, whereas previously studied systems, such as free fermion systems or systems described by conformal field theory, had the entropy of all intervals bounded by a constant times log(1/Delta).

id: 0901.1115
title: Correlations in photon-numbers and integrated intensities in parametric processes involving three optical fields
authors: Jan Perina, Jaromir Krepelka, Jan Perina Jr., Maria Bondani, Alessia Allevi, Alessandra Andreoni
comments: 9 pages, 14 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 53 (2009) 373-382
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1115
abstract: Two strongly-pumped parametric interactions are simultaneously realized in a single nonlinear crystal in order to generate three strongly correlated optical fields. By combining together the outputs of two of the three detectors measuring intensities of the generated fields, we obtain the joint photocount statistics between the single field and the sum of the other two. Moreover, we develop a microscopic quantum theory to determine the joint photon-number distribution and the joint quasi-distributions of integrated intensities and prove nonclassical nature of the three-mode state. Finally, by performing a conditional measurement on the single field, we obtain a state endowed with a sub-Poissonian statistics, as testified by the analysis of the conditional Fano factor. The role of quantum detection efficiencies in this conditional state-preparation method is discussed in detail.

id: 0901.1178
title: Non-static Quantum Bit Commitment
authors: Jeong Woon Choi, Dowon Hong, Ku-Young Chang, Dong Pyo Chi, Soojoon Lee
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1178
abstract: Quantum bit commitment has been known to be impossible by the independent proofs of Mayers, and Lo and Chau, under the assumption that the whole quantum states right before the unveiling phase are static to users. We here provide an unconditionally secure non-static quantum bit commitment protocol with a trusted third party, which is not directly involved in any communications between users and can be limited not to get any information of commitment without being detected by users. We also prove that our quantum bit commitment protocol is not secure without the help of the trusted third party. The proof is basically different from the Mayers-Lo-Chau's no-go theorem, because we do not assume the staticity of the finally shared quantum states between users.

id: 0901.1188
title: Asymptotic entanglement in a two-dimensional quantum walk
authors: Mostafa Annabestani, Mohammad Reza Abolhasani, Gonzalo Abal
comments: Major revision. Improved structure. Theoretical results are now separated from specific examples. Most figures have been replaced by new versions. The paper is now significantly reduced in size: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 075301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1188
abstract: The evolution operator of a discrete-time quantum walk involves a conditional shift in position space which entangles the coin and position degrees of freedom of the walker. After several steps, the coin-position entanglement (CPE) converges to a well defined value which depends on the initial state. In this work we provide an analytical method which allows for the exact calculation of the asymptotic reduced density operator and the corresponding CPE for a discrete-time quantum walk on a two-dimensional lattice. We use the von Neumann entropy of the reduced density operator as an entanglement measure. The method is applied to the case of a Hadamard walk for which the dependence of the resulting CPE on initial conditions is obtained. Initial states leading to maximum or minimum CPE are identified and the relation between the coin or position entanglement present in the initial state of the walker and the final level of CPE is discussed. The CPE obtained from separable initial states satisfies an additivity property in terms of CPE of the corresponding one-dimensional cases. Non-local initial conditions are also considered and we find that the extreme case of an initial uniform position distribution leads to the largest CPE variation.

id: 0901.1254
title: Non-Markovian dynamics for a free quantum particle subject to spontaneous collapse in space: general solution and main properties
authors: Angelo Bassi, Luca Ferialdi
comments: 37 pages, LaTeX. Title changed. Other minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012116 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1254
abstract: We analyze the non-Markovian dynamics of a quantum system subject to spontaneous collapse in space. After having proved, under suitable conditions, the separation of the center-of-mass and relative motions, we focus our analysis on the time evolution of the center of mass of an isolated system (free particle case). We compute the explicit expression of the Green's function, for a generic Gaussian noise, and analyze in detail the case of an exponential correlation function. We study the time evolution of average quantities, such as the mean position, momentum and energy. We eventually specialize to the case of Gaussian wave functions, and prove that all basic facts about collapse models, which are known to be true in the white noise case, hold also in the more general case of non-Markovian dynamics.

id: 0901.1269
title: Different classes of quantum gates entanglers
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 6 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information(IJQI), Vol. 7, No. 1 (2009) 279--285
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1269
abstract: We construct quantum gates entanglers for different classes of multipartite states. In particular we construct entangler operators for W and GHZ classes of multipartite states based on the construction of the concurrence classes. We also in detail discuss these two classes of the quantum gates entanglers for three-partite states.

id: 0901.1273
title: Bayesian Generalized Probability Calculus for Density Matrices
authors: Manfred K Warmuth, Dima Kuzmin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1273
abstract: One of the main concepts in quantum physics is a density matrix, which is a symmetric positive definite matrix of trace one. Finite probability distributions can be seen as a special case when the density matrix is restricted to be diagonal. We develop a probability calculus based on these more general distributions that includes definitions of joints, conditionals and formulas that relate these, including analogs of the Theorem of Total Probability and various Bayes rules for the calculation of posterior density matrices. The resulting calculus parallels the familiar "conventional" probability calculus and always retains the latter as a special case when all matrices are diagonal. We motivate both the conventional and the generalized Bayes rule with a minimum relative entropy principle, where the Kullbach-Leibler version gives the conventional Bayes rule and Umegaki's quantum relative entropy the new Bayes rule for density matrices. Whereas the conventional Bayesian methods maintain uncertainty about which model has the highest data likelihood, the generalization maintains uncertainty about which unit direction has the largest variance. Surprisingly the bounds also generalize: as in the conventional setting we upper bound the negative log likelihood of the data by the negative log likelihood of the MAP estimator.

id: 0901.1274
title: Decoherence, Einselection and Classicality of a Macroscopic Quantum Superposition generated by Quantum Cloning
authors: Francesco De Martini, Fabio Sciarrino, Nicolo' Spagnolo
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1274
abstract: The high resilience to de-coherence shown by a recently discovered Macroscopic Quantum Superposition (MQS) generated by a quantum injected optical parametric amplifier (QI-OPA) and involving a number of photons in excess of 5x10^4 motivates the present theoretical and numerical investigation. The results are analyzed in comparison with the properties of the MQS based on coherent states and NOON states, in the perspective of the comprehensive theory of the subject by W.H.Zurek. In that perspective the concepts of "pointer state", "einselection" are applied to the new scheme.

id: 0901.1278
title: Comment on Valentini, "De Broglie-Bohm Pilot-Wave Theory: Many Worlds in Denial?" [arXiv:0811.0810]
authors: Harvey R. Brown
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1278
abstract: Valentini [arXiv:0811.0810] has recently defended the de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave version of quantum theory from the claim that it is essentially Everett theory encumbered with the redundant postulation of point particles. In this note, Valentini's central arguments are questioned.

id: 0901.1280
title: Broadcast copies reveal the quantumness of correlations
authors: M. Piani, M. Christandl, C. E. Mora, P. Horodecki
comments: 1 figure, 5 pages, more similar to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 250503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1280
abstract: We study the quantumness of bipartite correlations by proposing a quantity that combines a measure of total correlations -- mutual information -- with the notion of broadcast copies -- i.e., generally nonfactorized copies -- of bipartite states. By analyzing how our quantity increases with the number of broadcast copies, we are able to classify classical, separable, and entangled states. This motivates the definition of the broadcast regularization of mutual information, the asymptotic minimal mutual information per broadcast copy, which we show to have many properties of an entanglement measure.

id: 0901.1292
title: Cryogenic properties of optomechanical silica microcavities
authors: Olivier Arcizet, R¨¦mi Rivi¨¨re, Albert Schliesser, Tobias J. Kippenberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1292
abstract: We present the optical and mechanical properties of high-Q fused silica microtoroidal resonators at cryogenic temperatures (down to 1.6 K). A thermally induced optical multistability is observed and theoretically described; it serves to characterize quantitatively the static heating induced by light absorption. Moreover the influence of structural defect states in glass on the toroid mechanical properties is observed and the resulting implications of cavity optomechanical systems on the study of mechanical dissipation discussed.

id: 0901.1319
title: Generalized Concatenated Quantum Codes
authors: Markus Grassl, Peter Shor, Graeme Smith, John Smolin, Bei Zeng
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 79, 050306(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1319
abstract: We introduce the concept of generalized concatenated quantum codes. This generalized concatenation method provides a systematical way for constructing good quantum codes, both stabilizer codes and nonadditive codes. Using this method, we construct families of new single-error-correcting nonadditive quantum codes, in both binary and nonbinary cases, which not only outperform any stabilizer codes for finite block length, but also asymptotically achieve the quantum Hamming bound for large block length.

id: 0901.1333
title: Simplifying quantum double Hamiltonians using perturbative gadgets
authors: Robert Koenig
comments: 34 pages, v2: updated to match published version
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp., vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 292-324, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1333
abstract: Perturbative gadgets were originally introduced to generate effective k-local interactions in the low-energy sector of a 2-local Hamiltonian. Extending this idea, we present gadgets which are specifically suited for realizing Hamiltonians exhibiting non-abelian anyonic excitations. At the core of our construction is a perturbative analysis of a widely used hopping-term Hamiltonian. We show that in the low-energy limit, this Hamiltonian can be approximated by a certain ordered product of operators. In particular, this provides a simplified realization of Kitaev's quantum double Hamiltonians.

id: 0901.1345
title: Simulations of quantum double models
authors: G. K. Brennen, M. Aguado, J. I. Cirac
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 053009 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1345
abstract: We demonstrate how to build a simulation of two dimensional physical theories describing topologically ordered systems whose excitations are in one to one correspondence with irreducible representations of a Hopf algebra, D(G), the quantum double of a finite group G. Our simulation uses a digital sequence of operations on a spin lattice to prepare a ground "vacuum" state and to create, braid and fuse anyonic excitations. The simulation works with or without the presence of a background Hamiltonian though only in the latter case is the system topologically protected. We describe a physical realization of a simulation of the simplest non-Abelian model, D(S_3), using trapped neutral atoms in a two dimensional optical lattice and provide a sequence of steps to perform universal quantum computation with anyons. The use of ancillary spin degrees of freedom figures prominently in our construction and provides a novel technique to prepare and probe these systems.

id: 0901.1353
title: Optimal Nonadditive Quantum Error-Detecting Code
authors: Wen-Tai Yen, Li-Yi Hsu
comments: 6 pages, 22 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1353
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the optimal nonadditive quantum error-detecting codes with distance two. The the numerical simulation shows that, with n being can be 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 12, such the n-qubit quantum error-detecting codes with maximal number of codewords can be found. Therein, except the n=7 case, the n-vertex loop graphs help find the optimal quantum codes.

id: 0901.1371
title: Dwell-time distributions in quantum mechanics
authors: J. Mu?oz, I. L. Egusquiza, A. del Campo, D. Seidel, J. G. Muga
comments: To appear in "Time in Quantum Mechanics, Vol. 2", Springer 2009, ed. by J. G. Muga, A. Ruschhaupt and A. del Campo
journal: Lect. Notes. Phys. 789, 97 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1371
abstract: Some fundamental and formal aspects of the quantum dwell time are reviewed, examples for free motion and scattering off a potential barrier are provided, as well as extensions of the concept. We also examine the connection between the dwell time of a quantum particle in a region of space and flux-flux correlations at the boundaries, as well as operational approaches and approximations to measure the flux-flux correlation function and thus the second moment of the dwell time, which is shown to be characteristically quantum, and larger than the corresponding classical moment even for freely moving particles.

id: 0901.1386
title: Quantum and Classical Dynamics of a BEC in a Large-Period Optical Lattice
authors: J. H. Huckans, I. B. Spielman, B. Laburthe Tolra, W. D. Phillips, J. V. Porto
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1386
abstract: We experimentally investigate diffraction of a Rb-87 Bose-Einstein condensate from a 1D optical lattice. We use a range of lattice periods and timescales, including those beyond the Raman-Nath limit. We compare the results to quantum mechanical and classical simulations, with quantitative and qualitative agreement, respectively. The classical simulation predicts that the envelope of the time-evolving diffraction pattern is shaped by caustics: singularities in the phase space density of classical trajectories. This behavior becomes increasingly clear as the lattice period grows.

id: 0901.1424
title: Wigner functions of thermo number state, photon subtracted and added thermo vacuum state at finite temperature
authors: Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 10 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1424
abstract: Based on Takahashi-Umezawa thermo field dynamics and the order-invariance of Weyl ordered operators under similar transformations, we present a new approach to deriving the exact Wigner functions of thermo number state, photon subtracted and added thermo vacuum state. We find that these Wigner functions are related to the Gaussian-Laguerre type functions of temperature, whose statistical properties are then analysed.

id: 0901.1435
title: The stabilizer dimension of graph states
authors: D.H. Zhang, H. Fan, D.L. Zhou
comments: 4.2 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042318 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1435
abstract: The entanglement properties of a multiparty pure state are invariant under local unitary transformations. The stabilizer dimension of a multiparty pure state characterizes how many types of such local unitary transformations existing for the state. We find that the stabilizer dimension of an $n$-qubit ($n\ge 2$) graph state is associated with three specific configurations in its graph. We further show that the stabilizer dimension of an $n$-qubit ($n\ge 3$) graph state is equal to the degree of irreducible two-qubit correlations in the state.

id: 0901.1453
title: Dynamical evolution of quantum oscillators towards equilibrium
authors: A R Usha Devi, A K Rajagopal
comments: 5 pages, no figures, minor revision, to appear in Physical Review E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 011136 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1453
abstract: A pure quantum state of large number N of oscillators, interacting via harmonic coupling, evolves such that any small subsystem n<<N of the global state approaches equilibrium. This provides a novel example where equilibration emerges as a natural phenomena under quantum dynamics alone, with no necessity to bring in any additional statistical postulates. Mixedness of equilibrated subsystems consisting of 1, 2, ....., n<<N clearly indicates that small subsystems are entangled with the rest of the state i.e., the bath. Every single mode oscillator is found to relax in a mixed density matrix of the Boltzmann canonical form. In two oscillator equilibrated subsystems, intra-entanglement within the `system' oscillators is found to exist when the magnitude of the squeezing parameter of the bath is comparable in magnitude with that of the coupling strength.

id: 0901.1456
title: Resolved-sideband cooling and measurement of a micromechanical oscillator close to the quantum limit
authors: A. Schliesser, O. Arcizet, R. Rivi¨¨re, T. J. Kippenberg
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1456
abstract: The observation of quantum phenomena in macroscopic mechanical oscillators has been a subject of interest since the inception of quantum mechanics. Prerequisite to this regime are both preparation of the mechanical oscillator at low phonon occupancy and a measurement sensitivity at the scale of the spread of the oscillator's ground state wavefunction. It has been widely perceived that the most promising approach to address these two challenges are electro nanomechanical systems. Here we approach for the first time the quantum regime with a mechanical oscillator of mesoscopic dimensions--discernible to the bare eye--and 1000-times more massive than the heaviest nano-mechanical oscillators used to date. Imperative to these advances are two key principles of cavity optomechanics: Optical interferometric measurement of mechanical displacement at the attometer level, and the ability to use measurement induced dynamic back-action to achieve resolved sideband laser cooling of the mechanical degree of freedom. Using only modest cryogenic pre-cooling to 1.65 K, preparation of a mechanical oscillator close to its quantum ground state (63+-20 phonons) is demonstrated. Simultaneously, a readout sensitivity that is within a factor of 5.5+-1.5 of the standard quantum limit is achieved. The reported experiments mark a paradigm shift in the approach to the quantum limit of mechanical oscillators using optical techniques and represent a first step into a new era of experimental investigation which probes the quantum nature of the most tangible harmonic oscillator: a mechanical vibration.

id: 0901.1486
title: Multi-channel modelling of the formation of vibrationally cold polar KRb molecules
authors: Svetlana Kotochigova, Eite Tiesinga, Paul S. Julienne
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1486
abstract: We describe the theoretical advances that influenced the experimental creation of vibrationally and translationally cold polar $^{40}$K$^{87}$Rb molecules \cite{nphys08,science08}. Cold molecules were created from very-weakly bound molecules formed by magnetic field sweeps near a Feshbach resonance in collisions of ultra-cold $^{40}$K and $^{87}$Rb atoms. Our analysis include the multi-channel bound-state calculations of the hyperfine and Zeeman mixed X$^1\Sigma^+$ and a$^3\Sigma^+$ vibrational levels. We find excellent agreement with the hyperfine structure observed in experimental data. In addition, we studied the spin-orbit mixing in the intermediate state of the Raman transition. This allowed us to investigate its effect on the vibrationally-averaged transition dipole moment to the lowest ro-vibrational level of the X$^1\Sigma^+$ state. Finally, we obtained an estimate of the polarizability of the initial and final ro-vibrational states of the Raman transition near frequencies relevant for optical trapping of the molecules.

id: 0901.1488
title: Quantum Teamwork for Unconditional Multiparty Communication with Gaussian States
authors: Jing Zhang, Gerardo Adesso, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 4+2 pages, 2 figures. Published version with appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 070501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1488
abstract: We demonstrate the capability of continuous variable Gaussian states to communicate multipartite quantum information. A quantum teamwork protocol is presented according to which an arbitrary possibly entangled multimode state can be faithfully teleported between two teams each comprising many cooperative users. We prove that N-mode Gaussian weighted graph states exist for arbitrary N, that enable unconditional quantum teamwork implementations for any arrangement of the teams. These perfect continuous variable maximally multipartite entangled resources are typical among pure Gaussian states and are unaffected by the entanglement frustration occurring in multiqubit states.

id: 0901.1496
title: Coherent Transport of Atomic Quantum States in a Scalable Shift Register
authors: A. Lengwenus, J. Kruse, M. Schlosser, S. Tichelmann, G. Birkl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 170502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1496
abstract: We demonstrate the coherent transport of two-dimensional (2D) arrays of small ensembles of neutral atoms in a shift register architecture based on 2D arrays of microlenses. We show the scalability of the transport process by presenting the repeated hand-over of atoms from site to site. We prove the conservation of coherence during transport, reloading, and a full shift register cycle. This shows that the fundamental shift sequence can be cascaded and thus scaled to complex and versatile 2D architectures for atom-based quantum information processing, quantum simulation, and the investigation of quantum degenerate gases.

id: 0901.1531
title: Teleportation in the presence of noise
authors: Ye Yeo, Zhe-Wei Kho, Lixian Wang
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1531
abstract: Non-commuting noises may give rise to entanglement sudden death. By considering the decoherence dynamics during establishment of the channel states and noisy recovery operations, we study further the impact of non-commuting noises on single- and two-qubit teleportation. We show that in the presence of these noises there exists a critical rate of recovery operation below which teleportation will fail.

id: 0901.1567
title: Exploration of nonlocalities in ensembles consisting of bipartite quantum states
authors: Ming-Yong Ye, Yan-Kui Bai, Xiu-Min Lin, Z. D. Wang
comments: The title and some contents changed, 4 pages, no figures
journal: Physical Review A 81, 014303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1567
abstract: It is revealed that ensembles consisting of multipartite quantum states can exhibit different kinds of nonlocalities. An operational measure is introduced to quantify nonlocalities in ensembles consisting of bipartite quantum states. Various upper and lower bounds for the measure are estimated and the exact values for ensembles consisting of mutually orthogonal maximally entangled bipartite states are evaluated.

id: 0901.1603
title: Transitivity vs. Intransitivity in decision making process. (An example in quantum game theory)
authors: Marcin Makowski
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009), 2125-2130
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1603
abstract: We compare two different ways of quantization a simple sequential game Cat's Dilemma in the context of the debate on intransitive and transitive preferences. This kind of analysis can have essential meaning for the research on the artificial intelligence (some possibilities are discussed). Nature has both properties transitive and intransitive and maybe quantum models can be more able to capture this dualism than classical one. We also present electoral interpretation of the game.

id: 0901.1643
title: Perfect Secure High-Dimensional Quantum Bit Commitment Protocol
authors: Chun-Yan Li, Si-Yu Song, Wan-ying Wang, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1643
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn due to security loophole. We thank Dr G. P. he for pointing this to us.

id: 0901.1669
title: Complete proof of Gisin's theorem for three qubits
authors: Sujit K. Choudhary, Sibasish Ghosh, Guruprasad Kar, Ramij Rahaman
comments: Revised version with minor corrections in typos, written in double column format, 4 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1669
abstract: Gisin's theorem assures that for any pure bipartite entangled state, there is violation of Bell-CHSH inequality revealing its contradiction with local realistic model. Whether, similar result holds for three-qubit pure entangled states, remained unresolved. We show analytically that all three-qubit pure entangled states violate a Bell-type inequality, derived on the basis of local realism, by exploiting the Hardy's non-locality argument.

id: 0901.1682
title: Optomechanical devices, entanglement and teleportation
authors: Andrea Mari
comments: Master's thesis. Supervisor: David Vitali
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1682
abstract: In this thesis we study continuous variable systems, focusing on optomechanical devices where a laser field interacts with a macroscopic mechanical oscillator through radiation pressure. We consider the optimization problem of quantum teleportation by means of Gaussian local operations and we study the relation between the amount of entanglement shared by Alice and Bob and the maximum fidelity they can reach for the teleportation of coherent states. We also theoretically predict the possibility of creating a robust entaglement between a mechanical mode of a Fabry-Perot mirror and the Stokes sidband of the output field. We show that by driving two different optical modes supported by the cavity, a stable steady state is reachable in which the optomechanical entanglement is significantly improved.

id: 0901.1726
title: Quantum metrology to probe atomic parity violation
authors: M. Mukherjee
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to major changes made in the paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1726
abstract: An entangled state prepared in the decoherence free sub-space together with a Ramsey type measurement can probe parity violation in heavy alkali ions like Ba+ or Ra+. Here we propose an experiment with Ba+ ions as an example to measure the small parity violating effect in this system.

id: 0901.1730
title: Quantum Phase Transition in a Pseudo-hermitian Dicke model
authors: Tetsuo Deguchi, Pijush K. Ghosh
comments: 10 pages, RevTeX, no figures(v1); Two column, 5 pages, Added discussions, Version to appear in Physical Review E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 021107 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1730
abstract: We show that a Dicke-type pseudo-hermitian Hamiltonian undergoes quantum phase transition by mapping it to the "Dressed Dicke Model" through a similarity transformation. We find the positive-definite metric in the Hilbert space of the pseudo-hermitian Hamiltonian so that it is unitary and allows a consistent quantum description. Further, we obtain the limit in which the pseudo-hermitian Hamiltonian is exactly solvable.

id: 0901.1779
title: Is magnetic flux quantized inside a solenoid?
authors: F. Darabi
comments: 4 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1779
abstract: In some textbooks on quantum mechanics, the description of flux quantization in a superconductor ring based on the Aharonov-Bohm effect may lead some readers to a (wrong) conclusion that flux quantization occurs as well for a long solenoid with the same quantization condition in which the charge of cooper pair $2e$ is replaced by the charge of one electron $e$. It is shown how this confusion arises and how can one avoid it.

id: 0901.1791
title: Stochastic resonance phenomena in spin chains
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Neil P. Oxtoby, Susana F. Huelga
comments: 11 pages, 7 colour figures. Published version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 69, 51 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1791
abstract: We discuss stochastic resonance-like effects in the context of coupled quantum spin systems. We focus here on an information-theoretic approach and analyze the steady state quantum correlations (entanglement) as well as the global correlations in the system when subject to different forms of local decoherence. In the presence of decay, it has been shown that the system displays quantum correlations only when the noise strength is above a certain threshold. We extend this result to the case of a Heisenberg XYZ exchange interaction and revise and clarify the mechanisms underlying this behaviour. In the presence of pure dephasing, we show that the system always remains separable in the steady state. When both types of noise are present, we show that the system can still exhibit entanglement for long times, provided that the pure dephasing rate is not too large.

id: 0901.1801
title: Demonstration of an ultracold micro-optomechanical oscillator in a cryogenic cavity
authors: Simon Groeblacher, Jared B. Hertzberg, Michael R. Vanner, Garrett D. Cole, Sylvain Gigan, K. C. Schwab, Markus Aspelmeyer
comments: Published version
journal: Nature Phys. 5, 485-488 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1801
abstract: Preparing and manipulating quantum states of mechanical resonators is a highly interdisciplinary undertaking that now receives enormous interest for its far-reaching potential in fundamental and applied science. Up to now, only nanoscale mechanical devices achieved operation close to the quantum regime. We report a new micro-optomechanical resonator that is laser cooled to a level of 30 thermal quanta. This is equivalent to the best nanomechanical devices, however, with a mass more than four orders of magnitude larger (43 ng versus 1 pg) and at more than two orders of magnitude higher environment temperature (5 K versus 30 mK). Despite the large laser-added cooling factor of 4,000 and the cryogenic environment, our cooling performance is not limited by residual absorption effects. These results pave the way for the preparation of 100-um scale objects in the quantum regime. Possible applications range from quantum-limited optomechanical sensing devices to macroscopic tests of quantum physics.

id: 0901.1932
title: Attack of Many Eavesdroppers via Optimal Strategy in Quantum Cryptography
authors: Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, DaeKil Park, Hungsoo Kim, Eui-Soon Yim, Jin-Woo Son
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A79 (2009) 032339
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1932
abstract: We examine a situation that $n$ eavesdroppers attack the Bennett-Brassard cryptographic protocol via their own optimal and symmetric strategies. Information gain and mutual information with sender for each eavesdropper are explicitly derived. The receiver's error rate for the case of arbitrary $n$ eavesdroppers can be derived using a recursive relation. Although first eavesdropper can get mutual information without disturbance arising due to other eavesdroppers, subsequent eavesdropping generally increases the receiver's error rate. Other eavesdroppers cannot gain information on the input signal sufficiently. As a result, the information each eavesdropper gains becomes less than optimal one.

id: 0901.1935
title: Two infinite families of nonadditive quantum error-correcting codes
authors: Sixia Yu, Qing Chen, C.H. Oh
comments: 4 pages with 1 figure and 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1935
abstract: We construct explicitly two infinite families of genuine nonadditive 1-error correcting quantum codes and prove that their coding subspaces are 50% larger than those of the optimal stabilizer codes of the same parameters via the linear programming bound. All these nonadditive codes can be characterized by a stabilizer-like structure and thus their encoding circuits can be designed in a straightforward manner.

id: 0901.1947
title: The force acting on a polarizable nanoparticle in the quantized electromagnetic field
authors: Vanik E. Mkrtchian
comments: 5 pages
journal: Arm.Jour.Phys. vol.1, 229-233 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1947
abstract: In this letter we derive an expression for the force acting on a small (still macroscopic) particle in the field of the quantized electromagnetic radiation in any arbitrary quantum state. This result unifies in one simple formula all known expressions for the forces (i.e. van der Waals or frictional) acting on a small particle.

id: 0901.1968
title: All the stabilizer codes of distance 3
authors: Sixia Yu, Juergen Bierbrauer, Ying Dong, Qing Chen, C.H. Oh
comments: 7 pages with 8 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1968
abstract: We give necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of stabilizer codes $[[n,k,3]]$ of distance 3 for qubits: $n-k\ge \lceil\log_2(3n+1)\rceil+\epsilon_n$ where $\epsilon_n=1$ if $n=8\frac{4^m-1}3+\{\pm1,2\}$ or $n=\frac{4^{m+2}-1}3-\{1,2,3\}$ for some integer $m\ge1$ and $\epsilon_n=0$ otherwise. Or equivalently, a code $[[n,n-r,3]]$ exists if and only if $n\leq (4^r-1)/3, (4^r-1)/3-n\notin\lbrace 1,2,3\rbrace$ for even $r$ and $n\leq 8(4^{r-3}-1)/3, 8(4^{r-3}-1)/3-n\not=1$ for odd $r$. Given an arbitrary length $n$ we present an explicit construction for an optimal quantum stabilizer code of distance 3 that saturates the above bound.

id: 0901.2009
title: A generalized Grothendieck inequality and entanglement in XOR games
authors: Jop Bri?t, Harry Buhrman, Ben Toner
comments: Version submitted to QIP on 10-20-08. See also arxiv:0812.1572 for related results, obtained independently
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2009
abstract: Suppose Alice and Bob make local two-outcome measurements on a shared entangled state. For any d, we show that there are correlations that can only be reproduced if the local dimension is at least d. This resolves a conjecture of Brunner et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 210503 (2008) and establishes that the amount of entanglement required to maximally violate a Bell inequality must depend on the number of measurement settings, not just the number of measurement outcomes. We prove this result by establishing the first lower bounds on a new generalization of Grothendieck's constant.

id: 0901.2011
title: Polarizibilities as a test of localized approximations to the self-interaction correction
authors: J. Messud, Z. Wang, P.M. Dinh, P.-G. Reinhard, E. Suraud
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, 49 references
journal: Chem. Phys.Lett. 479 (2009) 300
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2011
abstract: We present applications of the recently introduced ``Generalized SIC-Slater'' scheme which provides a simple Self-Interaction Correction approximation in the framework of the Optimized Effective Potential. We focus on the computation of static polarizabilities which are known to constitute stringent tests for Density Functional Theory. We apply the new method to model H chains, but also to more realistic systems such as C4 (organic) chains, and less symmetrical systems such as a Na5 (metallic) cluster. Comparison is made with other SIC schemes, especially with the standard SIC-Slater one.

id: 0901.2025
title: Random Hamiltonian in thermal equilibrium
authors: Dorje C. Brody, David C. P. Ellis, Darryl D. Holm
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. To appear in DICE 2008 conference proceedings
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. (2009) 174, 012041
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2025
abstract: A framework for the investigation of disordered quantum systems in thermal equilibrium is proposed. The approach is based on a dynamical model--which consists of a combination of a double-bracket gradient flow and a uniform Brownian fluctuation--that `equilibrates' the Hamiltonian into a canonical distribution. The resulting equilibrium state is used to calculate quenched and annealed averages of quantum observables.

id: 0901.2067
title: Noise effects in a three-player Prisoner's Dilemma quantum game
authors: M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: 18 pages, 5 ps figures, 1 table
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 435302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2067
abstract: We study the three-player Prisoner's Dilemma game under the effect of decoherence and correlated noise. It is seen that the quantum player is always better off over the classical players. It is also seen that the game's Nash equilibrium does not change in the presence of correlated noise in contradiction to the effect of decoherence in multiplayer case. Furthermore, it is shown that for maximum correlation the game does not behave as a noiseless game and the quantum player is still better off for all values of the decoherence parameter p which is not possible in the two-player case. In addition, the payoffs reduction due to decoherence is controlled by the correlated noise throughout the course of the game.

id: 0901.2114
title: Bright and Dark periods in the Entanglement Dynamics of Interacting Qubits in Contact with the Environment
authors: Sumanta Das, G. S. Agarwal
comments: New published version, corrected figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42, 141003 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2114
abstract: Interaction among the qubits are basis to many quantum logic operations. We report how such inter-qubit interactions can lead to new features, in the form of bright and dark periods in the entanglement dynamics of two qubits subject to environmental perturbations. These features are seen to be precursors to the well known phenomenon of sudden death of entanglement [Yu $&$ Eberly, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 93}, 140404 (2004)] for noninteracting qubits. Further we find that the generation of bright and dark periods are generic and occur for wide varieties of the models of environment. We present explicit results for two popular models.

id: 0901.2118
title: All entangled states are useful for channel discrimination
authors: M. Piani, J. Watrous
comments: 5 pages, more similar to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 250501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2118
abstract: We prove that every entangled state is useful as a resource for the problem of minimum-error channel discrimination. More specifically, given a single copy of an arbitrary bipartite entangled state, it holds that there is an instance of a quantum channel discrimination task for which this state allows for a correct discrimination with strictly higher probability than every separable state.

id: 0901.2152
title: The Equations of Quantum Feedback Control in the Regime of Good Control
authors: Juliang Li, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 9, 395 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2152
abstract: We derive the equations of motion describing the feedback control of quantum systems in the regime of "good control", in which the control is sufficient to keep the system close to the desired state. One can view this regime as the quantum equivalent of the "linearized" regime for feedback control of classical nonlinear systems. Strikingly, while the dynamics of a single qubit in this regime is indeed linear, that of all larger systems remains nonlinear, in contrast to the classical case. As a first application of these equations, we determine the steady-state performance of feedback protocols for a single qubit that use unbiased measurements.

id: 0901.2199
title: Entanglement Generation by a Three-Dimensional Qubit Scattering: Concurrence vs. Path (In)Distinguishability
authors: Yuichiro Hida, Hiromichi Nakazato, Kazuya Yuasa, Yasser Omar
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; minor corrections in the text, references updated, typos in a couple of equations corrected
journal: in Quantum Communication and Quantum Networking: First International Conference, QuantumComm 2009, Naples, Italy, October 2009, edited by A. Sergienko, S. Pascazio, and P. Villoresi (Springer, Berlin, 2010), pp. 17-25
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2199
abstract: A scheme for generating an entangled state in a two spin-1/2 system by means of a spin-dependent potential scattering of another qubit is presented and analyzed in three dimensions. The entanglement is evaluated in terms of the concurrence both at the lowest and in full order in perturbation with an appropriate renormalization for the latter, and its characteristics are discussed in the context of (in)distinguishability of alternative paths for a quantum particle.

id: 0901.2232
title: Two-photon speckle as a probe of multi-dimensional entanglement
authors: C.W.J. Beenakker, J.W.F. Venderbos, M.P. van Exter
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 102, 193601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2232
abstract: We calculate the statistical distribution P_2(I_2) of the speckle pattern produced by a photon pair current I_2 transmitted through a random medium, and compare with the single-photon speckle distribution P_1(I_1). We show that the purity Tr rho^2 of a two-photon density matrix rho can be directly extracted from the first two moments of P_1 and P_2. A one-to-one relationship is derived between P_1 and P_2 if the photon pair is in an M-dimensional entangled pure state. For M>>1 the single-photon speckle disappears, while the two-photon speckle acquires an exponential distribution. The exponential distribution transforms into a Gaussian if the quantum entanglement is degraded to a classical correlation of M>>1 two-photon states. Two-photon speckle can therefore discriminate between multi-dimensional quantum and classical correlations.

id: 0901.2244
title: Matrix valued Szego polynomials and quantum random walks
authors: M. J. Cantero, F. A. Gr¨¹nbaum, L. Moral, L. Velazquez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2244
abstract: We consider quantum random walks (QRW) on the integers, a subject that has been considered in the last few years in the framework of quantum computation. We show how the theory of CMV matrices gives a natural tool to study these processes and to give results that are analogous to those that Karlin and McGregor developed to study (classical) birth-and-death processes using orthogonal polynomials on the real line. In perfect analogy with the classical case the study of QRWs on the set of non-negative integers can be handled using scalar valued (Laurent) polynomials and a scalar valued measure on the circle. In the case of classical or quantum random walks on the integers one needs to allow for matrix valued versions of these notions. We show how our tools yield results in the well known case of the Hadamard walk, but we go beyond this translation invariant model to analyze examples that are hard to analyze using other methods. More precisely we consider QRWs on the set of non- negative integers. The analysis of these cases leads to phenomena that are absent in the case of QRWs on the integers even if one restricts oneself to a constant coin. This is illustrated here by studying recurrence properties of the walk, but the same method can be used for other purposes. The presentation here aims at being selfcontained, but we re- frain from trying to give an introduction to quantum random walks, a subject well surveyed in the literature we quote. For two excellent reviews, see [1, 18]. See also the recent notes [19].

id: 0901.2253
title: Non-classical correlations from dissociation time entanglement
authors: Clemens Gneiting, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures; corresponds to published version
journal: Appl. Phys. B 95, 237 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2253
abstract: We discuss a strongly entangled two-particle state of motion that emerges naturally from the double-pulse dissociation of a diatomic molecule. This state, which may be called dissociation-time entangled, permits the unambiguous demonstration of non-classical correlations by violating a Bell inequality based on switched single particle interferometry and only position measurements. We apply time-dependent scattering theory to determine the detrimental effect of dispersion. The proposed setup brings into reach the possibility of establishing non-classical correlations with respect to system properties that are truly macroscopically distinct.

id: 0901.2281
title: Suppression of nuclear spin diffusion at a GaAs/AlGaAs interface measured with a single quantum dot nano-probe
authors: A. E. Nikolaenko, E. A. Chekhovich, M. N. Makhonin, I. W. Drouzas, A. B. Vankov, J. Skiba-Szymanska, M. S. Skolnick, P. Senellart, A. Lemaitre, A. I. Tartakovskii
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys Rev B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 081303 (2009) - Published February 27, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2281
abstract: Nuclear spin polarization dynamics are measured in optically pumped individual GaAs/AlGaAs interface quantum dots by detecting the time-dependence of the Overhauser shift in photoluminescence (PL) spectra. Long nuclear polarization decay times of ~ 1 minute have been found indicating inefficient nuclear spin diffusion from the GaAs dot into the surrounding AlGaAs matrix in externally applied magnetic field. A spin diffusion coefficient two orders lower than that previously found in bulk GaAs is deduced.

id: 0901.2283
title: Voltage controlled nuclear polarization switching in a single InGaAs quantum dot
authors: M. N. Makhonin, J. Skiba-Szymanska, M. S. Skolnick, H.-Y. Liu, M. Hopkinson, A. I. Tartakovskii
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Phys Rev B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 125318 (2009) - Published March 19, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2283
abstract: Sharp threshold-like transitions between two stable nuclear spin polarizations are observed in optically pumped individual InGaAs self-assembled quantum dots embedded in a Schottky diode when the bias applied to the diode is tuned. The abrupt transitions lead to the switching of the Overhauser field in the dot by up to 3 Tesla. The bias-dependent photoluminescence measurements reveal the importance of the electron-tunneling-assisted nuclear spin pumping. We also find evidence for the resonant LO-phonon-mediated electron co-tunneling, the effect controlled by the applied bias and leading to the reduction of the nuclear spin pumping rate.

id: 0901.2295
title: Photonic spectrum of bichromatic optical lattices
authors: Stefan Rist, Patrizia Vignolo, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 053822 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2295
abstract: We study the photonic spectrum of a one-dimensional optical lattice possessing a double primitive cell, when the atoms are well localized at the lattice minima. While a one-dimensional lattice with a simple Wigner-Seitz cell always possesses a photonic bandgap at the atomic resonance, in this configuration the photonic transmission spectrum may exhibit none, double or multiple photonic bandgaps depending on the ratio between the interparticle distance $\varrho$ inside the cell and the cell size $a$. The transmission spectra of a weak incident probe are evaluated when the atoms are trapped in free space and inside an optical resonator for realistic experimental parameters.

id: 0901.2301
title: Kolmogorov's aporia and solution by construction of a relativized and quantified concept of factual probability
authors: Mioara Mugur-Schachter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2301
abstract: The crucial but very confidential fact is brought into evidence that, as Kolmogorov himself repeatedly claimed, the mathematical theory of probabilities cannot be applied to physical, factual probabilistic situations because the factual concept of probability is not defined : it is nowhere specified how to construct, for a given physical random phenomenon, the specific numerical distribution of relative frequencies of outcomes from the universe of elementary events produced by that phenomenon, that constitutes the factual probability law to be asserted on this universe; nor is it known what significance to associate to the assertion of mere 'existence' of such a factual probability law. An algorithm of semantic integration of the factual probability law to be asserted in any given factual probabilistic situation, is then constructed. This algorithm, developed inside a general method of relativized conceptualization, involves a quantification of the factual concept of probability. These results, while solving Kolmogorov's aporia, fully organize the general classical concept of probability, both syntactic and factual. As for quantum mechanical 'probabilities', it comes out, surprisingly, that, factually, they cannot be defined in an effective way: fundamental quantum mechanics seems to be confined (observationally and even in principle) to the establishment of only statistical distributions which, as far as finite data can guarantee, are endowed with stability.

id: 0901.2398
title: An Experimentally accessible geometric measure for entanglement in $N$-qudit pure states
authors: Ali Saif M. Hassan, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 22 pages, one figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 80, 042302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2398
abstract: We present a multipartite entanglement measure for $N$-qudit pure states, using the norm of the correlation tensor which occurs in the Bloch representation of the state. We compute this measure for important class of $N$-qutrit pure states, namely general GHZ states. We prove that this measure possesses almost all the properties expected of a good entanglement measure, including monotonicity. Finally, we extend this measure to $N$-qudit mixed states via convex roof construction and establish its various properties, including its monotonicity.

id: 0901.2501
title: Magnetic Moment Coupling to Circularly Polarized Photons
authors: O. V. Kibis
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; Discussion of results is slightly expanded
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2501
abstract: Exact stationary solutions of the wave equation are obtained to describe the interaction between magnetic moment of elementary particle and circularly polarized photons. The obtained solutions substantially modify the conventional model of field-matter interaction. It follows from them that magnetic moment couples to photons, and this coupling leads to bound particle-photon states with different energies for different orientations of magnetic moment. As a consequence, the interaction splits particle states differing by directions of total angular momentum. Stationary spin splitting, induced by photons, and concomitant effects can be observed for particles exposed to a laser-generated circularly polarized electromagnetic wave.

id: 0901.2516
title: Classical capacity of a qubit depolarizing channel with memory
authors: Jeroen Wouters, Ismail Akhalwaya, Mark Fannes, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2516
abstract: The classical product state capacity of a noisy quantum channel with memory is investigated. A forgetful noise-memory channel is constructed by Markov switching between two depolarizing channels which introduces non-Markovian noise correlations between successive channel uses. The computation of the capacity is reduced to an entropy computation for a function of a Markov process. A reformulation in terms of algebraic measures then enables its calculation. The effects of the hidden-Markovian memory on the capacity are explored. An increase in noise-correlations is found to increase the capacity.

id: 0901.2527
title: Robust entangled states
authors: Florian Mintert
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2527
abstract: We establish a technique to find the states with most robust entanglement in dissipative quantum systems and explicitly construct those state for various environments.

id: 0901.2528
title: The Algebraic Measure of a Hidden Markov Quantum Memory Channel
authors: I. Akhalwaya, J. Wouters, M. Fannes, F. Petruccione
comments: This paper was presented in poster form at and in the proceedings of the QCMC 2008. It is a summary of a fuller paper to appear separately
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2528
abstract: This paper was presented in poster form at and in the proceedings of the QCMC 2008. It is a summary of a fuller paper to appear separately. The classical product state capacity of a noisy quantum channel with memory is investigated. A forgetful noise-memory channel is constructed by Markov switching between two depolarizing channels which introduces non-Markovian noise correlations between successive channel uses. This function of a Markov process can be reformulated as an algebraic measure. This framework provides an expression for the asymptotic entropy rate and thus enables the calculation of the classical capacity. The effects of the hidden-Markovian memory on the capacity are explored. An increase in noise-correlations is found to increase the capacity.

id: 0901.2542
title: Assessing dimensions from evolution
authors: Michael M. Wolf, David Perez-Garcia
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 190504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2542
abstract: Using tools from classical signal processing, we show how to determine the dimensionality of a quantum system as well as the effective size of the environment's memory from observable dynamics in a model-independent way. We discuss the dependence on the number of conserved quantities, the relation to ergodicity and prove a converse showing that a Hilbert space of dimension D+2 is sufficient to describe every bounded sequence of measurements originating from any D-dimensional linear equations of motion. This is in sharp contrast to classical stochastic processes which are subject to more severe restrictions: a simple spectral analysis shows that the gap between the required dimensionality of a quantum and a classical description of an observed evolution can be arbitrary large.

id: 0901.2546
title: Extended Boole-Bell inequalities applicable to quantum theory
authors: Hans De Raedt, Karl Hess, Kristel Michielsen
comments: Revised and extended, 31 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Comp. Theor. Nanosci. 8, 1011 - 1039 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2546
abstract: We address the basic meaning of apparent contradictions of quantum theory and probability frameworks as expressed by Bell's inequalities. We show that these contradictions have their origin in the incomplete considerations of the premisses of the derivation of the inequalities. A careful consideration of past work, including that of Boole and Vorob'ev, has lead us to the formulation of extended Boole-Bell inequalities that are binding for both classical and quantum models. The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm gedanken experiment and a macroscopic quantum coherence experiment proposed by Leggett and Garg are both shown to obey the extended Boole-Bell inequalities. These examples as well as additional discussions also provide reasons for apparent violations of these inequalities.

id: 0901.2583
title: Control of the direction and rate of nuclear spin flips in InAs quantum dots using detuned optical pulse trains
authors: S. G. Carter, A. Shabaev, Sophia E. Economou, T. A. Kennedy, A. S. Bracker, T. L. Reinecke
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 167403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2583
abstract: We find that detuning an optical pulse train from electronic transitions in quantum dots controls the direction of nuclear spin flips. The optical pulse train generates electron spins that precess about an applied magnetic field, with a spin component parallel to the field only for detuned pulses. This component leads to asymmetry in the nuclear spin flips, providing a way to produce a stable and precise value of the nuclear spin polarization. This effect is observed using two-color, time-resolved Faraday rotation and ellipticity.

id: 0901.2585
title: Bayesian estimation in homodyne interferometry
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys. B vol 42, 055506 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2585
abstract: We address phase-shift estimation by means of squeezed vacuum probe and homodyne detection. We analyze Bayesian estimator, which is known to asymptotically saturate the classical Cramer-Rao bound to the variance, and discuss convergence looking at the a posteriori distribution as the number of measurements increases. We also suggest two feasible adaptive methods, acting on the squeezing parameter and/or the homodyne local oscillator phase, which allow to optimize homodyne detection and approach the ultimate bound to precision imposed by the quantum Cramer-Rao theorem. The performances of our two-step methods are investigated by means of Monte Carlo simulated experiments with a small number of homodyne data, thus giving a quantitative meaning to the notion of asymptotic optimality.

id: 0901.2592
title: Heralded Entanglement of Arbitrary Degree in Remote Qubits
authors: U. Schilling, C. Thiel, E. Solano, T. Bastin, J. von Zanthier
comments: published version, 4 pages and 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022312 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2592
abstract: Incoherent scattering of photons off two remote atoms with a Lambda-level structure is used as a basic Young-type interferometer to herald long-lived entanglement of an arbitrary degree. The degree of entanglement, as measured by the concurrence, is found to be tunable by two easily accessible experimental parameters. Fixing one of them to certain values unveils an analog to the Malus' law. An estimate of the variation in the degree of entanglement due to uncertainties in an experimental realization is given.

id: 0901.2608
title: Test of Quantum Effects of Spatial Noncommutativity using Modified Electron Momentum Spectroscopy
authors: Jian-Zu Zhang, Ke-Lin Gao, Chuan-Gang Ning
comments: 17 pages, no figure
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:105021,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2608
abstract: The possibility of testing spatial noncommutativity by current experiments on normal quantum scales is investigated. For the case of both position-position and momentum-momentum noncommuting spectra of ions in crossed electric and magnetic fields are studied in the formalism of noncommutative quantum mechanics. In a limit of the kinetic energy approaching its lowest eigenvalue this system possesses non-trivial dynamics. Signals of spatial noncommutativity in the angular momentum are revealed. They are within limits of the measurable accuracy of current experiments. An experimental test of the predictions using a modified electron momentum spectrum is suggested. The related experimental sensitivity and subtle points are discussed. The results are the first step on a realizable way towards a conclusive test of spatial noncommutativity.

id: 0901.2618
title: Induced Fractional Zero-Point Angular Momentum for Charged Particles of the Bohm-Aharonov System by means of a "Spectator" Magnetic Field
authors: Jian-Zu Zhang
comments: 14 pages, no figure
journal: Physics Letters B670 (2008) 205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2618
abstract: An induced fractional zero-point angular momentum of charged particles by the Bohm-Aharonov (B-A) vector potential is realized via a modified combined trap. It explores a "spectator" mechanism in this type of quantum effects: In the limit of the kinetic energy approaching one of its eigenvalues the B-A vector potential alone cannot induce a fractional zero-point angular momentum at quantum mechanical level in the B-A magnetic field-free region; But when there is a "spectator" magnetic field the B-A vector potential induces a fractional zero-point angular momentum. The "spectator" does not contribute to such a fractional angular momentum, but plays essential role in guaranteeing non-trivial dynamics at quantum mechanical level in the required limit. This "spectator" mechanism is significant in investigating the B-A effects and related topics in both aspects of theory and experiment.

id: 0901.2620
title: Does three-tangle properly quantify the three-party entanglement for Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-type states?
authors: Eylee Jung, DaeKil Park, Jin-Woo Son
comments: 10 pages, no figure V2: new calculational results are included. 11 pages: V3 accepted in the Rapid Communication of PRA, 4 pages (two column)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 (2009) 010301(R)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2620
abstract: Some mixed states composed of only GHZ states can be expressed in terms of only W-states. This fact implies that such states have vanishing three-tangle. One of such rank-3 states, $\Pi_{GHZ}$, is explicitly presented in this paper. These results are used to compute analytically the three-tangle of a rank-4 mixed state $\sigma$ composed of four GHZ states. This analysis with considering Bloch sphere $S^{16}$ of $d=4$ qudit system allows us to derive the hyper-polyhedron. It is shown that the states in this hyper-polyhedron have vanishing three-tangle. Computing the one-tangles for $\Pi_{GHZ}$ and $\sigma$, we prove the monogamy inequality explicitly. Making use of the fact that the three-tangle of $\Pi_{GHZ}$ is zero, we try to explain why the W-class in the whole mixed states is not of measure zero contrary to the case of pure states.

id: 0901.2647
title: Casimir interaction between plane and spherical metallic surfaces
authors: Antoine Canaguier-Durand, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Ines Cavero-Pelaez, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 4 pages, new presentation (highlighting the novelty of the results) and added references. To appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:230404,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2647
abstract: We give an exact series expansion of the Casimir force between plane and spherical metallic surfaces in the non trivial situation where the sphere radius $R$, the plane-sphere distance $L$ and the plasma wavelength $\lambda_\P$ have arbitrary relative values. We then present numerical evaluation of this expansion for not too small values of $L/R$. For metallic nanospheres where $R, L$ and $\lambda_\P$ have comparable values, we interpret our results in terms of a correlation between the effects of geometry beyond the proximity force approximation (PFA) and of finite reflectivity due to material properties. We also discuss the interest of our results for the current Casimir experiments performed with spheres of large radius $R\gg L$.

id: 0901.2649
title: New Phase Transitions in Optimal States for Memory Channels
authors: Vahid Karimipour, Zohreh Meghdadi, Laleh Memarzadeh
comments: 13 pages, Latex
journal: Physical Review A, 79, 032321 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2649
abstract: We investigate the question of optimal input ensembles for memory channels and construct a rather large class of Pauli channels with correlated noise which can be studied analytically with regard to the entanglement of their optimal input ensembles. In a more detailed study of a subclass of these channels, the complete phase diagram of the two-qubit channel, which shows three distinct phases is obtained. While increasing the correlation generally changes the optimal state from separable to maximally entangled states, this is done via an intermediate region where both separable and maximally entangled states are optimal. A more concrete model, based on random rotations of the error operators which mimic the behavior of this subclass of channels is also presented.

id: 0901.2674
title: Economical (k,m)-threshold controlled quantum teleportation
authors: Akira SaiToh, Robabeh Rahimi, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, v2: minor revision, discussions improved, an equation corrected in procedure (A) of section 4.3, v3: major revision, protocols extended, citations added, v4: minor grammatical revision, v5: minor revision, discussions extended
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062313 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2674
abstract: We study a (k,m)-threshold controlling scheme for controlled quantum teleportation. A standard polynomial coding over GF(p) with prime p > m-1 needs to distribute a d-dimensional qudit with d >= p to each controller for this purpose. We propose a scheme using m qubits (two-dimensional qudits) for the controllers' portion, following a discussion on the benefit of a quantum control in comparison to a classical control of a quantum teleportation.

id: 0901.2705
title: Berry Phase and Fidelity in the Dicke model with $A^{2}$ term
authors: Yu-Yu Zhang, Tao Liu, Qing-Hu Chen, Kelin Wang
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures,
journal: Optics Communications 283, 3459 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2705
abstract: The instability, so-called the quantum-phase-like transition, in the Dicke model with a rotating-wave approximation for finite $N$ atoms is investigated in terms of the Berry phase and the fidelity. It can be marked by the discontinuous behavior of these quantities as a function of the atom-field coupling parameter. Involving an additional field $A^{2}$ term, it is observed that the instability is not eliminated beyond the characteristic atom-field coupling parameter even for strong interaction of the bosonic fields, contrarily to the previous studies.

id: 0901.2708
title: Scheme for proving the bosonic commutation relation using single-photon interference
authors: M. S. Kim, H. Jeong, A. Zavatta, V. Parigi, M. Bellini
comments: 4 pages, additional comment included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 260401 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2708
abstract: We propose an experiment to directly prove the commutation relation between bosonic annihilation and creation operators, based on the recent experimental success in single-photon subtraction and addition. We devise a single-photon interferometer to realize coherent superpositions of two sequences of photon addition and subtraction. Depending on the interference outcome, the commutation relation is directly proven or a highly nonclassical state is produced. Experimental imperfections are assessed to show that the realization of the scheme is highly feasible.

id: 0901.2725
title: Fully automated entanglement-based quantum cryptography system for telecom fiber networks
authors: Alexander Treiber, Andreas Poppe, Michael Hentschel, Daniele Ferrini, Thomas Lor¨¹nser, Edwin Querasser, Thomas Matyus, Hannes H¨¹bel, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 045013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2725
abstract: We present a quantum key distribution (QKD) system based on polarisation entanglement for use in telecom fibers. A QKD exchange up to 50km was demonstrated in the laboratory with a secure key rate of 550 bit/s. The system is compact, portable with a fully automated start-up and stabilisation modules for polarisation, synchronisation and photon coupling allow a hands-off operation. Stable and reliable key exchange in a deployed optical fiber of 16km length was demonstrated. In this fiber network we achieved over two weeks an automatic key generation with an average key rate of 2000 bit/s without manual intervention. During this period, the system had an average entanglement visibility of 93%, highlighting the technical level and stability achieved for entanglement-based quantum cryptography.

id: 0901.2726
title: Quantum effects in optomechanical systems
authors: C. Genes, A. Mari, D. Vitali, P. Tombesi
comments: contribution chapter for Advances in Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics, Volume 57, edited by Ennio Arimondo, Paul R. Berman and C. C. Lin
journal: C. Genes, A. Mari, D. Vitali, P. Tombesi, 'Quantum Effects in Optomechanical Systems', Adv. At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 57, 33-86 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2726
abstract: The search for experimental demonstrations of the quantum behavior of macroscopic mechanical resonators is a fastly growing field of investigation and recent results suggest that the generation of quantum states of resonators with a mass at the microgram scale is within reach. In this chapter we give an overview of two important topics within this research field: cooling to the motional ground state, and the generation of entanglement involving mechanical, optical and atomic degrees of freedom. We focus on optomechanical systems where the resonator is coupled to one or more driven cavity modes by the radiation pressure interaction. We show that robust stationary entanglement between the mechanical resonator and the output fields of the cavity can be generated, and that this entanglement can be transferred to atomic ensembles placed within the cavity. These results show that optomechanical devices are interesting candidates for the realization of quantum memories and interfaces for continuous variable quantum communication networks.

id: 0901.2783
title: Continuous Variable Entanglement and Squeezing of Orbital Angular Momentum States
authors: Mikael Lassen, Gerd Leuchs, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 163602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2783
abstract: We report the first experimental characterization of the first-order continuous variable orbital angular momentum states. Using a spatially non-degenerate optical parametric oscillator (OPO) we produce quadrature entanglement between the two first-order Laguerre-Gauss modes. The family of OAM modes is mapped on an orbital Poincare sphere, and the modes position on the sphere is spanned by the three orbital parameters. Using the non-degenerate OPO we produce squeezing of these parameters, and as an illustration, we reconstruct the "cigar-shaped" uncertainty volume on the orbital Poincare sphere.

id: 0901.2784
title: Criterion for faithful teleportation with an arbitrary multiparticle channel
authors: Chi-Yee Cheung, Zhan-Jun Zhang
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2784
abstract: We consider quantum teleportation when the given entanglement channel is an arbitrary multiparticle state. A general criterion is presented, which allows one to judge if the channel can be used to teleport faithfully an arbitrary quantum state of a given dimension. The general protocol proposed here is much easier to implement experimentally than the others found in the literature.

id: 0901.2815
title: Integrated optical source of polarization entangled photons at 1310 nm
authors: A. Martin, V. Cristofori, P. Aboussouan, H. Herrmann, W. Sohler, D.B. Ostrowsky, O. Alibart, S. Tanzilli
comments: There is a typing mistake in the previous version in the visibility equation. This mistake doesn't change the results
journal: Opt. Express 17, pp. 1033-1041 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2815
abstract: We report the realization of a new polarization entangled photon-pair source based on a titanium-indiffused waveguide integrated on periodically poled lithium niobate pumped by a CW laser at $655 nm$. The paired photons are emitted at the telecom wavelength of $1310 nm$ within a bandwidth of $0.7 nm$. The quantum properties of the pairs are measured using a two-photon coalescence experiment showing a visibility of 85%. The evaluated source brightness, on the order of $10^5$ pairs $s^{-1} GHz^{-1} mW^{-1}$, associated with its compactness and reliability, demonstrates the source's high potential for long-distance quantum communication.

id: 0901.2824
title: Qubit Coherent Control with Squeezed Light Fields
authors: Ephraim Shahmoon, Shimon Levit, Roee Ozeri
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 80, 033803 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2824
abstract: We study the use of squeezed light for qubit coherent control and compare it with the coherent state control field case. We calculate the entanglement between a short pulse of resonant squeezed light and a two-level atom in free space and the resulting operation error. We find that the squeezing phase, the phase of the light field and the atomic superposition phase, all determine whether atom-pulse mode entanglement and the gate error are enhanced or suppressed. However, when averaged over all possible qubit initial states, the gate error would not decrease by a practicably useful amount and would in fact increase in most cases. We discuss the possibility of measuring the increased gate error as a signature of the enhancement of entanglement by squeezing.

id: 0901.2866
title: Renormalized quantum tomography
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 23 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 713 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2866
abstract: The core of quantum tomography is the possibility of writing a generally unbounded complex operator in form of an expansion over operators that are generally nonlinear functions of a generally continuous set of spectral densities--the so-called "quorum" of observables. The expansion is generally non unique, the non unicity allowing further optimization for given criteria. The mathematical problem of tomography is thus the classification of all such operator expansions for given (suitably closed) linear spaces of unbounded operators--e.g. Banach spaces of operators with an appropriate norm. Such problem is a difficult one, and remains still open, involving the theory of general basis in Banach spaces, a still unfinished chapter of analysis. In this paper we present new nontrivial operator expansions for the quorum of quadratures of the harmonic oscillator, and introduce a first very preliminary general framework to generate new expansions based on the Kolmogorov construction. The material presented in this paper is intended to be helpful for the solution of the general problem of quantum tomography in infinite dimensions, which corresponds to provide a coherent mathematical framework for operator expansions over functions of a continuous set of spectral densities.

id: 0901.2894
title: Pedagogical applications of the one-dimensional Schr?dinger's equation to proximity effect systems: Comparison of Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions
authors: P.R. Broussard
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures. To be published in American Journal of Physics
journal: Am. Journal of Phys., Volume 77, 360 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2894
abstract: Proximity effect systems in superconducting films can be modeled by a one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation. Several systems are studied using Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions. It is observed that the two boundary conditions have a dramatic effect on the lowest eigenstate allowed in these systems, and points to unusual behavior for solutions of Schr\"odinger's equation in certain potential wells and proximity effect systems.

id: 0901.2914
title: Nonclassical 2-photon interference with separate intrinsically narrowband fibre sources
authors: Matthaeus Halder, Jeremie Fulconis, Ben Cemlyn, Alex Clark, Chunle Xiong, William J. Wadsworth, John G. Rarity
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17, Issue 6, pp. 4670-4676 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2914
abstract: In this paper, we demonstrate a source of photon pairs based on four-wave-mixing in photonic crystal fibres. Careful engineering of the phase matching conditions in the fibres enables us to create photon pairs at 597 nm and 860 nm in an intrinsically factorable state showing no spectral correlations. This allows for heralding one photon in a pure state and hence renders narrow band filtering obsolete. The source is narrow band, bright and achieves an overall detection efficiency of up to 21% per photon. For the first time, a Hong-Ou-Mandel interference with unfiltered photons from separate fibre sources is presented.

id: 0901.2956
title: Synchronous Quantum Memories with Time-symmetric Pulses
authors: Q. Y. He, M. D. Reid, P. D. Drummond
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17, Issue 12, pp. 9662-9668 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2956
abstract: We propose a dynamical approach to quantum memories using a synchronous oscillator-cavity model, in which the coupling is shaped in time to provide the optimum interface to a symmetric input pulse. This overcomes the known difficulties of achieving high quantum input-output fidelity with storage times long compared to the input signal duration. Our generic model is applicable to any linear storage medium ranging from a superconducting device to an atomic medium. We show that with temporal modulation of coupling and/or detuning, it is possible to mode-match to time-symmetric pulses that have identical pulse shapes on input and output.

id: 0901.2975
title: Quantum teleportation scheme by selecting one of multiple output ports
authors: Satoshi Ishizaka, Tohya Hiroshima
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042306 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2975
abstract: The scheme of quantum teleportation, where Bob has multiple (N) output ports and obtains the teleported state by simply selecting one of the N ports, is thoroughly studied. We consider both deterministic version and probabilistic version of the teleportation scheme aiming to teleport an unknown state of a qubit. Moreover, we consider two cases for each version: (i) the state employed for the teleportation is fixed to a maximally entangled state, and (ii) the state is also optimized as well as Alice's measurement. We analytically determine the optimal protocols for all the four cases, and show the corresponding optimal fidelity or optimal success probability. All these protocols can achieve the perfect teleportation in the asymptotic limit of $N\to\infty$. The entanglement properties of the teleportation scheme are also discussed.

id: 0901.2997
title: Slow light of an amplitude modulated Gaussian pulse in electromagnetically induced transparency medium
authors: Wenzhuo Tang, Bin Luo, Yu Liu, Hong Guo
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2997
abstract: The slow light effects of an amplitude modulated Gaussian (AMG) pulse in a cesium atomic vapor are presented. In a single-$\Lambda$ type electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) medium, more severe distortion is observed for an AMG pulse than a Gaussian one. Using Fourier spectrum analysis, we find that the distortion, as well as the loss, is dominantly caused by linear absorption than dispersion. Accordingly, a compensation method is proposed to reshape the slow light pulse based on the transmission spectrum. In addition, we find a novel way to obtain simultaneous slow and fast light.

id: 0901.3038
title: Trading classical communication, quantum communication, and entanglement in quantum Shannon theory
authors: Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 26 pages, 10 figures, rewriting of article to make it more accessible, submitted to the IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 56, no. 9, pp. 4705-4730, September 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3038
abstract: We give trade-offs between classical communication, quantum communication, and entanglement for processing information in the Shannon-theoretic setting. We first prove a unit-resource capacity theorem that applies to the scenario where only the above three noiseless resources are available for consumption or generation. The optimal strategy mixes the three fundamental protocols of teleportation, super-dense coding, and entanglement distribution. We then provide an achievable rate region and a matching multi-letter converse for the direct static capacity theorem. This theorem applies to the scenario where a large number of copies of a noisy bipartite state are available (in addition to consumption or generation of the above three noiseless resources). Our coding strategy involves a protocol that we name the classically-assisted state redistribution protocol and the three fundamental protocols. We finally provide an achievable rate region and a matching mutli-letter converse for the direct dynamic capacity theorem. This theorem applies to the scenario where a large number of uses of a noisy quantum channel are available in addition to the consumption or generation of the three noiseless resources. Our coding strategy combines the classically-enhanced father protocol with the three fundamental unit protocols.

id: 0901.3072
title: Asynchronous entanglement from coherently coupled nonlinear cavities
authors: Terry G. McRae, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 4 pages 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3072
abstract: The output fields of a pair of coherently coupled nonlinear optical cavities are found to exhibit strong optical entanglement. For sufficiently strong coupling the quantum correlations become asynchronous providing a resource for quantum information protocols such as all-optical quantum memories. A straightforward experimental implementation applicable to whispering gallery mode resonators such as microtoroids is proposed.

id: 0901.3073
title: Doppler-free Adiabatic Self-Induced Transparency
authors: Yu. Loiko, C. Serrat, R. Vilaseca, V. Ahufinger, J. Mompart, R. Corbalan
comments: 8 pages and 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3073
abstract: We demonstrate that a Doppler broadened two-level medium can be made transparent to a laser pulse by an appropriate adiabatic variation of the laser field amplitude and its nominal detuning. This new technique of adiabatic self-induced transparency (ASIT) is compared with the well known self-induced transparency (SIT) phenomenon, showing that the adiabatic method is much more robust to variations of the system parameters. We also discuss a possible experimental implementation of ASIT using 87-Rb atoms.

id: 0901.3084
title: Atomic multipole relaxation rates near surfaces
authors: J. A. Crosse, Stefan Scheel
comments: Updated to journal version. 16 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 79, 062902 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3084
abstract: The spontaneous relaxation rates for an atom in free space and close to an absorbing surface are calculated to various orders of the electromagnetic multipole expansion. The spontaneous decay rates for dipole, quadrupole and octupole transitions are calculated in terms of their respective primitive electric multipole moments and the magnetic relaxation rate is calculated for the dipole and quadrupole transitions in terms of their respective primitive magnetic multipole moments. The theory of electromagnetic field quantization in magnetoelectric materials is used to derive general expressions for the decay rates in terms of the dyadic Green function. We focus on the decay rates in free space and near an infinite half space. For the decay of atoms near to an absorbing dielectric surface we find a hierarchy of scaling laws depending on the atom-surface distance z.

id: 0901.3092
title: Prospects for measurement-based quantum computing with solid state spins
authors: Simon C. Benjamin, Brendon W. Lovett, Jason M. Smith
comments: Submitted to Laser and Photonics Reviews
journal: Laser and Photonics Reviews 3 556 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3092
abstract: This article aims to review the developments, both theoretical and experimental, that have in the past decade laid the ground for a new approach to solid state quantum computing. Measurement-based quantum computing (MBQC) requires neither direct interaction between qubits nor even what would be considered controlled generation of entanglement. Rather it can be achieved using entanglement that is generated probabilistically by the collapse of quantum states upon measurement. Single electronic spins in solids make suitable qubits for such an approach, offering long coherence times and well defined routes to optical measurement. We will review the theoretical basis of MBQC and experimental data for two frontrunner candidate qubits -- nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centres in diamond and semiconductor quantum dots -- and discuss the prospects and challenges that lie ahead in realising MBQC in the solid state.

id: 0901.3105
title: Prospects for a mHz-linewidth laser
authors: D. Meiser, Jun Ye, D. R. Carlson, M. J. Holland
comments: minor revisions + shortening; factor 2 algebra mistake corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3105
abstract: We propose a new light source based on having alkaline-earth atoms in an optical lattice collectively emit photons on an ultra-narrow clock transition into the mode of a high Q-resonator. The resultant optical radiation has an extremely narrow linewidth in the mHz range, even smaller than that of the clock transition itself due to collective effects. A power level of order $10^{-12}W$ is possible, sufficient for phase-locking a slave optical local oscillator. Realizing this light source has the potential to improve the stability of the best clocks by two orders of magnitude.

id: 0901.3129
title: Feshbach resonances in ultracold atom-molecule collisions
authors: A. Simoni, J-M. Launay, P. Soldan
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3129
abstract: We investigate the presence of Feshbach resonances in ultracold alkali-dialkali reactive collisions. Quantum scattering calculations are performed on a new Na_3 quartet potential energy surface. An analysis of scattering features is performed through a systematic variation of the nonadditive three-body interaction potential. Our results should provide useful information for interpreting future atom-molecule collision experiments.

id: 0901.3190
title: Experimentally friendly bounds on non-Gaussian entanglement from second moments
authors: Gerardo Adesso
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. To appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022315 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3190
abstract: We demonstrate that the entanglement in a class of two-mode non-Gaussian states obtained by subtracting photons from Gaussian twin beams can be bounded from above and from below by functionals of the second moments only. Knowledge of the covariance matrix thus suffices for an entanglement quantification with appreciable precision. The absolute error in the entanglement estimation scales with the non-Gaussianity of the considered states.

id: 0901.3193
title: Generalized structure of higher order nonclassicality
authors: Amit Verma, Anirban Pathak
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3193
abstract: A generalized notion of higher order nonclassicality (in terms of higher order moments) is introduced. Under this generalized framework of higher order nonclassicality, conditions of higher order squeezing and higher order subpoissonian photon statistics are derived. A simpler form of the Hong-Mandel higher order squeezing criterion is derived under this framework by using an operator ordering theorem introduced by us in [J. Phys. A. 33 (2000) 5607]. It is also generalized for multi-photon Bose operators of Brandt and Greenberg. Similarly, condition for higher order subpoissonian photon statistics is derived by normal ordering of higher powers of number operator. Further, with the help of simple density matrices, it is shown that the higher order antibunching (HOA) and higher order subpoissonian photon statistics (HOSPS) are not the manifestation of the same phenomenon and consequently it is incorrect to use the condition of HOA as a test of HOSPS. It is also shown that the HOA and HOSPS may exist even in absence of the corresponding lower order phenomenon. Binomial state, nonlinear first order excited squeezed state (NLESS) and nonlinear vacuum squeezed state (NLVSS) are used as examples of quantum state and it is shown that these states may show higher order nonclssical characteristics. It is observed that the Binomial state which is always antibunched, is not always higher order squeezed and NLVSS which shows higher order squeezing does not show HOSPS and HOA. The opposite is observed in NLESS and consequently it is established that the HOSPS and HOS are two independent signatures of higher order nonclassicality

id: 0901.3203
title: Clock synchronization by remote detection of correlated photon pairs
authors: Caleb Ho, Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 045011 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3203
abstract: We present an algorithm to detect the time and frequency difference of independent clocks based on observation of time-correlated photon pairs. This enables remote coincidence identification in entanglement-based quantum key distribution schemes without dedicated coincidence hardware, pulsed sources with a timing structure or very stable reference clocks. We discuss the method for typical operating conditions, and show that the requirement in reference clock accuracy can be relaxed by about 5 orders of magnitude in comparison with previous schemes.

id: 0901.3206
title: Unambiguous identification of coherent states II: Multiple resources
authors: Michal Sedlak, Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek, Mark Hillery
comments: 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3206
abstract: We consider unambiguous identification of coherent states of electromagnetic field. In particular, we study possible generalizations of an optical setup proposed in M. Sedl\'{a}k {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 76}, 022326 (2007). We show how the unambiguous identification of coherent states can be performed in a general case when multiple copies of unknown and the reference states are available. We also investigate whether reference states after the measurement can be "recovered" and further used for subsequent unambiguous identification tasks. We show that in spite of the fact that the recovered reference states are disturbed by measurements they can be repeatedly used for unambiguous identifications. We analyze the role of various imperfections in preparation of the unknown and the reference coherent states on the performance of our unambiguous identification setup.

id: 0901.3216
title: An all fiber source of frequency entangled photon pairs
authors: Xiaoying Li, Lei Yang, Xiaoxin Ma, Liang Cui, Zhe Yu Ou, Daoyin Yu
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3216
abstract: We present an all fiber source of frequency entangled photon pairs by using four wave mixing in a Sagnac fiber loop. Special care is taken to suppress the impurity of the frequency entanglement by cooling the fiber and by matching the polarization modes of the photon pairs counter-propagating in the fiber loop. Coincidence detection of signal and idler photons, which are created in pair and in different spatial modes of the fiber loop, shows the quantum interference in the form of spatial beating, while the single counts of the individual signal (idler) photons keep constant. When the production rate of photon pairs is about 0.013 pairs/pulse, the envelope of the quantum interference reveals a visibility of $(95\pm 2)%$, which is close to the calculated theoretical limit 97.4%

id: 0901.3248
title: Bloch space structure of cascade, lambda and vee type of three-level systems and qutrit wave function
authors: Surajit Sen, Mihir Ranjan Nath, Tushar Kanti Dey, Gautam Gangopadhyay
comments: 14 pages, 2 Figures, Some changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3248
abstract: The cascade, lambda and vee type of three-level systems are shown to be described by three different Hamiltonians in the SU(3) basis. We investigate the Bloch space structure of each configuration by solving the corresponding Bloch equation and show that at resonance, the seven-dimensional Bloch sphere ${\mathcal S}^7$ is broken into two distinct subspaces ${\mathcal S}^2{\times}{\mathcal S}^4$ due to the existence of a pair of quadratic constants. We also give a possible representation of the qutrit wave function and discuss its equivalence with the three-level system.

id: 0901.3253
title: Non-homogeneous Bell-type Inequalities for Two- and Three-qubit States
authors: Mingjun Shi, Changliang Ren, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3253
abstract: A systematic approach is presented to construct non-homogeneous two- and three-qubit Bell-type inequalities. When projector-like terms are subtracted from homogeneous two-qubit CHSH polynomial, non-homogeneous inequalities are attained and the maximal quantum mechanical violation asymptotically equals a constant with the subtracted terms becoming sufficiently large. In the case of three-qubit system, it is found that most significant three-qubit inequalities presented in literature can be recovered in our framework. We aslo discuss the behavior of such inequalities in the loophole-free Bell test and obtain corresponding thresholds of detection efficiency.

id: 0901.3262
title: Why the Hamilton operator alone is not enough
authors: Ilja Schmelzer
comments: 
journal: Found. Phys. 39: 486-498, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3262
abstract: In the many worlds community seems to exist a belief that the physics of a quantum theory is completely defined by it's Hamilton operator given in an abstract Hilbert space, especially that the position basis may be derived from it as preferred using decoherence techniques. We show, by an explicit example of non-uniqueness, taken from the theory of the KdV equation, that the Hamilton operator alone is not sufficient to fix the physics. We need the canonical operators p, q as well. As a consequence, it is not possible to derive a "preferred basis" from the Hamilton operator alone, without postulating some additional structure like a "decomposition into systems". We argue that this makes such a derivation useless for fundamental physics.

id: 0901.3265
title: Quantum Mechanics of Successive Measurements with Arbitrary Meter Coupling
authors: Lars M. Johansen, Pier A. Mello
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 5760-5764
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3265
abstract: We study successive measurements of two observables using von Neumann's measurement model. The two-pointer correlation for arbitrary coupling strength allows retrieving the initial system state. We recover Luders rule, the Wigner formula and the Kirkwood-Dirac distribution in the appropriate limits of the coupling strength.

id: 0901.3268
title: Two-level atom at finite temperature
authors: Tomasz Sowinski
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3268
abstract: Properties of a two-level atom coupled to the quantized electromagnetic field at finite temperature are determined. The analysis is based on a new method (inspired by QED) of describing qubits, developed previously at zero temperature (Phys. Rev. A 76, 062106 (2007)). In this paper, we make a generalization to finite temperature by introducing the Matsubara formalism and the temperature propagators. We analyze the spectral properties of different types of propagators and we derive a direct connection between the temperature propagators and the real time propagators. To show the effectiveness of this method, we calculate the temperature dependence of the polarizability of a two-level atom in the lowest order of perturbation theory and we predict an unexpected sharpening of the resonance. The whole discussion is carried out without the rotating wave approximation.

id: 0901.3274
title: Monogamy and entanglement in tripartite quantum states
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 10 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 373, 727(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3274
abstract: We present an interesting monogamy equation for $(2 \otimes 2 \otimes n)$-dimensional pure states, by which a quantity is found to characterize the tripartite entanglement with the GHZ type and W typeentanglements as a whole. In particular, we, for the first time, reveals that for any quantum state of a pair of qubits, the difference between the two remarkable entanglement measures, concurrence and negativity, characterizes the W type entanglement of tripartite pure states with the two-qubit state as reduced density.

id: 0901.3300
title: Proca equations derived from first principles
authors: Michel Gondran
comments: 6 pages
journal: Am. J. Phys. 77, 10 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3300
abstract: Gersten has shown how Maxwell equations can be derived from first principles, similar to those which have been used to obtain the Dirac relativistic electron equation. We show how Proca equations can be also deduced from first principles, similar to those which have been used to find Dirac and Maxwell equations. Contrary to Maxwell equations, it is necessary to introduce a potential in order to transform a second order differential equation, as the Klein-Gordon equation, into a first order differential equation, like Proca equations.

id: 0901.3309
title: Determining the Minimum Uncertainty State of Nonclassical Light
authors: C. Gabriel, J. Janousek, H.-A. Bachor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3309
abstract: Squeezing experiments which are capable of creating a minimum uncertainty state during the nonlinear process, for example optical parametric amplification, are commonly used to produce light far below the quantum noise limit. This report presents a method with which one can characterize this minimum uncertainty state and gain valuable knowledge of the experimental setup.

id: 0901.3327
title: Quantum complementarity and logical indeterminacy
authors: Caslav Brukner
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, printed version
journal: Nat. Comp. 8, 1567 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3327
abstract: Whenever a mathematical proposition to be proved requires more information than it is contained in an axiomatic system, it can neither be proved nor disproved, i.e. it is undecidable, or logically undetermined, within this axiomatic system. I will show that certain mathematical propositions on a d-valent function of a binary argument can be encoded in d-dimensional quantum states of mutually unbiased basis (MUB) sets, and truth values of the propositions can be tested in MUB measurements. I will then show that a proposition is undecidable within the system of axioms encoded in the state, if and only if the measurement associated with the proposition gives completely random outcomes.

id: 0901.3335
title: Quantum Optics with Quantum Gases
authors: Igor B. Mekhov, Helmut Ritsch
comments: to be published in Laser Physics (2009)
journal: Laser Physics 19, 610 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3335
abstract: Quantum optics with quantum gases represents a new field, where the quantum nature of both light and ultracold matter plays equally important role. Only very recently this ultimate quantum limit of light-matter interaction became feasible experimentally. In traditional quantum optics, the cold atoms are considered classically, whereas, in quantum atom optics, the light is used as an essentially classical axillary tool. On the one hand, the quantization of optical trapping potentials can significantly modify many-body dynamics of atoms, which is well-known only for classical potentials. On the other hand, atomic fluctuations can modify the properties of the scattered light.

id: 0901.3411
title: Monopole and Topological Electron Dynamics in Adiabatic Spintronic and Graphene Systems
authors: S. G. Tan, M. B. A. Jalil, Takashi Fujita
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3411
abstract: A unified theoretical treatment is presented to describe the physics of electron dynamics in semiconductor and graphene systems. Electron spin fast alignment with the Zeeman magnetic field (physical or effective) is treated as a form of adiabatic spin evolution which necessarily generates a monopole in magnetic space. One could transform this monopole into the physical and intuitive topological magnetic fields in the useful momentum (K) or real spaces (R). The physics of electron dynamics related to spin Hall, torque, oscillations and other technologically useful spinor effects can be inferred from the topological magnetic fields in spintronic, graphene and other SU(2) systems.

id: 0901.3424
title: Relationship between probabilities of the state transfers and entanglements in spin systems with simple geometrical configurations
authors: S.I.Doronin, E.B.Fel'dman, A.I.Zenchuk
comments: 27pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042310 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3424
abstract: In this paper we derive analytical relations between probabilities of the excited state transfers and entanglements calculated by both the Wootters and positive partial transpose (PPT) criteria for the arbitrary spin system with single excited spin in the external magnetic field and Hamiltonian commuting with $I_z$. We apply these relations to study the arbitrary state transfers and entanglements in the simple systems of nuclear spins having two- and three-dimensional geometrical configurations with $XXZ$ Hamiltonian. It is shown that High-Probability State Transfers (HPSTs) are possible among all four nodes placed in the corners of the rectangle with the proper ratio of sides as well as among all eight nodes placed in the corners of the parallelepiped with the proper ratio of sides. Entanglements responsible for these HPSTs have been identified.

id: 0901.3439
title: An Introduction to the Quantum Theory of Nonlinear Optics
authors: Mark Hillery
comments: 80 pages,
journal: Acta Physica Slovaca 59, No.1, 1-80 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3439
abstract: This article is provides an introduction to the quantum theory of optics in nonlinear dielectric media. We begin with a short summary of the classical theory of nonlinear optics, that is nonlinear optics done with classical fields. We then discuss the canonical formalism for fields and its quantization. This is applied to quantizing the electromagnetic field in free space. The definition of a nonclassical state of the electromagnetic field is presented, and several examples are examined. This is followed by a brief introduction to entanglement in the context of field modes. The next task is the quantization of the electromagnetic field in an inhomogeneous, linear dielectric medium. Before going on to field quantization in nonlinear media, we discuss a number of commonly employed phenomenological models for quantum nonlinear optical processes. We then quantize the field in both nondispersive and dispersive nonlinear media. Flaws in the most commonly used methods of accomplishing this task are pointed out and discussed. Once the quantization has been completed, it is used to study a multimode theory of parametric down conversion and the propagation of quantum solitons.

id: 0901.3446
title: Confinement limit of Dirac particles in scalar 1D potentials
authors: R. G. Unanyan, J. Otterbach, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 2 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 79, 044101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3446
abstract: We present a general proof that Dirac particles cannot be localized below their Compton length by symmetric but otherwise arbitrary scalar potentials. This proof does not invoke the Heisenberg uncertainty relation and thus does not rely on the nonrelativistic linear momentum relation. Further it is argued that the result is also applicable for more general potentials, as e.g. generated by nonlinear interactions. Finally a possible realisation of such a system is proposed.

id: 0901.3454
title: The propagator for the step potential using the path decomposition expansion
authors: James M. Yearsley
comments: To appear in DICE 2008 conference proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3454
abstract: We present a direct path integral derivation of the propagator in the presence of a step potential. The derivation makes use of the Path Decomposition Expansion (PDX), and also of the definition of the propagator as a limit of lattice paths.

id: 0901.3505
title: Scheme for generating coherent state superpositions with realistic cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Bing He, Mustansar Nadeem, J¨¢nos A. Bergou
comments: Published version
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 035802 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3505
abstract: We present a simple scheme using two identical cross-phase modulation processes in decoherence environment to generate superpositions of two coherent states with the opposite phases, which are known as cat states. The scheme is shown to be robust against decoherence due to photon absorption losses and other errors, and the design of its experimental setup is also discussed.

id: 0901.3510
title: Amplitude and phase modulation of time-energy entangled two-photon states
authors: F. Z?h, M. Halder, T. Feurer
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Expr. 16, 2008, 16452
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3510
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate amplitude and phase modulation of a time-energy entangled two-photon wave function. The entangled photons are produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion, spectrally dispersed in an prism compressor, modulated in amplitude and/or phase, and detected in coincidence by sum-frequency generation. First, we present a Fourier optical analysis of the optical setup yielding an analytic expression for the resulting field distribution at the exit plane of the shaping apparatus. We then introduce amplitude and/or phase shaping and present results which can only be obtained through a combination of the two. Specifically, we use a shaper-based interferometer to measure the two-photon interference of an almost bandwidth-limited two-photon wave function.

id: 0901.3568
title: Eavesdropping of two-way coherent-state quantum cryptography via Gaussian quantum cloning machines
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Stefano Mancini, Seth Lloyd, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: Proceeding of ICQNM 2009, The Third International Conference on Quantum, Nano and Micro Technologies, Cancun, Mexico, 1-7 February 2009
journal: Proc. of ICQNM 2009 (IEEE, Los Alamitos, California, 2009), pp. 38-41
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3568
abstract: We consider one of the quantum key distribution protocols recently introduced in Ref. [Pirandola et al., Nature Physics 4, 726 (2008)]. This protocol consists in a two-way quantum communication between Alice and Bob, where Alice encodes secret information via a random phase-space displacement of a coherent state. In particular, we study its security against a specific class of individual attacks which are based on combinations of Gaussian quantum cloning machines.

id: 0901.3626
title: Optimal Cloning and Singlet Monogamy
authors: Alastair Kay, Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Ravishankar Ramanathan
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. v2: conjecture upgraded to proof and generalized to arbitrary local hilbert space dimensions. v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 050501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3626
abstract: The inability to produce two perfect copies of an unknown state is inherently linked with the inability to produce maximal entanglement between multiple spins. Despite this, there is no quantitative link between how much entanglement can be generated between spins (known as monogamy), and how well an unknown state can be cloned. This situation is remedied by giving a set of sufficient conditions such that the optimal Completely Positive map can be implemented as a teleportation operation into a standard, reference, state. The case of arbitrary 1 to N asymmetric cloning of d-dimensional spins can then be solved exactly, yielding the concept of `singlet monogamy'. The utility of this relation is demonstrated by calculating properties of Heisenberg systems, and contrasting them with the results from standard monogamy arguments.

id: 0901.3627
title: Observation of prolonged coherence time of the collective spin wave of atomic ensemble in a paraffin coated Rb vapor cell
authors: Shuo Jiang, Xiao-Ming Luo, Li-Qing Chen, Po-Ning, Shuai Chen, Jing-Yang Wang, Zhi-Ping Zhong, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3627
abstract: We report a prolonged coherence time of the collective spin wave of a thermal 87Rb atomic ensemble in a paraffin coated cell. The spin wave is prepared through a stimulated Raman Process. The long coherence time time is achieved by prolonging the lifetime of the spins with paraffin coating and minimize dephasing with optimal experimental configuration. The observation of the long time delayed-stimulated Stokes signal in the writing process suggests the prolonged lifetime of the prepared spins; a direct measurement of the decay of anti-Stokes signal in the reading process shows the coherence time is up to 300 us after minimizing dephasing. This is one hundred times longer than the reported coherence time in the similar experiments in thermal atomic ensembles based on the Duan-Lukin-Cirac-Zoller (DLCZ) and its improved protocols. This prolonged coherence time sets the upper limit of the memory time in quantum repeaters based on such protocols, which is crucial for the realization of long-distance quantum communication. The previous reported fluorescence background in the writing process due to collision in a sample cell with buffer gas is also reduced in a cell without buffer gas.

id: 0901.3629
title: Information flow at the quantum-classical boundary
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny
comments: Ph.D. Thesis in Applied Mathematics, University of Waterloo, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3629
abstract: We study the nature of the information preserved by a quantum channel via the observables which exist in its image (in the Heisenberg picture), and can therefore be simulated on the receiver's side. The sharp observables preserved by a channel form an operator algebra which can be characterized in terms of the channel's elements. The effect of the channel on these observables can be reversed by another physical transformation. These results generalize the theory of quantum error correction to codes characterized by arbitrary von Neumann algebras, which can represent hybrid quantum-classical information, continuous variable systems, or certain quantum field theories. The preserved unsharp observables (positive operator-valued measures) allow for a finer characterization of the information preserved by a channel. We show that the only type of information which can be duplicated arbitrarily many times consists of coarse-grainings of a single POVM. Based on these results, we propose a model of decoherence which can account for the emergence of a classical phase-space. This model supports the view that the quantum-classical correspondence is given by a quantum-to-classical channel, i.e. a POVM.

id: 0901.3675
title: Dynamics & Predictions in the Co-Event Interpretation
authors: Yousef Ghazi-Tabatabai, Petros Wallden
comments: 35 pages. Revised after refereeing
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009), 235303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3675
abstract: Sorkin has introduced a new, observer independent, interpretation of quantum mechanics that can give a successful realist account of the 'quantum microworld' as well as explaining how classicality emerges at the level of observable events for a range of systems including single time 'Copenhagen measurements'. This 'co-event interpretation' presents us with a new ontology, in which a single 'co-event' is real. A new ontology necessitates a review of the dynamical & predictive mechanism of a theory, and in this paper we begin the process by exploring means of expressing the dynamical and predictive content of histories theories in terms of co-events.

id: 0901.3720
title: Halving the Casimir force with conductive oxides
authors: S. de Man, K. Heeck, R. J. Wijngaarden, D. Iannuzzi
comments: modified version, accepted for publication in Phys Rev Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:040402,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3720
abstract: The possibility to modify the strength of the Casimir effect by tailoring the dielectric functions of the interacting surfaces is regarded as a unique opportunity in the development of Micro- and NanoElectroMechanical Systems. In air, however, one expects that, unless noble metals are used, the electrostatic force arising from trapped charges overcomes the Casimir attraction, leaving no room for exploitation of Casimir force engineering at ambient conditions. Here we show that, in the presence of a conductive oxide, the Casimir force can be the dominant interaction even in air, and that the use of conductive oxides allows one to reduce the Casimir force up to a factor of 2 when compared to noble metals.

id: 0901.3738
title: Quantum jumps and spin dynamics of interacting atoms in a strongly coupled atom-cavity system
authors: M. Khudaverdyan, W. Alt, T. Kampschulte, S. Reick, A. Thobe, A. Widera, D. Meschede
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 123006 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3738
abstract: We experimentally investigate the spin dynamics of one and two neutral atoms strongly coupled to a high finesse optical cavity. We observe quantum jumps between hyperfine ground states of a single atom. The interaction-induced normal mode splitting of the atom-cavity system is measured via the atomic excitation. Moreover, we observe evidence for conditional dynamics of two atoms simultaneously coupled to the cavity mode. Our results point towards the realization of measurement-induced entanglement schemes for neutral atoms in optical cavities.

id: 0901.3765
title: Finite Difference-Time Domain solution of Dirac equation and the Klein Paradox
authors: Neven Simicevic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3765
abstract: The time-dependent Dirac equation is solved using the three-dimensional Finite Difference-Time Domain (FDTD) method. The dynamics of the electron wave packet in a scalar potential is studied in the arrangements associated with the Klein paradox: potential step barriers and linear potentials. No Klein paradox is observed.

id: 0901.3771
title: Guessing Quantum Ensemble Using Laplace Principle
authors: Georges Parfionov, Rom¨¤n R. Zapatrin
comments: 11 pages, LaTeX. Talk presented at Quantum Structures - 2008 (July 6-12, 2008, Sopot, Poland)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3771
abstract: For a mixed quantum state with density matrix $\rho$ there are infinitely many ensembles of pure quantum states, which average to $\rho$. Starting from Laplace principle of insufficient reason (not to give \emph{a priori} preference to any particular state), we derive a `natural' distribution of pure states averaging to $\rho$, which is `more spread' than all the others.

id: 0901.3790
title: Realistic theory of electromagnetically-induced transparency and slow light in a hot vapor of atoms undergoing collisions
authors: Joyee Ghosh, R. Ghosh, F. Goldfarb, J.-L. Le Gou?t, F. Bretenaker
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 023817 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3790
abstract: We present a realistic theoretical treatment of a three-level $\Lambda$ system in a hot atomic vapor interacting with a coupling and a probe field of arbitrary strengths, leading to electromagnetically-induced transparency and slow light under the two-photon resonance condition. We take into account all the relevant decoherence processes including col5Blisions. Velocity-changing collisions (VCCs) are modeled in the strong collision limit effectively, which helps in achieving optical pumping by the coupling beam across the entire Doppler profile. The steady-state expressions for the atomic density-matrix elements are numerically evaluated to yield the experimentally measured response characteristics. The predictions, taking into account a dynamic rate of influx of atoms in the two lower levels of the $\Lambda$, are in excellent agreement with the reported experimental results for $^4$He*. The role played by the VCC parameter is seen to be distinct from that by the transit time or Raman coherence decay rate.

id: 0901.3851
title: Oracular Approximation of Quantum Multiplexors and Diagonal Unitary Matrices
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: V1:5 pages (files: 3 .sty, 1 .tex);V2:corrected serious error, V1 omitted transformation that reverts ancilla to initial state
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3851
abstract: We give a new quantum circuit approximation of quantum multiplexors based on the idea of complexity theory oracles. As an added bonus, our multiplexor approximation immediately gives a quantum circuit approximation of diagonal unitary matrices.

id: 0901.3868
title: Regular and chaotic Bose-Einstein condensate in an accelerated Wannier-Stark lattice
authors: Wenhua Hai, Gengbiao Lu, Honghua Zhong
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A79, 053610 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3868
abstract: We investigate a Bose-Einstein condensate held in a quasi-one-dimensional Wannier-Stark lattice which is a combination of linear potential with an accelerated optical lattice. It is demonstrated that the system can be reduced to a periodically driven Gross-Pitaevskii one, in which we find the first exact analytical solution and the regular and chaotic numerical solutions with accelerated atomic flow densities. The results suggest an experimental scheme for generating and controlling the accelerating regular and chaotic matter-waves.

id: 0901.3901
title: A Measurement-Based Form of the Out-of-Place Quantum Carry-Lookahead Adder
authors: Agung Trisetyarso, Rodney Van Meter, Kohei M. Itoh
comments: 2 pages, 3 figures, Asian Conference on Quantum Information Science 2008, KIAS, South Korea
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3901
abstract: We present the design of a quantum carry-lookahead adder using measurement-based quantum computation. The quantum carry-lookahead adder (QCLA) is faster than a quantum ripple-carry adder; QCLA has logarithmic depth while ripple adders have linear depth. Our design is evaluated in terms of number of time steps and the total number of qubits used.

id: 0901.3903
title: Resources for Measurement-Based Quantum Carry-Lookahead Adder
authors: Agung Trisetyarso, Rodney Van Meter, Kohei M. Itoh
comments: 1 pages, 1 figures, International Symposium on Nanoscale Transport and Technology 2009, NTT, Hon Atsugi, Japan
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3903
abstract: We present the design of a quantum carry-lookahead adder using measurement-based quantum computation. QCLA utilizes MBQC`s ability to transfer quantum states in unit time to accelerate addition. The quantum carry-lookahead adder (QCLA) is faster than a quantum ripple-carry adder; QCLA has logarithmic depth while ripple adders have linear depth. QCLA is an order of magnitude faster than a ripple-carry adder when adding registers longer than 100 qubits but requires a cluster state that is an order of magnitude larger. Hand optimization results in a $\approx$ 26% reduction in spatial resources for the circuit.

id: 0901.3907
title: Can quantum mechanics be an emergent phenomenon?
authors: Massimo Blasone, Petr Jizba, Fabio Scardigli
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. To appear in the Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop DICE2008: "From Quantum Mechanics through Complexity to Spacetime", Castiglioncello (Tuscany, Italy), September 22-26, 2008
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.174:012034,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3907
abstract: We raise the issue whether conventional quantum mechanics, which is not a hidden variable theory in the usual Jauch-Piron's sense, might nevertheless be a hidden variable theory in the sense recently conjectured by G. 't Hooft in his pre-quantization scheme. We find that quantum mechanics might indeed have a fully deterministic underpinning by showing that Born's rule naturally emerges (i.e., it is not postulated) when 't Hooft's Hamiltonian for be-ables is combined with the Koopmann - von Neumann operatorial formulation of classical physics.

id: 0901.3909
title: High error-rate quantum key distribution for long-distance communication
authors: Muhammad Mubashir Khan, Michael Murphy, Almut Beige
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, 4 tables, discussion of QBER added
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 063043 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3909
abstract: In the original BB84 protocol by Bennett and Brassard, an eavesdropper is detected because his attempts to intercept information result in a quantum bit error rate (QBER) of at least 25%. Here we design an alternative quantum key distribution protocol, where Alice and Bob use two mutually unbiased bases with one of them encoding a "0" and the other one encoding a "1." The security of the scheme is due to a minimum index transmission error rate (ITER) introduced by an eavesdropper which increases significantly for higher-dimensional photon states. This allows for more noise in the transmission line, thereby increasing the possible distance between Alice and Bob without the need for intermediate nodes.

id: 0901.3920
title: Global operations for protected quantum memories in atomic spin lattices
authors: G.K. Brennen, K. Hammerer, L. Jiang, M. D. Lukin, P. Zoller
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3920
abstract: Quantum information processed in strongly correlated states of matter can provide built in hardware protection against errors. We may encode information in highly non local degrees of freedom, such as using three dimensional spin lattices for subsystem codes or two dimensional spin lattices for topologically ordered surface codes and measurement based codes. Recently, in [L. Jiang et al., Nature Physics {\bf 4}, 482 (2008)] the authors showed how to manipulate these global degrees of freedom using optical lattices coupled to a bosonic degree of freedom via a cavity. We elaborate on these ideas and recapitulate two approaches to implement many body gates necessary for quantum information processing, both relying on controlled interactions of an ancillary cavity mode with the spin system and single ancilla particles. The main focus of the present paper is to analyze the effect of imperfections such a cavity decay and collective and individual spin decoherence. We present strategies to fight decoherence by monitoring cavity decay and show that high gate fidelities can be achieved in the strong coupling regime of cavity-QED with state of the art parameters.

id: 0901.3938
title: Theory of single-photon transport in a single-mode waveguide coupled to a cavity containing a two-level atom
authors: Jung-Tsung Shen, Shanhui Fan
comments: 28 pages, 6 figures. Accepted by Physical Review A (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3938
abstract: The single-photon transport in a single-mode waveguide, coupled to a cavity embedded with a two-leval atom is analyzed. The single-photon transmission and reflection amplitudes, as well as the cavity and the atom excitation amplitudes, are solved exactly via a real-space approach. It is shown that the dissipation of the cavity and of the atom respectively affects distinctively on the transport properties of the photons, and on the relative phase between the excitation amplitudes of the cavity mode and the atom.

id: 0901.3940
title: Fully quantum-mechanical analytic results for single-photon transport in a single-mode waveguide coupled to a whispering-gallery resonator interacting with a two-level atom
authors: Jung-Tsung Shen, Shanhui Fan
comments: 50 pages, 17 figures. Accepted by Physical Review A (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3940
abstract: We analyze the single-photon transport in a single-mode waveguide coupled to a whispering-gallery-type resonator interacting with a two-level atom. The single-photon transport properties such as the transmission and reflection amplitudes, as well as the resonator and the atom responses, are solved exactly via a real-space approach. The treatment includes the inter-mode backscattering between the two degenerate whispering gallery modes of the resonator, and the dissipations of the resonator and the atom. We also show that a generalized critical coupling condition, that the single-photon transmission at the output of the waveguide goes to zero on resonance for a matched system, holds for the full coupled waveguide-ring resonator-atom system.

id: 0901.3946
title: Quantum Walk-based Generation of Entanglement Between Two Walkers
authors: Salvador E. Venegas-Andraca, Sougato Bose
comments: 8 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3946
abstract: Quantum walks can be used either as tools for quantum algorithm development or as entanglement generators, potentially useful to test quantum hardware. We present a novel algorithm based on a discrete Hadamard quantum walk on a line with one coin and two walkers whose purpose is to generate entanglement between walkers. We provide several classical computer simulations of our quantum algorithm in which we show that, although the asymptotical amount of entanglement generated between walkers does not reach the highest degree of entanglement possible at each step for either coin measurement outcome, the entanglement ratio (entanglement generated/highest value of entanglement possible, for each step) tends to converge, and the actual convergence value depends on the coin initial state and on the coin measurement outcome. Furthermore, our numerical simulations show that, for the quantum walks used in our algorithm, the value towards which entanglement ratio converges also depends on the position probability distribution symmetry of a quantum walk computed with one single walker and the same coin initial state employed in the corresponding quantum walk with two walkers.

id: 0901.3964
title: Robust photon-spin entangling gate using a quantum-dot spin in a microcavity
authors: C.Y.Hu, W.J.Munro, J.L.O'Brien, J.G. Rarity
comments: 8pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3964
abstract: Semiconductor quantum dots (known as artificial atoms) hold great promise for solid-state quantum networks and quantum computers. To realize a quantum network, it is crucial to achieve light-matter entanglement and coherent quantum-state transfer between light and matter. Here we present a robust photon-spin entangling gate with high fidelity and high efficiency (up to 50 percent) using a charged quantum dot in a double-sided microcavity. This gate is based on giant circular birefringence induced by a single electron spin, and functions as an optical circular polariser which allows only one circularly-polarized component of light to be transmitted depending on the electron spin states. We show this gate can be used for single-shot quantum non-demolition measurement of a single electron spin, and can work as an entanglement filter to make a photon-spin entangler, spin entangler and photon entangler as well as a photon-spin quantum interface. This work allows us to make all building blocks for solid-state quantum networks with single photons and quantum-dot spins.

id: 0901.3968
title: Universal Time Tunneling
authors: Guenter Nimtz
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3968
abstract: How much time does a tunneling wave packet spent in traversing a barrier? Quantum mechanical calculations result in zero time inside a barrier . In the nineties analogous tunneling experiments with microwaves were carried out. The results agreed with quantum mechanical calculations. Electron tunneling time is hard to measure being extremely short and parasitic effects due to the electric charge of electrons may be dominant. However, quite recently the atomic ionization tunneling time has been measured. Experimental data of photonic, phononic, and electronic tunneling time is available now and will be presented. It appears that the tunneling time is a universal property independent of the field in question.

id: 0901.3969
title: Demonstration of Quadrature Squeezed Surface-Plasmons in a Gold Waveguide
authors: Alexander Huck, Stephan Smolka, Peter Lodahl, Anders S. Soerensen, Alexandra Boltasseva, Jiri Janousek, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 246802 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3969
abstract: We report on the efficient generation, propagation, and re-emission of squeezed long-range surface-plasmon polaritons (SPPs) in a gold waveguide. Squeezed light is used to excite the non-classical SPPs and the re-emitted quantum state is fully quantum characterized by complete tomographic reconstruction of the density matrix. We find that the plasmon-assisted transmission of non-classical light in metallic waveguides can be described by a Hamiltonian analogue to a beam splitter. This result is explained theoretically.

id: 0901.3972
title: Long-range surface plasmon polariton excitation at the quantum level
authors: D. Ballester, M. S. Tame, C. Lee, J. Lee, M. S. Kim
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4; Accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 053845 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3972
abstract: We provide the quantum mechanical description of the excitation of long-range surface plasmon polaritons (LRSPPs) on thin metallic strips. The excitation process consists of an attenuated-reflection setup, where efficient photon-to-LRSPP wavepacket-transfer is shown to be achievable. For calculating the coupling, we derive the first quantization of LRSPPs in the polaritonic regime. We study quantum statistics during propagation and characterize the performance of photon-to-LRSPP quantum state transfer for single-photons, photon-number states and photonic coherent superposition states.

id: 0901.3979
title: Intensity-field correlation of single-atom resonance fluorescence
authors: S. Gerber, D. Rotter, L. Slodicka, J. Eschner, H. J. Carmichael, R. Blatt
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3979
abstract: We report measurements of an intensity-field correlation function of the resonance fluorescence of a single trapped Ba+ ion. Detection of a photon prepares the atom in its ground state and we observe its subsequent evolution under interaction with a laser field of well defined phase. We record the regression of the resonance fluorescence source field. This provides a direct measurement of the field of the radiating dipole of a single atom and exhibits its strong non-classical behavior. In the experimental setup an interference measurement is conditioned on a fluorescence photon detection. The third-order correlation function thus recorded demonstrates an aspect of wave-particle duality at the single-atom, single-photon level.

id: 0901.4051
title: Constructing Mutually Unbiased Bases in Dimension Six
authors: Stephen Brierley, Stefan Weigert
comments: As published version. Added discussion of the impact of numerical approximations and corrected the number of triples existing for non-affine families (cf Table 3)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052316 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4051
abstract: The density matrix of a qudit may be reconstructed with optimal efficiency if the expectation values of a specific set of observables are known. In dimension six, the required observables only exist if it is possible to identify six mutually unbiased complex 6x6 Hadamard matrices. Prescribing a first Hadamard matrix, we construct all others mutually unbiased to it, using algebraic computations performed by a computer program. We repeat this calculation many times, sampling all known complex Hadamard matrices, and we never find more than two that are mutually unbiased. This result adds considerable support to the conjecture that no seven mutually unbiased bases exist in dimension six.

id: 0901.4070
title: Non-locality distillation and post-quantum theories with trivial communication complexity
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Paul Skrzypczyk
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. To Appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 160403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4070
abstract: We first present a protocol for deterministically distilling non-locality, building upon a recent result of Forster et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 120401 (2009)]. Our protocol, which is optimal for two-copy distillation, works efficiently for a specific class of post-quantum non-local boxes, which we term correlated non-local boxes. In the asymptotic limit, all correlated non-local boxes are distilled to the maximally non-local box of Popescu and Rohrlich. Then, taking advantage of a result of Brassard \textit{et al.} [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 250401 (2006)] we show that all correlated non-local boxes make communication complexity trivial, and therefore appear very unlikely to exist in nature. Astonishingly, some of these non-local boxes are arbitrarily close to the set of classical correlations. This result therefore gives new insight to the problem of why quantum non-locality is limited.

id: 0901.4071
title: Comment on "Dynamical reduction models" by A. Bassi and G.C. Ghirardi (arXiv:quant-ph/0302164)
authors: Fred H. Thaheld
comments: 5 pages, no figures. Section added regarding the 'internalist' concept with emphasis upon the fundamental and irreducible act of distinguishing between before and after physical events
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4071
abstract: Bassi and Ghirardi have developed a new theory to address the measurement problem based upon non-linear and stochastic modifications of the Schroedinger equation, which has been given the name Quantum Mechanical Spontaneous Localization or QMSL, with one of the emphasis dealing with reduction or wavefunction collapse within the nervous system. Analysis of this portion of their theory reveals that it faces several problems.

id: 0901.4091
title: Multi-qubit entanglement engineering via projective measurements
authors: Witlef Wieczorek, Nikolai Kiesel, Christian Schmid, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4091
abstract: So far, various multi-photon entangled states have been observed experimentally by using different experimental set-ups. Here, we present a scheme to realize many SLOCC-inequivalent states of three and four qubits via projective measurements on suitable entangled states. We demonstrate how these states can be observed experimentally in a single set-up and study the feasibility of the implementation with present-day technology.

id: 0901.4110
title: Generation of macroscopic singlet states in atomic ensembles
authors: Geza Toth, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 9 pages including 2 figures, revtex4; v2: longer introduction, more details of the derivation are presented, v3: published version
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 053007 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4110
abstract: We study squeezing of the spin uncertainties by quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement in non-polarized spin ensembles. Unlike the case of polarized ensembles, the QND measurements can be performed with negligible back-action, which allows, in principle, perfect spin squeezing as quantified by [G. Toth et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 250405 (2007)]. The generated spin states approach many-body singlet states, and contain a macroscopic number of entangled particles, even when individual spin is large. We introduce the Gaussian treatment of unpolarized spin states and use it to estimate the achievable spin squeezing for realistic experimental parameters. Our proposal might have applications for magnetometry with a high spatial resolution or quantum memories storing information in decoherence free subspaces.

id: 0901.4163
title: Quantum Simulation of Simple Many-Body Dynamics
authors: Yale Fan
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures; revised for completeness and precision; as this is a presentation of preliminary ideas, feedback is welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4163
abstract: Quantum computers could potentially simulate the dynamics of systems such as polyatomic molecules on a much larger scale than classical computers. We investigate a general quantum computational algorithm that simulates the time evolution of an arbitrary non-relativistic, Coulombic many-body system in three dimensions, considering only spatial degrees of freedom. We use a simple discretized model of Schrodinger evolution and discuss detailed constructions of the operators necessary to realize the scheme of Wiesner and Zalka. The algorithm is simulated numerically for small test cases, and its outputs are found to be in good agreement with analytical solutions.

id: 0901.4212
title: Weak Value and Correlation Function
authors: Takahiro Sagawa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4212
abstract: We show that there exists, in quantum theory, a close relationship between the weak value and the correlation function, which sheds new lights on the concept of the weak value.

id: 0901.4214
title: Electrodynamic Casimir Effect in a Medium-Filled Wedge
authors: Iver Brevik, Simen ? Ellingsen, Kimball A. Milton
comments: 16 pages REVTEX4, 5 figures. Substantial revision; new references added. To appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 041120 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4214
abstract: We re-examine the electrodynamic Casimir effect in a wedge defined by two perfect conductors making dihedral angle \alpha=\pi/p. This system is analogous to the system defined by a cosmic string. We consider the wedge region as filled with an azimuthally symmetric material, with permittivity/permeability \epsilon_1,\mu_1 for distance from the axis r<a, and \epsilon_2,\mu_2 for r>a. The results are closely related to those for a circular-cylindrical geometry, but with non-integer azimuthal quantum number mp. Apart from a zero-mode divergence, which may be removed by choosing periodic boundary conditions on the wedge, and may be made finite if dispersion is included, we obtain finite results for the free energy corresponding to changes in 'a' for the case when the speed of light is the same inside and outside the radius 'a', and for weak coupling, |\epsilon_1- \epsilon_2| \ll 1, for purely dielectric media. We also consider the radiation produced by the sudden appearance of an infinite cosmic string, situated along the cusp line of the pre-existing wedge.

id: 0901.4234
title: Positional decoherence
authors: Bruno Galvan
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author because overcame by arXiv:0910.4694
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4234
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author because overcame by arXiv:0910.4694

id: 0901.4237
title: Group Velocity of Discrete-Time Quantum Walks
authors: Achim Kempf, Renato Portugal
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4237
abstract: We show that certain types of quantum walks can be modeled as waves that propagate in a medium with phase and group velocities that are explicitly calculable. Since the group and phase velocities indicate how fast wave packets can propagate causally, we propose the use of these wave velocities in a new definition for the hitting time of quantum walks. The new definition of hitting time has the advantage that it requires neither the specification of a walker's initial condition nor of an arrival probability threshold. We give full details for the case of quantum walks on the Cayley graphs of Abelian groups. This includes the special cases of quantum walks on the line and on hypercubes.

id: 0901.4255
title: Non-realism : deep thought or a soft option ?
authors: Nicolas Gisin
comments: 5 pages
journal: Foundations of Physics, 42, 80-85, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4255
abstract: The claim that the observation of a violation of a Bell inequality leads to an alleged alternative between nonlocality and non-realism is annoying because of the vagueness of the second term.

id: 0901.4349
title: Absorption Probabilities for the Two-Barrier Quantum Walk
authors: Eric Bach, Lev Borisov
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4349
abstract: Let p_j^(n) be the probability that a Hadamard quantum walk, started at site j on the integer lattice {0,...,n}, is absorbed at 0. We give an explicit formula for p_j^(n). Our formula proves a conjecture of John Watrous, concerning an empirically observed linear fractional recurrence relation for the numbers p_1^(n).

id: 0901.4357
title: Application of Abel-Plana formula for collapse and revival of Rabi oscillations in Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Hiroo Azuma
comments: 14 pages, 12 eps figures, latex2e; v2: analyses concerned with the off-resonant cases added; v3: discussion about the time-evolution of the JCM with an initial thermal coherent state is added
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 21, 1021-1049 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4357
abstract: In this paper, we give an analytical treatment to study the behavior of the collapse and the revival of the Rabi oscillations in the Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM). The JCM is an exactly soluble quantum mechanical model, which describes the interaction between a two-level atom and a single cavity mode of the electromagnetic field. If we prepare the atom in the ground state and the cavity mode in a coherent state initially, the JCM causes the collapse and the revival of the Rabi oscillations many times in a complicated pattern in its time-evolution. In this phenomenon, the atomic population inversion is described with an intractable infinite series. (When the electromagnetic field is resonant with the atom, the $n$th term of this infinite series is given by a trigonometric function for $\sqrt{n}t$, where $t$ is a variable of the time.) According to Klimov and Chumakov's method, using the Abel-Plana formula, we rewrite this infinite series as a sum of two integrals. We examine the physical meanings of these two integrals and find that the first one represents the initial collapse (the semi-classical limit) and the second one represents the revival (the quantum correction) in the JCM. Furthermore, we evaluate the first and second-order perturbations for the time-evolution of the JCM with an initial thermal coherent state for the cavity mode at low temperature, and write down their correction terms as sums of integrals by making use of the Abel-Plana formula.

id: 0901.4391
title: Scalable quantum field simulations of conditioned systems
authors: M. R. Hush, A. R. R. Carvalho, J. J. Hope
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4391
abstract: We demonstrate a technique for performing stochastic simulations of conditional master equations. The method is scalable for many quantum-field problems and therefore allows first-principles simulations of multimode bosonic fields undergoing continuous measurement, such as those controlled by measurement-based feedback. As examples, we demonstrate a 53-fold speed increase for the simulation of the feedback cooling of a single trapped particle, and the feedback cooling of a quantum field with 32 modes, which would be impractical using previous brute force methods.

id: 0901.4395
title: Parity Measurements in Quantum Optical Metrology
authors: Aravind Chiruvelli, Hwang Lee
comments: Rewritten as per the referee comments. 7 pages 4 figures, submitted to PRA; Comments Welcomed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4395
abstract: We investigate the utility of parity detection to achieve Heisenberg-limited phase estimation for optical interferometry. We consider the parity detection with several input states that have been shown to exhibit sub shot-noise interferometry with their respective detection schemes. We show that with parity detection, all these states achieve the sub-shot noise limited phase estimate. Thus making the parity detection a unified detection strategy for quantum optical metrology. We also consider quantum states that are a combination of a NOON states and a dual-Fock state, which gives a great deal of freedom in the preparation of the input state, and is found to surpass the shot-noise limit.

id: 0901.4410
title: Information loss in local dissipation environments
authors: Nasser Metwally
comments: 
journal: Int J Theor Phys 49 (2010) 1571-1579
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4410
abstract: The sensitivity of entanglement to the thermal and squeezed reservoirs' parameters is investigated regarding entanglement decay and what is called sudden-death of entanglement, ESD, for a system of two qubit pairs. The dynamics of information is investigated by means of the information disturbance and exchange information. We show that for squeezed reservoir, we can keep both of the entanglement and information survival for a long time. The sudden death of information is seen in the case of thermal reservoir.

id: 0901.4424
title: Homogeneous MERA states: an information theoretical analysis
authors: V. Giovannetti, S. Montangero, M. Rizzi, R. Fazio
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052314 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4424
abstract: Homogeneous Multi-scale Entanglement Renormalization Ansazt (MERA) state have been recently introduced to describe quantum critical systems. Here we present an extensive analysis of the properties of such states by clarifying the definition of their transfer super-operator whose structure is studied within a informational theoretical approach. Explicit expressions for computing the expectation values of symmetric observables are given both in the case of finite size systems and in the thermodynamic limit of infinitely many particles.

id: 0901.4454
title: Highly efficient energy excitation transfer in light-harvesting complexes: The fundamental role of noise-assisted transport
authors: Filippo Caruso, Alex W. Chin, Animesh Datta, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures; See Video Abstract at this http URL . New revised version; discussion of entanglement properties enhanced
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics 131, 105106 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4454
abstract: Excitation transfer through interacting systems plays an important role in many areas of physics, chemistry, and biology. The uncontrollable interaction of the transmission network with a noisy environment is usually assumed to deteriorate its transport capacity, especially so when the system is fundamentally quantum mechanical. Here we identify key mechanisms through which noise such as dephasing, perhaps counter intuitively, may actually aid transport through a dissipative network by opening up additional pathways for excitation transfer. We show that these are processes that lead to the inhibition of destructive interference and exploitation of line broadening effects. We illustrate how these mechanisms operate on a fully connected network by developing a powerful analytical technique that identifies the invariant (excitation trapping) subspaces of a given Hamiltonian. Finally, we show how these principles can explain the remarkable efficiency and robustness of excitation energy transfer from the light-harvesting chlorosomes to the bacterial reaction center in photosynthetic complexes and present a numerical analysis of excitation transport across the Fenna-Matthew-Olson (FMO) complex together with a brief analysis of its entanglement properties. Our results show that, in general, it is the careful interplay of quantum mechanical features and the unavoidable environmental noise that will lead to an optimal system performance.

id: 0901.4470
title: Probing a composite spin-boson environment
authors: Neil P. Oxtoby, ?ngel Rivas, Susana F. Huelga, Rosario Fazio
comments: 20 pages, 9 colour figures, I.O.P. style, published version; See Video Abstract at this http URL
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 063028 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4470
abstract: We consider non-interacting multi-qubit systems as controllable probes of an environment of defects/impurities modelled as a composite spin-boson environment. The spin-boson environment consists of a small number of quantum-coherent two-level fluctuators (TLFs) damped by independent bosonic baths. A master equation of the Lindblad form is derived for the probe-plus-TLF system. We discuss how correlation measurements in the probe system encode information about the environment structure and could be exploited to efficiently discriminate between different experimental preparation techniques, with particular focus on the quantum correlations (entanglement) that build up in the probe as a result of the TLF-mediated interaction. We also investigate the harmful effects of the composite spin-boson environment on initially prepared entangled bipartite qubit states of the probe and on entangling gate operations. Our results offer insights in the area of quantum computation using superconducting devices, where defects/impurities are believed to be a major source of decoherence.

id: 0901.4473
title: Teleportation via a mixture of a two qubit subsystem of a N-qubit W and GHZ state
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: 10 pages, 1 table, Accepted in European Physical Journal D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 57, 265-269 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4473
abstract: In this work we study a state which is a random mixture of a two qubit subsystem of a $N$-qubit W state and GHZ state. We analyze several possibilities like separability criterion (Peres-Horodecki criterion [14,15]), non violation of Bell's inequality [6]($M(\rho)<1$)and teleportation fidelity [1,2,3,4] ($(F_{max}>{2/3})$) for this state. We also obtain a relationship between $N$ (number of qubits) and $p$ (the classical probability of random mixture) for each of these possibilities. Finally we present a detailed analysis of all these possibilities for $N=3,4,5$ qubit systems. We also report that for N=3 and $p\in(.75,1]$, this entangled state can be used as a teleportation channel without violating Bell's inequality.

id: 0901.4477
title: Smooth quantum-classical transition in photon subtraction and addition processes
authors: A. V. Dodonov, S. S. Mizrahi
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 023821 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4477
abstract: Recently Parigi et al. [Science 317, 1890 (2007)] implemented experimentally the photon subtraction and addition processes from/to a light field in a conditional way, when the required operations were produced successfully only upon the positive outcome of a separate measurement. It was verified that for a low intensity beam (quantum regime) the bosonic annihilation operator does indeed describe a single photon subtraction, while the creation operator describes a photon addition. Nonetheless, the exact formal expressions for these operations do not always reduce to these simple identifications, and in this connection here we deduce the general superoperators for multiple photons subtraction and addition processes and analyze the statistics of the resulting states for classical field states having an arbitrary intensity. We obtain closed analytical expressions and verify that for classical fields with high intensity (classical regime) the operators that describe photon subtraction and addition processes deviate significantly from simply annihilation and creation operators. Complementarily, we analyze in details such a smooth quantum-classical transition as function of beam intensity for both processes.

id: 0901.4504
title: Perfect state transfer of a qudit over underlying networks of group association schemes
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, R. Sufiania, S. F. Taghavia, E. Baratia
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4504
abstract: As generalizations of results of Christandl et al.\cite{8,9""} and Facer et al.\cite{Facer}, Bernasconi et al.\cite{godsil,godsil1} studied perfect state transfer (PST) between two particles in quantum networks modeled by a large class of cubelike graphs (e.g., the hypercube) which are the Cayley graphs of the elementary abelian group $Z_2^n$. In Refs. \cite{PST,psd}, respectively, PST of a qubit over distance regular spin networks and optimal state transfer (ST) of a $d$-level quantum state (qudit) over pseudo distance regular networks were discussed, where the networks considered there were not in general related with a certain finite group. In this paper, PST of a qudit over antipodes of more general networks called underlying networks of association schemes, is investigated. In particular, we consider the underlying networks of group association schemes in order to employ the group properties (such as irreducible characters) and use the algebraic structure of these networks (such as Bose-Mesner algebra) in order to give an explicit analytical formula for coupling constants in the Hamiltonians so that the state of a particular qudit initially encoded on one site will perfectly evolve to the opposite site without any dynamical control. It is shown that the only necessary condition in order to PST over these networks be achieved is that the centers of the corresponding groups be non-trivial. Therefore, PST over the underlying networks of the group association schemes over all the groups with non-trivial centers such as the abelian groups, the dihedral group $D_{2n}$ with even $n$, the Clifford group CL(n) and all of the $p$-groups can be achieved.

id: 0901.4506
title: Private quantum decoupling and secure disposal of information
authors: Francesco Buscemi
comments: Child of 0807.3594 v2: minor changes v3: presentation improved, one figure added v4: extended version with a lot of discussions and examples v5: published version
journal: New Journal of Physics 11 (2009) 123002 (17pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4506
abstract: Given a bipartite system, correlations between its subsystems can be understood as information that each one carries about the other. In order to give a model-independent description of secure information disposal, we propose the paradigm of private quantum decoupling, corresponding to locally reducing correlations in a given bipartite quantum state without transferring them to the environment. In this framework, the concept of private local randomness naturally arises as a resource, and total correlations get divided into eliminable and ineliminable ones. We prove upper and lower bounds on the amount of ineliminable correlations present in an arbitrary bipartite state, and show that, in tripartite pure states, ineliminable correlations satisfy a monogamy constraint, making apparent their quantum nature. A relation with entanglement theory is provided by showing that ineliminable correlations constitute an entanglement parameter. In the limit of infinitely many copies of the initial state provided, we compute the regularized ineliminable correlations to be measured by the coherent information, which is thus equipped with a new operational interpretation. In particular, our results imply that two subsystems can be privately decoupled if their joint state is separable.

id: 0901.4510
title: A general algorithm for manipulating non-linear and linear entanglement witnesses by using exact convex optimization
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, K. Aghayar, A. Heshmati
comments: 37 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4510
abstract: A generic algorithm is developed to reduce the problem of obtaining linear and nonlinear entanglement witnesses of a given quantum system, to convex optimization problem. This approach is completely general and can be applied for the entanglement detection of any N-partite quantum system. For this purpose, a map from convex space of separable density matrices to a convex region called feasible region is defined, where by using exact convex optimization method, the linear entanglement witnesses can be obtained from polygonal shape feasible regions, while for curved shape feasible regions, envelope of the family of linear entanglement witnesses can be considered as nonlinear entanglement witnesses. This method proposes a new methodological framework within which most of previous EWs can be studied. To conclude and in order to demonstrate the capability of the proposed approach, besides providing some nonlinear witnesses for entanglement detection of density matrices in unextendible product bases, W-states, and GHZ with W-states, some further examples of three qubits systems and their classification and entanglement detection are included. Also it is explained how one can manipulate most of the non-decomposable linear and nonlinear three qubits entanglement witnesses appearing in some of the papers published by us and other authors, by the method proposed in this paper. Keywords: non-linear and linear entanglement witnesses, convex optimization. PACS number(s): 03.67.Mn, 03.65.Ud

id: 0901.4515
title: Analysis of Lyapunov Method for Control of Quantum States
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Sonia Schirmer
comments: This work is part I of an expanded version of earlier work (arXiv:0801.0702)
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 55(10) 2259-2270 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4515
abstract: The natural trajectory tracking problem is studied for generic quantum states represented by density operators. A control design based on the Hilbert-Schmidt distance as a Lyapunov function is considered. The control dynamics is redefined on an extended space where the LaSalle invariance principle can be correctly applied even for non-stationary target states. LaSalle's invariance principle is used to derive a general characterization of the invariant set, which is shown to always contain the critical points of the Lyapunov function. Critical point analysis of the latter is used to show that, for generic states, it is a Morse function with $n!$ isolated critical points, including one global minimum, one global maximum and $n!-2$ saddles. It is also shown, however, that the actual dynamics of the system is not a gradient flow, and therefore a full eigenvalue analysis of the linearized dynamics about the critical points of the dynamical system is necessary to ascertain stability of the critical points. This analysis shows that a generic target state is locally asymptotically stable if the linearized system is controllable and the invariant set is regular, and in fact convergence to the target state (trajectory) in this case is almost global in that the stable manifolds of all other critical points form a subset of measure zero of the state space. On the other hand, if either of these sufficient conditions is not satisfied, the target state ceases to be asymptotically stable, a center manifold emerges around the target state, and the control design ceases to be effective.

id: 0901.4522
title: Analysis of Effectiveness of Lyapunov Control for Non-generic Quantum States
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Sonia Schirmer
comments: Part II of an extended version of arXiv:0801.0702
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 55(6), 1406-1411 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4522
abstract: A Lyapunov-based control design for natural trajectory-tracking problems is analyzed for quantum states where the analysis in the generic case is not applicable. Using dynamical systems tools we show almost global asymptotic stability for stationary target states subject to certain conditions on the Hamiltonians, and discuss effectiveness of the design when these conditions are not satisfied. For pseudo-pure target states the effectiveness of the design is studied further for both stationary and non-stationary states using alternative tools.

id: 0901.4529
title: Preparation of atomic Fock states by trap reduction
authors: M. Pons, A. del Campo, J. G. Muga, M. G. Raizen
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033629 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4529
abstract: We describe the preparation of atom-number states with strongly interacting bosons in one dimension, or spin-polarized fermions. The procedure is based on a combination of weakening and squeezing of the trapping potential. For the resulting state, the full atom number distribution is obtained. Starting with an unknown number of particles $N_i$, we optimize the sudden change in the trapping potential which leads to the Fock state of $N_f$ particles in the final trap. Non-zero temperature effects as well as different smooth trapping potentials are analyzed. A simple criterion is provided to ensure the robust preparation of the Fock state for physically realistic traps.

id: 0901.4547
title: On the Contractivity of Hilbert-Schmidt distance under open system dynamics
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Sonia Schirmer
comments: Major revision. We would particularly like to thank D Perez-Garcia for constructive feedback
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052326 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4547
abstract: We show that the Hilbert-Schmidt distance, unlike the trace distance, between quantum states is generally not monotonic for open quantum systems subject to Lindblad semigroup dynamics. Sufficient conditions for contractivity of the Hilbert-Schmidt norm in terms of the dissipation generators are given. Although these conditions are not necessary, simulations suggest that non-contractivity is the typical case, i.e., that systems for which the Hilbert-Schmidt distance between quantum states is monotonically decreasing form only a small set of all possible dissipative systems for N>2, in contrast to the case N=2 where the Hilbert-Schmidt distance is always monotonically decreasing.

id: 0901.4580
title: One World, One Reality, and the Everett Relaltive State Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Paul L. Csonka
comments: 19 pages, no figures, La Tex. -- Replaced 09/05/06: Minor changes to make text more readable; expand bibliography; old Section 3 is divided into two new sections :3 and 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4580
abstract: We modify the Relative State Interpretation (RSI) of Quantum Mechanics so that it does not imply many worlds and parallel realities. We drop the assumption that probability amplitudes correspond one-to-one with reality: Not all information is contained in amplitudes, and not all amplitudes need be realized. Amplitudes do not "collapse" after a measurement, but evolve continuously, including unrealized ones. After each "event" only one possible outcome is realized. Therefore, if a value is measured, that value is real, all others are not; there is only one reality and one world. Reality content is "quantized" : unity for realized outcomes, zero for all others. It is "conserved": can move along any possible sequence of events, but only one at a time. The modified RSI is is strictly deterministic in the sense that the "global" probability amplitudes of the universe are determined for all times by the laws of physics and the initial conditions. They guide all events. But it is not deterministic in the sense that from the amplitudes one can not predict which outcome actually happens; that represents new information that accumulates as history unfolds. To the extent that information is part of the physical world, the coming into being of the universe is ongoing, even after the Big Bang. All predictions of the two versions agree, except possibly in esoteric, untested cases.

id: 0901.4625
title: Elimination of the Diffraction of Arbitrary Images Imprinted on Slow Light
authors: O. Firstenberg, M. Shuker, N. Davidson, A. Ron
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 043601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4625
abstract: We present a scheme for eliminating the optical diffraction of slow-light in a thermal atomic medium of electromagnetically induced transparency. Nondiffraction is achieved for an arbitrary paraxial image by manipulating the susceptibility in momentum space, in contrast to the common approach, which employs guidance of specific modes by manipulating the susceptibility in real space. For negative two-photon detuning, the moving atoms drag the transverse momentum components unequally, resulting in a Doppler trapping of light by atoms in two dimensions.

id: 0901.4635
title: Sub-wavelength position measurements with running wave driving fields
authors: J. Evers, S. Qamar
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 , 023802 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4635
abstract: A scheme for sub-wavelength position measurements of quantum particles is discussed, which operates with running-wave laser fields as opposed to standing wave fields proposed in previous setups. The position is encoded in the phase of the applied fields rather than in the spatially modulated intensity of a standing wave. Therefore, disadvantages of standing wave schemes such as cases where the atom remains undetected since it is at a node of the standing wave field are avoided. Reversing the directions of parts of the driving laser fields allows to switch between different magnification levels, and thus to optimize the localization.

id: 0901.4645
title: Quantum Mechanics and Nonlocality: In Search of Instructive Description
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX, 12pt, 26 pages, 6 figures, 3 appendixes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4645
abstract: A problem with an instructive description of measurement process for sufficiently separated entangled quantum systems is well known. More precise and crafty experiments together with new technological challenges raise questions about sufficiency of formal use of "black-box" Copenhagen paradigm without subtleties of transition between quantum and classical worlds. In this work are discussed applications both standard interpretation of quantum mechanics and "unconventional" models, like relative state formulation, multiple clocks formalism, and extended probabilities.

id: 0901.4669
title: Upper bounds for the secure key rate of decoy state quantum key distribution
authors: Marcos Curty, Tobias Moroder, Xiongfeng Ma, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032335 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4669
abstract: The use of decoy states in quantum key distribution (QKD) has provided a method for substantially increasing the secret key rate and distance that can be covered by QKD protocols with practical signals. The security analysis of these schemes, however, leaves open the possibility that the development of better proof techniques, or better classical post-processing methods, might further improve their performance in realistic scenarios. In this paper, we derive upper bounds on the secure key rate for decoy state QKD. These bounds are based basically only on the classical correlations established by the legitimate users during the quantum communication phase of the protocol. The only assumption about the possible post-processing methods is that double click events are randomly assigned to single click events. Further we consider only secure key rates based on the uncalibrated device scenario which assigns imperfections such as detection inefficiency to the eavesdropper. Our analysis relies on two preconditions for secure two-way and one-way QKD: The legitimate users need to prove that there exists no separable state (in the case of two-way QKD), or that there exists no quantum state having a symmetric extension (one-way QKD), that is compatible with the available measurements results. Both criteria have been previously applied to evaluate single-photon implementations of QKD. Here we use them to investigate a realistic source of weak coherent pulses. The resulting upper bounds can be formulated as a convex optimization problem known as a semidefinite program which can be efficiently solved. For the standard four-state QKD protocol, they are quite close to known lower bounds, thus showing that there are clear limits to the further improvement of classical post-processing techniques in decoy state QKD.

id: 0901.4695
title: Multi-mode states in decoy-based quantum key distribution protocols
authors: Wolfram Helwig, Wolfgang Mauerer, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4695
abstract: Every security analysis of quantum key distribution (QKD) relies on a faithful modeling of the employed quantum states. Many photon sources, like for instance a parametric down conversion (PDC) source, require a multi-mode description, but are usually only considered in a single-mode representation. In general, the important claim in decoy-based QKD protocols for indistinguishability between signal and decoy states does not hold for all sources. We derive new bounds on the single photon transmission probability and error rate for multi-mode states, and apply these bounds to the output state of a PDC source. We observe two opposing effects on the secure key rate. First, the multi-mode structure of the state gives rise to a new attack that decreases the key rate. Second, more contributing modes change the photon number distribution from a thermal towards a Poissonian distribution, which increases the key rate.

id: 0901.4709
title: Semidefinite programs for completely bounded norms
authors: John Watrous
comments: 17 pages, references added in version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4709
abstract: The completely bounded trace and spectral norms in finite dimensions are shown to be expressible by semidefinite programs. This provides an efficient method by which these norms may be both calculated and verified, and gives alternate proofs of some known facts about them.

id: 0901.4719
title: Bloch oscillations of Bose-Einstein condensates: Quantum counterpart of dynamical instability
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky, Hans J¨¹rgen Korsch, Eva-Maria Graefe
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A80 (2009) 023617
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4719
abstract: We study the Bloch dynamics of a quasi one-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate of cold atoms in a tilted optical lattice modeled by a Hamiltonian of Bose-Hubbard type: The corresponding mean-field system described by a discrete nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation can show a dynamical (or modulation) instability due to chaotic dynamics and equipartition over the quasimomentum modes. It is shown, that these phenomena are related to a depletion of the Floquet-Bogoliubov states and a decoherence of the condensate in the many-particle description. Three different types of dynamics are distinguished: (i) decaying oscillations in the region of dynamical instability, and (ii) persisting Bloch oscillations or (iii) periodic decay and revivals in the region of stability.

id: 0901.4729
title: Entanglement witnesses and geometry of entanglement of two--qutrit states
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Philipp Krammer
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 324 (2009) 1388-1407
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4729
abstract: We construct entanglement witnesses with regard to the geometric structure of the Hilbert--Schmidt space and investigate the geometry of entanglement. In particular, for a two--parameter family of two--qutrit states that are part of the magic simplex we calculate the Hilbert--Schmidt measure of entanglement. We present a method to detect bound entanglement which is illustrated for a three--parameter family of states. In this way we discover new regions of bound entangled states. Furthermore we outline how to use our method to distinguish entangled from separable states.

id: 0901.4731
title: Quantum interrogation logic gates
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4731
abstract: Quantum interrogation can be used as a basic resource for quantum information. This paper presents its applications to entanglement creation and to optical quantum computation. The starting point will be a photon to particle quantum interrogation CZ gate, from which three families of optical CNOT gates will be derived. These gates are nondestructive and can work with probabilities arbitrarily close to 1. A possible experimental implementation with atomic ensembles is also discussed.

id: 0901.4740
title: Quantum Multiplexing with the Orbital Angular Momentum of light
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062320 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4740
abstract: The orbital angular momentum, OAM, of photons offers a suitable support to carry the quantum data of multiple users. We present two novel optical setups that send the information of n quantum communication parties through the same free-space optical link. Those qubits can be sent simultaneously and share path, wavelength and polarization without interference, increasing the communication capacity of the system. The first solution, a qubit combiner, merges n channels into the same link, which transmits n independent photons. The second solution, the OAM multiplexer, uses CNOT gates to transfer the information of n optical channels to a single photon. Additional applications of the multiplexer circuits, such as quantum arithmetic, as well as connections to OAM sorting are discussed.

id: 0901.4742
title: Trapped Ion Imaging with a High Numerical Aperture Spherical Mirror
authors: G Shu, M R Dietrich, N Kurz, B B Blinov
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4742
abstract: Efficient collection and analysis of trapped ion qubit fluorescence is essential for robust qubit state detection in trapped ion quantum computing schemes. We discuss simple techniques of improving photon collection efficiency using high numerical aperture (N.A.) reflective optics. To test these techniques we placed a spherical mirror with an effective N.A. of about 0.9 inside a vacuum chamber in the vicinity of a linear Paul trap. We demonstrate stable and reliable trapping of single barium ions, in excellent agreement with our simulations of the electric field in this setup. While a large N.A. spherical mirror introduces significant spherical aberration, the ion image quality can be greatly improved by a specially designed aspheric corrector lens located outside the vacuum system. Our simulations show that the spherical mirror/corrector design is an easy and cost-effective way to achieve high photon collection rates when compared to a more sophisticated parabolic mirror setup.

id: 0901.4779
title: Entangled Mechanical Oscillators
authors: J. D. Jost, J. P. Home, J. M. Amini, D. Hanneke, R. Ozeri, C. Langer, J. J. Bollinger, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Nature 459, 683-685 (4 June 2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4779
abstract: Hallmarks of quantum mechanics include superposition and entanglement. In the context of large complex systems, these features should lead to situations like Schrodinger's cat, which exists in a superposition of alive and dead states entangled with a radioactive nucleus. Such situations are not observed in nature. This may simply be due to our inability to sufficiently isolate the system of interest from the surrounding environment -- a technical limitation. Another possibility is some as-of-yet undiscovered mechanism that prevents the formation of macroscopic entangled states. Such a limitation might depend on the number of elementary constituents in the system or on the types of degrees of freedom that are entangled. One system ubiquitous to nature where entanglement has not been previously demonstrated is distinct mechanical oscillators. Here we demonstrate deterministic entanglement of separated mechanical oscillators, consisting of the vibrational states of two pairs of atomic ions held in different locations. We also demonstrate entanglement of the internal states of an atomic ion with a distant mechanical oscillator.

id: 0901.4789
title: Ultra-bright biphoton emission from an atomic vapor based on Doppler-free four-wave-mixing and collective emission
authors: Y. P. Huang, M. G. Moore
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4789
abstract: We propose a novel `butterfly' level scheme to generate highly correlated photon pairs from atomic vapors. With multi-photon Doppler-free pumping, background Rayleigh scattering is dipole-forbidden and collective emission is permitted in all directions. This results in usable pairs generated simultaneously in the full $4\pi$ solid angle. Collecting these pairs can produce photon pairs at a rate of $\sim 10^{12}$ per second, given only moderate ensemble sizes of $\sim 10^6$ atoms.

id: 0901.4807
title: Light scattering by an oscillating dipole in a focused beam
authors: Gert Zumofen, Nassiredin M. Mojarad, Mario Agio
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nuovo Cimento C 31, 475 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4807
abstract: The interaction between a focused beam and a single classical oscillating dipole or a two-level system located at the focal spot is investigated. In particular, the ratio of the scattered to incident power is studied in terms of the oscillator's scattering cross section and the effective focal area. Debye diffraction integrals are applied to calculate it and results are reported for a directional dipolar wave. Multipole expansion of the incident beam is then considered and the equivalence between this and the Debye diffraction approach is discussed. Finally, the phase change of the electric field upon the interaction with a single oscillator is studied.

id: 0901.4813
title: Spatial state Stokes-operator squeezing and entanglement for optical beams
authors: M. T. L. Hsu, W. P. Bowen, P. K. Lam
comments: submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4813
abstract: The transverse spatial attributes of an optical beam can be decomposed into the position, momentum and orbital angular momentum observables. The position and momentum of a beam is directly related to the quadrature amplitudes, whilst the orbital angular momentum is related to the polarization and spin variables. In this paper, we study the quantum properties of these spatial variables, using a representation in the Stokes-operator basis. We propose a spatial detection scheme to measure all three spatial variables and consequently, propose a scheme for the generation of spatial Stokes operator squeezing and entanglement.

id: 0901.4817
title: Quantum Imaging beyond the Diffraction Limit by Optical Centroid Measurements
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; v2: accepted by PRL, see also the accompanying Viewpoint commentary by Anisimov and Dowling [Physics 2, 52 (2009), this http URL]
journal: Physical Review Letters (Editors' Suggestion) 102, 253601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4817
abstract: I propose a quantum imaging method that can beat the Rayleigh-Abbe diffraction limit and achieve de Broglie resolution without requiring a multiphoton absorber as the detector. Using the same non-classical states of light as those for quantum lithography, the proposed method requires only intensity measurements, followed by image post-processing, to produce the same complex image patterns as those in quantum lithography. The method is expected to be experimentally realizable using current technology.

id: 0901.4896
title: Quantum phase diagram of fermion mixtures with population imbalance in one-dimensional optical lattices
authors: B. Wang, Han-Dong Chen, S. Das Sarma
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 051604(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4896
abstract: With a recently developed time evolving block decimation (TEBD) algorithm, we numerically study the ground state quantum phase diagram of fermi mixtures with attractive inter-species interactions loaded in one-dimensional optical lattices. For our study, we adopt a general asymmetric Hubbard model (AHM) with species-dependent tunneling rates to incorporate the possibility of mass imbalance in the mixtures. We find clear signatures for the existence of a Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) phase in this model in the presence of population imbalance. Our simulation also reveals that in the presence of mass imbalance, the parameter space for FFLO states shrinks or even completely vanishes depending on the strength of the attractive interaction and the degree of mass imbalance.

id: 0901.4966
title: Entanglement enhanced bit rate over multiple uses of a lossy bosonic channel with memory
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Mancini
comments: 3 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Optics & Spectroscopy 108, 319 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4966
abstract: We present a study of the achievable rates for classical information transmission via a lossy bosonic channel with memory, using homodyne detection. A comparison with the memoryless case shows that the presence of memory enhances the bit rate if information is encoded in collective states, i.e. states which are entangled over different uses of the channel.

id: 0901.4969
title: Capacities of lossy bosonic channel with correlated noise
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Oleg V. Pilyavets, Stefano Mancini
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, (almost) the published version, comments are welcome
journal: 2009 New J. Phys. 11 063023
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4969
abstract: We evaluate the information capacities of a lossy bosonic channel with correlated noise. The model generalizes the one recently discussed in [Phys. Rev. A 77, 052324 (2008)], where memory effects come from the interaction with correlated environments. Environmental correlations are quantified by a multimode squeezing parameter, which vanishes in the memoryless limit. We show that a global encoding/decoding scheme, which involves input entangled states among different channel uses, is always preferable with respect to a local one in the presence of memory. Moreover, in a certain range of the parameters, we provide an analytical expression for the classical capacity of the channel showing that a global encoding/decoding scheme allows to attain it. All the results can be applied to a broad class of bosonic Gaussian channels.

id: 0901.0078
title: Birefringence lens effects of atom ensemble enhanced by electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: H. R. Zhang, Lan Zhou, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013812 (2009)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0078
abstract: We study the optic control for birefringence of a polarized light by an atomic ensemble with a tripod configuration, which is mediated by the electromagnetically induced transparency with a spatially inhomogeneous laser. The atom ensemble splits the linearly polarized light ray into two orthogonally-polarized components, whose polarizations depend on quantum superposition of the initial states of the atom ensemble. Accompanied with this splitting, the atom ensemble behaves as a birefringent lens, which allows one polarized light ray passing through straightly while focus another orthogonal to this polarization with finite aberration of focus.

id: 0901.0158
title: Exact results for the criticality of quench dynamics in quantum Ising models
authors: Ying Li, M. X. Huo, Z. Song
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 054404 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0158
abstract: Based on the obtained exact results we systematically study the quench dynamics of a one-dimensional spin-1/2 transverse field Ising model with zero- and finite-temperature initial states. We focus on the magnetization of the system after a sudden change of the external field and a coherent time-evolution process. With a zero-temperature initial state, the quench magnetic susceptibility as a function of the initial field strength exhibits strongly similar scaling behaviors to those of the static magnetic susceptibility, and the quench magnetic susceptibility as a function of the final field strength shows a discontinuity at the quantum critical point. This discontinuity remains robust and always occurs at the quantum critical point even for the case of finite-temperature initial systems, which indicates a great advantage of employing quench dynamics to study quantum phase transitions.

id: 0901.0418
title: Proposal for measuring the quantum states of neutrons in the gravitational field with a CCD-based pixel sensor
authors: T. Sanuki, S. Komamiya, S. Kawasaki, S. Sonoda
comments: Accepted for publication in NIMA; 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0418
abstract: An experimental setup is proposed for the precise measurement of the quantum states of ultracold neutrons bound in the earth's gravitational field. The experiment utilizes a CCD-based pixel sensor and magnification system to observe the fine structure of the neutron distribution. In this work, we analyzed the sensor's deposited energy measurement capability and found that its spatial resolution was 5.3 um. A magnifying power of two orders of magnitude was realized by using a cylindrical rod as a convex mirror.

id: 0901.0534
title: Simple pulses for elimination of leakage in weakly nonlinear qubits
authors: F. Motzoi, J. M. Gambetta, P. Rebentrost, F. K. Wilhelm
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 110501 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0534
abstract: In realizations of quantum computing, a two-level system (qubit) is often singled out of the many levels of an anharmonic oscillator. In these cases, simple qubit control fails on short time scales because of coupling to leakage levels. We provide an easy to implement analytic formula that inhibits this leakage from any single-control analog or pixelated pulse. It is based on adding a second control that is proportional to the time-derivative of the first. For realistic parameters of superconducting qubits, this strategy reduces the error by an order of magnitude relative to the state of the art, all based on smooth and feasible pulse shapes. These results show that even weak anharmonicity is sufficient and in general not a limiting factor for implementing quantum gates.

id: 0901.0694
title: Independent Control of Scattering Lengths in Multicomponent Quantum Gases
authors: Peng Zhang, Pascal Naidon, Masahito Ueda
comments: 4pages, 3figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0694
abstract: We develop a method of simultaneous and independent control of different scattering lengths in ultracold multicomponent atomic gases, such as $ \mathrm{40}}$K or $^{\mathrm{40}} $K-$^{\mathrm{6}}$Li mixture. Our method can be used to engineer multi-component quantum phases and Efimov trimer states.

id: 0901.0790
title: Topological phase in two flavor neutrino oscillations
authors: Poonam Mehta
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, accepted in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:096013,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0790
abstract: We show that the phase appearing in neutrino flavor oscillation formulae has a geometric and topological contribution. We identify a topological phase appearing in the two flavor neutrino oscillation formula using Pancharatnam's prescription of quantum collapses between non-orthogonal states. Such quantum collapses appear naturally in the expression for appearance and survival probabilities of neutrinos. Our analysis applies to neutrinos propagating in vacuum or through matter. For the minimal case of two flavors with CP conservation, our study shows for the first time that there is a geometric interpretation of the neutrino oscillation formulae for the detection probability of neutrino species.

id: 0901.0944
title: Analytic bounds on transmission probabilities
authors: Petarpa Boonserm, Matt Visser
comments: 19 pages
journal: Annals Phys.325:1328-1339,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0944
abstract: We develop some new analytic bounds on transmission probabilities (and the related reflection probabilities and Bogoliubov coefficients) for generic one-dimensional scattering problems. To do so we rewrite the Schrodinger equation for some complicated potential whose properties we are trying to investigate in terms of some simpler potential whose properties are assumed known, plus a (possibly large) "shift" in the potential. Doing so permits us to extract considerable useful information without having to exactly solve the full scattering problem.

id: 0901.0978
title: Quantum theory, noncommutative gravity, and the cosmological constant problem
authors: T. P. Singh
comments: 10 pages. One paragraph each added at the end of Section 4 and Section 7. Version matches published version
journal: Advances in Astronomy 2009 (2009) 632064
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0978
abstract: The cosmological constant problem is principally concerned with trying to understand how the zero-point energy of quantum fields contributes to gravity. Here we take the approach that by addressing a fundamental unresolved issue in quantum theory we can gain a better understanding of the problem. Our starting point is the observation that the notion of classical time is external to quantum mechanics. Hence there must exist an equivalent reformulation of quantum mechanics which does not refer to an external classical time. Such a reformulation is a limiting case of a more general quantum theory which becomes nonlinear on the Planck mass/energy scale. The nonlinearity gives rise to a quantum-classical duality which maps a `strongly quantum, weakly gravitational' dynamics to a `weakly quantum, strongly gravitational' dynamics. This duality predicts the existence of a tiny nonzero cosmological constant of the order of the square of the Hubble constant, which could be a possible source for the observed cosmic acceleration. Such a nonlinearity could also be responsible for the collapse of the wave-function during a quantum measurement. We conclude by suggesting that the idea for the origin of dark energy proposed in this paper can be tested indirectly in the laboratory by a detailed examination of the process of quantum measurement.

id: 0901.1148
title: On geometric perturbations of critical Schr?dinger operators with a surface interaction
authors: P. Exner, M. Fraas
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1148
abstract: We study singular Schrodinger operators with an attractive interaction supported by a closed smooth surface A in R^3 and analyze their behavior in the vicinity of the critical situation where such an operator has empty discrete spectrum and a threshold resonance. In particular, we show that if A is a sphere and the critical coupling is constant over it, any sufficiently small smooth area preserving radial deformation gives rise to isolated eigenvalues. On the other hand, the discrete spectrum may be empty for general deformations. We also derive a related inequality for capacities associated with such surfaces.

id: 0901.1270
title: Quantum-like gravity waves and vortices in a classical fluid
authors: Laurent Nottale
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1270
abstract: We have recently proposed a new general concept of macroscopic quantum-type experiment. It amounts to transform a classical fluid into a quantum-type fluid by the application of a quantum-like potential, either directly in a stationary configuration, or through a retro-active loop to simulate the time evolution. In this framework, the amplitude of the quantum potential depends on a macroscopic generalization of the Planck constant, which can be changed during the experiment, therefore simulating a quantum to classical transition. The experiment is exemplified here by an application of this concept to gravity waves at the surface of an incompressible liquid in a basin of finite height, with particular emphasis on the quantized vortex. We construct a complex wave function with the height of the fluid in the basin as its square modulus and the velocity potential as its phase. This wave function is solution of a nonlinear Schrodinger equation typical of superfluids. The quantum potential is therefore defined here in terms of the square root of the fluid height. We suggest two methods for applying this quantum-like potential to the fluid: (i) by the action of a force on the surface (wind, blower, pressure, field, etc...); (ii) by a curvature of the basin ground. In this last case the ground profile yields the quantum potential itself, while usually only the quantum force is accessible, so that such an experiment is expected to provide one with a macroscopic model of a quantum-type vacuum energy. These results may also be relevant to the study of freak waves, which have already been described by nonlinear Schrodinger equations.

id: 0901.1384
title: Adiabatic dynamics in a spin-1 chain with uniaxial single-spin anisotropy
authors: Elena Canovi, Davide Rossini, Rosario Fazio, Giuseppe E. Santoro
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures, published version
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2009) P03038
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1384
abstract: We study the adiabatic quantum dynamics of an anisotropic spin-1 XY chain across a second order quantum phase transition. The system is driven out of equilibrium by performing a quench on the uniaxial single-spin anisotropy, that is supposed to vary linearly in time. We show that, for sufficiently large system sizes, the excess energy after the quench admits a non trivial scaling behavior that is not predictable by standard Kibble-Zurek arguments for isolated critical points or extended critical regions. This emerges from a competing effect of many accessible low-lying excited states, inside the whole continuous line of critical points.

id: 0901.1484
title: Pulsed pumping of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: D. D?ring, G. R. Dennis, N. P. Robins, M. Jeppesen, C. Figl, J. J. Hope, J. D. Close
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, published in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 063630 (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1484
abstract: In this work, we examine a system for coherent transfer of atoms into a Bose-Einstein condensate. We utilize two spatially separate Bose-Einstein condensates in different hyperfine ground states held in the same dc magnetic trap. By means of a pulsed transfer of atoms, we are able to show a clear resonance in the timing of the transfer, both in temperature and number, from which we draw conclusions about the underlying physical process. The results are discussed in the context of the recently demonstrated pumped atom laser.

id: 0901.1723
title: Theory of two-dimensional macroscopic quantum tunneling in YBa$_2$ Cu$_3$ O$_{7-¦Ä}$ Josephson junctions coupled to an LC circuit
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Thilo Bauch, Takeo Kato
comments: 13pages, 7 figures, 1 table, to appear in Phys. Rev. B 80 (2009)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80 (2009) 174513
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1723
abstract: We investigate classical thermal activation (TA) and macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) for a YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_{7-\delta}$ (YBCO) Josephson junction coupled to an LC circuit theoretically. Due to the coupling between the junction and the LC circuit, the macroscopic phase dynamics can be described as the escape process of a fictitious particle with an anisotropic mass moving in a two-dimensional potential. We analytically calculate the escape rate including both the TA and MQT regime by taking into account the peculiar dynamical nature of the system. In addtion to large suppression of the MQT rate at zero temperature, we study details of the temperature dependece of the escape rate across a crossover region. These results are in an excellent agreement with recent experimental data for the MQT and TA rate in a YBCO biepitaxial Josephson junction. Therefore the coupling to the LC circuit is essential in understanding the macroscopic quantum dynamics and the qubit operation based on the YBCO biepitaxial Josephson junctions.

id: 0901.1768
title: Phenomenological Implications of the Generalized Uncertainty Principle
authors: Saurya Das, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: 7 pages. Based on talk by S. Das at Theory Canada 4, Montreal, 4 June, 2008. To be published in the Canadian Journal of Physics
journal: Can.J.Phys.87:233-240,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1768
abstract: Various theories of Quantum Gravity argue that near the Planck scale, the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle should be replaced by the so called Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP). We show that the GUP gives rise to two additional terms in any quantum mechanical Hamiltonian, proportional to \beta p^4 and \beta^2 p^6 respectively, where \beta \sim 1/(M_{Pl}c)^2 is the GUP parameter. These terms become important at or above the Planck energy. Considering only the first of these, and treating it as a perturbation, we show that the GUP affects the Lamb shift, Landau levels, reflection and transmission coefficients of a potential step and potential barrier, and the current in a Scanning Tunnel Microscope (STM). Although these are too small to be measurable at present, we speculate on the possibility of extracting measurable predictions in the future.

id: 0901.1858
title: Generalized Nonanalytic Expansions, PT-Symmetry and Large-Order Formulas for Odd Anharmonic Oscillators
authors: Ulrich D. Jentschura, Andrey Surzhykov, Jean Zinn-Justin
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009) 005
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1858
abstract: The concept of a generalized nonanalytic expansion which involves nonanalytic combinations of exponentials, logarithms and powers of a coupling is introduced and its use illustrated in various areas of physics. Dispersion relations for the resonance energies of odd anharmonic oscillators are discussed, and higher-order formulas are presented for cubic and quartic potentials.

id: 0901.1933
title: Effects of interference in the dynamics of spin-1/2 transverse XY Chain driven periodically through quantum critical points
authors: Victor Mukherjee, Amit Dutta
comments: 12 pages, 17 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2009) P05005
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1933
abstract: We study the effects of interference on the quenching dynamics of a one-dimensional spin 1/2 $XY$ model in the presence of a transverse field ($h(t)$) which varies sinusoidally with time as $h = h_0\cos{\omega t}$, with $|t| \leq t_f = \pi/\omega$. We also consider the situation where the magnetic field consists of an oscillatory as well as a linearly varying component, i.e., $h(t) = h_0\cos{\omega t} + t/\tau$. Our purpose is to estimate the defect density and the local entropy density in the final state if the system is initially prepared in its ground state. For a single crossing through the quantum critical point with $h = h_0\cos{\omega t}$, the density of defects in the final state is calculated by mapping the dynamics to an equivalent Landau Zener problem by linearizing near the crossing point, and is found to vary as $\sqrt{\omega}$ in the limit of small $\omega$. On the other hand, the local entropy density is found to attain a maximum as a function of $\omega$ near a characteristic scale $\omega_0$. Extending to the situation of multiple crossings, we show that the non-trivial interference effects of certain resonance modes solely contribute to the production of defects. Kink density as well as the diagonal entropy density show oscillatory dependence on the number of full cycles of oscillation. Finally, the inclusion of a linear term in the transverse field on top of the oscillatory component, results to a kink density which decreases continuously with $\tau$ and $\omega$. The entropy density shows monotonous growth with both $\tau$ and $\omega$, in sharp contrast to the situations studied earlier. We do also propose appropriate scaling relations for the defect density in above situations and compare the results with the numerical results obtained by integrating the Schrodinger equations.

id: 0901.2032
title: Charge and spin transport in strongly correlated one-dimensional quantum systems driven far from equilibrium
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati, Tomaz Prosen, Davide Rossini, Marko Znidaric
comments: 20 pages, 19 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 035110 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2032
abstract: We study the charge conductivity in one-dimensional prototype models of interacting particles, such as the Hubbard and the t-V spinless fermion model, when coupled to some external baths injecting and extracting particles at the boundaries. We show that, if these systems are driven far from equilibrium, a negative differential conductivity regime can arise. The above electronic models can be mapped into Heisenberg-like spin ladders coupled to two magnetic baths, so that charge transport mechanisms are explained in terms of quantum spin transport. The negative differential conductivity is due to oppositely polarized ferromagnetic domains which arise at the edges of the chain, and therefore inhibit spin transport: we propose a qualitative understanding of the phenomenon by analyzing the localization of one-magnon excitations created at the borders of a ferromagnetic region. We also show that negative differential conductivity is stable against breaking of integrability. Numerical simulations of non-equilibrium time evolution have been performed by employing a Monte-Carlo wave function approach and a matrix product operator formalism.

id: 0901.2140
title: Efficient reconciliation protocol for discrete-variable quantum key distribution
authors: David Elkouss, Anthony Leverrier, Romain All¨¦aume, Joseph Boutros
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2140
abstract: Reconciliation is an essential part of any secret-key agreement protocol and hence of a Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) protocol, where two legitimate parties are given correlated data and want to agree on a common string in the presence of an adversary, while revealing a minimum amount of information. In this paper, we show that for discrete-variable QKD protocols, this problem can be advantageously solved with Low Density Parity Check (LDPC) codes optimized for the BSC. In particular, we demonstrate that our method leads to a significant improvement of the achievable secret key rate, with respect to earlier interactive reconciliation methods used in QKD.

id: 0901.2223
title: Matrix Product States: Symmetries and Two-Body Hamiltonians
authors: M. Sanz, M. M. Wolf, D. Perez-Garcia, J. I. Cirac
comments: PDFLatex, 12 pages and 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042308 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2223
abstract: We characterize the conditions under which a translationally invariant matrix product state (MPS) is invariant under local transformations. This allows us to relate the symmetry group of a given state to the symmetry group of a simple tensor. We exploit this result in order to prove and extend a version of the Lieb-Schultz-Mattis theorem, one of the basic results in many-body physics, in the context of MPS. We illustrate the results with an exhaustive search of SU(2)--invariant two-body Hamiltonians which have such MPS as exact ground states or excitations.

id: 0901.2326
title: Edge states in graphene quantum dots: Fractional quantum Hall effect analogies and differences at zero magnetic field
authors: Igor Romanovsky, Constantine Yannouleas, Uzi Landman
comments: Revtex. 14 pages with 13 figures and 2 tables. Physical Review B, in press. For related papers, see this http URL
journal: Phys.Rev.B79:075311,2009
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2326
abstract: We investigate the way that the degenerate manifold of midgap edge states in quasicircular graphene quantum dots with zig-zag boundaries supports, under free-magnetic-field conditions, strongly correlated many-body behavior analogous to the fractional quantum Hall effect (FQHE), familiar from the case of semiconductor heterostructures in high magnetic fields. Systematic exact-diagonalization (EXD) numerical studies are presented for the first time for 5 <= N <= 8 fully spin-polarized electrons and for total angular momenta in the range of N(N-1)/2 <= L <= 150. We present a derivation of a rotating-electron-molecule (REM) type wave function based on the methodology introduced earlier [C. Yannouleas and U. Landman, Phys. Rev. B 66, 115315 (2002)] in the context of the FQHE in two-dimensional semiconductor quantum dots. The EXD wave functions are compared with FQHE trial functions of the Laughlin and the derived REM types. It is found that a variational extension of the REM offers a better description for all fractional fillings compared with that of the Laughlin functions (including total energies and overlaps), a fact that reflects the strong azimuthal localization of the edge electrons. In contrast with the multiring arrangements of electrons in circular semiconductor quantum dots, the graphene REMs exhibit in all instances a single (0,N) polygonal-ring molecular (crystalline) structure, with all the electrons localized on the edge. Disruptions in the zig-zag boundary condition along the circular edge act effectively as impurities that pin the electron molecule, yielding single-particle densities with broken rotational symmetry that portray directly the azimuthal localization of the edge electrons.

id: 0901.2331
title: Representations of quantum permutation algebras
authors: Teodor Banica, Julien Bichon, Jean-Marc Schlenker
comments: 48 pages
journal: J. Funct. Anal. 257 (2009), 2864-2910
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2331
abstract: We develop a combinatorial approach to the quantum permutation algebras, as Hopf images of representations of type $\pi:A_s(n)\to B(H)$. We discuss several general problems, including the commutativity and cocommutativity ones, the existence of tensor product or free wreath product decompositions, and the Tannakian aspects of the construction. The main motivation comes from the quantum invariants of the complex Hadamard matrices: we show here that, under suitable regularity assumptions, the computations can be performed up to $n=6$.

id: 0901.2423
title: At World's End: Where Complementarity and Irreversibility meet in the Black Hole
authors: Giovanni Arcioni, Antoine Suarez
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2423
abstract: It is argued that a slight modification of the complementarity principle may help to overcome paradoxes about the observer who falls through the event horizon

id: 0901.2579
title: Projective Geometry and $\cal PT$-Symmetric Dirac Hamiltonian
authors: Y. Jack Ng, H. van Dam
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX; version accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. B; revised version incorporates useful suggestions from an anonymous referee
journal: Phys.Lett.B673:237-239,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2579
abstract: The $(3 + 1)$-dimensional (generalized) Dirac equation is shown to have the same form as the equation expressing the condition that a given point lies on a given line in 3-dimensional projective space. The resulting Hamiltonian with a $\gamma_5$ mass term is not Hermitian, but is invariant under the combined transformation of parity reflection $\cal P$ and time reversal $\cal T$. When the $\cal PT$ symmetry is unbroken, the energy spectrum of the free spin-$\frac {1}{2}$ theory is real, with an appropriately shifted mass.

id: 0901.2612
title: Some Open Problems in Combinatorial Physics
authors: G¨¦rard Henry Edmond Duchamp, H. Cheballah
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2612
abstract: We point out four problems which have arisen during the recent research in the domain of Combinatorial Physics.

id: 0901.2638
title: Nambu Quantum Mechanics on Discrete 3-Tori
authors: M. Axenides, E. G. Floratos, S. Nicolis
comments: 13 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: J.Phys.A42:275201,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2638
abstract: We propose a quantization of linear, volume preserving, maps on the discrete and finite 3-torus T_N^3 represented by elements of the group SL(3,Z_N). These flows can be considered as special motions of the Nambu dynamics (linear Nambu flows) in the three dimensional toroidal phase space and are characterized by invariant vectors, a, of T_N^3. We quantize all such flows which are necessarily restricted on a planar two-dimensional phase space, embedded in the 3-torus, transverse to the vector a . The corresponding maps belong to the little group of the vector a in SL(3,Z_N) which is an SL(2,Z_N) subgroup. The associated linear Nambu maps are generated by a pair of linear and quadratic Hamiltonians (Clebsch-Monge potentials of the flow) and the corresponding quantum maps, realize the metaplectic representation of SL(3,Z_N) on the discrete group of three dimensional magnetic translations i.e. the non-commutative 3-torus with deformation parameter the N-th root of unity. Other potential applications of our construction are related to the quantization of deterministic chaos in turbulent maps as well as to quantum tomography of three dimensional objects.

id: 0901.2648
title: Conformally flat Kaluza-Klein spaces, pseudo-/para-complex space forms and generalized gravitational kinks
authors: Paolo Maraner, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: J.Geom.Phys.59:1314-1325,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2648
abstract: The equations describing the Kaluza-Klein reduction of conformally flat spaces are investigated in arbitrary dimensions. Special classes of solution related to pseudo-Kahler and para-Kahler structures are constructed and classified according to spacetime dimension, signature and gauge field rank. Remarkably, rank two solutions include gravitational kinks together with their centripetal and centrifugal deformations.

id: 0901.2699
title: Deformed Clifford algebra and supersymmetric quantum mechanics on a phase space with applications in quantum optics
authors: I. Bugdayci, A. Vercin
comments: 22 pages. published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 385301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2699
abstract: In order to realize supersymmetric quantum mechanics methods on a four dimensional classical phase-space, the complexified Clifford algebra of this space is extended by deforming it with the Moyal star-product in composing the components of Clifford forms. Two isospectral matrix Hamiltonians having a common bosonic part but different fermionic parts depending on four real-valued phase space functions are obtained. The Hamiltonians are doubly intertwined via matrix-valued functions which are divisors of zero in the resulting Moyal-Clifford algebra. Two illustrative examples corresponding to Jaynes-Cummings-type models of quantum optics are presented as special cases of the method. Their spectra, eigen-spinors and Wigner functions as well as their constants of motion are also obtained within the autonomous framework of deformation quantization.

id: 0901.2836
title: Entanglement generation by collisions of quantum solitons
authors: Maciej Lewenstein, Boris A. Malomed
comments: to be published in New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2836
abstract: We present analytic expressions describing generation of the entanglement in collisions of initially uncorrelated quantum solitons. The results, obtained by means of the Born's approximation (for fast solitons), are valid for both integrable and non-integrable quasi-one-dimensional systems supporting soliton states.

id: 0901.2890
title: Manipulation of quantum particles in rapidly oscillating potentials by inducing phase hops
authors: Armin Ridinger, Christoph Weiss
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 79, 1 (2009) 013414
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2890
abstract: Analytical calculations show that the mean-motion of a quantum particle trapped by a rapidly oscillating potential can be significantly manipulated by inducing phase hops, i.e., by instantaneously changing the potential's phase. A phase hop can be visualized as being the result of a collision with an imaginary particle which can be controlled. Several phase hops can have accumulating effects on the particle's mean-motion, even if they transform the particle's Hamiltonian into its initial one. The theoretical predictions are verified by numerical simulations for the one-dimensional Paul-trap.

id: 0901.2916
title: On the Spectrum of a Discrete Non-Hermitian Quantum System
authors: Ebru Ergun
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 007, 24 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2916
abstract: In this paper, we develop spectral analysis of a discrete non-Hermitian quantum system that is a discrete counterpart of some continuous quantum systems on a complex contour. In particular, simple conditions for discreteness of the spectrum are established.

id: 0901.2992
title: Semiclassical analysis and sensitivity to initial conditions
authors: Thierry Paul
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.2992
abstract: We present several recent results concerning the transition between quantum and classical mechanics, in the situation where the underlying dynamical system has an hyperbolic behaviour. The special role of invariant manifolds will be emphasized, and the long time evolution will show how the quantum non-determinism and the classical chaotic sensitivity to initial conditions can be compared, and in a certain sense overlap.

id: 0901.3200
title: ?chelles de temps pour l'¨¦volution quantique ¨¤ petite constante de Planck
authors: Thierry Paul
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3200
abstract: We present some recent results concerning the long time semiclassical approximation .

id: 0901.3209
title: Poincar¨¦ et les quanta
authors: Thierry Paul
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Overview (math.HO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3209
abstract: We present some reflections concerning two papers by H. Poincar\'e concerning the theory of quanta.

id: 0901.3260
title: Reverse quenching in a one-dimensional Kitaev model
authors: Uma Divakaran, Amit Dutta
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, added references and details of calculations, Accepted in Phys. Rev.B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 224408 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3260
abstract: We present an exact result for the non-adiabatic transition probability and hence the defect density in the final state of a one-dimensional Kitaev model following a slow quench of the parameter $J_-$, which estimates the anisotropy between the interactions, as $J_-(t)\sim -|t/\tau|$. Here, time $t$ goes from $-\infty$ to $+\infty$ and $\tau$ defines the rate of change of the Hamiltonian. In other words, the spin chain initially prepared in its ground state is driven by changing $J_-$ linearly in time up to the quantum critical point, which in the model considered here occurs at at $t=0$, reversed and then gradually decreased to its initial value at the same rate. We have thoroughly compared the reverse quenching with its counterpart forward quenching $i.e.,$ $J_-\sim t/\tau$. Our exact calculation shows that the probability of excitations is zero for the wave vector at which the instantaneous energy gap is zero at the critical point $J_{-}=0$ as opposed to the maximum value of unity in the forward quenching. It is also shown that the defect density in the final state following a reverse quenching, we propose here, is nearly half of the defects generated in the forward quenching. We argue that the defects produced when the system reaches the quantum critical point gets redistributed in the wave vector space at the final time in case of reverse quenching whereas it keeps on increasing till the final time in the forward quenching. We study the entropy density and also the time evolution of the diagonal entropy density in the case of the reverse quenching and compare it with the forward case.

id: 0901.3345
title: Quantum dynamics of instability-induced pulsations of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical lattice
authors: Uttam Shrestha, Juha Javanainen, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79 (2009) 043617
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3345
abstract: We study the dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a one-dimensional optical lattice in the limit of weak atom-atom interactions, including an approximate model for quantum fluctuations. A pulsating dynamical instability in which atoms periodically collect together and subsequently disperse back into the initial homogeneous state may occur in the time evolution. We take into account the quantum fluctuations within the truncated Wigner approximation. We observe that the quasiperiodic behavior still persists for a single realization that represents a typical experimental outcome, but ensemble averages show various manifestations of quantum fluctuations. Quantum effects become more prominent when the effective interaction strength is increased.

id: 0901.3391
title: Many-Body Entanglement: a New Application of the Full Counting Statistics
authors: Israel Klich, Leonid Levitov
comments: 8 pgs, 4 fgs
journal: Advances in Theoretical Physics: Landau Memorial Conference, eds. V Lebedev and M V Feigelman; AIP Conference Proceedings, v. 1134, p. 36-45 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3391
abstract: Entanglement entropy is a measure of quantum correlations between separate parts of a many-body system, which plays an important role in many areas of physics. Here we review recent work in which a relation between this quantity and the Full Counting Statistics description of electron transport was established for noninteracting fermion systems. Using this relation, which is of a completely general character, we discuss how the entanglement entropy can be directly measured by detecting current fluctuations in a driven quantum system such as a quantum point contact.

id: 0901.3473
title: Self-Consistent-Field Method and $¦Ó$-Functional Method on Group Manifold in Soliton Theory: a Review and New Results
authors: Seiya Nishiyama, Joao da Providencia, Constanca Providencia, Flavio Cordeiro, Takao Komatsu
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 009, 76 pages
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3473
abstract: The maximally-decoupled method has been considered as a theory to apply an basic idea of an integrability condition to certain multiple parametrized symmetries. The method is regarded as a mathematical tool to describe a symmetry of a collective submanifold in which a canonicity condition makes the collective variables to be an orthogonal coordinate-system. For this aim we adopt a concept of curvature unfamiliar in the conventional time-dependent (TD) self-consistent field (SCF) theory. Our basic idea lies in the introduction of a sort of Lagrange manner familiar to fluid dynamics to describe a collective coordinate-system. This manner enables us to take a one-form which is linearly composed of a TD SCF Hamiltonian and infinitesimal generators induced by collective variable differentials of a canonical transformation on a group. The integrability condition of the system read the curvature C=0. Our method is constructed manifesting itself the structure of the group under consideration. >...

id: 0901.3563
title: Spectral Singularities, Biorthonormal Systems, and a Two-Parameter Family of Complex Point Interactions
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh, Hossein Mehri-Dehnavi
comments: Published version, 33 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 42, 125303 (2009)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3563
abstract: A curious feature of complex scattering potentials v(x) is the appearance of spectral singularities. We offer a quantitative description of spectral singularities that identifies them with an obstruction to the existence of a complete biorthonormal system consisting of the eigenfunctions of the Hamiltonian operator, i.e., -\frac{d^2}{dx^2}+v(x), and its adjoint. We establish the equivalence of this description with the mathematicians' definition of spectral singularities for the potential v(x)=z_-\delta(x+a)+z_+\delta(x-a), where z_\pm and a are respectively complex and real parameters and \delta(x) is the Dirac delta-function. We offer a through analysis of the spectral properties of this potential and determine the regions in the space of the coupling constants z_\pm where it admits bound states and spectral singularities. In particular, we find an explicit bound on the size of certain regions in which the Hamiltonian is quasi-Hermitian and examine the consequences of imposing PT-symmetry.

id: 0901.3674
title: Non-Abelian statistics as a Berry phase in exactly solvable models
authors: Ville Lahtinen, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. To appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 093027
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3674
abstract: We demonstrate how to directly study non-Abelian statistics for a wide class of exactly solvable many-body quantum systems. By employing exact eigenstates to simulate the adiabatic transport of a model's quasiparticles, the resulting Berry phase provides a direct demonstration of their non-Abelian statistics. We apply this technique to Kitaev's honeycomb lattice model and explicitly demonstrate the existence of non-Abelian Ising anyons confirming the previous conjectures. Finally, we present the manipulations needed to transport and detect the statistics of these quasiparticles in the laboratory. Various physically realistic system sizes are considered and exact predictions for such experiments are provided.

id: 0901.3731
title: A note on nonperturbative renormalization of effective field theory
authors: J.-F. Yang
comments: 6 pages, no figure, version to appear in J.Phys.A
journal: J.Phys.A42:345402,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3731
abstract: Within the realm of contact potentials, the key structures intrinsic of nonperturbative renormalization of $T$-matrices are unraveled using rigorous solutions and an inverse form of algebraic Lippmann-schwinger equation. The intrinsic mismatches between effective field theory power counting and nonperturbative divergence structures are shown for the first time to preclude the conventional counterterm algorithm from working in the renormalization of EFT for $NN$ scattering in nonperturbative regimes.

id: 0901.3741
title: On a Geometrical Description of Quantum Mechanics
authors: M. Novello, J. M. Salim, F. T. Falciano
comments: 6 pages no figures
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.8:87-98,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3741
abstract: We show that Quantum Mechanics can be interpreted as a modification of the Euclidean nature of 3-d space into a particular Weyl affine space which we call Q-wis. This is proved using the Bohm-de Broglie causal formulation of Quantum Mechanics. In the Q-wis geometry, the length of extended objects changes from point to point. In our proposed geometrical formulation, deformation of the standard rulers used to measure physical distances are in the core of quantum effects.

id: 0901.3800
title: Periodic spin textures in a degenerate F=1 $^{87}$Rb spinor Bose gas
authors: M. Vengalattore, J. Guzman, S. Leslie, F. Serwane, D. M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 6 pages, revised substantially following reviewer comments and further analysis
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3800
abstract: We report on the spin textures produced by cooling unmagnetized $^{87}$Rb F=1 spinor gases into the regime of quantum degeneracy. At low temperatures, magnetized textures form that break translational symmetry and display short-range periodic magnetic order characterized by one- or two-dimensional spatial modulations with wavelengths much smaller than the extent of the quasi-two-dimensional degenerate gas. Spin textures produced upon cooling spin mixtures with a non-zero initial magnetic quadrupole moment also show ferromagnetic order that, at low temperature, coexists with the spatially modulated structure.

id: 0901.3807
title: Fidelity in topological quantum phases of matter
authors: Silvano Garnerone, Damian Abasto, Stephan Haas, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures; added references; to appear on PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032302 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3807
abstract: Quantum phase transitions that take place between two distinct topological phases remain an unexplored area for the applicability of the fidelity approach. Here, we apply this method to spin systems in two and three dimensions and show that the fidelity susceptibility can be used to determine the boundary between different topological phases particular to these models, while at the same time offering information about the critical exponent of the correlation length. The success of this approach relies on its independence on local order parameters or breaking symmetry mechanisms, with which non-topological phases are usually characterized. We also consider a topological insulator/superconducting phase transition in three dimensions and point out the relevant features of fidelity susceptibility at the boundary between these phases.

id: 0901.3850
title: Efficient creation of maximally entangled states by modulation of tunneling rates
authors: Gentaro Watanabe
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures; title changed; published in Phys. Rev. A, Rapid Communications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 021604(R) (2010)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3850
abstract: For systems described by the two-site Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, we show that a sinusoidal modulation of the tunneling matrix element assists higher-order co-tunneling processes. Using this mechanism, we propose an efficient new scheme for creating a coherent superposition of states in which all particles are either on one site or all on the other site, the so-called NOON state. This scheme yields an almost perfect NOON state periodically. For larger numbers of particles, further reduction of the time to create the state is possible if more than one modulation frequency is employed. With this scheme, NOON states with a larger number of particles could be realized with state-of-the-art techniques for cold Bose gases in a double-well potential.

id: 0901.3921
title: Topological Insulators and Metals in Atomic Optical Lattices
authors: Tudor D. Stanescu, Victor Galitski, J.Y. Vaishnav, Charles W. Clark, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4+ pages, 5 color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 053639 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.3921
abstract: We propose the realization of topological quantum states with cold atoms trapped in an optical lattice. We discuss an experimental setup that generates a two-dimensional hexagonal lattice in the presence of a light-induced periodic vector potential, which represents a realization of the Haldane model with cold atoms. We determine theoretically the conditions necessary for observing the topological states and show that two of the key conditions are: 1) the realization of sharp boundaries and 2) the minimization of any smoothly varying component of the confining potential. We argue that, unlike their condensed matter counterparts, cold atom topological quantum states can be i) "seen", by mapping out the characteristic chiral edge states, and ii) controlled, by controlling the periodic vector potential and the properties of the confining potential.

id: 0901.4375
title: Extracting Spooky-activation-at-a-distance from Considerations of Entanglement
authors: P.D. Bruza, K. Kitto, D. Nelson, C. McEvoy
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures; To appear in Proceedings of the Third Quantum Interaction Symposium, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence, vol 5494, Springer, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4375
abstract: Following an early claim by Nelson & McEvoy \cite{Nelson:McEvoy:2007} suggesting that word associations can display `spooky action at a distance behaviour', a serious investigation of the potentially quantum nature of such associations is currently underway. This paper presents a simple quantum model of a word association system. It is shown that a quantum model of word entanglement can recover aspects of both the Spreading Activation equation and the Spooky-activation-at-a-distance equation, both of which are used to model the activation level of words in human memory.

id: 0901.4472
title: Spectral Singularities of Complex Scattering Potentials and Infinite Reflection and Transmission Coefficients at real Energies
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:220402,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4472
abstract: Spectral singularities are spectral points that spoil the completeness of the eigenfunctions of certain non-Hermitian Hamiltonian operators. We identify spectral singularities of complex scattering potentials with the real energies at which the reflection and transmission coefficients tend to infinity, i.e., they correspond to resonances having a zero width. We show that a wave guide modeled using such a potential operates like a resonator at the frequencies of spectral singularities. As a concrete example, we explore the spectral singularities of an imaginary PT-symmetric barrier potential and demonstrate the above resonance phenomenon for a certain electromagnetic wave guide.

id: 0901.4690
title: Understanding the special theory of relativity
authors: Anders M?nsson
comments: 83 pages, 16 figures. V2: Minor changes: New title, added a footnote, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4690
abstract: This paper constitutes a background to the paper 'Quantum mechanics as "space-time statistical mechanics"?', arXiv:quant-ph/0501133, presented previously by the author. But it is also a free-standing and self-contained paper. The purpose of this paper is to give the reader an increased and a deeper understanding of the special theory of relativity, and the spacetime ideas lying behind the above mentioned paper. We will here consider, discuss, define, analyse, and explain things such as, e.g., the constancy of the speed of light, synchronization, simultaneity, absolute simultaneity, absolute space and time, the ether, and spacetime. Albert Einstein's original version of the special theory of relativity is fundamentally an operational theory, free from interpretation. But the old "Lorentzian interpretation" and the standard "spacetime interpretation" of the special theory of relativity will also be considered. This paper also discusses and analyses aspects of the philosophy of science that in my opinion are relevant for an understanding of the special theory of relativity.

id: 0901.4702
title: Physical mechanisms of interface-mediated intervalley coupling in Si
authors: A.L. Saraiva, M.J. Calder¨®n, Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma, Belita Koiller
comments: 4 pages, revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 081305(R) (2009)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4702
abstract: The conduction band degeneracy in Si is detrimental to quantum computing based on spin qubits, for which a nondegenerate ground orbital state is desirable. This degeneracy is lifted at an interface with an insulator as the spatially abrupt change in the conduction band minimum leads to intervalley scattering. We present a theoretical study of the interface-induced valley splitting in Si that provides simple criteria for optimal fabrication parameters to maximize this splitting. Our work emphasizes the relevance of different interface-related properties to the valley splitting.

id: 0901.4832
title: Angular Momentum of Supersymmetric Cold Rydberg Atoms
authors: Jian-Zu Zhang
comments: 11 pages, no figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.77:44-47,1996
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.4832
abstract: Semiunitary transformation is applied to discuss supersymmetrization of cold Rydberg atoms. In the limit of vanishing kinetic energy the lowest angular momentum of the supersymmetric cold Rydberg atom is $3\hbar/2$. A possible experimental verification is suggested.

id: 0901.0088
title: Quantum mechanics vs relativity: an experimental test of the structure of spacetime
authors: S. A. Emelyanov
comments: 27 pages, 7 figures
journal: Proc. Int. Conf. on Frontiers of Quantum and Mesoscopic Thermodynamics (FQMT'11), Prague, July 25-30, 2011 (Phys. Scr. T151, 014012 (2012)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0088
abstract: We have performed an experimental test under the conditions of which quantum mechanics predicts a spatially-discontinuous single-particle transport. The transport is beyond the relativistic paradigm of movement in Cartesian space and therefore may well be nonlocal. Our test has demonstrated that such transport does exist. This fact opens the door for realistic interpretation of quantum mechanics insofar as the requirement of Lorentz invariance appears inapplicable to any version of quantum theory. Moreover, as quantum mechanics proposes a particle dynamics beyond the relativity, it automatically requires an adequate "quantum" concept of spacetime, for which the relativistic concept is only a limiting case. The quantum concept allows absolute simultaneity and hence revives the notion of absolute time. It also goes beyond the relativistic curvilinear Cartesian order of space to account for quantum phenomena such as the discontinuity and the nonlocality in the spirit of Bohm's concept of the implicate order.

id: 0901.0341
title: The Froissart-Gribov representation of Jost function of Dirac operators in arbitrary-dimension space
authors: S.E Korenblit
comments: 19 pages
journal: "Yadernaya Fizika", 1993, v.56, N 11, pp.228-237. (Physics of Atomic Nuclei, 1993, v.56, N 11, pp.1585-1590)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0341
abstract: A dynamic scheme basing on equation for T-matrix momentum transfer spectral density and integral representation for Jost function is proposed for local Dirac Hamiltonians in arbitrary N- dimension spaces and for Schrodinger one with singular or nonlocal generalized Yukawa-type potentials. A generalization of the off-shell-Jost function method for that Hamiltonians and universal renormalization procedure of Jost function calculation for singular and nonlocal potentials is proposed.

id: 0901.1917
title: Nonequilibrium Peierls Transition
authors: Shigeru Ajisaka, Hisashi Nishimura, Shuichi Tasaki, Ichiro Terasaki
comments: 30 pages, 21 frigures
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 121 (2009), 1289
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.1917
abstract: Nonequlibrium phase transition of an open Takayama-Lin Liu-Maki chain coupled with two reservoirs is investigated by combining a mean-field approximation and a formula characterizing nonequlibrium steady states, which is obtained from the algebraic field approach to nonequlibrium statistical mechanics. When the bias voltage is chosen to be a control parameter, the phase transition between ordered and normal phases is found to be first or second order. Then, the voltage-current characteristics is S-shaped in some parameter region. In contrast, when the current is chosen to be a control parameter, all the non-trivial solutions of the self-consistent equation are found to become stable. In this case, the phase transition between the ordered and normal phases is always second order and negative differential conductivity appears at low temperature.

