id: 0902.0055
title: Qubit portrait of the photon-number tomogram and separability of two-mode light states
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures, TeX file, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 30 (2009) 55-72
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0055
abstract: In view of the photon-number tomograms of two-mode light states, using the qubit-portrait method for studying the probability distributions with infinite outputs, the separability and entanglement detection of the states are studied. Examples of entangled Gaussian state and Schr\"{o}dinger cat state are discussed.

id: 0902.0061
title: A new mathematical model of tunnelling and the Hartman effect puzzle
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0061
abstract: In this paper we develop and refine our recent model of a one-dimensional completed scattering, which gives an individual description of the transmission and reflection subprocesses at all stages of scattering. We show that the group, dwell and Larmor characteristic times, introduced in this model for the subprocesses, are in a full agreement with special relativity and allow us to solve the Hartman effect puzzle.

id: 0902.0105
title: Two-photon interference of photon pairs created in photonic crystal fibers
authors: Toshihiro Nakanishi, Kazuo Sakemi, Hirokazu Kobayashi, Kazuhiko Sugiyama, Masao Kitano
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, to be published in JPSJ
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 78 (2009) 024402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0105
abstract: We investigate a method to produce photon pairs by four-wave mixing in photonic crystal fibers (PCFs). By controlling the wavelength of the pump light, which determines the phase matching condition for four-wave mixing, we can obtain a broader spectrum of photon pairs than undesired Raman-scattered photons. We observe two-photon interference of photon pairs from a PCF with the help of an unbalanced Mach-Zehnder interferometer. Two-photon interference fringes with 83% visibility, which exceeds the classical limit of 50%, are obtained.

id: 0902.0112
title: Demonstrating higher-order nonclassical effects by photon-added classical states: Realistic schemes
authors: Juhui Lee, Jaewan Kim, Hyunchul Nha
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 26, 1363 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0112
abstract: Detecting nonclassical properties that do not allow classical interpretation of photoelectric counting events is one of the crucial themes in quantum optics. Observation of individual nonclassical effects for a single-mode field, however, has been so far practically confined to sub-Poissonian statistics and quadrature squeezing. We show that a photon-added classical (coherent or thermal) state exhibits generalized nonclassical features in all orders of creation and annihilation operators, thereby becoming a promising candidate for studying higher-order nonclassical effects. Our analysis demonstrates robustness of these effects against nonideal experimental conditions.

id: 0902.0113
title: The effective mass of atom-radiation field system and the cavity-field Wigner distribution in the presence of a homogeneous gravitational field in the Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: M. Mohammadi
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0113
abstract: The effective mass that approximately describes the effect of a classical homogeneous gravitational field on an interacting atom-radiation field system is determined within the framework of the Jaynes-Cummings model. By taking into account both the atomic motion and gravitational field, a full quantum treatment of the internal and external dynamics of the atom is presented. By solving exactly the Schrodinger equation in the interaction picture, the evolving state of the system is found. Influence of a classical homogeneous gravitational field on the energy eigenvalues, the effective mass of atom-radiation field system and the Wigner distribution of the radiation field are studied, when initially the radiation field is prepared in a coherent state and the two-level atom is in a coherent superposition of the excited and ground states.

id: 0902.0114
title: Non-Markovian Analysis of the Phase Damped Jaynes-Cummings Model in the Presence of a Classical Homogeneous Gravitational Field
authors: M.Mohammadi
comments: 22 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0114
abstract: In this paper, the non-Markovian dissipative dynamics of the phase damped Jaynes-Cummings model in the presence of a classical homogeneous gravitational field will be analyzed. The model consists of a moving two-level atom simultaneously exposed to the gravitational field and a single-mode traveling radiation field in the presence of a non-Markovian phase damping mechanism. First, the non-Markovian master equation for the reduced density operator of the system in terms of a Hamiltonian describing the atom-field interaction in the presence of a homogeneous gravitational field will be presented. Then, the super-operator technique will be generalized and an exact solution of the non-Markovian master equation will be obtained. Assuming that initially the radiation field is prepared in a Glauber coherent state and the two-level atom is in the excited state, the non-Markovian effects on the temporal evolution of collapses and revivals of the atomic population inversion and photon counting statistics of the radiation field in the presence of both the phase damping and a homogeneous gravitational field will be investigated.

id: 0902.0141
title: Classical mechanics as the many-particle limit of quantum mechanics
authors: Gabriele Carcassi
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0141
abstract: We derive the classical limit of quantum mechanics by describing the center of mass of a system constituted by a large number of particles. We will show that in that limit the commutator between the position and velocity of the center of mass is infinitesimal, which allows both to be known with great precision. We then show how the infinitesimal commutator allows for the definition of functions of position and velocity, and how the commutator reduces to a Poisson bracket.

id: 0902.0158
title: The quantum capacity of channels with arbitrarily correlated noise
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Nilanjana Datta
comments: 15 pages, two columns. Final improved version - to appear in IEEE
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th. Vol. 56, Issue 3, 1447-1460 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0158
abstract: We study optimal rates for quantum communication over a single use of a channel, which itself can correspond to a finite number of uses of a channel with arbitrarily correlated noise. The corresponding capacity is often referred to as the one-shot quantum capacity. In this paper, we prove bounds on the one-shot quantum capacity of an arbitrary channel. This allows us to compute the quantum capacity of a channel with arbitrarily correlated noise, in the limit of asymptotically many uses of the channel. In the memoryless case, we explicitly show that our results reduce to known expressions for the quantum capacity.

id: 0902.0187
title: Many-Worlds Interpretations Can Not Imply 'Quantum Immortality'
authors: Jacques Mallah
comments: 16 pages; clarified discussion of the Born Rule and of the QSF
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0187
abstract: The fallacy that the many worlds intepretation (MWI) of quantum mechanics implies certain survival in quantum Russian roulette-like situations (the 'Quantum Suicide' (QS) thought experiment) has become common enough that it is now necessary to publicly debunk this belief despite the risk of further publicizing it. 'Quantum Immortality' is an extension of the QS Fallacy (QSF) with some additional unlikely assumptions. The QS/QI ideas are examined here and shown to be false.

id: 0902.0222
title: Experimental Quantum Private Queries with linear optics
authors: F. De Martini, V. Giovannetti, S. Lloyd, L. Maccone, E. Nagali, L. Sansoni, F. Sciarrino
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 010302(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0222
abstract: The Quantum Private Query is a quantum cryptographic protocol to recover information from a database, preserving both user and data privacy: the user can test whether someone has retained information on which query was asked, and the database provider can test the quantity of information released. Here we introduce a new variant Quantum Private Query algorithm which admits a simple linear optical implementation: it employs the photon's momentum (or time slot) as address qubits and its polarization as bus qubit. A proof-of-principle experimental realization is implemented.

id: 0902.0234
title: Theory and experimental verification of Kapitza-Dirac-Talbot-Lau interferometry
authors: Klaus Hornberger, Stefan Gerlich, Hendrik Ulbricht, Lucia Hackerm¨¹ller, Stefan Nimmrichter, Ilya V. Goldt, Olga Boltalina, Markus Arndt
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures; minor changes, to appear in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 043032 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0234
abstract: Kapitza-Dirac-Talbot-Lau interferometry (KDTLI) has recently been established for demonstrating the quantum wave nature of large molecules. A phase space treatment permits us to derive closed equations for the near-field interference pattern, as well as for the Moire-type pattern that would arise if the molecules were to be treated as classical particles. The model provides a simple and elegant way to account for the molecular phase shifts related to the optical dipole potential as well as for the incoherent effect of photon absorption at the second grating. We present experimental results for different molecular masses, polarizabilities and absorption cross sections using fullerenes and fluorofullerenes and discuss the alignment requirements. Our results with C60 and C70, C60F36 and C60F48 verify the theoretical description to a high degree of precision.

id: 0902.0238
title: Quantumness tests and witnesses in the tomographic-probability representation
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, LaTex file, submitted to Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. 79 (2009) 055007 (5pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0238
abstract: In view of the tomographic-probability representation of quantum states, we reconsider the approach to quantumness tests of a single system developed in [Alicki and Van Ryn 2008 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 062001]. For qubits we introduce a general family of quantumness witnesses which are operators depending on an extra parameter. Spin tomogram and dual spin tomographic symbols are used to study qubit examples and the test inequalities which are shown to satisfy simple relations within the framework of the standard probability theory.

id: 0902.0383
title: Abstract Error Groups Via Jones Unitary Braid Group Representations at q=i
authors: Yong Zhang
comments: 12 pages
journal: Quant. Inform. Proc.: Vol. 8, Issue 1 (2009) 25-36
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0383
abstract: In this paper, we classify a type of abstract groups by the central products of dihedral groups and quaternion groups. We recognize them as abstract error groups which are often not isomorphic to the Pauli groups in the literature. We show the corresponding nice error bases equivalent to the Pauli error bases modulo phase factors. The extension of these abstract groups by the symmetric group are finite images of the Jones unitary representations (or modulo a phase factor) of the braid group at q=i or r=4. We hope this work can finally lead to new families of quantum error correction codes via the representation theory of the braid group.

id: 0902.0387
title: Effective Abelian and non-Abelian gauge potentials in cavity QED
authors: Jonas Larson, Sergey Levin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 013602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0387
abstract: Cavity QED models are analyzed in terms of field quadrature operators. We demonstrate that in such representation, the problem can be formulated in terms of effective gauge potentials. In this respect, it presents a completely new system in which gauge fields arise, possessing the advantages of purity, high control of system parameters as well as preparation and detection methods. Studying three well known models, it is shown that either Abelian or non-Abelian gauge potentials can be constructed. The non-Abelian characteristics are evidenced via numerical simulations utilizing experimental parameters.

id: 0902.0395
title: Estimates of non-optimality of quantum measurements and a simple iterative method for computing optimal measurements
authors: Jon Tyson
comments: The optimality condition in the prevoius version had already been shown by Holevo. The bounds on non-optimality and convergence of the iterative algorithm are unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0395
abstract: We construct crude estimates for non-optimality of quantum measurements in terms of their violation of Holevo's simplified minimum-error optimality conditions. As an application, we show that a modification of Barnett and Croke's proof of the optimality conditions yields a convergent iterative scheme for computing optimal measurements.

id: 0902.0402
title: Giant Kerr nonlinearities in Circuit-QED
authors: Stojan Rebic, Jason Twamley, Gerard J. Milburn
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, 1 table; version accepted by PRL editor
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:150503,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0402
abstract: The very small size of optical nonlinearities places wide ranging restrictions on the types of novel physics one can explore. For an ensemble of multi-level systems one can synthesize a large effective optical nonlinearity using quantum coherence effects but such non-linearities are technically extremely challenging to demonstrate at the single atom level. In this work we describe how a single artificial multi-level Cooper Pair Box molecule, interacting with a superconducting microwave coplanar waveguide resonator, when suitably driven, can generate extremely large optical nonlinearities at microwave frequencies, with no associated absorption. We describe how the giant self-Kerr effect can be detected by measuring the second-order correlation function and quadrature squeezing spectrum.

id: 0902.0410
title: Entanglement and Applications of Pure Fourpartite of Qubit States
authors: David Sena Oliveira, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 12 pages, 9 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0410
abstract: In this work we study the entanglement of pure fourpartite of qubit states. The analysis is realized through the comparison between two different entanglement measures: the Groverian entanglement measure and the residual entanglement measured with negativities. Furthemore, we discuss some applications of four-way entangled fourpartite states.

id: 0902.0456
title: Deterministic Ultracold Ion Source targeting the Heisenberg Limit
authors: W. Schnitzler, N. M. Linke, R. Fickler, J. Meijer, F. Schmidt-Kaler, K. Singer
comments: 4 pages 4 figures. to be published in prl
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0456
abstract: The major challenges to fabricate quantum processors and future nano solid state devices are material modification techniques with nanometre resolution and suppression of statistical fluctuations of dopants or qubit carriers. Based on a segmented ion trap with mK laser cooled ions we have realized a deterministic single ion source which could operate with a huge range of sympathetically cooled ion species, isotopes or ionic molecules. We have deterministically extracted a predetermined number of ions on demand and have measured a longitudinal velocity uncertainty of 6.3m/s and a spatial beam divergence of 0.6 mrad. We show in numerical simulations that if the ions are cooled to the motional ground state (Heisenberg limit) nanometre spatial resolution can be achieved.

id: 0902.0471
title: Simulation of static and random errors on Grover's search algorithm implemented in a Ising nuclear spin chain quantum computer with few qubits
authors: T. Gorin, L. Lara, G. V. Lopez
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures, extensive revision with new figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0471
abstract: We consider Grover's search algorithm on a model quantum computer implemented on a chain of four or five nuclear spins with first and second neighbour Ising interactions. Noise is introduced into the system in terms of random fluctuations of the external fields. By averaging over many repetitions of the algorithm, the output state becomes effectively a mixed state. We study its overlap with the nominal output state of the algorithm, which is called fidelity. We find either an exponential or a Gaussian decay for the fidelity as a function of the strength of the noise, depending on the type of noise (static or random) and whether error supression is applied (the 2pi k-method) or not.

id: 0902.0474
title: Adiabatic time-dependent metrics in PT-symmetric quantum theories
authors: Hynek B¨ªla
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0474
abstract: We introduce an approach to scattering problems in theories with non-Hermitian Hamiltonian, usually known as PT-symmetric quantum theories, by means of the adiabatic switching of the interaction. The modifications of usual methods needed to employ time-dependent metrics are described. We argue that an analogue of the adiabatic theorem hold for time dependent metrics and that its validity forms a necessary condition for consistency of the procedure.

id: 0902.0500
title: Graphs States and the necessity of Euler Decomposition
authors: Ross Duncan, Simon Perdrix
comments: 15pages, 38 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0500
abstract: Coecke and Duncan recently introduced a categorical formalisation of the interaction of complementary quantum observables. In this paper we use their diagrammatic language to study graph states, a computationally interesting class of quantum states. We give a graphical proof of the fixpoint property of graph states. We then introduce a new equation, for the Euler decomposition of the Hadamard gate, and demonstrate that Van den Nest's theorem--locally equivalent graphs represent the same entanglement--is equivalent to this new axiom. Finally we prove that the Euler decomposition equation is not derivable from the existing axioms.

id: 0902.0526
title: Properties of entangled photon pairs generated in periodically poled nonlinear crystals
authors: Jiri Svozilik, Jan Perina Jr
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 023819 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0526
abstract: Using a rigorous quantum model a comprehensive study of physical properties of entangled photon pairs generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion in chirped periodically-poled crystals is presented. Spectral, temporal, as well as spatial characteristics of photon pairs are analyzed. Spectral bandwidths, photon-pair flux, and entanglement area can be effectively controlled by chirping. Quantification of entanglement between photons in a pair is given. Splitting of entanglement area in the transverse plane accompanied by spectral splitting has been revealed. Using the model temperature dependencies of the experimental intensity profiles reported in literature have been explained.

id: 0902.0561
title: Universal families and quantum control in infinite dimensions
authors: R. Vilela Mendes
comments: 9 pages Latex
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2009) 2529-2532
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0561
abstract: In a topological space, a family of continuous mappings is called universal if its action, in at least one element of the space, is dense. If the mappings are unitary or trace-preserving completely positive, the notion of universality is closely related to the notion of controllability in either closed or open quantum systems. Quantum controllability in infinite dimensions is discussed in this setting and minimal generators are found for full control universal families. Some of the requirements of the operators needed for control in infinite dimensions follow from the properties of the infinite unitary group. Hence, a brief discussed of this group and their appropriate mathematical spaces is also included.

id: 0902.0611
title: Dissipation induced coherence and stochastic resonance of an open two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: D. Witthaut, F. Trimborn, S. Wimberger
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033621 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0611
abstract: We discuss the dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well trap subject to phase noise and particle loss. The phase coherence of a weakly-interacting condensate, experimentally measured via the contrast in an interference experiment, as well as the response to an external driving become maximal for a finite value of the dissipation rate matching the intrinsic time scales of the system. This can be understood as a stochastic resonance of the many-particle system. Even stronger effects are observed when dissipation acts in concurrence with strong inter-particle interactions, restoring the purity of the condensate almost completely and increasing the phase coherence significantly. Our theoretical results are backed by Monte Carlo simulations, which show a good qualitative agreement and provide a microscopic explanation for the observed stochastic resonance effect.

id: 0902.0670
title: Observation of continuous-wave squeezed light at 1550 nm
authors: Moritz Mehmet, Sebastian Steinlechner, Tobias Eberle, Henning Vahlbruch, Andr¨¦ Th¨¹ring, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0670
abstract: We report on the generation of continuous-wave squeezed vacuum states of light at the telecommunication wavelength of 1550 nm. The squeezed vacuum states were produced by type I optical parametric amplification (OPA) in a standing-wave cavity built around a periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate (PPKTP) crystal. A non-classical noise reduction of 5.3 dB below the shot noise was observed by means of balanced homodyne detection.

id: 0902.0695
title: Probability-fidelity tradeoffs for targeted quantum operations
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, S. Facchini, P. Perinotti, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, pp. 3011-3015 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0695
abstract: We present probability-fidelity tradeoffs for a varying quantum operation with fixed input-output states and for a varying inversion of a fixed quantum operation.

id: 0902.0699
title: Qcmpi: A Parallel Environment for Quantum Computing
authors: F. Tabakin, B. Julia-Diaz
comments: Package webpage this http URL
journal: Computer Physics Communications 180 (2009) 948
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0699
abstract: QCMPI is a quantum computer (QC) simulation package written in Fortran 90 with parallel processing capabilities. It is an accessible research tool that permits rapid evaluation of quantum algorithms for a large number of qubits and for various "noise" scenarios. The prime motivation for developing QCMPI is to facilitate numerical examination of not only how QC algorithms work, but also to include noise, decoherence, and attenuation effects and to evaluate the efficacy of error correction schemes. The present work builds on an earlier Mathematica code QDENSITY, which is mainly a pedagogic tool. In QCMPI, the stress is on state vectors, in order to employ a large number of qubits. The parallel processing feature is implemented by using the Message-Passing Interface (MPI) protocol. Codes for Grover's search and Shor's factoring algorithms are provided as examples. A major feature of this work is that concurrent versions of the algorithms can be evaluated with each version subject to alternate noise effects, which corresponds to the idea of solving a stochastic Schr\"{o}dinger equation.

id: 0902.0735
title: Coherent and incoherent contents of correlations
authors: Kavan Modi, Mile Gu
comments: Accepted for publication in the International Journal of Modern Physics B special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral. Drastically revised to reflect how new and old discoveries fit in with the original motivations of the paper. 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1345027 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0735
abstract: We examine bipartite and multipartite correlations within the construct of unitary orbits. We show that the set of product states is a very small subset of set of all possible states, while all unitary orbits contain classically correlated states. Using this we give meaning to degeneration of quantum correlations due to a unitary interactions, which we call coherent correlations. The remaining classical correlations are called incoherent correlations and quantified in terms of the distance of the joint probability distributions to its marginals. Finally, we look at how entanglement looks in this picture for the two-qubit case.

id: 0902.0740
title: Polarization control of single photon quantum orbital angular momentum states
authors: E. Nagali, F. Sciarrino, F. De Martini, B. Piccirillo, E. Karimi, L. Marrucci, E. Santamato
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Optics Express 17, 18745 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0740
abstract: The orbital angular momentum of photons, being defined in an infinitely dimensional discrete Hilbert space, offers a promising resource for high-dimensional quantum information protocols in quantum optics. The biggest obstacle to its wider use is presently represented by the limited set of tools available for its control and manipulation. Here, we introduce and test experimentally a series of simple optical schemes for the coherent transfer of quantum information from the polarization to the orbital angular momentum of single photons and vice versa. All our schemes exploit a newly developed optical device, the so-called "q-plate", which enables the manipulation of the photon orbital angular momentum driven by the polarization degree of freedom. By stacking several q-plates in a suitable sequence, one can also access to higher-order angular momentum subspaces. In particular, we demonstrate the control of the orbital angular momentum $m$ degree of freedom within the subspaces of $|m|=2 \hbar$ and $|m|=4\hbar$ per photon. Our experiments prove that these schemes are reliable, efficient and have a high fidelity.

id: 0902.0752
title: Phase modulation induced by cooperative effects in electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: R. Fleischhaker, T. N. Dey, J. Evers
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013815 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0752
abstract: We analyze the influence of dipole-dipole interactions in an electromagnetically induced transparency setup at high density. We show both analytically and numerically that the polarization contribution to the local field strongly modulates the phase of a weak pulse. We give an intuitive explanation for this local field induced phase modulation and show that it distinctively differs from the nonlinear self-phase modulation a strong pulse experiences in a Kerr medium.

id: 0902.0823
title: An effective method to estimate multidimensional Gaussian states
authors: J. Rehacek, S. Olivares, D. Mogilevtsev, Z. Hradil, M. G. A. Paris, S. Fornaro, V. D'Auria, A. Porzio, S. Solimeno
comments: 8 pages, 5 fis, accepted for publication on PRA
journal: Physical Review A 79, 032111 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0823
abstract: A simple and efficient method for characterization of multidimensional Gaussian states is suggested and experimentally demonstrated. Our scheme shows analogies with tomography of finite dimensional quantum states, with the covariance matrix playing the role of the density matrix and homodyne detection providing Stern-Gerlach-like projections. The major difference stems from a different character of relevant noises: while the statistics of Stern-Gerlach-like measurements is governed by binomial statistics, the detection of quadrature variances correspond to chi-square statistics. For Gaussian and near Gaussian states the suggested method provides, compared to standard tomography techniques, more stable and reliable reconstructions. In addition, by putting together reconstruction methods for Gaussian and arbitrary states, we obtain a tool to detect the non-Gaussian character of optical signals.

id: 0902.0848
title: Entangled states generation of two atoms interacting with a cavity field
authors: F. N. M. Al-Showaikh, N. Metwally, M. Abdel-Aty
comments: 
journal: NeuroQuantology Vol 7 No 5 Page 382-389 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0848
abstract: We classify different classes of entangled states arise in a two-qubit system. Some of these classes are of Bell's state types, while others are of the Werner's state types. The degree of entanglement is quantified for different values of the atomic and the cavity parameters. We show that it is possible to generate entangled state with high degree of entanglement by controlling the detuning and the number of photon inside the cavity.

id: 0902.0855
title: Particle Propagation on a Circle with a Point Interaction
authors: Satoshi Ohya, Makoto Sakamoto
comments: 21 pages, 12 figures
journal: J.Phys.A42:275301,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0855
abstract: We study a particle propagation on a circle in the presence of a point interaction. We show that the one-particle Feynman kernel can be written into the sum of reflected and transmitted trajectories which are weighted by the elements of the n-th power of the scattering matrix evaluated on a line with a point interaction. As a by-product we find three-parameter family of trace formulae as a generalization of the Poisson summation formula.

id: 0902.0866
title: Violation of smooth observable macroscopic realism in a harmonic oscillator
authors: Amir Leshem, Omri Gat
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 070403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0866
abstract: We study the emergence of macrorealism in a harmonic oscillator subject to consecutive measurements of a squeezed action. Since the harmonic oscillator dynamics admits a hidden trajectory formulation, the assumptions of macrorealism are violated only by the measurement process. We demonstrate a breakdown of macrorealism in a wide parameter range that is maximized in a scaling limit of extreme squeezing. A semiclassical analysis shows that macrorealism is violated even with measurements of classically smooth observables that do not resolve quantum levels. We propose an experimental test of macrorealism with entangled photons by demonstrating that local realism in a composite system implies macrorealism in a subsystem.

id: 0902.0881
title: Reversible state transfer between superconducting qubits and atomic ensembles
authors: D. Petrosyan, G. Bensky, G. Kurizki, I. Mazets, J. Majer, J. Schmiedmayer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 040304(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0881
abstract: We examine the possibility of coherent, reversible information transfer between solid-state superconducting qubits and ensembles of ultra-cold atoms. Strong coupling between these systems is mediated by a microwave transmission line resonator that interacts near-resonantly with the atoms via their optically excited Rydberg states. The solid-state qubits can then be used to implement rapid quantum logic gates, while collective metastable states of the atoms can be employed for long-term storage and optical read-out of quantum information.

id: 0902.0882
title: A generalized Pauli problem and an infinite family of MUB-triplets in dimension 6
authors: P. Jaming, M. Matolcsi, P. M¨®ra, F. Sz?ll?si, M. Weiner
comments: 32 pages (with Appendix A and B)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0882
abstract: We exhibit an infinite family of {\it triplets} of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) in dimension 6. These triplets involve the Fourier family of Hadamard matrices, $F(a,b)$. However, in the main result of the paper we also prove that for any values of the parameters $(a,b)$, the standard basis and $F(a,b)$ {\it cannot be extended to a MUB-quartet}. The main novelty lies in the {\it method} of proof which may successfully be applied in the future to prove that the maximal number of MUBs in dimension 6 is three.

id: 0902.0885
title: Geometry of quantum states: new construction of positive maps
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 2301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0885
abstract: We provide a new class of positive maps in matrix algebras. The construction is based on the family of balls living in the space of density matrices of n-level quantum system. This class generalizes the celebrated Choi map and provide a wide family of entanglement witnesses which define a basic tool for analyzing quantum entanglement.

id: 0902.0890
title: Classical Diffusion of a quantum particle in a noisy environment
authors: Ariel Amir, Yoav Lahini, Hagai B. Perets
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 050105(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0890
abstract: We study the spreading of a quantum-mechanical wavepacket in a one-dimensional tight-binding model with a noisy potential, and analyze the emergence of classical diffusion from the quantum dynamics due to decoherence. We consider a finite correlation time of the noisy environment, and treat the system by utilizing the separation of fast (dephasing) and slow (diffusion) processes. We show that classical diffusive behavior emerges at long times, and we calculate analytically the dependence of the classical diffusion coefficient on the noise magnitude and correlation time. This method provides a general solution to this problem for arbitrary conditions of the noisy environment. The results are relevant to a large variety of physical systems, from electronic transport in solid state physics, to light transmission in optical devices, diffusion of excitons, and quantum computation.

id: 0902.0912
title: Quantum mutual independence
authors: Michal Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim, Andreas Winter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0912
abstract: We introduce the concept of mutual independence -- correlations shared between distant parties which are independent of the environment. This notion is more general than the standard idea of a secret key -- it is a fully quantum and more general form of privacy. The states which possess mutual independence also generalize the so called private states -- those that possess private key. We then show that the problem of distributed compression of quantum information at distant sources can be solved in terms of mutual independence, if free entanglement between the senders and the receiver is available. Namely, we obtain a formula for the sum of rates of qubits needed to transmit a distributed state between Alice and Bob to a decoder Charlie. We also show that mutual independence is bounded from above by the relative entropy modulo a conjecture, saying that if after removal of a single qubit the state becomes product, its initial entanglement is bounded by 1. We suspect that mutual independence is a highly singular quantity, i.e. that it is positive only on a set of measure zero; furthermore, we believe that its presence is seen on the single copy level. This appears to be born out in the classical case.

id: 0902.0927
title: Dynamical typicality of quantum expectation values
authors: Christian Bartsch, Jochen Gemmer
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 110403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0927
abstract: We show that the vast majority of all pure states featuring a common expectation value of some generic observable at a given time will yield very similar expectation values of the same observable at any later time. This is meant to apply to Schroedinger type dynamics in high dimensional Hilbert spaces. As a consequence individual dynamics of expectation values are then typically well described by the ensemble average. Our approach is based on the Hilbert space average method. We support the analytical investigations with numerics obtained by exact diagonalization of the full time-dependent Schroedinger equation for some pertinent, abstract Hamiltonian model. Furthermore, we discuss the implications on the applicability of projection operator methods with respect to initial states, as well as on irreversibility in general.

id: 0902.0935
title: Entanglement detection with bounded reference frames
authors: Fabio Costa, Nicholas Harrigan, Terry Rudolph, Caslav Brukner
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 11 123007 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0935
abstract: Quantum experiments usually assume the existence of perfect, classical, reference frames, which allow for the specification of measurement settings (e.g. orientation of the Stern Gerlach magnet in spin measurements) with arbitrary precision. If the reference frames are "bounded" (i.e. quantum systems themselves, having a finite number of degrees of freedom), only limited precision can be attained. Using spin coherent states as bounded reference frames we have found their minimal size needed to violate local realism for entangled spin systems. For composite systems of spin-1/2 particles reference frames of very small size are sufficient for the violation; however, to see this violation for macroscopic entangled spins, the size of the reference frame must be at least quadratically larger than that of the spins. Unavailability of such reference frames gives a possible explanation for the non-observance of violation of local realism in everyday experience.

id: 0902.0986
title: Quantum illumination versus coherent-state target detection
authors: Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0986
abstract: Lloyd [1] proved that a large performance gain accrues from use of entanglement in single-photon target detection within a lossy, noisy environment when compared to what can be achieved with unentangled single-photon states. We show that the performance of Lloyd's "quantum illumination" system is, at best, equal to that of a coherent-state transmitter, and may be substantially worse. Nevertheless, as shown in [2], quantum illumination may offer a significant performance gain when operation is not limited to the single-photon regime.

id: 0902.1069
title: Dilute gas of ultracold two-level atoms inside a cavity; generalized Dicke model
authors: Jonas Larson, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 063027 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1069
abstract: We consider a gas of ultracold two-level atoms confined in a cavity, taking into account for atomic center-of-mass motion and cavity mode variations. We use the generalized Dicke model, and analyze separately the cases of a Gaussian, and a standing wave mode shape. Owing to the interplay between external motional energies of the atoms and internal atomic and field energies, the phase-diagrams exhibit novel features not encountered in the standard Dicke model, such as the existence of first and second order phase transitions between normal and superradiant phases. Due to the quantum description of atomic motion, internal and external atomic degrees of freedom are highly correlated leading to modified normal and superradiant phases.

id: 0902.1095
title: Perfect State Transfer without State Initialization and Remote Collaboration
authors: Marcin Markiewicz, Marcin Wiesniak
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 054304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1095
abstract: We present a perfect state transfer protocol via a qubit chain with the evolution governed by the $xx$ Hamiltonian. In contrast to the recent protocol announced in [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 101}, 230502 (2008)], our method does not demand any remote-cooperated initialization and sending classical information about measurement outcomes. We achieve the perfect state transfer only with the assumption of access to two spins at each end of the chain, while the initial state of the whole chain is irrelevant.

id: 0902.1097
title: Quantum computation in correlation space and extremal entanglement
authors: J.-M. Cai, W. D¨¹r, M. Van den Nest, A. Miyake, H. J. Briegel
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Extended version with a few more details
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 050503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1097
abstract: Recently, a framework was established to systematically construct novel universal resource states for measurement-based quantum computation using techniques involving finitely correlated states. With these methods, universal states were found which are in certain ways much less entangled than the original cluster state model, and it was hence believed that with this approach many of the extremal entanglement features of the cluster states could be relaxed. The new resources were constructed as "computationally universal" states--i.e. they allow one to efficiently reproduce the classical output of each quantum computation--whereas the cluster states are universal in a stronger sense since they are "universal state preparators". Here we show that the new resources are universal state preparators after all, and must therefore exhibit a whole class of extremal entanglement features, similar to the cluster states.

id: 0902.1163
title: "Dark" vs "Bright" Excitons in Carbon Nanotubes: Applications to Quantum Optics
authors: Nikolai G. Kalugin, Yuri V. Rostovtsev
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1163
abstract: It is strong Coulomb effects in carbon nanotubes that lead to formation of the so-called "bright" and "dark" (forbidden one-photon optical transition) exciton states, and dramatically decrease the efficiency of one-photon light emission via trapping of the carriers by "dark" states. We demonstrate that the proper use of these "bright" and "dark" exciton states with distinctively different recombination times may turn the situation around: the use of quantum coherence and multiphoton schemes of excitation potentially not only allow one to efficiently manipulate the dark states, but can also create conditions for efficient light generation in different frequency regions, produce "slow" or "fast" light, implement quantum light storage, media with a negative refractive index, and other quantum-optical regimes. Possible quantum-optical carbon nanotube devices have a potential for suitable performance at elevated temperatures, because the binding energies of excitons in single-walled nanotubes are hundreds-of-meV high.

id: 0902.1213
title: Decoherence-enhanced measurements
authors: Daniel Braun, John Martin
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1213
abstract: Quantum-enhanced measurements use highly non-classical quantum states in order to enhance the precision of the measurement of classical quantities, like the length of an optical cavity. The major goal is to beat the standard quantum limit (SQL), i.e. a precision of order $1/\sqrt{N}$, where $N$ is the number of quantum resources (e.g. the number of photons or atoms used), and to achieve a scaling $1/N$, known as the Heisenberg limit. Doing so would have tremendous impact in many areas, but so far only three experiments have demonstrated a slight improvement over the SQL. The required quantum states are generally difficult to produce, and very prone to decoherence. Here we show that decoherence itself may be used as an extremely sensitive probe of system properties. This should allow for a new measurement principle with the potential to achieve the Heisenberg limit without the need to produce highly entangled states.

id: 0902.1299
title: Perfect Quantum Network Communication Protocol Based on Classical Network Coding
authors: Hirotada Kobayashi, Francois Le Gall, Harumichi Nishimura, Martin Roetteler
comments: LaTeX2e, 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Proceedings 2010 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2010), pp. 2686-2690
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1299
abstract: This paper considers a problem of quantum communication between parties that are connected through a network of quantum channels. The model in this paper assumes that there is no prior entanglement shared among any of the parties, but that classical communication is free. The task is to perfectly transfer an unknown quantum state from a source subsystem to a target subsystem, where both source and target are formed by ordered sets of some of the nodes. It is proved that a lower bound of the rate at which this quantum communication task is possible is given by the classical min-cut max-flow theorem of network coding, where the capacities in question are the quantum capacities of the edges of the network.

id: 0902.1372
title: Quantum information processing with a single photon by input-output process regarding low-Q cavities
authors: Jun-Hong An, M. Feng, C. H. Oh
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1372
abstract: Both cavity QED and photons are promising candidates for quantum information processing. We consider a combination of both candidates with a single photon going through spatially separate cavities to entangle the atomic qubits, based on the input-output process of the cavities. We present a general expression for the input-output process regarding the low-Q cavity confining a single atom, which works in a wide range of parameters. Focusing on low-Q cavity case, we propose some schemes for quantum information processing with Faraday rotation using single photons, which is much different from the high-Q cavity and strong coupling cases.

id: 0902.1396
title: Spin-induced non-geodesic motion, gyroscopic precession, Wigner rotation and EPR correlations of massive spin 1/2 particles in a gravitational field
authors: P.M. Alsing, G.J. Stephenson Jr., P. Kilian
comments: 58 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1396
abstract: We investigate in a covariant manner the spin-induced non-geodesic motion of massive spin 1/2 particles in an arbitrary gravitational field for trajectories that are initially geodesic when spin is ignored. Using the WKB approximation for the wave function in curved spacetime, we compute the O(hbar) correction to the Wigner rotation of the spin 1/2 particle, whose O(1) contribution is zero on timelike geodesics. We develop conditions for the motion of observers in which the Wigner rotation is null. For the spherically symmetric Schwarzschild metric, we consider specific examples of particle motion in the equatorial plane for (i) circular orbits and (ii) radially infalling trajectories. For the former case we consider the entanglement for a perfectly anti-correlated EPR entangled pair of spins as the separate qubits traverse the circular orbit in same direction.

id: 0902.1399
title: The Wigner rotation for photons in an arbitrary gravitational field
authors: P.M. Alsing, G.J. Stephenson Jr
comments: 15 pages (two column), 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1399
abstract: We investigate the Wigner rotation for photons, which governs the change in the polarization of the photon as it propagates through an arbitrary gravitational field. We give explicit examples in Schwarzschild spacetime, and compare with the corresponding flat spacetime results, which by the equivalence principle, holds locally at each spacetime point. We discuss the implications of the Wigner rotation for entangled photon states in curved spacetime, and lastly develop a sufficient condition for special (Fermi-Walker) frames in which the observer would detect no Wigner rotation.

id: 0902.1419
title: Efficient quantum algorithm for preparing molecular-system-like states on a quantum computer
authors: Hefeng Wang, S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures, errors are corrected, Journal information added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042335 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1419
abstract: We present an efficient quantum algorithm for preparing a pure state on a quantum computer, where the quantum state corresponds to that of a molecular system with a given number $m$ of electrons occupying a given number $n$ of spin orbitals. Each spin orbital is mapped to a qubit: the states $| 1 >$ and $| 0>$ of the qubit represent, respectively, whether the spin orbital is occupied by an electron or not. To prepare a general state in the full Hilbert space of $n$ qubits, which is of dimension $2^{n}$%, $O(2^{n})$ controlled-NOT gates are needed, i.e., the number of gates scales \emph{exponentially} with the number of qubits. We make use of the fact that the state to be prepared lies in a smaller Hilbert space, and we find an algorithm that requires at most $O(2^{m+1} n^{m}/{m!})$ gates, i.e., scales \emph{polynomially} with the number of qubits $n$, provided $n\gg m$. The algorithm is simulated numerically for the cases of the hydrogen molecule and the water molecule. The numerical simulations show that when additional symmetries of the system are considered, the number of gates to prepare the state can be drastically reduced, in the examples considered in this paper, by several orders of magnitude, from the above estimate.

id: 0902.1428
title: High-efficiency cluster-state generation with atomic ensembles via the dipole-blockade mechanism
authors: Marcin Zwierz, Pieter Kok
comments: 10 pages with 8 figures, extended version of arXiv:0807.3645
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1428
abstract: We demonstrate theoretically a scheme for cluster state generation, based on atomic ensembles and the dipole blockade mechanism. In the protocol, atomic ensembles serve as single qubit systems. Therefore, we review single-qubit operations on qubit defined as collective states of atomic ensemble. Our entangling protocol requires nearly identical single-photon sources, one ultra-cold ensemble per physical qubit, and regular photodetectors. The general entangling procedure is presented, as well as a procedure that generates in a single step Q-qubit GHZ states with success probability p_success ~ eta^{Q/2}, where eta is the combined detection and source efficiency. This is significantly more efficient than any known robust probabilistic entangling operation. GHZ states form the basic building block for universal cluster states, a resource for the one-way quantum computer.

id: 0902.1462
title: Possibility of Coherent Phenomena like Bloch Oscillations with Single Photons via W-States
authors: Amit Rai, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 053849 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1462
abstract: We examine the behavior of single photons at multiport devices and inquire if coherent effects are possible. In particular we study how single photons need to be manipulated in order to study coherent phenomena. We show that single photons need to be produced in W states which lead to vanishing mean amplitude but nonzero correlations between the inputs at different ports. Such correlations restore coherent effects with single photons. As a specific example we demonstrate Bloch oscillations with single photons and thus provide strict analog of Bloch oscillation of electrons.

id: 0902.1464
title: Does wave function collapse cause gravity?
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 6pp Latex, based on the talk at 4th Intl. Workshop DICE2008 "From Quantum Mechanics through Complexity to Spacetime: the role of emergent dynamical structures" Castiglioncello (Tuscany), Sept 22-26, 2008
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.174:012002,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1464
abstract: We give a twist to the assumption - discussed in various earlier works - that gravity plays a role in the collapse of the wave function. This time we discuss the contrary assumption that the collapse of the wave function plays a role in the emergence of the gravitational field. We start from the mathematical framework of a particular Newtonian gravitational collapse theory proposed by the author longtime ago, and we reconciliate it with the classical equivalence principle.

id: 0902.1474
title: Relativistic Landau quantization for a neutral particle
authors: K. Bakke, C. Furtado
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1474
abstract: In this contribution we study the Landau levels arising within the relativistic quantum dynamics of a neutral particle which possesses a permanent magnetic dipole moment interacting with an external electric field. We consider the Aharonov-Casher coupling of magnetic dipole to the electric field to investigate an an analog of Landau quantization in this system and solve the Dirac equation for two different field configurations. The eigenfunctions and eigenvalues of Hamiltonian in both cases are obtained.

id: 0902.1476
title: Dynamics of a Dirac oscillator coupled to an external field: A new class of solvable problems
authors: Emerson Sadurni, Juan Mauricio Torres, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure. Published in JPA
journal: J. Phys. A 43:285204, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1476
abstract: The Dirac oscillator coupled to an external two-component field can retain its solvability, if couplings are appropriately chosen. This provides a new class of integrable systems. A simplified way of solution is given, by recasting the known solution of the Dirac oscillator into matrix form; there one notices, that a block-diagonal form arises in a Hamiltonian formulation. The blocks are two-dimensional. Choosing couplings that do not affect the block structure, these just blow up the $2 \times 2$ matrices to $4 \times 4 $ matrices, thus conserving solvability. The result can be cast again in covariant form. By way of example we apply this exact solution to calculate the evolution of entanglement.

id: 0902.1480
title: Time-dependent localized Hartree-Fock density-functional linear response approach for photoionization of atomic excited states
authors: Zhongyuan Zhou, Shih-I Chu
comments: 6 figures and 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1480
abstract: We present a time-dependent localized Hartree-Fock density-functional linear response approach for the treatment of photoionization of atomic systems. This approach employs a spin-dependent localized Hartree-Fock (SLHF) exchange potential to calculate electron orbitals and kernel functions, and thus can be used to study the photoionization from atomic excited states. We have applied the approach to the calculation of photoionization cross sections of Ne ground state. The results are in agreement with available experimental data and have comparable accuracies with other ab initio theoretical results. We have also extended the approach to explore the photoionization from Ne excited states and obtained some new results for the photoionization from outer-shell and inner-shell excited states.

id: 0902.1496
title: Complexity classification of quantum many-body systems according to the Pair of Order-Disorder Indices (PODI)
authors: C.P. Panos, K.Ch. Chatzisavvas
comments: Preprint, 20 pages, 26 figures, 1 Table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1496
abstract: The statistical measures of complexity defined by Lopez-Ruiz, Mancini, and Calbet (LMC) and Shiner, Davison and Landsberg (SDL) are calculated as functions of the number of particles for four quantum many-body systems, i.e. atoms, nuclei, atomic clusters, and correlated atoms in a trap (bosons). A pair of order and disorder strengths, evaluated for each system, can serve as a Pair of Order-Disorder Indices (PODI), characterizing quantitatively order versus disorder in any quantum system. According to the above classification, we assign to bosons the complexity character of disorder, to atoms the character of order, while nuclei and atomic clusters are (less) disordered and lie between them. This criterion can be used to estimate the relative contribution of order and disorder to complexity for other more complicated quantum systems as well and even classical ones, if one is able to describe them probabilistically. We also address the issue, whether those systems can grow in complexity as the number of particles increases. Our comparative study indicates that atoms are the only quantum system out of four, which is ordered, with the ability to self-organize. We conjecture that this is an information-theoretic reason that atoms are suitable as building blocks of larger structures of biological interest i.e. molecules and macromolecules. This is in the spirit of Wheeler's "it from bit" quote, the project to present everything about the Universe in terms of information theory.

id: 0902.1502
title: Correlation Matrices of Two-Mode Bosonic Systems
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Alessio Serafini, Seth Lloyd
comments: 11 pages. REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052327 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1502
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of all the algebraic conditions an arbitrary 4x4 symmetric matrix must satisfy in order to represent the correlation matrix of a two-mode bosonic system. Then, we completely clarify when this arbitrary matrix can represent the correlation matrix of a separable or entangled Gaussian state. In this analysis, we introduce new and alternative sets of conditions, which are expressed in terms of local symplectic invariants.

id: 0902.1505
title: On the Bures Volume of Separable Quantum States
authors: Deping Ye
comments: 27 pages. To appear in the Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS 50, 083502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Metric Geometry (math.MG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1505
abstract: We obtain two sided estimates for the Bures volume of an arbitrary subset of the set of $N\times N$ density matrices, in terms of the Hilbert-Schmidt volume of that subset. For general subsets, our results are essentially optimal (for large $N$). As applications, we derive in particular nontrivial lower and upper bounds for the Bures volume of sets of separable states and for sets of states with positive partial transpose. PACS numbers: 02.40.Ft, 03.65.Db, 03.65.Ud, 03.67.Mn

id: 0902.1515
title: Mapping donor electron wave function deformations at sub-Bohr orbit resolution
authors: Seung H. Park, Rajib Rahman, Gerhard Klimeck, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, and 1 table
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:106802,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1515
abstract: Quantum wave function engineering of dopant-based Si nano-structures reveals new physics in the solid-state, and is expected to play a vital role in future nanoelectronics. Central to any fundamental understanding or application is the ability to accurately characterize the deformation of the electron wave functions in these atom-based structures through electromagnetic field control. We present a method for mapping the subtle changes that occur in the electron wave function through the measurement of the hyperfine tensor probed by 29Si impurities. Our results show that detecting the donor electron wave function deformation is possible with resolution at the sub-Bohr radius level.

id: 0902.1549
title: Bridging particle and wave sensitivity in a detector of configurable positive operator-valued measures
authors: Graciana Puentes, Jeff S. Lundeen, Matthijs P. A. Branderhorst, Hendrik B. Coldenstrodt-Ronge, Brian J. Smith, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1549
abstract: We report an optical detector with tunable positive operator-valued measures (POVMs). The device is based on a combination of weak-field homodyne techniques and photon-number-resolving detection. The resulting POVMs can be continuously tuned from Fock-state projectors to a variety of phase-dependent quantum-state measurements by adjusting different system parameters such as local oscillator coupling, amplitude and phase, allowing thus not only detection but also preparation of exotic quantum states. Experimental tomographic reconstructions of classical benchmark states are presented as a demonstration of the detector capabilities.

id: 0902.1575
title: Dynamic sensitivity of phton-dressed atomic ensenmble with quantum criticality
authors: Jin-Feng Huang, Yong Li, Jie-Qiao Liao, Le-Man Kuang, C. P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 063829(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1575
abstract: We study the dynamic sensitivity of an atomic ensemble dressed by a single-mode cavity field (called a photon-dressed atomic ensemble), which is described by the Dicke model near the quantum critical point. It is shown that when an extra atom in a pure initial state passes through the cavity, the photon-dressed atomic ensemble will experience a quantum phase transition, showing an explicit sudden change in its dynamics characterized by the Loschmidt echo of this quantum critical system. With such dynamic sensitivity, the Dicke model can resemble to the cloud chamber for detecting a flying particle by the enhanced trajectory due to the classical phase transition.

id: 0902.1580
title: Speeding up Entanglement Degradation
authors: R. B. Mann, V.M Villalba
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1580
abstract: Entanglement between two free bosonic modes can be determined via detection of each mode by different observers and then observing the correlations between their measurements. We show that such entanglement is degraded as a function of time if one observer begins in a state of inertial motion but ends in a state of uniform acceleration while the other remains inertial. At late times we recover previously established results for observers in relative uniform acceleration.

id: 0902.1589
title: New n-mode squeezing operator and squeezed states with standard squeezing
authors: Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 8 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1589
abstract: We find that the exponential operator V=exp[ilamda (Q_1P_2+Q_2P_3+...+Q_{n-1}P_{n}+Q_{n}P_1)], Q_{i}, P_{i} are respectively the coordinate and momentum operators, is an n-mode squeezing operator which engenders standard squeezing. By virtue of the technique of integration within an ordered product of operators we derive V's normally ordered expansion and obtain the n-mode squeezed vacuum states, its Wigner function is calculated by using the Weyl ordering invariance under similar transformations.

id: 0902.1596
title: Detecting non-Markovian plasmonic band gaps in quantum dots using electron transport
authors: Yueh-Nan Chen, Guang-Yin Chen, Ying-Yen Liao, Neill Lambert, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 245312 (2009) [8 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1596
abstract: Placing a quantum dot close to a metal nanowire leads to drastic changes in its radiative decay behavior because of evanescent couplings to surface plasmons. We show how two non-Markovian effects, band-edge and retardation, could be observed in such a system. Combined with a quantum dot p-i-n junction, these effects could be readout via current-noise measurements. We also discuss how these effects can occur in similar systems with restricted geometries, like phononic cavities and photonic crystal waveguides. This work links two previously separate topics: surface-plasmons and current-noise measurements.

id: 0902.1613
title: Impact of amplifying media on the Casimir force
authors: Agnes Sambale, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Ho Trung Dung
comments: 5 pages, extensions
journal: Physical Review A 80 (5), 051801(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1613
abstract: On the basis of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics, a theory of Casimir forces in the presence of on linearly amplifying bodies is presented which provides a consistent framework for studying the effect of, e.g., amplifying left-handed metamaterials on dispersion forces. A general formula for the Casimir force acting on an amplifying body is derived. It is shown that the force can be given in terms of the classical Green tensor and that it can be decomposed into a resonant component associated with emission processes and an off-resonant Lifshitz-type component looking formally the same as for a purely absorbing body. It is explicitly demonstrated that the result generalizes microscopic approaches beyond the perturbative domain: In the dilute-gas limit, the force acting on an amplifying body reduces to a sum over the Casimir--Polder forces acting on the excited body atoms.

id: 0902.1622
title: Quantum Cloning and Deletion in Quantum Information Theory
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, Bengal Engineering and Science University. 141 pages. Figures are not included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1622
abstract: Quantum mechanics put restriction on performing some task which we can do classically. One such restriction is that we cannot copy an arbitrary quantum state. This is known as No-cloning theorem. Although quantum mechanics forbid us to construct a perfect cloner, there is no restriction to construct an imperfect cloner. Therefore, we have constructed and studied a special kind of quantum cloning machine named as Hybrid quantum cloning machine which is nothing but a different combination of pre-existing quantum cloning machines. We showed that this hybrid quantum cloning machine sometime gives better quality copy than the pre-existing quantum cloners. Quantum entanglement is a very astonishing property in a multi-partite system and it is a very useful ingredient of quantum information theory. Therefore broadcasting (cloning) of entanglement is a very important subject to study. In this regard we have studied the broadcasting of entanglement using state dependent quantum cloning machine. Further, we have investigated the problem of secretly broadcasting of three-qubit entangled state between two distant partners. Linearity of quantum mechanics put another restriction on deletion of an arbitrary quantum state i.e. an arbitrary quantum state against a copy cannot be perfectly deleted. Like cloning machine one can construct an approximate deletion machine also. Therefore, we have constructed an universal deletion machine in the sense that the fidelity of deletion does not depend on the input state and showed that the fidelity of deletion is 3/4 . Further we showed that the fidelity of deletion depends on the blank state at the output and it can be improved from the value 3/4 for certain blank state. Moreover, we have studied the case where two cloned copies are given at the input of the deletion machine.

id: 0902.1659
title: Observation of a Non-local Optical Vortex
authors: R. M. Gomes, A. Salles, F. Toscano, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, S. P. Walborn
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 033602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1659
abstract: We report the observation of an optical vortex in the correlations of photons produced from spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The singularity appears in a non-local coordinate plane consisting of one degree of freedom of each photon.

id: 0902.1660
title: Propagation of transverse intensity correlations of a two-photon state
authors: D. S. Tasca, S. P. Walborn, F. Toscano, P. Pellat-Finet, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, to appear PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033801 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1660
abstract: The propagation of transverse spatial correlations of photon pairs through arbitrary first-order linear optical systems is studied experimentally and theoretically using the fractional Fourier transform. Highly-correlated photon pairs in an EPR-like state are produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion and subject to optical fractional Fourier transform systems. It is shown that the joint detection probability can display either correlation, anti-correlation, or no correlation, depending on the sum of the orders $\alpha$ and $\beta$ of the transforms of the down-converted photons. We present analytical results for the propagation of the perfectly correlated EPR state, and numerical results for the propagation of the two-photon state produced from parametric down-conversion. We find good agreement between theory and experiment.

id: 0902.1684
title: Entanglement of Identical Particles and the Detection Process
authors: Malte Christopher Tichy, Fernando de Melo, Marek Ku?, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: substantial revision and extension, 11 pages
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 61, 225 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1684
abstract: We introduce detector-level entanglement, a unified entanglement concept for identical particles that takes into account the possible deletion of many-particle which-way information through the detection process. The concept implies a measure for the effective indistinguishability of the particles, which is controlled by the measurement setup and which quantifies the extent to which the (anti-)symmetrization of the wave-function impacts on physical observables. Initially indistinguishable particles can gain or loose entanglement on their transition to distinguishability, and their quantum statistical behavior depends on their initial entanglement. Our results show that entanglement cannot be attributed to a state of identical particles alone, but that the detection process has to be incorporated in the analysis.

id: 0902.1686
title: Optimal Surface-Electrode Trap Lattices for Quantum Simulation with Trapped Ions
authors: Roman Schmied, Janus H. Wesenberg, Dietrich Leibfried
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 233002 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1686
abstract: Trapped ions offer long internal state (spin) coherence times and strong inter-particle interactions mediated by the Coulomb force. This makes them interesting candidates for quantum simulation of coupled lattices. To this end it is desirable to be able to trap ions in arbitrary conformations with precisely controlled local potentials. We provide a general method for optimizing periodic planar radio-frequency electrodes for generating ion trapping potentials with specified trap locations and curvatures above the electrode plane. A linear-programming algorithm guarantees globally optimal electrode shapes that require only a single radio-frequency voltage source for operation. The optimization method produces final electrode shapes that are smooth and exhibit low fragmentation. Such characteristics are desirable for practical fabrication of surface-electrode trap lattices.

id: 0902.1724
title: Comment on "Bell inequalities and quantum mechanics" by J. H. Eberly
authors: Luiz Carlos Ryff
comments: 4 pages, submitted to the Am. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1724
abstract: Errors in Eberly's derivation of several Bell inequalities are pointed out: (1) it is based on an equation that is incorrect; (2) it uses neither two-particle states nor locality to derive Bell's inequalities and; (3) it does not use entanglement to obtain violations of Bell's inequalities. Even leading and outstanding physicists -- as certainly is the case of Prof. Eberly -- sometimes make elementary mistakes, and this by no means diminishes the importance of their scientific contribution. In general, this is a consequence of an excessive attachment to an idea (nowadays it has become fashionable to be against realism). This shows the importance of trying to keep an open mind.

id: 0902.1775
title: Quantum Calisthenics: Gaussians, The Path Integral and Guided Numerical Approximations
authors: Marvin Weinstein
comments: Invited Talk Light Cone 2008. 11 pages, no figures, link to web site where the reference animations can be viewed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1775
abstract: It is apparent to anyone who thinks about it that, to a large degree, the basic concepts of Newtonian physics are quite intuitive, but quantum mechanics is not. My purpose in this talk is to introduce you to a new, much more intuitive way to understand how quantum mechanics works. I refer to this method as a guided numerical approximation scheme and it is based upon a new look at what the path integral tells us about states in Hilbert space. I begin with simple exactly solvable models and show how to handle problems which cannot be dealt with analytically, this includes the treatment of the evolution of a Gaussian wave-packet in an anharmonic potential as well tunneling problems (i.e., instanton effects)

id: 0902.1800
title: Optical transformation from chirplet to fractional Fourier transformation kernel
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Li-yun Hu
comments: 3 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1800
abstract: We find a new integration transformation which can convert a chirplet function to fractional Fourier transformation kernel, this new transformation is invertible and obeys Parseval theorem. Under this transformation a new relationship between a phase space function and its Weyl-Wigner quantum correspondence operator is revealed.

id: 0902.1806
title: Approximating the Set of Separable States Using the Positive Partial Transpose Test
authors: Salman Beigi, Peter W. Shor
comments: 12 pages, published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 042202 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1806
abstract: The positive partial transpose test is one of the main criteria for detecting entanglement, and the set of states with positive partial transpose is considered as an approximation of the set of separable states. However, we do not know to what extent this criterion, as well as the approximation, are efficient. In this paper, we show that the positive partial transpose test gives no bound on the distance of a density matrix from separable states. More precisely, we prove that, as the dimension of the space tends to infinity, the maximum trace distance of a positive partial transpose state from separable states tends to 1. Using similar techniques, we show that the same result holds for other well-known separability criteria such as reduction criterion, majorization criterion and symmetric extension criterion. We also bring an evidence that the sets of positive partial transpose states and separable states have totally different shapes.

id: 0902.1880
title: Mutually unbiased bases and generalized Bell states
authors: A. B. Klimov, D. Sych, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, G. Leuchs
comments: 6 pages, no figures. Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1880
abstract: We employ a straightforward relation between mutually unbiased and Bell bases to extend the latter in terms of a direct construction for the former. We analyze in detail the properties of these new generalized Bell states, showing that they constitute an appropriate tool for testing entanglement in bipartite multiqudit systems.

id: 0902.1895
title: Coherent State Quantum Key Distribution with Multi Letter Phase-Shift Keying
authors: Denis Sych, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1895
abstract: We present a protocol for quantum key distribution using discrete modulation of coherent states of light. Information is encoded in the variable phase of coherent states which can be chosen from a regular discrete set ranging from binary to continuous modulation, similar to phase-shift-keying in classical communication. Information is decoded by simultaneous homodyne measurement of both quadratures and requires no active choice of basis. The protocol utilizes either direct or reverse reconciliation, both with and without postselection. We analyze the security of the protocol and show how to enhance it by the optimal choice of all variable parameters of the quantum signal.

id: 0902.1914
title: Local transformations of superpositions of entangled states
authors: Iulia Ghiu
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 373, 922 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1914
abstract: Suppose that we have two entangled states $\ket {\phi_1}$, $\ket{\psi_1}$ that cannot be converted to any of other two states $\ket{\phi_2}$, $\ket{\psi_2}$ by local operations and classical communication. We analyze the possibility of locally transforming a superposition of $\ket{\phi_1}$ and $\ket{\psi_1}$ into a superposition of $\ket{\phi_2}$ and $\ket{\psi_2}$. By using the Nielsen's theorem we find the necessary and sufficient conditions for this conversion to be performed.

id: 0902.1940
title: Comment on Ghost imaging with a single detector [arXiv0812.2633v2]
authors: Morton H. Rubin
comments: 4 pages with 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1940
abstract: Computational ghost imaging has been demonstrated experimentally recently. In this comment we wish to clarify the difference between pseudothermal ghost imaging (PGI) and computational ghost imaging (CGI). In particular, to emphasize the physics that arises from the difference in the type of sources used. The experiment in [2] is not a PGI experiment but is a simulation of PGI. If we consider CGI at the single photon level, it becomes clear that CGI relies on two identical photons, one real and one simulated, to obtain an image.

id: 0902.1969
title: Constructing General Unitary Maps from State Preparations
authors: Seth T. Merkel, Gavin Brennen, Poul S. Jessen, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1969
abstract: We present an efficient algorithm for generating unitary maps on a $d$-dimensional Hilbert space from a time-dependent Hamiltonian through a combination of stochastic searches and geometric construction. The protocol is based on the eigen-decomposition of the map. A unitary matrix can be implemented by sequentially mapping each eigenvector to a fiducial state, imprinting the eigenphase on that state, and mapping it back to the eigenvector. This requires the design of only $d$ state-to-state maps generated by control waveforms that are efficiently found by a gradient search with computational resources that scale polynomially in $d$. In contrast, the complexity of a stochastic search for a single waveform that simultaneously acts as desired on all eigenvectors scales exponentially in $d$. We extend this construction to design maps on an $n$-dimensional subspace of the Hilbert space using only $n$ stochastic searches. Additionally, we show how these techniques can be used to control atomic spins in the ground electronic hyperfine manifold of alkali atoms in order to implement general qudit logic gates as well to perform a simple form of error correction on an embedded qubit.

id: 0902.1974
title: Coherent states of a particle in magnetic field and Stieltjes moment problem
authors: J.P. Gazeau, M.C. Baldiotti, D.M. Gitman
comments: 12 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2009), pp. 1916-1920
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1974
abstract: A solution to a version of the Stieltjes moment problem is presented. Using this solution, we construct a family of coherent states of a charged particle in a uniform magnetic field. We prove that these states form an overcomplete set that is normalized and solves the identity. By the help of the coherent states we construct the Fock-Bergmann representation related to the particle quantization. This quantization procedure takes into account a circle topology of the classical motion.

id: 0902.1976
title: Manipulation of Semiclassical Laguerre-Gaussian Modes: a Model Case
authors: Michael VanValkenburgh
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. Added a figure; small changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1976
abstract: We continue the study, from a semiclassical viewpoint, of Calvo and Picon's operators, as manipulating photon states in quantum communication. In a previous paper, we defined a one-dimensional model operator and studied it analytically before moving on to Calvo and Picon's full two-dimensional operators. In the present paper, we show how the one-dimensional operator may also be useful as an experimental model, since it allows manipulations of two-dimensional Laguerre-Gaussian modes; the intensity distributions (in physical space) of the Laguerre-Gaussian modes then approximately flow along the elliptic curves studied earlier. Since the Wigner transform is fundamental in the study of Laguerre-Gaussian modes, we give a slightly expanded and improved treatment of the semiclassical Wigner transform, which was only briefly mentioned in the previous paper.

id: 0902.1981
title: Screening of electromagnetic field fluctuations by s--wave and d--wave superconductors
authors: Rachele Fermani, Stefan Scheel
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 025001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1981
abstract: We investigate theoretically the shielding of the electromagnetic field fluctuations by s-wave and d-wave superconductors within the framework of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics. The spin flip lifetime is evaluated above a niobium and a bismuth strontium calcium copper oxide (BSCCO) surface, and the screening effect is studied as a function of the thickness of the superconducting layer. Further, we study the different temperature dependence of the atomic spin relaxation above the two superconductors.

id: 0902.2007
title: The joys of permutation symmetry: direct measurements of entanglement
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 190503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2007
abstract: So-called direct measurements of entanglement are collective measurements on multiple copies of a (bipartite or multipartite) quantum system that directly provide one a value for some entanglement measure, such as the concurrence for bipartite states. Multiple copies are needed since the entanglement of a mixed state is not a linear function of the density matrix. Unfortunately, so far all experimental implementations of direct measurements made unverified assumptions about the form of the states, and, therefore, do not qualify as entanglement verification tests. I discuss how a direct measurement can be turned into a quantitative entanglement verification test by exploiting a recent theorem by Renner (R. Renner, Nature Physics 3, 645 (2007)).

id: 0902.2015
title: High-fidelity transmission of entanglement over a high-loss freespace channel
authors: Alessandro Fedrizzi, Rupert Ursin, Thomas Herbst, Matteo Nespoli, Robert Prevedel, Thomas Scheidl, Felix Tiefenbacher, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, replaced paper with published version, added journal reference
journal: Nature Physics, 5, 389-392 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2015
abstract: Quantum entanglement enables tasks not possible in classical physics. Many quantum communication protocols require the distribution of entangled states between distant parties. Here we experimentally demonstrate the successful transmission of an entangled photon pair over a 144 km free-space link. The received entangled states have excellent, noise-limited fidelity, even though they are exposed to extreme attenuation dominated by turbulent atmospheric effects. The total channel loss of 64 dB corresponds to the estimated attenuation regime for a two-photon satellite quantum communication scenario. We confirm that the received two-photon states are still highly entangled by violating the CHSH inequality by more than 5 standard deviations. From a fundamental point of view, our results show that the photons are virtually not subject to decoherence during their 0.5 ms long flight through air, which is encouraging for future world-wide quantum communication scenarios.

id: 0902.2029
title: Position Dependent Mass Oscillators and Coherent States
authors: Sara Cruz y Cruz, Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: 24 pages, 2 tables, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 185205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2029
abstract: The solving of the Schrodinger equation for a position-dependent mass quantum system is studied in two ways. First, it is found the interaction which must be applied on a mass m(x) in order to supply it with a particular spectrum of energies. Second, given a specific potential V(x) acting on the mass m(x), the related spectrum is found. The method of solution is applied to a wide class of position-dependent mass oscillators and the corresponding coherent states are constructed. The analytical expressions of such position-dependent mass coherent states preserve the functional structure of the Glauber states.

id: 0902.2040
title: A quantum variant of Einstein's hole argument
authors: I. Schmelzer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2040
abstract: We extend Einstein's hole argument into the quantum domain, and argue that quantum observables for quasiclassical superpositional states of gravitational fields require additional information to be well-defined, namely, relative positions of the gravitational fields involved in superpositional states. As a consequence, for the definition of these quantum observables we need a common background. The observable is a transition probability in a simple double-slit experiment with partial gravitational measurement of position. It may be easily computed in non-relativistic Schroedinger theory with Newtonian potential.

id: 0902.2048
title: Efficient light storage in a crystal using an Atomic Frequency Comb
authors: T. Chaneli¨¨re, J. Ruggiero, M. Bonarota, M. Afzelius, J.-L. Le Gou?t
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 023025 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2048
abstract: We demonstrate efficient and reversible mapping of a light field onto a thulium-doped crystal using an atomic frequency comb (AFC). Thanks to an accurate spectral preparation of the sample, we reach an efficiency of 9%. Our interpretation of the data is based on an original spectral analysis of the AFC. By independently measuring the absorption spectrum, we show that the efficiency is both limited by the available optical thickness and the preparation procedure at large absorption depth for a given bandwidth. The experiment is repeated with less than one photon per pulse and single photon counting detectors. We clearly observe that the AFC protocol is compatible with the noise level required for weak quantum field storage.

id: 0902.2058
title: Multi-resonant spinor dynamics in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: C. Klempt, O. Topic, G. Gebreyesus, M. Scherer, T. Henninger, P. Hyllus, W. Ertmer, L. Santos, J. Arlt
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 195302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2058
abstract: We analyze the spinor dynamics of a Rb-87 F=2 condensate initially prepared in the m_F=0 Zeeman sublevel. We show that this dynamics, characterized by the creation of correlated atomic pairs in m_F=+/-1, presents an intriguing multi-resonant magnetic field dependence induced by the trap inhomogeneity. This dependence is directly linked to the most unstable Bogoliubov spin excitations of the initial m_F = 0 condensate, showing that, in general, even a qualitative understanding of the pair creation efficiency in a spinor condensate requires a careful consideration of the confinement.

id: 0902.2059
title: Analytic solution of the separability criterion for continuous variable systems
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 6 pages. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79 (2009) 032334
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2059
abstract: By using the algebraic separability criterion of R. Simon, we present an explicit determination of squeezing parameters for which the P-representation condition saturates the $Sp(2,R)\otimes Sp(2,R)$ invariant separability condition for continuous variable two-party Gaussian systems. We thus give for the first time the explicit analytic formulas of squeezing parameters which establish the equivalence of the separability condition with the P-representation condition. The implications of our algebraic analysis on some of the past related works are discussed.

id: 0902.2088
title: Approximate l-State Solutions of the Klein-Gordon Equation for Modified Woods-Saxon Potential With Position Dependent Mass
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 15 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 24, 3985(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2088
abstract: The radial part of the Klein-Gordon equation for the generalized Woods-Saxon potential is solved by using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method in the case of spatially dependent mass within the new approximation scheme to the centrifugal potential term. The energy eigenvalues and corresponding normalized eigenfunctions are computed. The solutions in the case of constant mass are also studied to check out the consistency of our new approximation scheme.

id: 0902.2093
title: Quantitative verification of entanglement and fidelities from incomplete measurement data
authors: Harald Wunderlich, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 7 pages, PQE 2009 special issue
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 56, 2100-2105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2093
abstract: Many experiments in quantum information aim at creating multi-partite entangled states. Quantifying the amount of entanglement that was actually generated can, in principle, be accomplished using full-state tomography. This method requires the determination of a parameter set that is growing exponentially with the number of qubits and becomes infeasible even for moderate numbers of particles. Non-trivial bounds on experimentally prepared entanglement can however be obtained from partial information on the density matrix. The fundamental question that needs to be addressed in this context is then formulated as: What is the entanglement content of the least entangled quantum state that is compatible with the available measurement data? We formulate the problem mathematically employing methods from the theory of semi-definite programming and then address this problem for the case, where the goal of the experiment is the creation of graph states. The observables that we consider are the generators of the stabilizer group, thus the number of measurement settings grows only linearly in the number of qubits. We provide analytical solutions as well as numerical methods that may be applied directly to experiments, and compare the obtained bounds with results from full-state tomography for simulated data.

id: 0902.2096
title: Detection and engineering of spatial mode entanglement with ultra-cold bosons
authors: J. Goold, Libby Heaney, Th. Busch, V. Vedral
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022338 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2096
abstract: We outline an interferometric scheme for the detection of bi-mode and multi-mode spatial entanglement of finite-temperature,interacting Bose gases of fixed particle number. Whether entanglement is present in the gas depends on the existence of the single-particle reduced density matrix between different regions of space. We apply the scheme to the problem of a harmonically trapped boson pair and show that while entanglement is rapidly decreasing with temperature, a significant amount remains for all interaction strengths at zero temperature.Thus, by tuning the interaction parameter, the distribution of entanglement between many spatial modes can be modified.

id: 0902.2136
title: A heralded quantum gate between remote quantum memories
authors: P. Maunz, S. Olmschenk, D. Hayes, D. N. Matsukevich, L.-M. Duan, C. Monroe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2136
abstract: We demonstrate a probabilistic entangling quantum gate between two distant trapped ytterbium ions. The gate is implemented between the hyperfine "clock" state atomic qubits and mediated by the interference of two emitted photons carrying frequency encoded qubits. Heralded by the coincidence detection of these two photons, the gate has an average fidelity of 90+-2%. This entangling gate together with single qubit operations is sufficient to generate large entangled cluster states for scalable quantum computing.

id: 0902.2143
title: High-resolution optical frequency dissemination on a telecommunication network with data traffic
authors: Fabien K¨¦f¨¦lian, Olivier Lopez, Haifeng Jiang, Christian Chardonnet, Anne Amy-Klein, Georgio Santarelli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2143
abstract: We transferred the frequency of an ultra-stable laser over a 108 km urban fiber link comprising 22 km of optical communications network fiber simultaneously carrying Internet data traffic. The metrological signal and the digital data signal are transferred on two different frequency channels in a dense wavelength division multiplexing scheme. The metrological signal is inserted into and extracted from the communications network by using bidirectional off-the-shelf optical add-drop multiplexers. The link-induced phase noise is measured and cancelled with round-trip technique using an all-fiber-based interferometer. The compensated link shows an Allan deviation of a few 10-16 at one second and below 10-19 at 10,000 seconds. This opens the way to a wide dissemination of ultra stable optical clock signals between distant laboratories via the Internet network.

id: 0902.2162
title: When non i.i.d. information sources can be communicationally useful?
authors: Marcin Pawlowski, Karol Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2162
abstract: Information sources used for communication purposes usually are assumed to be i.i.d. type, especially as far as entanglement or nonlocality properties are concerned. Here we proposed simple scheme for detection of nonlocality of non i.i.d. sources based on the program idea which can be useful in communication tasks including quantum cryptography and communication complexity reduction. The principle of the scheme is rather general and can be applied to other problems like detection of entanglement coming from non-i.i.d sources.

id: 0902.2196
title: Quantized Poker
authors: Steven A. Bleiler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2196
abstract: Poker has become a popular pastime all over the world. At any given moment one can find tens, if not hundreds, of thousands of players playing poker via their computers on the major on-line gaming sites. Indeed, according to the Vancouver, B.C. based pokerpulse.com estimates, more than 190 million US dollars daily is bet in on-line poker rooms. But communication and computation are changing as the relentless application of Moore's Law brings computation and information into the quantum realm. The quantum theory of games concerns the behavior of classical games when played in the coming quantum computing environment or when played with quantum information. In almost all cases, the "quantized" versions of these games afford many new strategic options to the players. The study of so-called quantum games is quite new, arising from a seminal paper of D. Meyer \cite{Meyer} published in Physics Review Letters in 1999. The ensuing near decade has seen an explosion of contributions and controversy over what exactly a quantized game really is and if there is indeed anything new for game theory. With the settling of some of these controversies \cite{Bleiler}, it is now possible to fully analyze some of the basic endgame models from the game theory of Poker and predict with confidence just how the optimal play of Poker will change when played in the coming quantum computation environment. The analysis here shows that for certain players, "entangled" poker will allow results that outperform those available to players "in real life".

id: 0902.2234
title: Entanglement Transfer from Bosonic Systems to Qubits
authors: Andrzej Veitia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2234
abstract: We study the entanglement of a pair of qubits resulting from their interaction with a bosonic system. Here we restrict our discussion to the case where the set of operators acting on different qubits commute. A special class of interactions inducing entanglement in an initially separable two qubit system is discussed. Our results apply to the case where the initial state of the bosonic system is represented by a statistical mixture of states with fixed particle number.

id: 0902.2249
title: Monitoring the wave function by time continuous position measurement
authors: Thomas Konrad, Andreas Rothe, Francesco Petruccione, Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures. For associated avi file (movie) see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2249
abstract: We consider a single copy of a quantum particle moving in a potential and show that it is possible to monitor its complete wave function by only continuously measuring its position. While we assume that the potential is known, no information is available about its state initially. In order to monitor the wave function, an estimate of the wave function is propagated due to the influence of the potential and continuously updated according to the results of the position measurement. We demonstrate by numerical simulations that the estimation reaches arbitrary values of accuracy below 100 percent within a finite time period for the potentials we study. In this way our method grants, a certain time after the beginning of the measurement, an accurate real-time record of the state evolution including the influence of the continuous measurement. Moreover, it is robust against sudden perturbations of the system as for example random momentum kicks from environmental particles, provided they occur not too frequently.

id: 0902.2252
title: Single photon quantum non-demolition in the presence of inhomogeneous broadening
authors: Andrew D. Greentree, R. G. Beausoleil, L. C. L. Hollenberg, W. J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, S. Prawer, T. P. Spiller
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures (some in colour) at low resolution for arXiv purposes
journal: New J.Phys.11:093005,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2252
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) has been often proposed for generating nonlinear optical effects at the single photon level; in particular, as a means to effect a quantum non-demolition measurement of a single photon field. Previous treatments have usually considered homogeneously broadened samples, but realisations in any medium will have to contend with inhomogeneous broadening. Here we reappraise an earlier scheme [Munro \textit{et al.} Phys. Rev. A \textbf{71}, 033819 (2005)] with respect to inhomogeneities and show an alternative mode of operation that is preferred in an inhomogeneous environment. We further show the implications of these results on a potential implementation in diamond containing nitrogen-vacancy colour centres. Our modelling shows that single mode waveguide structures of length $200 \mu\mathrm{m}$ in single-crystal diamond containing a dilute ensemble of NV$^-$ of only 200 centres are sufficient for quantum non-demolition measurements using EIT-based weak nonlinear interactions.

id: 0902.2269
title: Special entangled quantum systems and the Freudenthal construction
authors: P¨¦ter Vrana, P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 16 pages LATEX, Table 2 was corrected, a new paragraph was added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 285303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2269
abstract: We consider special quantum systems containing both distinguishable and identical constituents. It is shown that for these systems the Freudenthal construction based on cubic Jordan algebras naturally defines entanglement measures invariant under the group of stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). For this type of multipartite entanglement the SLOCC classes can be explicitly given. These results enable further explicit constructions of multiqubit entanglement measures for distinguishable constituents by embedding them into identical fermionic ones. We also prove that the Plucker relations for the embedding system provide a sufficient and necessary condition for the separability of the embedded one. We argue that this embedding procedure can be regarded as a convenient representation for quantum systems of particles which are really indistinguishable but for some reason they are not in the same state of some inner degree of freedom.

id: 0902.2294
title: On the structure of generators for non-Markovian Master Equations
authors: Andrzej Kossakowski, Rolando Rebolledo
comments: accepted in Open Sys. Information Dyn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2294
abstract: Complete characterization of complete positivity preserving non-Markovian master equations is presented.

id: 0902.2318
title: Structure of completely positive quantum master equations with memory kernel
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 13 pages, revtex, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79 (2009) 041147
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2318
abstract: Semi-Markov processes represent a well known and widely used class of random processes in classical probability theory. Here, we develop an extension of this type of non-Markovian dynamics to the quantum regime. This extension is demonstrated to yield quantum master equations with memory kernels which allow the formulation of explicit conditions for the complete positivity of the corresponding quantum dynamical maps, thus leading to important insights into the structural characterization of the non-Markovian quantum dynamics of open systems. Explicit examples are analyzed in detail.

id: 0902.2330
title: Low temperature studies of the excited-state structure of Nitrogen-Vacancy color centers in diamond
authors: A. Batalov, V. Jacques, F. Kaiser, P. Siyushev, P. Neumann, L. J. Rogers, R. L. McMurtrie, N. B. Manson, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 195506 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2330
abstract: We report a study of the 3E excited-state structure of single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) defects in diamond, combining resonant excitation at cryogenic temperatures and optically detected magnetic resonance. A theoretical model of the excited-state structure is developed and shows excellent agreement with experimental observations. Besides, we show that the two orbital branches associated with the 3E excited-state are averaged when operating at room temperature. This study leads to an improved physical understanding of the NV defect electronic structure, which is invaluable for the development of diamond-based quantum information processing.

id: 0902.2366
title: Relativistic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Correlations in curved spacetime via Fermi-Walker Transport
authors: Knut Bakke, Alexandre M. de M. Carvalho, Claudio Furtado
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2366
abstract: We present a geometric description to study the relativistic EPR correlations in curved spacetime background given by the application of the Fermi-Walker transport in the relativistic EPR states and we show that its result has the same effect as the applications of successive infinitesimal Lorentz boosts in the relativistic EPR states. We also show that the expression for the Bell inequality due to the Fermi-Walker transport is equivalent to the expression demonstrated by Terashima and Ueda \cite{TU2}, where the degree of violation of the Bell inequality is dependent of the angle of the Wigner rotation. This geometrical approach to study the relativistic EPR correlations is a promissing formulation to investigate the EPR correlations in the general relativity background.

id: 0902.2375
title: Economical ontological models for discrete quantum systems
authors: Ernesto F. Galvao
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. v2: erroneous claim removed, compression method improved, reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022106 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2375
abstract: I use the recently proposed framework of ontological models [Harrigan et al., arXiv:0709.1149v2] to obtain economical models for results of tomographically complete sets of measurements on finite-dimensional quantum systems. I describe a procedure that simplifies the models by decreasing the number of necessary ontic states, and present an explicit model with just 33 ontic states for a qutrit.

id: 0902.2384
title: Transport Properties of a Non-relativistic Delta-Shell Gas with Long Scattering Lengths
authors: Sergey Postnikov, Madappa Prakash
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, 1 table, To appear in Festschrift for Gerry Brown, ed. Sabine Lee (World Scientific, Singapore)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2384
abstract: The coefficients of diffusion, thermal conductivity, and shear viscosity are calculated for a system of non-relativistic particles interacting via a delta-shell potential V(r)=-v \delta(r-R) when the average distance between particles is smaller than R. The roles of resonances and long scattering lengths including the unitary limit are examined. Results for ratios of diffusion to viscosity and viscosity to entropy density are presented for varying scattering lengths.

id: 0902.2421
title: Entanglement dynamics for the double Tavis-Cummings model
authors: Zhong-Xiao Man, Yun-Jie Xia, Nguyen Ba An
comments: 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2421
abstract: A double Tavis-Cummings model (DTCM) is developed to simulate the entanglement dynamics of realistic quantum information processing where two entangled atom-pairs $AB$ and $CD$ are distributed in such a way that atoms $AC$ are embedded in a cavity $a$ while $BD$ are located in another remote cavity $b$. The evolutions of different types of initially shared entanglement of atoms are studied under various initial states of cavity fields. The results obtained in the DTCM are compared with that obtained in the double Jaynes-Cummings model (DJCM) [J. Phys. B \textbf{40}, S45 (2007)] and an interaction strength theory is proposed to explain the parameter domain in which the so-called entanglement sudden death occurs for both the DTCM and DJCM.

id: 0902.2427
title: Bistable Mott-insulator to superfluid phase transition in cavity optomechanics
authors: W. Chen, K. Zhang, D. S. Goldbaum, M. Bhattacharya, P. Meystre
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2427
abstract: We study the many-body state of ultracold bosons in a bistable optical lattice potential in an optomechanical resonator in the weak-coupling limit. New physics arises as a result of bistability and discontinuous jumps in the cavity field. Of particular interest is the situation where the optical cavity is engineered so that a single input beam can result in two radically different stable ground states for the intracavity gas: superfluid and Mott-insulator.

id: 0902.2428
title: Coherent excitation of a strongly coupled quantum dot - cavity system
authors: Dirk Englund, Arka Majumdar, Andrei Faraon, Mitsuru Toishi, Nick Stoltz, Pierre Petroff, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2428
abstract: We have studied the coherent excitation of a strongly coupled QD/photonic crystal cavity system. Time-resolved reflectivity measurements show the vacuum Rabi oscillation of the dot in the cavity. Next, we considered the resonant driving of a cavity-detuned dot, which efficiently populates the cavity mode. This cavity-controlled read-out channel allows high-resolution single quantum dot spectroscopy. Autocorrelation measurements on the cavity mode show antibunching and suggest the use of the resonantly driven QD/cavity system as an on-demand source of single photons with potentially near-unity indistinguishability.

id: 0902.2432
title: Quantum-state transfer on spin-chain channels with random imperfection
authors: De-Xin Kong, An Min Wang
comments: 26 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2432
abstract: We investigate the quantum-state transfer on spin-chian channels with random imperfections.Through combining the advantages of two known schemes, the dual-rail spin-chain channels[9] and the particular ihhomogenous spin-chain channel[10], we propose a protocol that can avoid the quantum noises introduced by many unnecessary measurements and can enhance the anti-decoherence ability. The results show that our protocol is more efficient to transfer an arbitrary quantum state than the original one. In particular, we discuss the effects of couplings fluctuations and imperfect initialization on both of the improved scheme and original one.

id: 0902.2449
title: Influence of detector motion in Bell inequalities with entangled fermions
authors: Andre G. S. Landulfo, George E. A. Matsas
comments: 4 pages and 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2449
abstract: We investigate how relativity influences the spin correlation of entangled fermions measured by moving detectors. In particular, we show that the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt Bell inequality is not violated by quantum mechanics when the left and right spin detectors move fast enough.

id: 0902.2451
title: Why aren't quantum correlations maximally nonlocal? Biased local randomness as essential feature of quantum mechanics
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2451
abstract: It is argued that the quantum correlations are not maximally nonlocal to make it possible to control local outcomes from outside spacetime, and quantum mechanics emerges from timeless nonlocality and biased local randomness. This rules out a world described by NL (nonlocal) boxes. A new type of experiments is suggested.

id: 0902.2478
title: Maps for general open quantum systems and a theory of linear quantum error correction
authors: A. Shabani, D.A. Lidar
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure. Supersedes arXiv:0708.1953
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 80, 012309 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2478
abstract: We show that quantum subdynamics of an open quantum system can always be described by a Hermitian map, irrespective of the form of the initial total system state. Since the theory of quantum error correction was developed based on the assumption of completely positive (CP) maps, we present a generalized theory of linear quantum error correction, which applies to any linear map describing the open system evolution. In the physically relevant setting of Hermitian maps, we show that the CP-map based version of quantum error correction theory applies without modifications. However, we show that a more general scenario is also possible, where the recovery map is Hermitian but not CP. Since non-CP maps have non-positive matrices in their range, we provide a geometric characterization of the positivity domain of general linear maps. In particular, we show that this domain is convex, and that this implies a simple algorithm for finding its boundary.

id: 0902.2512
title: Probing Nano-Mechanical QED Effects
authors: Y. B. Gao, S. Yang, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2512
abstract: We propose and study an "intrinsic probing" approach, without introducing any external detector, to mimic cavity QED effects in a qubit-nanomechanical resonator system. This metallic nanomechanical resonator can act as an intrinsic detector when a weak driving current passes through it. The nanomechanical resonator acts as both the cavity and the detector. A cavity QED-like effect is demonstrated by the correlation spectrum of the electromotive force between the two ends of the nanomechanical resonator. Using the quantum regression theorem and perturbation theory, we analytically calculate the correlation spectrum. In the weak driving limit, we study the effect on the vacuum Rabi splitting of both the strength of the driving as well as the frequency-detuning between the charge qubit and the nanomechanical resonator. Numerical calculations confirm the validity of our intrinsic probing approach.

id: 0902.2526
title: Cooling and squeezing the fluctuations of a nanomechanical beam by indirect quantum feedback control
authors: Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2526
abstract: We study cooling and squeezing the fluctuations of a nanomechanical beam using quantum feedback control. In our model, the nanomechanical beam is coupled to a transmission line resonator via a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID). The leakage of the electromagnetic field from the transmission line resonator is measured using homodyne detection. This measured signal is then used to design a quantum-feedback-control signal to drive the electromagnetic field in the transmission line resonator. Although the control is imposed on the transmission line resonator, this quantum-feedback-control signal indirectly affects the thermal motion of the nanomechanical beam via the inductive beam-resonator coupling, making it possible to cool and squeeze the fluctuations of the beam, allowing it to approach the standard quantum limit.

id: 0902.2528
title: Multiparty quantum cryptographic protocol
authors: M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: 12 pages, 1 .eps figure, 3 tables
journal: M. Ramzan et al 2008 Chinese Phys. Lett. 25 3543-3546
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2528
abstract: We propose a multiparty quantum cryptographic protocol. Unitary operators applied by Bob and Charlie, on their respective qubits of a tripartite entangled state encodes a classical symbol that can be decoded at Alice's end with the help of a decoding matrix. Eve's presence can be detected by the disturbance of the decoding matrix. Our protocol is secure against intercept-resend attacks. Furthermore, it is efficient and deterministic in the sense that two classical bits can be transferred per entangled pair of qubits. It is worth mentioning that in this protocol same symbol can be used for key distribution and Eve's detection that enhances the efficiency of the protocol.

id: 0902.2596
title: Control of quantum dynamics by optimized measurements
authors: Feng Shuang, Mianlai Zhou, Alexander Pechen, Rebing Wu, Ofer M. Shir, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 063422 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2596
abstract: Quantum measurements are considered for optimal control of quantum dynamics with instantaneous and continuous observations utilized to manipulate population transfer. With an optimal set of measurements, the highest yield in a two-level system can be obtained. The analytical solution is given for the problem of population transfer by measurement-assisted coherent control in a three-level system with a dynamical symmetry. The anti-Zeno effect is recovered in the controlled processes. The demonstrations in the paper show that suitable observations can be powerful tools in the manipulation of quantum dynamics.

id: 0902.2615
title: Two-slit diffraction with highly charged particles: Niels Bohr's consistency argument that the electromagnetic field must be quantized
authors: Gordon Baym, Tomoki Ozawa
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. To appear in Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci
journal: Proc.Nat.Acad.Sci.106:3035-3040,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2615
abstract: We analyze Niels Bohr's proposed two-slit interference experiment with highly charged particles that argues that the consistency of elementary quantum mechanics requires that the electromagnetic field must be quantized. In the experiment a particle's path through the slits is determined by measuring the Coulomb field that it produces at large distances; under these conditions the interference pattern must be suppressed. The key is that as the particle's trajectory is bent in diffraction by the slits it must radiate and the radiation must carry away phase information. Thus the radiation field must be a quantized dynamical degree of freedom. On the other hand, if one similarly tries to determine the path of a massive particle through an inferometer by measuring the Newtonian gravitational potential the particle produces, the interference pattern would have to be finer than the Planck length and thus undiscernable. Unlike for the electromagnetic field, Bohr's argument does not imply that the gravitational field must be quantized.

id: 0902.2629
title: Robustness of geometric phase under parametric noise
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Paolo Aniello
comments: 1 figure, 9 pages, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Scr. 79 (2009) 065012.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2629
abstract: We study the robustness of geometric phase in the presence of parametric noise. For that purpose we consider a simple case study, namely a semiclassical particle which moves adiabatically along a closed loop in a static magnetic field acquiring the Dirac phase. Parametric noise comes from the interaction with a classical environment which adds a Brownian component to the path followed by the particle. After defining a gauge invariant Dirac phase, we discuss the first and second moments of the distribution of the Dirac phase angle coming from the noisy trajectory.

id: 0902.2634
title: Random repeated quantum interactions and random invariant states
authors: Ion Nechita, Cl¨¦ment Pellegrini
comments: 
journal: Probab. Theory Relat. Fields (2012) 152:299-320
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2634
abstract: We consider a generalized model of repeated quantum interactions, where a system $\mathcal{H}$ is interacting in a random way with a sequence of independent quantum systems $\mathcal{K}_n, n \geq 1$. Two types of randomness are studied in detail. One is provided by considering Haar-distributed unitaries to describe each interaction between $\mathcal{H}$ and $\mathcal{K}_n$. The other involves random quantum states describing each copy $\mathcal{K}_n$. In the limit of a large number of interactions, we present convergence results for the asymptotic state of $\mathcal{H}$. This is achieved by studying spectral properties of (random) quantum channels which guarantee the existence of unique invariant states. Finally this allows to introduce a new physically motivated ensemble of random density matrices called the \emph{asymptotic induced ensemble}.

id: 0902.2638
title: Quantum Phases of Ultracold Bosonic Atoms in two Bands of an Optical-Lattice coupled by a Cavity Field
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 12 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 053608 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2638
abstract: We study the quantum phase transitions between superfluid and Mott insulator states for ultracold bosons occupying two bands of an optical lattice. The two atomic states are resonantly coupled by a single cavity mode which mediates transitions between the two bosonic particle modes via absorption or emission of a cavity photon. This coupling between the bands shifts the appearance of the Mott insulator phase towards deeper optical lattice potentials and stronger on-site interaction strength, as atomic coherence can build up via photon assisted tunneling in both bands. Varying the intra and interband on-site interactions leads to several different atomic phase configurations. There are even parameter regions where a mean field approach predicts concurrence of a Mott insulator state in one band, while atoms in the second band stay superfluid.

id: 0902.2657
title: Slow light using spectral hole burning in a Tm3+:YAG crystal
authors: Romain Lauro, Thierry Chaneli¨¨re, Jean Louis Le Gou?t
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2657
abstract: We report on light slowing down in a rare earth ion doped crystal by persistent spectral hole burning. The absence of motion of the active ions, the large inhomogeneous broadening, the small homogeneous width and the long lifetime of the hyperfine shelving states make this material convenient for the burning of narrow persistent spectral holes. Since the hole can be burnt long before the arrival of the input signal, there is no need for a strong coupling field, illuminating the sample simultaneously with the input signal, in contrast with procedures such as Electromagnetically Induced Transparency or Coherent Population Oscillations. Analyzing the slowing down process, we point out the role played by off resonance atoms where most of the incoming information is carried over while the pulse is confined within the sample.

id: 0902.2658
title: Accuracy threshold for concatenated error detection in one dimension
authors: A. M. Stephens, Z. W. E. Evans
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, now with error bars
journal: PRA 80, 022313 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2658
abstract: Estimates of the quantum accuracy threshold often tacitly assume that it is possible to interact arbitrary pairs of qubits in a quantum computer with a failure rate that is independent of the distance between them. None of the many physical systems that are candidates for quantum computing possess this property. Here we study the performance of a concatenated error-detection code in a system that permits only nearest-neighbor interactions in one dimension. We make use of a new message-passing scheme that maximizes the number of errors that can be reliably corrected by the code. Our numerical results indicate that arbitrarily accurate universal quantum computation is possible if the probability of failure of each elementary physical operation is below approximately 10^{-5}. This threshold is three orders of magnitude lower than the highest known.

id: 0902.2663
title: Spectral hole burning for stopping light
authors: R. Lauro, T. Chaneliere, J.-L. Le Gouet
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 053801 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2663
abstract: We propose a novel protocol for storage and retrieval of photon wave packets in a $\Lambda$-type atomic medium. This protocol derives from spectral hole burning and takes advantages of the specific properties of solid state systems at low temperature, such as rare earth ion doped crystals. The signal pulse is tuned to the center of the hole that has been burnt previously within the inhomogeneously broadened absorption band. The group velocity is strongly reduced, being proportional to the hole width. This way the optically carried information and energy is carried over to the off-resonance optical dipoles. Storage and retrieval are performed by conversion to and from ground state Raman coherence by using brief $\pi$-pulses. The protocol exhibits some resemblance with the well known electromagnetically induced transparency process. It also presents distinctive features such as the absence of coupling beam. In this paper we detail the various steps of the protocol, summarize the critical parameters and theoretically examine the recovery efficiency.

id: 0902.2680
title: How Einstein's quantum hypothesis requires a departure from classical mechanics
authors: Gabriele Carcassi
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2680
abstract: The aim of this work is to show how Einstein's quantum hypothesis leads immediately and necessarily to a departure from classical mechanics. First we note that the classical description and predictions are in terms of idealized measurements that are exact, instantaneous, non-perturbative, independent of each other and process agnostic. If we assume we cannot arbitrarily reduce the strength of a signal, measurements are ultimately perturbative to some degree. We show how a physical description in which the best measurement conceivable, i.e. the ideal measurement, perturbs the system leads to all the concepts present in quantum mechanics including conjugate variables, probabilistic predictions and measurements connected to symmetries.

id: 0902.2697
title: Entanglement Sudden Death as an Indicator of Fidelity in a Four-Qubit Cluster State
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052325 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2697
abstract: I explore the entanglement evolution of a four qubit cluster state in a dephasing environment concentrating on the phenomenon of entanglement sudden death (ESD). Specifically, I ask whether the onset of ESD has an effect on the utilization of this cluster state as a means of implementing a single qubit rotation in the measurement based cluster state model of quantum computation. To do this I compare the evolution of the entanglement to the fidelity, a measure of how accurately the desired state (after the measurement based operations) is achieved. I find that ESD does not cause a change of behavior or discontinuity in the fidelity but may indicate when the fidelity of certain states goes to .5.

id: 0902.2743
title: Quantum multiplexing with optical coherent states
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol. 9, No. 7&8 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2743
abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel quantum multiple access technique based on optical coherent states. The information of several coherent state optical qubits is combined into a single qudit, which is the superposition of almost orthogonal coherent states. The original information is encoded into a new Hilbert space with the help of a quantum multiplexer (QMUX) and then recovered at the other end with a quantum demultiplexer (QDEMUX). We introduce the optical tools that complete the coherence state quantum computation model and give the desired circuits. The proposed system can admit a number of users above the optimal limit at the cost of a degradation of the transmitted data. In this and some other aspects, it can be regarded as a quantum analogue of classical Code Division Multiple Access techniques.

id: 0902.2745
title: Vapor pressure dependence of spectral width of EIT in Lambda-level cesium molecular system
authors: Hui Chen, Hebin Li, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Mikhail A. Gubin, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Laser Physics, 20, 1725-1728 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2745
abstract: We have studied electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in diatomic cesium molecules in a vapor cell by using tunable diode lasers. We have observed a sub-natural Lambda-resonance in an absorption molecular band at different cesium vapor pressures. The width of the EIT resonance shows a linear dependence on cesium vapor pressure. Narrow Lambda-resonances in molecules can be used as frequency references for femtosecond laser frequency combs.

id: 0902.2746
title: About the dynamics and thermodynamics of trapped ions
authors: Caroline Champenois
comments: accepted for publication in the "Modern Applications of Trapped Ions" special issue
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics en preparation (2009) 00
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2746
abstract: This tutorial introduces the dynamics of charged particles in a radiofrequency trap in a very general manner to point out the differences between the dynamics in a quadrupole and in a multipole trap. When dense samples are trapped, the dynamics is modified by the Coulomb repulsion between ions. To take into account this repulsion, we propose to use a method, originally developed for particles in Penning trap, that model the ion cloud as a cold fluid. This method can not reproduce the organisation of cold clouds as crystals but it allows one to scale the size of large samples with the trapping parameters and the number of ions trapped, for different linear geometries of trap.

id: 0902.2769
title: Electronic structure of the Magnesium hydride molecular ion
authors: Mireille Aymar, Romain Gu¨¦rout, Mohamed Sahlaoui, Olivier Dulieu
comments: submitted to J. Phys. B, special issue on Cold trapped ions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2769
abstract: In this paper, using a standard quantum chemistry approach based on pseudopotentials for atomic core representation, Gaussian basis sets, and effective core polarization potentials, we investigate the electronic properties of the MgH$^+$ ion. We first determine potential energy curves for several states using different basis sets and discuss their predicted accuracy by comparing our values of the well depths and position with other available results. We then calculate permanent and transition dipole moments for several transitions. Finally for the first time, we calculate the static dipole polarizability of MgH$^+$ as function of the interatomic distance. This study represents the first step towards the modeling of collisions between trapped cold Mg$^+$ ions and H$_2$ molecules.

id: 0902.2807
title: Entanglement of bipartite states and quantum teleportation: an introduction
authors: Dax Enshan Koh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2807
abstract: There has been spectacular progress in the field of quantum information in recent decades. The development of this field highlights the importance of the role of entanglement in quantum computing, quantum teleportation and quantum cryptography. These notes serve to provide a gentle introduction to the entanglement of bipartite states. In these notes, we introduce Bell's theorem in the form derived by Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt. We discuss the Schmidt decomposition and the Peres-Horodecki criterion in the entanglement of pure and mixed bipartite states. Finally, we describe a teleportation protocol as an illustration of the use of entangled states.

id: 0902.2813
title: Environment-dependent dissipation in quantum Brownian motion
authors: J. Paavola, J. Piilo, K.-A. Suominen, S. Maniscalco
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, v2: added new references and paragraphs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052120 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2813
abstract: The dissipative dynamics of a quantum Brownian particle is studied for different types of environment. We derive analytic results for the time evolution of the mean energy of the system for Ohmic, sub-Ohmic and super-Ohmic environments, without performing the Markovian approximation. Our results allow to establish a direct link between the form of the environmental spectrum and the thermalization dynamics. This in turn leads to a natural explanation of the microscopic physical processes ruling the system time evolution both in the short-time non-Markovian region and in the long-time Markovian one. Our comparative study of thermalization for different environments sheds light on the physical contexts in which non-Markovian dissipation effects are dominant.

id: 0902.2826
title: Coherent Manipulation of a Ca Spin Qubit in a Micro Ion Trap
authors: U. G. Poschinger, G. Huber, F. Ziesel, M. Deiss, M. Hettrich, S. A. Schulz, K. Singer, F. Schmidt-Kaler, G. Poulsen, M. Drewsen, R. J. Hendricks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2826
abstract: We demonstrate the implementation of a spin qubit with a single Ca ion in a micro ion trap. The qubit is encoded in the Zeeman ground state levels mJ=+1/2 and mJ=-1/2 of the S1/2 state of the ion. We show sideband cooling close to the vibrational ground state and demonstrate the initialization and readout of the qubit levels with 99.5% efficiency. We employ a Raman transition close to the S1/2 - P1/2 resonance for coherent manipulation of the qubit. We observe single qubit rotations with 96% fidelity and gate times below 5mus. Rabi oscillations on the blue motional sideband are used to extract the phonon number distribution. The dynamics of this distribution is analyzed to deduce the trap-induced heating rate of 0.3(1) phonons/ms.

id: 0902.2834
title: The classical capacity of quantum channels with memory
authors: Tony Dorlas, Ciara Morgan
comments: 6 double-column pages. Short note added on quantum memory channels
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032320 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2834
abstract: We investigate the classical capacity of two quantum channels with memory: a periodic channel with depolarizing channel branches, and a convex combination of depolarizing channels. We prove that the capacity is additive in both cases. As a result, the channel capacity is achieved without the use of entangled input states. In the case of a convex combination of depolarizing channels the proof provided can be extended to other quantum channels whose classical capacity has been proved to be additive in the memoryless case.

id: 0902.2839
title: The Case for Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Douglas Stebila, Michele Mosca, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure; to appear in proceedings of QuantumComm 2009 Workshop on Quantum and Classical Information Security; version 2 minor content revisions
journal: Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, volume 36, page 283--296. Springer, 2010.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2839
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) promises secure key agreement by using quantum mechanical systems. We argue that QKD will be an important part of future cryptographic infrastructures. It can provide long-term confidentiality for encrypted information without reliance on computational assumptions. Although QKD still requires authentication to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks, it can make use of either information-theoretically secure symmetric key authentication or computationally secure public key authentication: even when using public key authentication, we argue that QKD still offers stronger security than classical key agreement.

id: 0902.2867
title: A multimode model for projective photon-counting measurements
authors: Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Alexei Ourjoumtsev, Aurelien Dantan, Philippe Grangier, Martijn Wubs, Anders S. Sorensen
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013820 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2867
abstract: We present a general model to account for the multimode nature of the quantum electromagnetic field in projective photon-counting measurements. We focus on photon-subtraction experiments, where non-gaussian states are produced conditionally. These are useful states for continuous-variable quantum information processing. We present a general method called mode reduction that reduces the multimode model to an effective two-mode problem. We apply this method to a multimode model describing broadband parametric downconversion, thereby improving the analysis of existing experimental results. The main improvement is that spatial and frequency filters before the photon detector are taken into account explicitly. We find excellent agreement with previously published experimental results, using fewer free parameters than before, and discuss the implications of our analysis for the optimized production of states with negative Wigner functions.

id: 0902.2870
title: Pairwise Entanglement and Geometric Phase in $d=2,3$-Dimensional Free-Fermion Lattice Systems
authors: H.T. Cui, Y.F. Zhang
comments: 7+pages, EPJD style
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D, 51, 393 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2870
abstract: The pairwise entanglement, measured by concurrence and geometric phase in $d=2,3$-dimensional free-fermion lattice systems have been studied for the ground state in this paper. Their derivation with respect to the external parameter show the singularity closed to the phase transition points, and can be used to detect the phase transition in this model. Furthermore our studies show for the free-fermion model that both concurrence and geometric phase shows the intimate connection with the correlation functions. The possible relation between concurrence and geometric phase has been also discussed.

id: 0902.2878
title: A Unified Theory of Quantum Holonomies
authors: Atushi Tanaka, Taksu Cheon
comments: 24pages; To be published in Ann. Phys. (N.Y.); Corrected typos
journal: Annals Phys.324:1340-1359,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2878
abstract: A periodic change of slow environmental parameters of a quantum system induces quantum holonomy. The phase holonomy is a well-known example. Another is a more exotic kind that exhibits eigenvalue and eigenspace holonomies. We introduce a theoretical formulation that describes the phase and eigenspace holonomies on an equal footing. The building block of the theory is a gauge connection for an ordered basis, which is conceptually distinct from Mead-Truhlar-Berry's connection and its Wilczek-Zee extension. A gauge invariant treatment of eigenspace holonomy based on Fujikawa's formalism is developed. Example of adiabatic quantum holonomy, including the exotic kind with spectral degeneracy, are shown.

id: 0902.2879
title: Entanglement of flux qubits through a joint detection of photons
authors: M. Kurpas, E. Zipper
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2879
abstract: We study the entanglement creation between two flux qubits interacting with electromagnetic field modes. No direct interaction between the qubits exists. Entanglement is reached using entanglement swapping method by an interference measurement performed on photons. We discuss the influence of off-resonance and multi-photon initial states on the qubit-qubit entanglement. The presented scheme is able to drive an initially separable state of two qubits into an highly entangled state suitable for quantum information processing.

id: 0902.2889
title: Non-factorizable Joint Probabilities and Evolutionarily Stable Strategies in the Quantum Prisoner's Dilemma Game
authors: Azhar Iqbal, Derek Abbott
comments: 9 pages, no figure
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2009) 2537--2541
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2889
abstract: The well known refinement of the Nash Equilibrium (NE) called an Evolutionarily Stable Strategy (ESS) is investigated in the quantum Prisoner's Dilemma (PD) game that is played using an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen type setting. Earlier results report that in this scheme the classical NE remains intact as the unique solution of the quantum PD game. In contrast, we show here that interestingly in this scheme a non-classical solution for the ESS emerges for the quantum PD.

id: 0902.2890
title: Spontaneous emission interference in negative-refractive-index waveguides
authors: G. X. Li, J. Evers, C. H. Keitel
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 045102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2890
abstract: The spontaneous decay of a V-type three-level atom placed in a negative-refractive-index waveguide is analyzed. We find that in thin waveguides, highly efficient surface guided modes are supported, which do not occur in positive index waveguides. In addition, at low absorption, the mode density and thus spontaneous emission into particular regular guided modes is enhanced by several orders of magnitude as compared to regular dielectric waveguides. The asymmetries between emission into the different modes and the enhancement of particular guided modes allow to induce strong spontaneous-emission interference between transitions with orthogonal transition dipole moments.

id: 0902.2896
title: Quantum experiments with human eyes as detectors based on cloning via stimulated emission
authors: Pavel Sekatski, Nicolas Brunner, Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin, Christoph Simon
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 113601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2896
abstract: We show theoretically that the multi-photon states obtained by cloning single-photon qubits via stimulated emission can be distinguished with the naked human eye with high efficiency and fidelity. Focusing on the "micro-macro" situation realized in a recent experiment [F. De Martini, F. Sciarrino, and C. Vitelli, Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 253601 (2008)], where one photon from an original entangled pair is detected directly, whereas the other one is greatly amplified, we show that performing a Bell experiment with human-eye detectors for the amplified photon appears realistic, even when losses are taken into account. The great robustness of these results under photon loss leads to an apparent paradox, which we resolve by noting that the Bell violation proves the existence of entanglement before the amplification process. However, we also prove that there is genuine micro-macro entanglement even for high loss.

id: 0902.2901
title: Localized Beams and Dielectric Barriers
authors: Stefano De Leo, Pietro Rotelli
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Optics A 10, 115001-5 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2901
abstract: Recalling the similarities between the Maxwell equations for a transverse electric wave in a stratified medium and the quantum mechanical Schroedinger equation in a piece-wise potential, we investigate the analog of the so called particle limit in quantum mechanics. It is shown that in this limit the resonance phenomena are lost since individual reflection and transmission terms no longer overlap. The result is a stationary zebra-like response with the intensity in each stripe calculable.

id: 0902.2905
title: Non-destructive measurement of the transition probability in a Sr optical lattice clock
authors: Jerome Lodewyck, Philip G. Westergaard, Pierre Lemonde
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 061401(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2905
abstract: We present the experimental demonstration of non-destructive probing of the 1S0-3P0 clock transition probability in an optical lattice clock with 87Sr atoms. It is based on the phase shift induced by the atoms on a weak off-resonant laser beam. The method we propose is a differential measurement of this phase shift on two modulation sidebands with opposite detuning with respect to the 1S0-1P1 transition, allowing a detection limited by the photon shot noise. We have measured an atomic population of 10^4 atoms with a signal to noise ratio of 100 per cycle, while keeping more than 95% of the atoms in the optical lattice with a depth of 0.1 mK. The method proves simple and robust enough to be operated as part of the whole clock setup. This detection scheme enables us to reuse atoms for subsequent clock state interrogations, dramatically reducing the loading time and thereby improving the clock frequency stability.

id: 0902.2932
title: Receiver Design to Harness Quantum Illumination Advantage
authors: Saikat Guha
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; to appear in Proceedings of 2009 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2932
abstract: An optical transmitter that uses entangled light generated by spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC), in conjunction with an optimal quantum-optical receiver (whose implementation is not yet known) is in principle capable of obtaining up to a 6 dB gain in the error-probability exponent over the optimum-reception un-entangled coherent-state lidar to detect the presence of a far-away target subject to entanglement-breaking loss and noise in the free-space link [Lloyd'08, Tan'08]. We present an explicit design of a structured quantum-illumination receiver, which in conjunction with the SPDC transmitter is shown to achieve up to a 3 dB error-exponent advantage over the classical sensor. Apart from being fairly feasible for a proof-of-principle demonstration, this is to our knowledge the first structured design of a quantum-optical sensor for target detection that outperforms the comparable best classical lidar sensor appreciably in a low-brightness, lossy and noisy operating regime.

id: 0902.2957
title: Experimental Uhrig Dynamical Decoupling using Trapped Ions
authors: Michael J. Biercuk, Hermann Uys, Aaron P. VanDevender, Nobuyasu Shiga, Wayne M. Itano, John J. Bollinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2957
abstract: We present a detailed experimental study of the Uhrig Dynamical Decoupling (UDD) sequence in a variety of noise environments. Our qubit system consists of a crystalline array of $^{9}$Be$^{+}$ ions confined in a Penning trap. We use an electron-spin-flip transition as our qubit manifold and drive qubit rotations using a 124 GHz microwave system. We study the effect of the UDD sequence in mitigating phase errors and compare against the well known CPMG-style multipulse spin echo as a function of pulse number, rotation axis, noise spectrum, and noise strength. Our results agree well with theoretical predictions for qubit decoherence in the presence of classical phase noise, accounting for the effect of finite-duration $\pi$ pulses. Finally, we demonstrate that the Uhrig sequence is more robust against systematic over/underrotation and detuning errors than is multipulse spin echo, despite the precise prescription for pulse-timing in UDD.

id: 0902.2960
title: Quantum Adiabatic Computation With a Constant Gap is Not Useful in One Dimension
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 050502 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2960
abstract: We show that it is possible to use a classical computer to efficiently simulate the adiabatic evolution of a quantum system in one dimension with a constant spectral gap, starting the adiabatic evolution from a known initial product state. The proof relies on a recently proven area law for such systems, implying the existence of a good matrix product representation of the ground state, combined with an appropriate algorithm to update the matrix product state as the Hamiltonian is changed. This implies that adiabatic evolution with such Hamiltonians is not useful for universal quantum computation. Therefore, adiabatic algorithms which are useful for universal quantum computation either require a spectral gap tending to zero or need to be implemented in more than one dimension (we leave open the question of the computational power of adiabatic simulation with a constant gap in more than one dimension).

id: 0902.2988
title: The Ermakov-Lewis Invariants of the Schrodinger Equation Continuous Measurement
authors: J. M. F. Bassalo, P. T. S. Alencar, D. G. Silva, A. B. Nassar, M. Cattani
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2988
abstract: In this work we study the Ermakov-Lewis invariants of the Schrodinger equation continuous measurement.

id: 0902.3005
title: Does Quantum Mechanics Need Interpretation?
authors: Louis Marchildon
comments: Based on quant-ph/0510120, quant-ph/0502049 and quant-ph/0405126
journal: Proc. of ICQNM09 Meeting (IEEE, Los Alamitos, California, 2009), pp. 11-16
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3005
abstract: Since the beginning, quantum mechanics has raised major foundational and interpretative problems. Foundational research has been an important factor in the development of quantum cryptography, quantum information theory and, perhaps one day, practical quantum computers. Many believe that, in turn, quantum information theory has bearing on foundational research. This is largely related to the so-called epistemic view of quantum states, which maintains that the state vector represents information on a system and has led to the suggestion that quantum theory needs no interpretation. I will argue that this and related approaches fail to take into consideration two different explanatory functions of quantum mechanics, namely that of accounting for classically unexplainable correlations between classical phenomena and that of explaining the microscopic structure of classical objects. If interpreting quantum mechanics means answering the question, "How can the world be for quantum mechanics to be true?", there seems to be no way around it.

id: 0902.3019
title: Externally mode-matched cavity quantum electrodynamics with charge-tunable quantum dots
authors: M. T. Rakher, N. G. Stoltz, L. A. Coldren, P. M. Petroff, D. Bouwmeester
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 097403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3019
abstract: We present coherent reflection spectroscopy on a charge and DC Stark tunable quantum dot embedded in a high-quality and externally mode-matched microcavity. The addition of an exciton to a single-electron charged quantum dot forms a trion that interacts with the microcavity just below strong coupling regime of cavity quantum electrodynamics. Such an integrated, monolithic system is a crucial step towards the implementation of scalable hybrid quantum information schemes that are based on an efficient interaction between a single photon and a confined electron spin.

id: 0902.3034
title: Quantum theory of optical temporal phase and instantaneous frequency. II. Continuous time limit and state-variable approach to phase-locked loop design
authors: Mankei Tsang, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Seth Lloyd
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, v2: accepted by PRA
journal: Physical Review A 79, 053843 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3034
abstract: We consider the continuous-time version of our recently proposed quantum theory of optical temporal phase and instantaneous frequency [Tsang, Shapiro, and Lloyd, Phys. Rev. A 78, 053820 (2008)]. Using a state-variable approach to estimation, we design homodyne phase-locked loops that can measure the temporal phase with quantum-limited accuracy. We show that post-processing can further improve the estimation performance, if delay is allowed in the estimation. We also investigate the fundamental uncertainties in the simultaneous estimation of harmonic-oscillator position and momentum via continuous optical phase measurements from the classical estimation theory perspective. In the case of delayed estimation, we find that the inferred uncertainty product can drop below that allowed by the Heisenberg uncertainty relation. Although this result seems counter-intuitive, we argue that it does not violate any basic principle of quantum mechanics.

id: 0902.3044
title: Properties of some nonlinear Schrodinger equations motivated through information theory
authors: Ding-Yuan Liew, Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: 5 pages. Presented at the DICE 2008 workshop in Italy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3044
abstract: We update our understanding of nonlinear Schrodinger equations motivated through information theory. In particular we show that a $q-$deformation of the basic nonlinear equation leads to a perturbative increase in the energy of a system, thus favouring the simplest $q=1$ case. Furthermore the energy minimisation criterion is shown to be equivalent, at leading order, to an uncertainty maximisation argument. The special value $\eta =1/4$ for the interpolation parameter, where leading order energy shifts vanish, implies the preservation of existing supersymmetry in nonlinearised supersymmetric quantum mechanics. Physically, $\eta$ might be encoding relativistic effects.

id: 0902.3105
title: Factorization solution of Cari?ena's quantum nonlinear oscillator
authors: Jonathan M Fellows, Robert A Smith
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3105
abstract: In a recent paper Cari\~nena et al analyzed a non-polynomial one-dimensional quantum potential representing an oscillator which they argued was intermediate between the harmonic and isotonic oscillators. In particular they proved that it is Schr\"odinger soluble, and explicitly obtained the wavefunctions and energies of the bound states. In this paper we show that these results can be obtained much more simply by noting that this potential is a supersymmetric partner potential of the harmonic oscillator. We then use this observation to generate an infinite set of potentials which can be exactly solved in a similar manner.

id: 0902.3127
title: Quantum Repeaters based on Single Trapped Ions
authors: Nicolas Sangouard, Romain Dubessy, Christoph Simon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3127
abstract: We analyze the performance of a quantum repeater protocol based on single trapped ions. At each node, single trapped ions embedded into high finesse cavities emit single photons whose polarization is entangled with the ion state. A specific detection of two photons at a central station located half-way between two nodes heralds the entanglement of two remote ions. Entanglement can be extended to long distances by applying successive entanglement swapping operations based on two-ion gate operations that have already been demonstrated experimentally with high precision. Our calculation shows that the distribution rate of entanglement achievable with such an ion-based quantum repeater protocol is higher by orders of magnitude than the rates that are achievable with the best known schemes based on atomic ensemble memories and linear optics. The main reason is that for trapped ions the entanglement swapping operations are performed deterministically, in contrast to success probabilities below 50 percent per swapping with linear optics. The scheme requires efficient collection of the emitted photons, which can be achieved with cavities, and efficient conversion of their wavelength, which can be done via stimulated parametric down-conversion. We also suggest how to realize temporal multiplexing, which offers additional significant speed-ups in entanglement distribution, with trapped ions.

id: 0902.3135
title: Bright and Dark Solitons in a Periodically Attractive and Expulsive Potential with Nonlinearities Modulated in Space and Time
authors: A.T. Avelar, D. Bazeia, W.B. Cardoso
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: Nonlinear Anal.Real World Appl.11:4269,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3135
abstract: This work deals with soliton solutions of the nonlinear Schroedinger equation with a diversity of nonlinearities. We solve the equation in a potential which oscillates in time between attractive and expulsive behavior, in the presence of nonlinearities which are modulated in space and time. Despite the presence of the periodically expulsive behavior of the potential, the results show that the nonlinear equation can support a diversity of localized excitations of the bright and dark type which are remarkably robust.

id: 0902.3184
title: Algebraic aspects of quantum indiscernibility
authors: Decio Krause, Hercules de Araujo Feitosa
comments: Forthcoming in "Many sides of logic", 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3184
abstract: Quasi-set theory was proposed as a mathematical context to investigate collections of indistinguishable objects. After presenting an outline of this theory, we define an algebra that has most of the standard properties of an orthocomplete orthomodular lattice, which is the lattice of the closed subspaces of a Hilbert space. We call the mathematical structure so obtained $\mathfrak{I}$-lattice. After discussing, in a preliminary form, some aspects of such a structure, we indicate the next problem of axiomatizing the corresponding logic, that is, a logic which has $\mathfrak{I}$-lattices as its algebraic models. We suggest that the intuitions that the `logic of quantum mechanics' would be not classical logic (with its Boolean algebra), is consonant with the idea of considering indistinguishability right from the start, that is, as a primitive concept. In other words, indiscernibility seems to lead `directly' to $\mathfrak{I}$-lattices. In the first sections, we present the main motivations and a `classical' situation which mirrors that one we focus on the last part of the paper. This paper is our first study of the algebraic structure of indiscernibility within quasi-set theory.

id: 0902.3201
title: Intuitionistic quantum logic of an n-level system
authors: Martijn Caspers, Chris Heunen, Nicolaas P. Landsman, Bas Spitters
comments: 26 pages
journal: Foundations of Physics, 39(7):731-759, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3201
abstract: A decade ago, Isham and Butterfield proposed a topos-theoretic approach to quantum mechanics, which meanwhile has been extended by Doering and Isham so as to provide a new mathematical foundation for all of physics. Last year, three of the present authors redeveloped and refined these ideas by combining the C*-algebraic approach to quantum theory with the so-called internal language of topos theory (see arXiv:0709.4364). The goal of the present paper is to illustrate our abstract setup through the concrete example of the C*-algebra of complex n by n matrices. This leads to an explicit expression for the pointfree quantum phase space and the associated logical structure and Gelfand transform of an n-level system. We also determine the pertinent non-probabilisitic state-proposition pairing (or valuation) and give a very natural topos-theoretic reformulation of the Kochen--Specker Theorem. The essential point is that the logical structure of a quantum n-level system turns out to be intuitionistic, which means that it is distributive but fails to satisfy the law of the excluded middle (both in opposition to the usual quantum logic).

id: 0902.3213
title: Field-sensitive addressing and control of field-insensitive neutral-atom qubits
authors: N. Lundblad, J. M. Obrecht, I. B. Spielman, J. V. Porto
comments: press embargo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3213
abstract: The establishment of a scalable scheme for quantum computing with addressable and long-lived qubits would be a scientific watershed, harnessing the laws of quantum physics to solve classically intractable problems. The design of many proposed quantum computational platforms is driven by competing needs: isolating the quantum system from the environment to prevent decoherence, and easily and accurately controlling the system with external fields. For example, neutral-atom optical-lattice architectures provide environmental isolation through the use of states that are robust against fluctuating external fields, yet external fields are essential for qubit addressing. Here we demonstrate the selection of individual qubits with external fields, despite the fact that the qubits are in field-insensitive superpositions. We use a spatially inhomogeneous external field to map selected qubits to a different field-insensitive superposition ("optical MRI"), minimally perturbing unselected qubits, despite the fact that the addressing field is not spatially localized. We show robust single-qubit rotations on neutral-atom qubits located at selected lattice sites. This precise coherent control is an important step forward for lattice-based neutral-atom quantum computation, and is quite generally applicable to state transfer and qubit isolation in other architectures using field-insensitive qubits.

id: 0902.3230
title: Operational Families of Entanglement Classes for Symmetric $N$-Qubit States
authors: T. Bastin, S. Krins, P. Mathonet, M. Godefroid, L. Lamata, E. Solano
comments: Published version. Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 070503 (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3230
abstract: We solve the entanglement classification under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) for all multipartite symmetric states in the general $N$-qubit case. For this purpose, we introduce 2 parameters playing a crucial role, namely the \emph{diversity degree} and the \emph{degeneracy configuration} of a symmetric state. Those parameters give rise to a simple method of identifying operational families of SLOCC entanglement classes of all symmetric $N$-qubit states, where the number of families grows as the partition function of the number of qubits.

id: 0902.3235
title: Dispersive interactions between atoms and non planar surfaces
authors: Riccardo Messina, Diego A. R. Dalvit, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022119 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3235
abstract: We calculate the dispersive force between a ground state atom and a non planar surface. We present explicit results for a corrugated surface, derived from the scattering approach at first order in the corrugation amplitude. A variety of analytical results are derived in different limiting cases, including the van der Waals and Casimir-Polder regimes. We compute numerically the exact first-order dispersive potential for arbitrary separation distances and corrugation wavelengths, for a Rubidium atom on top of a silicon or gold corrugated surface. We discuss in detail the inadequacy of the proximity force approximation, and present a simple but adequate approximation for computing the potential.

id: 0902.3260
title: Classical Fisher Information in Quantum Metrology -- Interplay of Probe, Dynamics and Measurement
authors: Gabriel A. Durkin
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, in submission
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3260
abstract: We introduce a positive Hermitian operator, the Fisher operator, and use it to examine a measurement process incorporating unitary dynamics and complete measurements. We develop the idea of information complement, the minimization of which establishes the optimal precision for a fixed input. The formalism demonstrates that, in general, the classical Fisher Information has the Hamiltonian semi-norm as an upper bound. This is achievable with a qubit probe and only projective measurements, and is independent of the true value of the estimated parameter. In an interferometry context, we show that an optimal measurement scheme can be constructed from linear optics and photon counting, without recourse to generalised measurements or exotic unitaries outside of SU(2).

id: 0902.3315
title: Exotic quantum holonomy induced by degeneracy hidden in complex parameter space
authors: Sang Wook Kim, Taksu Cheon, Atushi Tanaka
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:1901-2100,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3315
abstract: An adiabatic change of a bound state along a closed circuit in the parameter space can induces holonomies not only in the phase of the state, but also in the associated eigenspace and eigenvalue. The former is the well-known Berry phase while the latter, namely the exotic holonomy, is found a decade ago and its origin has not been understood yet. By extending the parameter into the complex number, the correspondence of the exotic holonomies and the degeneracy of the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian, or the exceptional points, is revealed. We show that this explains all the known non-trivial characteristics of the exotic holonomies.

id: 0902.3337
title: Quantum Entanglement in Nitrosyl Iron Complexes
authors: S.M.Aldoshin, E.B.Feldman, M.A.Yurishchev
comments: 8 pages
journal: Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. (ZhETF) 134 (2008) 940-948; J. Exp. Theor. Phys. (JETP) 107 (2008) 804-811
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3337
abstract: Recent magnetic susceptibility measurements for polycrystalline samples of binuclear nitrosyl iron complexes [Fe_2(C_3H_3N_2S)_2(NO)_4] (I) and [Fe_2(SC_3H_5N_2)_2(NO)_4] (II), suggest that quantum-mechanical entanglement of the spin degrees of freedom exists in these compounds. Entanglement E exists below the temperature T_E that we have estimated for complexes I and II to be 80-90 and 110-120 K, respectively. Using an expression of entanglement in terms of magnetic susceptibility for a Heisenberg dimer, we find the temperature dependence of the entanglement for complex II. Having arisen at the temperature T_E, the entanglement increases monotonically with decreasing temperature and reaches 90-95% in this complex at T=25 K, when the subordinate effects are still small.

id: 0902.3340
title: Quantum Generalized Subsystems
authors: R. Alicki, M. Fannes, M. Pogorzelska
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3340
abstract: We propose a new formalism of quantum subsystems which allows to unify the existing and new methods of reduced description of quantum systems. The main mathematical ingredients are completely positive maps and correlation functions. In this formalism generalized quantum systems can be composed and there is a notion of generalized entanglement. Models of fermionic and bosonic systems and also quantum systems described by the SU(2) symmetry are studied.

id: 0902.3364
title: Fiber-assisted single-photon spectrograph
authors: Malte Avenhaus, Andreas Eckstein, Peter J. Mosley, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters Vol. 34, Iss. 18, pp. 2873-2875 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3364
abstract: We demonstrate the implementation of a fiber-integrated spectrograph utilizing chromatic group velocity dispersion (GVD) in a single mode fiber. By means of GVD we stretch an ultrafast pulse in time in order to spectrally resolve single photons in the time domain, detected by single photon counting modules with very accurate temporal resolution. As a result, the spectrum of a very weak pulse is recovered from a precise time measurement with high signal to noise ratio. We demonstrate the potential of our technique by applying our scheme to analyzing the joint spectral intensity distribution of a parametric downconversion source at telecommunication wavelength.

id: 0902.3376
title: Hardy's Setup and Elements of Reality
authors: Louis Marchildon
comments: Clarifications; substantial changes in Sec. 4.3; to appear in Physica E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3376
abstract: Several arguments have been proposed some years ago, attempting to prove the impossibility of defining Lorentz-invariant elements of reality. Here I revisit that question, and bring a number of additional considerations to it. I will first analyze Hardy's argument, which was meant to show that Lorentz-invariant elements of reality are indeed inconsistent with quantum mechanics. I will then investigate to what extent the light cone associated with an event can be used to define Lorentz-invariant elements of reality. It turns out to be possible, but elements of reality associated with a product of two commuting operators will not always be equal to the product of elements of reality associated with each operator. I will finally examine a number of ways in which the paradoxical features of Hardy's experiment can be better understood.

id: 0902.3397
title: On the complexity of approximating the diamond norm
authors: Avraham Ben-Aroya, Amnon Ta-Shma
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3397
abstract: The diamond norm is a norm defined over the space of quantum transformations. This norm has a natural operational interpretation: it measures how well one can distinguish between two transformations by applying them to a state of arbitrarily large dimension. This interpretation makes this norm useful in the study of quantum interactive proof systems. In this note we exhibit an efficient algorithm for computing this norm using convex programming. Independently of us, Watrous recently showed a different algorithm to compute this norm. An immediate corollary of this algorithm is a slight simplification of the argument of Kitaev and Watrous [STOC 2000] that QIP is contained in EXP.

id: 0902.3434
title: Two-Qubit Hamiltonian Tomography by Bayesian Analysis of Noisy Data
authors: S. G. Schirmer, D. K. L. Oi
comments: 15 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022333 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3434
abstract: We present an empirical strategy to determine the Hamiltonian dynamics of a two-qubit system using only initialization and measurement in a single fixed basis. Signal parameters are estimated from measurement data using Bayesian methods from which the underlying Hamiltonian is reconstructed, up to three unobservable phase factors. We extend the method to achieve full control Hamiltonian tomography for controllable systems via a multi-step approach. The technique is demonstrated and evaluated by analyzing data from simulated experiments including projection noise.

id: 0902.3455
title: Non-resonant dot-cavity coupling and its applications in resonant quantum dot spectroscopy
authors: S. Ates, S. M. Ulrich, A. Ulhaq, S. Reitzenstein, A. Loeffler, S. Hoeffling, A. Forchel, P. Michler
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 3, 724 - 728 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3455
abstract: We present experimental investigations on the non-resonant dot-cavity coupling of a single quantum dot inside a micro-pillar where the dot has been resonantly excited in the s-shell, thereby avoiding the generation of additional charges in the QD and its surrounding. As a direct proof of the pure single dot-cavity system, strong photon anti-bunching is consistently observed in the autocorrelation functions of the QD and the mode emission, as well as in the cross-correlation function between the dot and mode signals. Strong Stokes and anti-Stokes-like emission is observed for energetic QD-mode detunings of up to ~100 times the QD linewidth. Furthermore, we demonstrate that non-resonant dot-cavity coupling can be utilized to directly monitor and study relevant QD s-shell properties like fine-structure splittings, emission saturation and power broadening, as well as photon statistics with negligible background contributions. Our results open a new perspective on the understanding and implementation of dot-cavity systems for single-photon sources, single and multiple quantum dot lasers, semiconductor cavity quantum electrodynamics, and their implementation, e.g. in quantum information technology.

id: 0902.3496
title: Connection Between Continuous and Discrete Time Quantum Walks on d-Dimensional Lattices; Extensions to General Graphs
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3496
abstract: I obtain the dynamics of the continuous time quantum walk on a $d$-dimensional lattice, with periodic boundary conditions, as an appropriate limit of the dynamics of the discrete time quantum walk on the same lattice. This extends the main result of arXiv:quant-ph/0606050 which proved this limit for the infinite line. By highlighting the main features of the limiting procedure, I then extend it to general graphs. For a given discrete time quantum walk on a general graph, I single out the type of continuous dynamics (Hamiltonians) that can be obtained as a limit of the discrete time dynamics.

id: 0902.3521
title: Geometric Phases of Two Ising-interacting Spins in a Rotating Magnetic Field
authors: Yu Shi
comments: 17 pages
journal: Annals of Physics 325 (2010) 1207-1218
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3521
abstract: We consider how to obtain a nontrivial two-qubit unitary transformation purely based on geometric phases of two spin-1/2's with Ising-like interaction in a magnetic field with a static z-component and a rotating xy-component. This is an interesting problem both for the purpose of measuring the geometric phases and in quantum computing applications. In previous approach, coupling of one of the qubit with the rotating component of field is ignored. By considering the exact two-spin geometric phases, we find that a nontrivial two-spin unitary transformation purely based on Berry phases can be obtained by using two consecutive cycles with opposite directions of the magnetic field and opposite signs of the interaction constant. In the nonadiabatic case, starting with a certain initial state, a cycle in the projected space of rays and thus Aharonov-Anandan phase can be achieved. The two-cycle scheme cancels the total phases, hence any unknown initial state evolves back to itself without a phase factor.

id: 0902.3534
title: Relevant multi-setting tight Bell inequalities for qubits and qutrits
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Zi-Sui Zhou, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3534
abstract: In the celebrated paper [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37, 1775 (2004)], D. Collins and N. Gisin presented for the first time a three setting Bell inequality (here we call it CG inequality for simplicity) which is relevant to the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality. Inspired by their brilliant ideas, we obtained some multi-setting tight Bell inequalities, which are relevant to the CHSH inequality and the CG inequality. Moreover, we generalized the method in the paper [Phys.Rev. A 79, 012115 (2009)] to construct Bell inequality for qubits to higher dimensional system. Based on the generalized method, we present, for the first time, a three setting tight Bell inequality for two qutrits, which is maximally violated by nonmaximally entangled states and relevant to the Collins-Gisin- Linden-Massar-Popescu inequality.

id: 0902.3553
title: $¦Ç$-trigonometric states of four qubits and entanglement measures
authors: Andrzej M. Frydryszak
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3553
abstract: Entanglement of four qubit pure states defined by the $\eta$-trigonometric functions is studied. We analyze the behavior of two recently proposed symmetric entanglement monotones on the chosen $n=4$ qubit states .

id: 0902.3564
title: Perfect function transfer and interference effects in interacting boson lattices
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Adam Miranowicz, XiangBin Wang, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012332 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3564
abstract: We show how to perfectly transfer, without state initialization and remote collaboration, arbitrary functions in interacting boson lattices. We describe a possible implementation of state transfer through bosonic atoms trapped in optical lattices or polaritons in on-chip coupled cavities. Significantly, a family of Hamiltonians, both linear and nonlinear, is found which are related to the Bose-Hubbard model and that enable the perfect transfer of arbitrary functions. It is shown that the state transfer between two sites in two-dimensional lattices can result in quantum interference due to the different numbers of intermediate sites in different paths. The signature factor in nuclear physics can be useful to characterize this quantum interference.

id: 0902.3586
title: Macroscopic QED - concepts and applications
authors: Stefan Scheel, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann
comments: 137 pages, 39 figures
journal: Acta Physica Slovaca 58 (5), 675 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3586
abstract: In this article, we review the principles of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics and discuss a variety of applications of this theory to medium-assisted atom-field coupling and dispersion forces. The theory generalises the standard mode expansion of the electromagnetic fields in free space to allow for the presence of absorbing bodies. We show that macroscopic quantum electrodynamics provides the link between isolated atomic systems and magnetoelectric bodies, and serves as an important tool for the understanding of surface-assisted atomic relaxation effects and the intimately connected position-dependent energy shifts which give rise to Casimir-Polder and van der Waals forces.

id: 0902.3600
title: Recurrence of biased quantum walks on a line
authors: Martin Stefanak, Tamas Kiss, Igor Jex
comments: Journal reference added, minor corrections in the text
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 043027
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3600
abstract: The Polya number of a classical random walk on a regular lattice is known to depend solely on the dimension of the lattice. For one and two dimensions it equals one, meaning unit probability to return to the origin. This result is extremely sensitive to the directional symmetry, any deviation from the equal probability to travel in each direction results in a change of the character of the walk from recurrent to transient. Applying our definition of the Polya number to quantum walks on a line we show that the recurrence character of quantum walks is more stable against bias. We determine the range of parameters for which biased quantum walks remain recurrent. We find that there exist genuine biased quantum walks which are recurrent.

id: 0902.3609
title: Open system dynamics with non-Markovian quantum jumps
authors: J. Piilo, K. Harkonen, S. Maniscalco, K.-A. Suominen
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures. V2: Published version. Discussion section shortened and some other minor changes according to the referee's suggestions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062112 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3609
abstract: We discuss in detail how non-Markovian open system dynamics can be described in terms of quantum jumps [J. Piilo et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 180402 (2008)]. Our results demonstrate that it is possible to have a jump description contained in the physical Hilbert space of the reduced system. The developed non-Markovian quantum jump (NMQJ) approach is a generalization of the Markovian Monte Carlo Wave Function (MCWF) method into the non-Markovian regime. The method conserves both the probabilities in the density matrix and the norms of the state vectors exactly, and sheds new light on non-Markovian dynamics. The dynamics of the pure state ensemble illustrates how local-in-time master equation can describe memory effects and how the current state of the system carries information on its earlier state. Our approach solves the problem of negative jump probabilities of the Markovian MCWF method in the non-Markovian regime by defining the corresponding jump process with positive probability. The results demonstrate that in the theoretical description of non-Markovian open systems, there occurs quantum jumps which recreate seemingly lost superpositions due to the memory.

id: 0902.3612
title: Indistinguishable photons from the resonance fluorescence of a single quantum dot in a microcavity
authors: Serkan Ates, Sven Markus Ulrich, Stephan Reitzenstein, Andreas Loeffler, Alfred Forchel, Peter Michler
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 167402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3612
abstract: We demonstrate purely resonant continuous-wave optical laser excitation to coherently prepare an excitonic state of a single semiconductor quantum dot (QDs) inside a high quality pillar microcavity. As a direct proof of QD resonance fluorescence, the evolution from a single emission line to the characteristic Mollow triplet10 is observed under increasing pump power. By controlled utilization of weak coupling between the emitter and the fundamental cavity mode through Purcell-enhancement of the radiative decay, a strong suppression of pure dephasing is achieved, which reflects in close to Fourier transform-limited and highly indistinguishable photons with a visibility contrast of 90%. Our experiments reveal the model-like character of the coupled QD-microcavity system as a promising source for the generation of ideal photons at the quantum limit. From a technological perspective, the vertical cavity symmetry -- with optional dynamic tunability -- provides strongly directed light emission which appears very desirable for future integrated emitter devices.

id: 0902.3711
title: Probabilistic Dense Coding Using Non-Maximally Entangled Three-Particle State
authors: Zhang Guo-Hua, Yan Feng-Li
comments: 4 pages
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, 26 (2009) 090302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3711
abstract: We present a scheme of probabilistic dense coding via a quantum channel of non-maximally entangled three-particle state. The quantum dense coding will be succeeded with a certain probability if the sender introduces an auxiliary particle and performs a collective unitary transformation. Furthermore, the average information transmitted in this scheme is calculated.

id: 0902.3712
title: Lensless ghost imaging with true thermal light
authors: Xi-Hao Chen, Qian Liu, Kai-Hong Luo, Ling-An Wu
comments: To appear in Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3712
abstract: We report the first (to our knowledge) experimental demonstration of lensless ghost imaging with true thermal light. Although there is no magnification, the method is suitable for all wavelengths and so may find special applications in cases where it is not possible to use lenses, such as with x-rays or gamma-rays. We also show numerically that some magnification may be realized away from the focal plane, but the image will always be somewhat blurred.

id: 0902.3713
title: Arbitrary-order lensless ghost imaging with thermal light
authors: Xi-Hao Chen, Ivan N. Agafonov, Kai-Hong Luo, Qian Liu, Rui Xian, Maria V. Chekhova, Ling-An Wu
comments: Updated version; some more detailed explanations provided
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3713
abstract: Arbitrary Nth-order ($N\geq2$) lensless ghost imaging with thermal light has been performed for the first time by only recording the intensities in two optical paths. It is shown that the image visibility can be dramatically enhanced as the order N increases. It is also found that longer integration times are required for higher-order correlation measurements as N increases, due to the increased fluctuations of higher-order intensity correlation functions.

id: 0902.3719
title: Quantum Data Bus in Dipolar Coupled Nuclear Spin Qubits
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Michael Ditty, Daniel Burgarth, Colm A. Ryan, C. M. Chandrashekar, Martin Laforest, Osama Moussa, Jonathan Baugh, Raymond Laflamme
comments: published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012316 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3719
abstract: We implement an iterative quantum state transfer exploiting the natural dipolar couplings in a spin chain of a liquid crystal NMR system. During each iteration a finite part of the amplitude of the state is transferred and by applying an external operation on only the last two spins the transferred state is made to accumulate on the spin at the end point. The transfer fidelity reaches one asymptotically through increasing the number of iterations. We also implement the inverted version of the scheme which can transfer an arbitrary state from the end point to any other position of the chain and entangle any pair of spins in the chain, acting as a full quantum data bus.

id: 0902.3729
title: Uncertainty relation of mixed states by means of Wigner-Yanase-Dyson information
authors: D. Li, X. Li, F. Wang, X. Li, H. Huang, L. C. Kwek
comments: 7 pages, no figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 79, 052106 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3729
abstract: The variance of an observable in a quantum state is usually used to describe Heisenberg uncertainty relation. For mixed states, the variance includes quantum uncertainty and classical uncertainty. By means of the skew information and the decomposition of the variance, a stronger uncertainty relation was presented by Luo in [Phys. Rev. A 72, 042110 (2005)]. In this paper, by using Wigner-Yanase-Dyson information which is a generalization of the skew information, we propose a general uncertainty relation of mixed states.

id: 0902.3744
title: Pseudo-Boson Coherent and Fock States
authors: D.A. Trifonov
comments: 10 pages, no figures. Based on talk given at 9th IC on Complex Structures, Integrability and Vector Fields, Sofia, August 2008
journal: in Differential Geometry, Complex Analysis and Mathematical Physics, eds. K. Sekigawa et al (W. Scientific 2009), pp. 241-250
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3744
abstract: Coherent states (CS) for non-Hermitian systems are introduced as eigenstates of pseudo-Hermitian boson annihilation operators. The set of these CS includes two subsets which form bi-normalized and bi-overcomplete system of states. The subsets consist of eigenstates of two complementary lowering pseudo-Hermitian boson operators. Explicit constructions are provided on the example of one-parameter family of pseudo-boson ladder operators. The wave functions of the eigenstates of the two complementary number operators, which form a bi-orthonormal system of Fock states, are found to be proportional to new polynomials, that are bi-orthogonal and can be regarded as a generalization of standard Hermite polynomials.

id: 0902.3797
title: Coherent bimolecular reactions with quantum-degenerate matter waves
authors: H. Jing, J. Cheng, P. Meystre
comments: 9 pages, 5 figues, 1 table
journal: published as PHYS. REV. A 79, 023622 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3797
abstract: We demonstrate theoretically that the abstraction reaction $A+B_2 \to AB+B$ can be driven coherently and efficiently with quantum-degenerate bosonic or fermionic matter waves. We show that the initial stages of the reaction are dominated by quantum fluctuations, resulting in the appearance of macroscopic non-classical correlations in the final atomic and molecular fields. The dynamics associated with the creation of bosonic and of fermionic dimer-atom pairs are also compared. This study opens up a promising new regime of quantum degenerate matter-wave chemistry.

id: 0902.3825
title: Changing the past by forgetting
authors: Saibal Mitra
comments: This essay is featured in New Scientist magazine, this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3825
abstract: Assuming the validity of the Many Worlds Interpretation (MWI) of quantum mechanics, we show that memory erasure can cause one to end up in a different sector of the multiverse where the contents of the erased memory is different.

id: 0902.3827
title: The EPR paradox, Bell's inequality, and the question of locality
authors: Guy Blaylock
comments: 28 pages; change of title, minor wording changes, move to TeX format
journal: Am. J. Phys. 78 (2010) 111-120
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3827
abstract: Most physicists agree that the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bell paradox exemplifies much of the strange behavior of quantum mechanics, but argument persists about what assumptions underlie the paradox. To clarify what the debate is about, we employ a simple and well-known thought experiment involving two correlated photons to help us focus on the logical assumptions needed to construct the EPR and Bell arguments. The view presented in this paper is that the minimal assumptions behind Bell's inequality are locality and counterfactual definiteness, but not scientific realism, determinism, or hidden variables, as is often suggested. We further examine the resulting constraints on physical theory with an illustration from the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics -- an interpretation that we argue is deterministic, local, and realist, but that nonetheless violates the Bell inequality.

id: 0902.3838
title: Madelung Fluid Model for The Most Likely Wave Function of a Single Free Particle in Two Dimensional Space with a Given Average Energy
authors: Agung Budiyono, Ken Umeno
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3838
abstract: We consider spatially two dimensional Madelung fluid whose irrotational motion reduces into the Schr\"odinger equation for a single free particle. In this respect, we regard the former as a direct generalization of the latter, allowing a rotational quantum flow. We then ask for the most likely wave function possessing a given average energy by maximizing the Shannon information entropy over the quantum probability density. We show that there exists a class of solutions in which the wave function is self-trapped, rotationally symmetric, spatially localized with finite support, and spinning around its center, yet stationary. The stationarity comes from the balance between the attractive quantum force field of a trapping quantum potential generated by quantum probability density and the repulsive centrifugal force of a rotating velocity vector field. We further show that there is a limiting case where the wave function is non-spinning and yet still stationary. This special state turns out to be the lowest stationary state of the ordinary Schr\"odinger equation for a particle in a cylindrical tube classical potential.

id: 0902.3862
title: Optimal quantum repeaters with doubly entangled state purification
authors: Chuan Wang, Rong-Zhen Jiao, Hai-Qiang Ma, Yong Zhang, Li Yu
comments: 5 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3862
abstract: Recently, Briegel et al. present a quantum repeaters protocol using nest entanglement purification for long distance quantum communication(Physical Review Letters \textbf{81},5932). In this paper we present a modified scheme for constructing an optimal quantum repeater using doubly entangled photon pairs that overcomes the limitations of quantum communication via noisy channels. Based on the imperfect quantum operations and classical communications, the polarization entangled quantum channels can be built with a better efficiency.

id: 0902.3874
title: Casimir force on amplifying bodies
authors: Agnes Sambale, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Ho Trung Dung
comments: 
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy (USSR) 108 (3), 391 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3874
abstract: Based on a unified approach to macroscopic QED that allows for the inclusion of amplification in a limited space and frequency range, we study the Casimir force as a Lorentz force on an arbitrary partially amplifying system of linearly locally responding (isotropic) magnetoelectric bodies. We demonstrate that the force on a weakly polarisable/magnetisable amplifying object in the presence of a purely absorbing environment can be expressed as a sum over the Casimir--Polder forces on the excited atoms inside the body. As an example, the resonant force between a plate consisting of a dilute gas of excited atoms and a perfect mirror is calculated.

id: 0902.3880
title: On the Uncertainty Relations in Stochastic Mechanics
authors: D.A. Trifonov, B.A. Nikolov, I.M. Mladenov
comments: Latex, 15 pages, no figures. The revised version: some formulae corrected, several new references added, text amended accordingly
journal: J. Geometry and Symmetry in Physics (JGSP) 16 (2009) 57-75
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3880
abstract: It is shown that the Bohm equations for the phase $S$ and squared modulus $\rho$ of the quantum mechanical wave function can be derived from the classical ensemble equations admiting an aditional momentum $p_s$ of the form proportional to the osmotic velocity in the Nelson stochastic mechanics and using the variational principle with appropriate change of variables. The possibility to treat grad$S$ and $p_s$ as two parts of the momentum of quantum ensemble particles is considered from the view point of uncertainty relations of Robertson - Schroedinger type on the examples of the stochastic image of quantum mechanical canonical coherent and squeezed states.

id: 0902.3890
title: Position and momentum tomography
authors: Jukka Kiukas, Pekka Lahti, Jussi Schultz
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052119 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3890
abstract: We illustrate the use of the statistical method of moments for determining the position and momentum distributions of a quantum object from the statistics of a single measurement. The method is used for three different, though related, models; the sequential measurement model, the Arthurs-Kelly model and the eight-port homodyne detection model. In each case, the method of moments gives the position and momentum distribution for a large class of initial states, the relevant condition being the exponential boundedness of the distributions.

id: 0902.3918
title: Improving the Security of Quantum Protocols via Commit-and-Open
authors: Ivan Damgaard, Serge Fehr, Carolin Lunemann, Louis Salvail, Christian Schaffner
comments: 21 pages; editorial change (reorganizing of several subsections in new section 5 about "extensions and generalizations"); added clarifications about efficient simulation; minor improvements
journal: full version of Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2009, LNCS 5677, pages 408-427
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3918
abstract: We consider two-party quantum protocols starting with a transmission of some random BB84 qubits followed by classical messages. We show a general "compiler" improving the security of such protocols: if the original protocol is secure against an "almost honest" adversary, then the compiled protocol is secure against an arbitrary computationally bounded (quantum) adversary. The compilation preserves the number of qubits sent and the number of rounds up to a constant factor. The compiler also preserves security in the bounded-quantum-storage model (BQSM), so if the original protocol was BQSM-secure, the compiled protocol can only be broken by an adversary who has large quantum memory and large computing power. This is in contrast to known BQSM-secure protocols, where security breaks down completely if the adversary has larger quantum memory than expected. We show how our technique can be applied to quantum identification and oblivious transfer protocols.

id: 0902.3939
title: Ground state cooling of a nanomechanical resonator in the weak-confinement regime via quantum interference
authors: K. Xia, J. Evers
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 227203 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3939
abstract: Ground state cooling of a nanomechanical resonator coupled to a superconducting flux qubit is discussed. We show that by inducing quantum interference to cancel detrimental carrier excitations, ground state cooling becomes possible in the weak-confinement or non-resolved regime. The qubit is modelled as a three-level system in lambda configuration, and the driving fluxes are applied such that the qubit absorption spectrum exhibits electromagnetically induced transparency, thereby cancelling the unwanted carrier excitation. As our interference-based scheme allows to apply strong cooling fields, fast and efficient cooling can be achieved.

id: 0902.3949
title: Entanglement signature in the mode structure of a single photon
authors: C. Di Fidio, W. Vogel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 050303(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3949
abstract: It is shown that entanglement, which is a quantum correlation property of at least two subsystems, is imprinted in the mode structure of a single photon. The photon, which is emitted by two coupled cavities, carries the information on the concurrence of the two intracavity fields. This can be useful for recording the entanglement dynamics of two cavity fields and for entanglement transfer.

id: 0902.3962
title: Bell-type inequalities for arbitrary observables
authors: E. Shchukin W. Vogel
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3962
abstract: We derive a Bell-type inequality for observables with arbitrary spectra. For the case of continuous variable systems we propose a possible experimental violation of this inequality, by using squeezed light and homodyne detection together with methods of quantum-state reconstruction. It is shown that the violation is also possible for realistic detection efficiencies.

id: 0902.3964
title: Single photon nonlinearities using arrays of cold polar molecules
authors: R.M. Rajapakse, T. Bragdon, A.M. Rey, T. Calarco, S. F. Yelin
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3964
abstract: We model single photon nonlinearities resulting from the dipole-dipole interactions of cold polar molecules. We propose utilizing ``dark state polaritons'' to effectively couple photon and molecular states; through this framework, coherent control of the nonlinearity can be expressed and potentially used in an optical quantum computation architecture. Due to the dipole-dipole interaction the photons pick up a measurable nonlinear phase even in the single photon regime. A manifold of protected symmetric eigenstates is used as basis. Depending on the implementation, major sources of decoherence result from non-symmetric interactions and phonon dispersion. We discuss the strength of the nonlinearity per photon and the feasibility of this system.

id: 0902.3983
title: Quantum chaos in the nuclear collective model: I. Classical-quantum correspondence
authors: Pavel Stransky, Petr Hruska, Pavel Cejnar
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: Physical Review E 79, 046202 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3983
abstract: Spectra of the geometric collective model of atomic nuclei are analyzed to identify chaotic correlations among nonrotational states. The model has been previously shown to exhibit a high degree of variability of regular and chaotic classical features with energy and control parameters. Corresponding signatures are now verified also on the quantum level for different schemes of quantization and with a variable classicality constant.

id: 0902.3985
title: Quantum Theory of Electrodynamics in Linear Media Subject to Boundary Conditions
authors: Michael E. Crenshaw
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3985
abstract: We show that the material dependencies of macroscopically quantized fields in linear media are not consistent with the classical electromagnetic boundary conditions. We then phenomenologically construct macroscopic quantized fields that satisfy quantum--classical correspondence with the result indicating that the canonical momentum in a linear medium is modified as a consequence of the reduced speed of light. We re-derive D'Alembert's principle and Lagrange's equations for an arbitrarily large region of space in which light signals travel slower than in the vacuum and show that the resulting modifications to Lagrangian dynamics, including the canonical momenta, repair the violation of the correspondence principle for macroscopically quantized fields.

id: 0902.4019
title: Open quantum system approach to single-molecule spectroscopy
authors: Adrian A. Budini
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 043804 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4019
abstract: In this paper, single-molecule spectroscopy experiments based on continuous laser excitation are characterized through an open quantum system approach. The evolution of the fluorophore system follows from an effective Hamiltonian microscopic dynamic where its characteristic parameters, i.e., its electric dipole, transition frequency, and Rabi frequency, as well as the quantization of the background electromagnetic field and their mutual interaction, are defined in an extended Hilbert space associated to the different configurational states of the local nano-environment. After tracing out the electromagnetic field and the configurational states, the fluorophore density matrix is written in terms of a Lindblad rate equation. Observables associated to the scattered laser field, like optical spectrum, intensity-intensity correlation, and photon-counting statistics, are obtained from a quantum-electrodynamic calculation also based on the effective microscopic dynamic. In contrast with stochastic models, this approach allows to describe in a unified way both the full quantum nature of the scattered laser field as well as the classical nature of the environment fluctuations. By analyzing different processes such as spectral diffusion, lifetime fluctuations, and light assisted processes, we exemplify the power of the present approach.

id: 0902.4036
title: On the Power of Two-Party Quantum Cryptography
authors: Louis Salvail, Christian Schaffner, Miroslava Sotakova
comments: 28 pages, v2: major revision in presentation of results, some simplified proofs. Appeared at ASIACRYPT 2009
journal: ASIACRYPT 2009, LNCS 5912, pages 70-87, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4036
abstract: We study quantum protocols among two distrustful parties. Under the sole assumption of correctness - guaranteeing that honest players obtain their correct outcomes - we show that every protocol implementing a non-trivial primitive necessarily leaks information to a dishonest player. This extends known impossibility results to all non-trivial primitives. We provide a framework for quantifying this leakage and argue that leakage is a good measure for the privacy provided to the players by a given protocol. Our framework also covers the case where the two players are helped by a trusted third party. We show that despite the help of a trusted third party, the players cannot amplify the cryptographic power of any primitive. All our results hold even against quantum honest-but-curious adversaries who honestly follow the protocol but purify their actions and apply a different measurement at the end of the protocol. As concrete examples, we establish lower bounds on the leakage of standard universal two-party primitives such as oblivious transfer.

id: 0902.4043
title: Beyond conventional factorization: Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with radial oscillator spectrum
authors: Ivan Cabrera-Munguia, Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 128 (2008) 012042
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4043
abstract: The eigenvalue problem of the spherically symmetric oscillator Hamiltonian is revisited in the context of canonical raising and lowering operators. The Hamiltonian is then factorized in terms of two not mutually adjoint factorizing operators which, in turn, give rise to a non-Hermitian radial Hamiltonian. The set of eigenvalues of this new Hamiltonian is exactly the same as the energy spectrum of the radial oscillator and the new square-integrable eigenfunctions are complex Darboux-deformations of the associated Laguerre polynomials.

id: 0902.4061
title: A Primer on Resonances in Quantum Mechanics
authors: O. Rosas-Ortiz, N. Fernandez-Garcia, Sara Cruz y Cruz
comments: 28 pages, 9 figures, lectures presented at the Advanced Summer School in Physics 2008, Cinvestav, Mexico
journal: AIP Conference Proceedengs 1077 (2008) 31-57
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4061
abstract: After a pedagogical introduction to the concept of resonance in classical and quantum mechanics, some interesting applications are discussed. The subject includes resonances occurring as one of the effects of radiative reaction, the resonances involved in the refraction of electromagnetic waves by a medium with a complex refractive index, and quantum decaying systems described in terms of resonant states of the energy. Some useful mathematical approaches like the Fourier transform, the complex scaling method and the Darboux transformation are also reviewed.

id: 0902.4124
title: Characterizing the geometrical edges of nonlocal two-qubit gates
authors: S. Balakrishnan, R. Sankaranarayanan
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, Phys. Rev. A 79, 052339 (2009)
journal: Phys.Rev. A 79, 052339 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4124
abstract: Nonlocal two-qubit gates are geometrically represented by tetrahedron known as Weyl chamber within which perfect entanglers form a polyhedron. We identify that all edges of the Weyl chamber and polyhedron are formed by single parametric gates. Nonlocal attributes of these edges are characterized using entangling power and local invariants. In particular, SWAP (power)alpha family of gates constitutes one edge of the Weyl chamber with SWAP-1/2 being the only perfect entangler. Finally, optimal constructions of controlled-NOT using SWAP-1/2 gate and gates belong to three edges of the polyhedron are presented.

id: 0902.4126
title: Protected Subspaces in Quantum Information
authors: Krzysztof Majgier, Hans Maassen, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: final extended version, 19 pages and 9 figures
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 9, 343-367 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4126
abstract: In certain situations the state of a quantum system, after transmission through a quantum channel, can be perfectly restored. This can be done by 'coding' the state space of the system before transmission into a 'protected' part of a larger state space, and by applying a proper 'decoding' map afterwards. We investigate two kinds of protected subspaces: the error correction subspaces and the dark subspaces. In neither case information leaks out of the system, but in the second it is more difficult to restore the state. Recent results on higher rank numerical ranges of operators are used to construct examples. In particular, dark spaces are constructed for any map of rank 2, for a biased permutations channel and for certain separable maps acting on multipartite systems. Furthermore, error correction subspaces are provided for a class of three unitary noise models.

id: 0902.4141
title: Trace inequalities on a generalized Wigner-Yanase skew information
authors: S. Furuichi, K.Yanagi, K.Kuriyama
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications, Vol.356(2009), pp.179-185
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4141
abstract: We introduce a generalized Wigner-Yanase skew information and then derive the trace inequality related to the uncertainty relation. This inequality is a non-trivial generalization of the uncertainty relation derived by S.Luo for the quantum uncertainty quantity excluding the classical mixure. In addition, several trace inequalities on our generalized Wigner-Yanase skew information are argued.

id: 0902.4155
title: Quantum chaos in the nuclear collective model: II. Peres lattices
authors: Pavel Stransky, Petr Hruska, Pavel Cejnar
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review E 79, 066201 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4155
abstract: This is a continuation of our preceding paper devoted to signatures of quantum chaos in the geometric collective model of atomic nuclei. We apply the method by Peres to study ordered and disordered patterns in quantum spectra drawn as lattices in the plane of energy vs. average of a chosen observable. A good qualitative agreement with standard measures of chaos is manifested. The method provides an efficient tool for studying structural changes of eigenstates across quantum spectra of general systems.

id: 0902.4187
title: Quantum light in the turbulent atmosphere
authors: A. A. Semenov, W. Vogel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 021802(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4187
abstract: Nonclassical properties of light propagating through the turbulent atmosphere are studied. We demonstrate by numerical simulation that the probability distribution of the transmission coefficient, which characterizes the effects of the atmosphere on the quantum state of light, can be reconstructed by homodyne detection. Nonclassical photon-statistics and, more generally, nonclassical Glauber-Sudarshan functions appear to be more robust against turbulence for weak light fields rather than for bright ones.

id: 0902.4193
title: Optimal Control at the Quantum Speed Limit
authors: Tommaso Caneva, Michael Murphy, Tommaso Calarco, Rosario Fazio, Simone Montangero, Vittorio Giovannetti, Giuseppe E. Santoro
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; v2: references added, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 240501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4193
abstract: Optimal control theory is a promising candidate for a drastic improvement of the performance of quantum information tasks. We explore its ultimate limit in paradigmatic cases, and demonstrate that it coincides with the maximum speed limit allowed by quantum evolution (the quantum speed limit).

id: 0902.4251
title: Measurements of non local weak values
authors: Aharon Brodutch, Lev Vaidman
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 174 012004 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4251
abstract: Some recent attempts at measuring non local weak values via local measurements are discussed and shown to be less robust than standard weak measurements. A method for measuring some non local weak values via non local measurements (non local weak measurements) is introduced. The meaning of non local weak values is discussed.

id: 0902.4254
title: Calculation of the Casimir force between Ge test bodies in different theoretical approaches
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya
comments: 4 pages, misprints in Eqs. (6) and (7) are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4254
abstract: We calculate the Casimir force between a Ge plate and a Ge spherical lens with neglected and included free charge carriers. Computations with included carriers are performed using the Drude, plasma, and diffusion models. It is shown that the plasma and the Drude models lead to almost identical computational results, while the results obtained using the diffusion model are sandwiched between those obtained with neglected charge carriers and with charge carriers described by the plasma or Drude models.

id: 0902.4262
title: A heralded two-qutrit entangled state
authors: Jaewoo Joo, Terry Rudolph, Barry C. Sanders
comments: accepted in Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 (2009) 114007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4262
abstract: We propose a scheme for building a heralded two-qutrit entangled state from polarized photons. An optical circuit is presented to build the maximally entangled two-qutrit state from two heralded Bell pairs and ideal threshold detectors. Several schemes are discussed for constructing the two Bell pairs. We also show how one can produce an unbalanced two-qutrit state that could be of general purpose use in some protocols. In terms of applications of the maximally entangled qutrit state, we mainly focus on how to use the state to demonstrate a violation of the Collins-Gisin-Linden-Massar-Popescu inequality under the restriction of measurements which can be performed using linear optical elements and photon counting. Other possible applications of the state, such as for higher dimensional quantum cryptography, teleportation, and generation of heralded two-qudit states are also briefly discussed.

id: 0902.4271
title: Double well potentials and quantum gates
authors: C. J. Foot, M. Shotter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4271
abstract: The quantum system of particles in a double well potential is a widely studied and extremely useful example for understanding quantum mechanics. This simple system has recently been used in theoretical proposals and related experiments as a way to make quantum logic gates for ultra-cold atoms confined in optical lattices (periodic potentials arising from the interaction of atoms with standing waves of laser light). Such quantum gates are the fundamental building blocks for quantum information processing; in this context the regular array of cold atoms in the optical lattice serves as the quantum register. The purpose of this paper is to explain how this current research can be understood in terms of well-known principles for systems of identical particles, and hence furnish an up-to-date example for the teaching of quantum mechanics.

id: 0902.4296
title: An Analysis of the Quantum Penny Flip Game using Geometric Algebra
authors: James M. Chappell, Azhar Iqbal, M. A. Lohe, Lorenz von Smekal
comments: 8 Pages, 1 Figure, accepted for publication in the Journal of Physical Society of Japan
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 78 (2009) 054801
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4296
abstract: We analyze the quantum penny flip game using geometric algebra and so determine all possible unitary transformations which enable the player Q to implement a winning strategy. Geometric algebra provides a clear visual picture of the quantum game and its strategies, as well as providing a simple and direct derivation of the winning transformation, which we demonstrate can be parametrized by two angles. For comparison we derive the same general winning strategy by conventional means using density matrices.

id: 0902.4308
title: Atomic-ensemble-based quantum memory for sideband modulations
authors: J¨¦r¨¦mie Ortalo, Jean Cviklinski, Pietro Lombardi, Julien Laurat, Alberto Bramati, Michel Pinard, Elisabeth Giacobino
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 42, 11 (2009) 114010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4308
abstract: Interaction of a control and a signal field with an ensemble of three-level atoms allows direct mapping of the quantum state of the signal field into long lived coherences of an atomic ground state. For a vapor of cesium atoms, using Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) and Zeeman coherences, we compare the case where a tunable single-sideband is stored independently of the other one to the case where the two symmetrical sidebands are stored using the same transparency window. We study the conditions in which simultaneous storage of two non-commuting variables carried by light and subsequent read-out is possible. We show that excess noise associated with spontaneous emission and spin relaxation is small, and we evaluate the quantum performance of our memory by measuring the signal transfer coefficient T and the conditional variance V and using the T-V criterion as a state independent benchmark.

id: 0902.4343
title: Entanglement in pure and thermal cluster states
authors: Michal Hajdusek, Vlatko Vedral
comments: Revised extended version, references added. 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 053015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4343
abstract: We present a closest separable state to cluster states. We start by considering linear cluster chains and extend our method to cluster states that can be used as a universal resource in quantum computation. We reproduce known results for pure cluster states and show how our method can be used in quantifying entanglement in noisy cluster states. Operational meaning is given to our method that clearly demonstrates how these closest separable states can be constructed from two-qubit clusters in the case of pure states. We also discuss the issue of finding the critical temperature at which the cluster state becomes only classically correlated and the importance of this temperature to our method.

id: 0902.4351
title: Superposition rule and entanglement in diagonal and probability representations of density states
authors: Vladimir I. Man'ko, Giuseppe Marmo, E. C. George Sudarshan
comments: Invited talk presented at the XV Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (Belgrade, Serbia, 30 May -- 3 June 2008), to appear in Physica Scripta T
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4351
abstract: The quasidistributions corresponding to the diagonal representation of quantum states are discussed within the framework of operator-symbol construction. The tomographic-probability distribution describing the quantum state in the probability representation of quantum mechanics is reviewed. The connection of the diagonal and probability representations is discussed. The superposition rule is considered in terms of the density-operator symbols. The separability and entanglement properties of multipartite quantum systems are formulated as the properties of the density-operator symbols of the system states.

id: 0902.4355
title: Counterpropagating Wavepacket Solutions of the Time-Dependent Schroedinger Equation for a Decaying Potential Field
authors: Babur M. Mirza
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4355
abstract: We investigate wavepacket solutions for time-dependent Schoedinger equation in the presence of an exponentially decaying potential. Assuming for travelling wave solutions the phase to be a linear combination of the space and time coordinates, we obtain two distinct wavepacket solutions for the Schroedinger equation. The wavepackets counterpropagate in space at a constant velocity without any distortion or spreading thus retain their initial form at arbitrarily large distances.

id: 0902.4357
title: Laser written waveguide photonic quantum circuits
authors: G. D. Marshall, A. Politi, J. C. F. Matthews, P. Dekker, M. Ams, M. J. Withford, J. L. O'Brien
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Submitted to Optics Express 04/04/2009, accepted for publication 30/06/09
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17, No. 15, pp. 12546-12554, 20 July 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4357
abstract: We report photonic quantum circuits created using an ultrafast laser processing technique that is rapid, requires no lithographic mask and can be used to create three-dimensional networks of waveguide devices. We have characterized directional couplers--the key functional elements of photonic quantum circuits--and found that they perform as well as lithographically produced waveguide devices. We further demonstrate high-performance interferometers and an important multi-photon quantum interference phenomenon for the first time in integrated optics. This direct-write approach will enable the rapid development of sophisticated quantum optical circuits and their scaling into three-dimensions.

id: 0902.4362
title: Entropic uncertainty relations for electromagnetic beams
authors: Sergio De Nicola, Renato Fedele, Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: Invited talk at the XV Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (Belgrade, Serbia, 30 May -- 3 June 2008), to appear in Physica Scripta T
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4362
abstract: The symplectic tomograms of 2D Hermite--Gauss beams are found and expressed in terms of the Hermite polynomials squared. It is shown that measurements of optical-field intensities may be used to determine the tomograms of electromagnetic-radiation modes. Furthermore, entropic uncertainty relations associated with these tomograms are found and applied to establish the compatibility conditions of the the field profile properties with Hermite--Gauss beam description. Numerical evaluations for some Hermite--Gauss modes illustrating the corresponding entropic uncertainty relations are finally given.

id: 0902.4372
title: Detection and typicality of bound entangled states
authors: Joonwoo Bae, Markus Tiersch, Simeon Sauer, Fernando de Melo, Florian Mintert, Beatrix Hiesmayr, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022317 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4372
abstract: We derive an explicit analytic estimate for the entanglement of a large class of bipartite quantum states which extends into bound entanglement regions. This is done by using an efficiently computable concurrence lower bound, which is further employed to numerically construct a volume of $3 \times 3$ bound entangled states.

id: 0902.4381
title: Quantum Fourier transform and tomographic Renyi entropic inequalities
authors: M. A. Man'ko, V. I. Man'ko
comments: Talk presented at the International Workshop "Nonlinear Physics. Theory and Experiment. V" (Gallipoli, Lecce, Italy, 2008), to appear in Theor. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4381
abstract: Renyi entropy associated with spin tomograms of quantum states is shown to obey to new inequalities containing the dependence on quantum Fourier transform. The limiting inequality for the von Neumann entropy of spin quantum states and a new kind of entropy associated with quantum Fourier transform are obtained. Possible connections with subadditivity and strong subadditivity conditions for tomographic entropies and von Neumann entropies are discussed.

id: 0902.4384
title: A proposed testbed for detector tomography
authors: H.B. Coldenstrodt-Ronge, J.S. Lundeen, A. Feito, B.J. Smith, W. Mauerer, Ch. Silberhorn, J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio, I.A. Walmsley
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 56, 432 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4384
abstract: Measurement is the only part of a general quantum system that has yet to be characterized experimentally in a complete manner. Detector tomography provides a procedure for doing just this; an arbitrary measurement device can be fully characterized, and thus calibrated, in a systematic way without access to its components or its design. The result is a reconstructed POVM containing the measurement operators associated with each measurement outcome. We consider two detectors, a single-photon detector and a photon-number counter, and propose an easily realized experimental apparatus to perform detector tomography on them. We also present a method of visualizing the resulting measurement operators.

id: 0902.4414
title: Correlations between the interacting fragments of decaying processes
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: Foundations Physics in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4414
abstract: We study the correlations (and alignment as a particular case) existent between the fragments originated in a decaying process when the daughter particles interact. The interaction between the particles is modeled using the potential of coupled oscillators, which can be treated analytically. This approach can be considered as a first step towards the characterization of realistic interacting decaying systems, an archetypal process in physics. The results presented here also suggest the possibility of manipulating correlations using external fields, a technique that could be useful to provide sources of entangled massive particles.

id: 0902.4429
title: Quantum Theory of particles and fields as an extension of a probabilistic variational approach to classical mechanics and classical field theory. I
authors: Matteo Villani
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A42:395401,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4429
abstract: A theoretical scheme, based on a probabilistic generalization of the Hamilton's principle, is elaborated to obtain an unified description of more general dynamical behaviors determined both from a lagrangian function and by mechanisms not contemplated by this function. Within this scheme, quantum mechanics, classical field theory and a quantum theory for scalar fields are discussed. As a by-product of the probabilistic scheme for classical field theory, the equations of the De Donder-Weyl theory for multi-dimensional variational problems are recovered.

id: 0902.4456
title: Spin and occupation number entanglement of Dirac fields for non-inertial observers
authors: J. Leon, E. Martin-Martinez
comments: RevTex, 11 pages, 3 figures. The replacement is due to some minor misprints corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 80, 012314 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4456
abstract: We investigate the Unruh effect on entanglement taking into account the spin degree of freedom of the Dirac field. We analyze spin Bell states in this setting, obtaining their entanglement dependance on the acceleration of one of the partners. Then, we consider simple analogs to the occupation number entangled state |00>+|11>, but with spin quantum numbers for |11> showing that, despite their apparent similitude, while the spinless case is always qubit x qubit, for the spin case acceleration produces a qubit x qu4it state. We also introduce a procedure to consistently erase the spin information from our setting preserving occupation numbers. We show how the maximally entangled state for occupation number emerges from our setting, we also analyze its entanglement dependance on acceleration, obtaining a greater entanglement degradation than in the spinless case.

id: 0902.4474
title: Sub-Planck scale structures in a vibrating molecule in the presence of decoherence
authors: Suranjana Ghosh, Utpal Roy, Claudiu Genes, David Vitali
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052104 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4474
abstract: We study the effect of decoherence on the sub-Planck scale structures of the vibrational wave packet of a molecule. The time evolution of these wave packets is investigated under the influence of a photonic or phononic environment. We determine the master equation describing the reduced dynamics of the wave-packet and analyze the sensitivity of the sub-Planck structures against decoherence in the case of a hydrogen iodide (HI) molecule.

id: 0902.4498
title: Quantum repeaters free of polarization disturbance and phase noise
authors: Zhen-Qiang Yin, Yi-Bo Zhao, Yong Yang, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 044302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4498
abstract: Original quantum repeater protocols based on single-photon interference suffer from phase noise of the channel, which makes the long-distance quantum communication infeasible. Fortunately, two-photon interference type quantum repeaters can be immune to phase noise of the channel. However, this type quantum repeaters may still suffer from polarization disturbance of the channel. Here we propose a quantum repeaters protocol which is free of polarization disturbance of the channel based on the invariance of the anti-symmetric Bell state $|\psi^->=(|H>|V>-|V>|H>)/\sqrt{2}$ under collective noise. Our protocol is also immune to phase noise with the Sagnac interferometer configuration. Through single-atom cavity-QED technology and linear optics, this scheme can be implemented easily.

id: 0902.4506
title: Optimal correction of concatenated fault-tolerant quantum codes
authors: Zachary W. E. Evans, Ashley M. Stephens
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Quantum Information Processing 11, 1511 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4506
abstract: We present a method of concatenated quantum error correction in which improved classical processing is used with existing quantum codes and fault-tolerant circuits to more reliably correct errors. Rather than correcting each level of a concatenated code independently, our method uses information about the likelihood of errors having occurred at lower levels to maximize the probability of correctly interpreting error syndromes. Results of simulations of our method applied to the [[4,1,2]] subsystem code indicate that it can correct a number of discrete errors up to half of the distance of the concatenated code, which is optimal.

id: 0902.4523
title: Universal scaling in a strongly interacting Rydberg gas
authors: Robert L?w, Hendrik Weimer, Ulrich Krohn, Rolf Heidemann, Vera Bendkowsky, Bj?rn Butscher, Hans Peter B¨¹chler, Tilman Pfau
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033422 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4523
abstract: We study a gas of ultracold atoms resonantly driven into a strongly interacting Rydberg state. The long distance behavior of the spatially frozen effective pseudospin system is determined by a set of dimensionless parameters, and we find that the experimental data exhibits algebraic scaling laws for the excitation dynamics and the saturation of Rydberg excitation. Mean field calculations as well as numerical simulations provide an excellent agreement with the experimental finding, and are evidence for universality in a strongly interacting frozen Rydberg gas.

id: 0902.4524
title: Entanglement and Teleportation in Bipartite System
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari
comments: 16 pages and 5 figures. Accepted in IJQI
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4524
abstract: We present a mathematical formulation of old teleportation protocol (original teleportation protocol introduced by Bennett et.al.) for mixed states and study in detail the role of mixedness of the two qubit quantum channel in a teleportation protocol. We show that maximally entangled mixed state described by the density matrix of rank-4 will be useful as a two qubit teleportation channel to teleport a single qubit mixed state when the teleportation channel parameter p1 greater than 0.5. Also we discuss the case when p1 less than equal to 0.5.

id: 0902.4559
title: Star-product quantization and symplectic tomography
authors: Olga V. Man'ko
comments: Talk presented at the XV Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (Belgrade, May-June, 2008), to appear in Physica Scripta T
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4559
abstract: A review of the symplectic tomographic approaches within the framework of star-product quantization is presented. The classical statistical mechanics within the framework of the tomographic representation is considered. The kernels of star-product of functions - symbols of operators in classical and quantum mechanics are presented.

id: 0902.4593
title: Tomographic Representation of Quantum Mechanics and Statistical Physics
authors: Olga V. Man'ko
comments: Invited talk at the International Conference "Foundations of Probability and Physics-5" (Vaxjo, Sweden, 2008), to appear in: L. Accardi, G. Adenier, C. Fuchs, G. Jaeger, A. Yu. Khrennikov, J.-A. Larsson, S. Stenholm (Eds.), Foundations of Probability and Physics-5, American Institute of Physics Conference Proceedings, Vol. 1101, New-York (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4593
abstract: A review of the photon-number tomography and symplectic tomography as examples of star-product quantization is presented. The classical statistical mechanics is considered within the framework of the tomographic representation.

id: 0902.4597
title: A Novel Method for Polarization Squeezing with Photonic Crystal Fibers
authors: Josip Milanovic, Mikael Lassen, Ulrik L. Andersen, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4597
abstract: Photonic Crystal Fibers can be tailored to increase the effective Kerr nonlinearity, while producing smaller amounts of excess noise compared to standard silicon fibers. Using these features of Photonic Crystal Fibers we create polarization squeezed states with increased purity compared to standard fiber squeezing experiments. Explicit we produce squeezed states in counter propagating pulses along the same fiber axis to achieve near identical dispersion properties. This enables the production of polarization squeezing through interference in a polarization type Sagnac interferometer. We observe Stokes parameter squeezing of -3.9 +/- 0.3dB and anti-squeezing of 16.2 +/- 0.3dB.

id: 0902.4599
title: Efficient generation of $N$-photon generalized binomial states in a cavity
authors: Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno, Antonino Messina, Anna Napoli
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A374: 2235,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4599
abstract: Extending a previous result on the generation of two-photon generalized binomial field states, here we propose an efficient scheme to generate with high-fidelity, in a single-mode high-Q cavity, N-photon generalized binomial states with a maximum number of photons N>2. Besides their interest for classical-quantum border investigations, we discuss the applicative usage of these states in realizing universal quantum computation, describing in particular a scheme that performs a controlled-NOT gate by dispersive interaction with a control atom. We finally analyze the feasibility of the proposed schemes, showing that they appear to be within the current experimental capabilities.

id: 0902.4603
title: Markov Chain Monte Carlo Estimation of Quantum States
authors: James DiGuglielmo, Chris Messenger, Jaromir Fiurasek, Boris Hage, Aiko Samblowski, Tabea Schmidt, Roman Schnabel
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4603
abstract: We apply a Bayesian data analysis scheme known as the Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) to the tomographic reconstruction of quantum states. This method yields a vector, known as the Markov chain, which contains the full statistical information concerning all reconstruction parameters including their statistical correlations with no a priori assumptions as to the form of the distribution from which it has been obtained. From this vector can be derived, e. g. the marginal distributions and uncertainties of all model parameters and also of other quantities such as the purity of the reconstructed state. We demonstrate the utility of this scheme by reconstructing the Wigner function of phase-diffused squeezed states. These states posses non-Gaussian statistics and therefore represent a non-trivial case of tomographic reconstruction. We compare our results to those obtained through pure maximum-likelihood and Fisher information approaches.

id: 0902.4606
title: Scale covariant physics: A `quantum deformation' of classical electrodynamics
authors: Yehonatan Knoll, Irad Yavneh
comments: This is a slightly expanded version of J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 055401
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4606
abstract: Scale covariance -- the notion that there is no absolute size, only relative size -- is probably as old an idea as translation covariance. Yet, in our laboratories we find no evidence for this appealing symmetry. For this reason, privileged length-scales, such as the Compton length or the Bohr radius, enter directly the \emph{equations} of physics rather than surfacing as attributes of specific \emph{solutions}, in analogy to the way a privileged position is introduced into a translation covariant equation by any localized solution. We propose to elevate the status of a scaling symmetry to that of translation symmetry. Within our proposed theory, a solution may `drift in scale', thereby offering a mechanism by which matter may `cluster in scale' in analogy to spatial clustering in galaxies (particles comprising galaxies all have almost the same position on the intergalactic scale). Our proposed theory is a scale covariant deformation of classical electrodynamics, reducing to the later in its domain of validity. The resultant theory, dubbed Extended Charge Dynamics (ECD), is a remarkably rich theory, containing ingredients encountered nowhere else in theoretical physics, yet economically formulated as a simple variational principle. We argue the case for ECD being a `hidden variables model' for quantum mechanics i.e. that quantum mechanics describe statistical aspects of ensembles of ECD solutions. Among else, this perspective offers at once a prediction, pertaining to the notion of a photon, which is at odds with current theory. We further speculate that the same `remote sensing' mechanism endowed by ECD to a charge, responsible for many quantum mechanical effects, is also behind gravitational effects.

id: 0902.4623
title: Fidelity susceptibility and quantum adiabatic condition in thermodynamic limits
authors: Shi-Jian Gu
comments: 4 pages, final version accepted by PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 061125 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4623
abstract: In this work, we examine the validity of quantum adiabatic theorem in thermodynamic systems. For a $d$-dimensional quantum many-body system, we show that the duration time $\tau_0$ required by its ground-state adiabatic process does not depend on the microscopic details, but the scaling dimension of the fidelity susceptibility $d_a$. Our result, therefore, provides a quantitative time scale of the quantum adiabatic theorem in thermodynamic systems. The quantum adiabatic theorem might be violated in case that the scaling dimension of the fidelity susceptibility is larger than the system's real dimension ($d_a>d$).

id: 0902.4639
title: Geometric Spin Hall Effect of Light
authors: Andrea Aiello, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4639
abstract: We describe a novel phenomenon occurring when a polarized Gaussian beam of light is observed in a Cartesian reference frame whose axes are not parallel to the direction of propagation of the beam. Such phenomenon amounts to an intriguing spin-dependent shift of the position of the center of the beam, with manners akin to the spin Hall effect of light. We demonstrate that this effect is unavoidable when the light beam possesses a nonzero transverse angular momentum.

id: 0902.4660
title: Decoy-state quantum key distribution with both source errors and statistical fluctuations
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang, Lin Yang, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: Published version with revisions
journal: New. J. Phys., 11, 075006 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4660
abstract: We show how to calculate the fraction of single photon counts of the 3-intensity decoy-state quantum cryptography faithfully with both statistical fluctuations and source errors. Our results only rely on the bound values of a few parameters of the states of pulses.

id: 0902.4667
title: On The Origin Of The Classical And Quantum Electrodynamic Arrows Of Time
authors: Darryl Leiter
comments: 88 pages. Additional sections discuss an experimental test to determine if the master time asymmetry in the universe can be explained by the fact that spontaneous CPT symmetry violation causes the photon to carry the arrow of time in the Measurement Color Electrodynamic formalism
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4667
abstract: In order to describe the quantum electrodynamic measurement process in a relativistic observer-participant manner, an operator symmetry of "microscopic observer-participation" called Measurement Color (MC) is incorporated into the field theoretic structure of Quantum Electrodynamics (QED) in the Heisenberg Picture. It is found that the resultant Measurement Color Quantum Electrodynamics (MC-QED) contains a microscopic quantum electrodynamic arrow of time that emerges dynamically, independent of any thermodynamic or cosmological assumptions. This occurs because the photon has a negative time parity in MC-QED. This causes a spontaneous breaking of the T and CPT symmetry to be generated by the physical requirement that a stable vacuum state exists in the MC-QED formalimm. This dynamically selects operator solutions containing a causal, retarded, quantum electrodynamic arrow of time due in the Heisenberg operator equations of motion. In support of the validity of this idea we show that a classic nonlinear optics experiment in the scientific literature, which involves a Michelson interferometer using combinations of ordinary mirrors and phase conjugate mirrors, contains experimental results which support the idea that the photon has a negative parity under Wigner time reversal and thus carries the arrow of time in the universe.

id: 0902.4733
title: Perturbation theory of von Neumann Entropy
authors: Xiao-yu Chen
comments: 7 pages
journal: Chin. Phys. B Vol. 19, No. 4 (2010) 040308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4733
abstract: In quantum information theory, von Neumann entropy plays an important role. The entropies can be obtained analytically only for a few states. In continuous variable system, even evaluating entropy numerically is not an easy task since the dimension is infinite. We develop the perturbation theory systematically for calculating von Neumann entropy of non-degenerate systems as well as degenerate systems. The result turns out to be a practical way of the expansion calculation of von Neumann entropy.

id: 0902.4760
title: Communication aspects of a three-player Prisoner's Dilemma quantum game
authors: M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: 14 pages, 1 .eps figure, 3 tables
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 025301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4760
abstract: We present a quantization scheme for a three-player Prisoner's Dilemma game. It is shown that entanglement plays a dominant role in the three-player quantum game. Four different types of payoffs are identified on the basis of different combinations of initial state and measurement basis entanglement parameters. A relation among these different payoffs is also established. We also study the communication aspects of the three-player game. By exploiting different combinations of initial state and measurement basis entanglement parameters, we establish a relationship for the information shared among the parties. It is seen that the strategies of the players act as carriers of information in quantum games.

id: 0902.4765
title: Irreversible evolution of a charged spin 1/2 particle analyzed on the basis of subdynamics theory
authors: S.Eh. Shirmovsky
comments: 30 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physica A 388 (2009) 4000-4016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4765
abstract: The time evolution of a charged spin 1/2 particle interacting with a magnetic field is analyzed in the framework of the complex spectral theory, based on Prigogine's principles that provide a rigorous description of irreversibility. A detailed survey of the irreversible relaxation process of the spin 1/2 particle is carried out on the basis of the subdynamics theory. We obtain the results for the Markovian and the non-Markovian evolution of the charged particle.

id: 0902.4782
title: Two-step deterministic remote preparation of an arbitrary quantum state in the whole Hilbert space
authors: Meiyu Wang, Fengli Yan
comments: 5 pages
journal: Communications in Theoretical Physics, 54 (2010) 792-796
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4782
abstract: We present a two-step exact remote state preparation protocol of an arbitrary qubit with the aid of a three-particle Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state. Generalization of this protocol for higher-dimensional Hilbert space systems among three parties is also given. We show that only single-particle von Neumann measurement, local operation and classical communication are necessary. Moreover, since the overall information of the quantum state can be divided into two different parts, which may be at different locations, this protocol may be useful in the quantum information field.

id: 0902.4797
title: Quantum algorithm for the Laughlin wave function
authors: J. I. Latorre, V. Pic¨®, A. Riera
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4797
abstract: We construct a quantum algorithm that creates the Laughlin state for an arbitrary number of particles $n$ in the case of filling fraction one. This quantum circuit is efficient since it only uses $n(n-1)/2$ local qudit gates and its depth scales as $2n-3$. We further prove the optimality of the circuit using permutation theory arguments and we compute exactly how entanglement develops along the action of each gate. Finally, we discuss its experimental feasibility decomposing the qudits and the gates in terms of qubits and two qubit-gates as well as the generalization to arbitrary filling fraction.

id: 0902.4818
title: Hyperfine frequency shift in two-dimensional atomic hydrogen
authors: A.I.Safonov, I.I.Safonova, I.S.Yasnikov
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: JETP Lett. 90, 8 (2009) [Pis'ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. 90, 10 (2009)]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4818
abstract: We propose the explanation of a surprisingly small hyperfine frequency shift in the two-dimensional (2D) atomic hydrogen bound to the surface of superfluid helium below 0.1 K. Owing to the symmetry considerations, the microwave-induced triplet-singlet transitions of atomic pairs in the fully spin-polarized sample are forbidden. The apparent nonzero shift is associated with the density-dependent wall shift of the hyperfine constant and the pressure shift due to the presence of H atoms in the hyperfine state $a$ not involved in the observed $b\to c$ transition. The interaction of adsorbed atoms with one another effectively decreases the binding energy and, consequently, the wall shift by the amount proportional to their density. The pressure shift of the $b\to c$ resonance comes from the fact that the impurity $a$-state atoms interact differently with the initial $b$-state and final $c$-state atoms and is also linear in density. The net effect of the two contributions, both specific for 2D hydrogen, is comparable with the experimental observation. To our knowledge, this is the first mentioning of the density-dependent wall shift. We also show that the difference between the triplet and singlet scattering lengths of H atoms, $a_t-a_s=30(5)$ pm, is exactly twice smaller than the value reported by Ahokas {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf101}, 263003 (2008).

id: 0902.4877
title: Cones of positive maps and their duality relations
authors: Lukasz Skowronek, Erling Stormer, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 062106 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4877
abstract: The structure of cones of positive and k-positive maps acting on a finite-dimensional Hilbert space is investigated. Special emphasis is given to their duality relations to the sets of superpositive and k-superpositive maps. We characterize k-positive and k-superpositive maps with regard to their properties under taking compositions. A number of results obtained for maps are also rephrased for the corresponding cones of block positive, k-block positive, separable and k-separable operators, due to the Jamiolkowski-Choi isomorphism. Generalizations to a situation where no such simple isomorphism is available are also made, employing the idea of mapping cones. As a side result to our discussion, we show that extreme entanglement witnesses, which are optimal, should be of special interest in entanglement studies.

id: 0902.4889
title: Classical Ising model test for quantum circuits
authors: J. Geraci, D.A. Lidar
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures. v2: main result strengthened by removing oracular setting
journal: New J. Physics 12, 075026 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4889
abstract: We exploit a recently constructed mapping between quantum circuits and graphs in order to prove that circuits corresponding to certain planar graphs can be efficiently simulated classically. The proof uses an expression for the Ising model partition function in terms of quadratically signed weight enumerators (QWGTs), which are polynomials that arise naturally in an expansion of quantum circuits in terms of rotations involving Pauli matrices. We combine this expression with a known efficient classical algorithm for the Ising partition function of any planar graph in the absence of an external magnetic field, and the Robertson-Seymour theorem from graph theory. We give as an example a set of quantum circuits with a small number of non-nearest neighbor gates which admit an efficient classical simulation.

id: 0902.4898
title: Effective Quantum Time Travel
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 50 3903 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4898
abstract: The quantum teleportation protocol can be used to probabilistically simulate a quantum circuit with backward-in-time connections. This allows us to analyze some conceptual problems of time travel in the context of physically realizable situations, to realize encrypted measurements of future states for which the decryption key becomes available only after the state is created, and to probabilistically realize a multistage quantum state processing within the time needed to complete only one stage. The probabilistic nature of the process resolves any paradox.

id: 0902.0145
title: Cosmological footprints of loop quantum gravity
authors: J. Grain, A. Barrau
comments: Accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett., 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:081301,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0145
abstract: The primordial spectrum of cosmological tensor perturbations is considered as a possible probe of quantum gravity effects. Together with string theory, loop quantum gravity is one of the most promising frameworks to study quantum effects in the early universe. We show that the associated holonomy correction should modify the potential seen by gravitational waves during the inflationary amplification. The resulting power spectrum should exhibit a characteristic tilt. This opens a new window for cosmological tests of quantum gravity.

id: 0902.0172
title: Effects of a dilute gas of fermions on the superfluid-insulator phase diagram of the Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Sumanta Tewari, Roman M. Lutchyn, S. Das Sarma
comments: 16 pages, 5 eps figures; final version to appear in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 054511 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0172
abstract: Building on the work of Fisher et al. (Phys. Rev. B 40, 546 (1989)), we develop a framework for perturbation theory in the Bose-Hubbard model and apply it to calculate the effects of a degenerate gas of spin-polarized fermions interacting by contact interactions with the constituent bosons. For the single-band Bose-Hubbard model, the only non-trivial effect of the fermions is to induce an effective space- and time-dependent density-density interaction among the bosons. Using a path integral formulation, we develop the appropriate theory describing the perturbative effects of this fermion-mediated interaction (fermionic screening) on the generic superfluid-insulator phase diagram. For the single-band Bose-Hubbard model, we find that the net effect of the fermions is to inherently suppress the Mott-insulating lobes and enhance the area occupied by the superfluid phase in the phase diagram. For the more general multi-band Bose-Hubbard model, we find that, in addition to the fermion screening of the boson interactions, the virtual excitations of the bosons to the higher Bloch bands coupled with the contact interactions with the fermions result in an effective increase of the boson on-site repulsion. If this renormalization of the boson on-site potential is dominant over the fermion screening of the boson interactions, the area of the Mott insulating lobes of the Bose-Hubbard phase diagram will be enhanced for either sign of the boson-fermion interactions, as seen in recent experiments.

id: 0902.0219
title: Topological quantum phase transition in an extended Kitaev spin model
authors: Xiao-Feng Shi, Yue Yu, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 9 Pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 134431 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0219
abstract: We study the quantum phase transition between Abelian and non-Abelian phases in an extended Kitaev spin model on the honeycomb lattice, where the periodic boundary condition is applied by placing the lattice on a torus. Our analytical results show that this spin model exhibits a continuous quantum phase transition. Also, we reveal the relationship between bipartite entanglement and the ground-state energy. Our approach directly shows that both the entanglement and the ground-state energy can be used to characterize the topological quantum phase transition in the extended Kitaev spin model.

id: 0902.0489
title: ac-driven atomic quantum motor
authors: A. V. Ponomarev, S. Denisov, P. Hanggi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 230601 (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0489
abstract: We invent an ac-driven quantum motor consisting of two different, interacting ultracold atoms placed into a ring-shaped optical lattice and submerged in a pulsating magnetic field. While the first atom carries a current, the second one serves as a quantum starter. For fixed zero-momentum initial conditions the asymptotic carrier velocity converges to a unique non-zero value. We also demonstrate that this quantum motor performs work against a constant load.

id: 0902.0717
title: Repulsive Casimir effect from extra dimensions and Robin boundary conditions: from branes to pistons
authors: E. Elizalde, S. D. Odintsov, A. A. Saharian
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:065023,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0717
abstract: We evaluate the Casimir energy and force for a massive scalar field with general curvature coupling parameter, subject to Robin boundary conditions on two codimension-one parallel plates, located on a $(D+1)$-dimensional background spacetime with an arbitrary internal space. The most general case of different Robin coefficients on the two separate plates is considered. With independence of the geometry of the internal space, the Casimir forces are seen to be attractive for special cases of Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions on both plates and repulsive for Dirichlet boundary conditions on one plate and Neumann boundary conditions on the other. For Robin boundary conditions, the Casimir forces can be either attractive or repulsive, depending on the Robin coefficients and the separation between the plates, what is actually remarkable and useful. Indeed, we demonstrate the existence of an equilibrium point for the interplate distance, which is stabilized due to the Casimir force, and show that stability is enhanced by the presence of the extra dimensions. Applications of these properties in braneworld models are discussed. Finally, the corresponding results are generalized to the geometry of a piston of arbitrary cross section.

id: 0902.0739
title: Biaxial nematic phases in ultracold dipolar Fermi gases
authors: Benjamin M. Fregoso, Kai Sun, Eduardo Fradkin, Benjamin L. Lev
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; clarifying comments added to text
journal: New Journal of Physics, 11 103003 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0739
abstract: Ultracold dipolar Fermi gases represent relatively unexplored, strongly correlated systems arising from long-range and anisotropic interactions. We demonstrate the possibility of a spontaneous symmetry breaking biaxial phase in these systems, which may be realized in, e.g., gases of ultracold polar molecules or strongly magnetic atoms. This biaxial nematic phase is manifest in a spontaneous distortion of the Fermi surface perpendicular to the axis of polarization. We describe these dipolar interaction induced phases using Landau Fermi liquid theory.

id: 0902.0839
title: Excitation spectra, spin structures, and entanglement characteristics of four-electron double-quantum-dot artificial molecules
authors: Ying Li, Constantine Yannouleas, Uzi Landman
comments: Revtex 4. 15 pages with 13 figures. For related papers, see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0839
abstract: Energy spectra, spin configurations, and entanglement characteristics of a system of four electrons in lateral double quantum dots are investigated using exact diagonalization (EXD), as a function of interdot separation, applied magnetic field, and strength of interelectron repulsion. A distinctly different quantum behavior is found compared to that of circular single quantum dots. As a function of the magnetic field, the energy spectra exhibit a low-energy band consisting of a group of six states, with the number six being a consequence of the conservation of the total spin of the four electrons and the ensuing spin degeneracies. These six states appear to cross at a single value of the magnetic field, with the crossing point becoming sharper for larger interdot distances. As the strength of the Coulomb repulsion increases, the six states tend to become degenerate and a well defined energy gap separates them from the higher-in-energy excited states. The appearance of the low-energy band is a consequence of the formation of a Wigner supermolecule, with the four electrons (two in each dot) being localized at the vertices of a rectangular parallelogram. Using the spin-resolved pair-correlation functions, one can map the EXD many-body wave functions onto the spin functions associated with the four localized electrons. Analogies with nanomagnets, such as finite Heisenberg clusters, are discussed. The ability to determine associated spin functions enables investigations concerning entanglement properties of the system of four electrons. In particular, the formation of Wigner supermolecules generates EXD solutions belonging to the class of strongly entangled states referred to as N-qubit Dicke states in the quantum-information literature.

id: 0902.1276
title: Implementing Quantum Gates using the Ferromagnetic Spin-J XXZ Chain with Kink Boundary Conditions
authors: Tom Michoel, Jaideep Mulherkar, Bruno Nachtergaele
comments: Updated Acknowledgements
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 025003
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1276
abstract: We demonstrate an implementation scheme for constructing quantum gates using unitary evolutions of the one-dimensional spin-J ferromagnetic XXZ chain. We present numerical results based on simulations of the chain using the time-dependent DMRG method and techniques from optimal control theory. Using only a few control parameters, we find that it is possible to implement one- and two-qubit gates on a system of spin-3/2 XXZ chains, such as Not, Hadamard, Pi-8, Phase, and C-Not, with fidelity levels exceeding 99%.

id: 0902.1365
title: PT symmetry and necessary and sufficient conditions for the reality of energy eigenvalues
authors: Carl M. Bender, Philip D. Mannheim
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:1616-1620,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1365
abstract: Despite its common use in quantum theory, the mathematical requirement of Dirac Hermiticity of a Hamiltonian is sufficient to guarantee the reality of energy eigenvalues but not necessary. By establishing three theorems, this paper gives physical conditions that are both necessary and sufficient. First, it is shown that if the secular equation is real, the Hamiltonian is necessarily PT symmetric. Second, if a linear operator C that obeys the two equations [C,H]=0 and C^2=1 is introduced, then the energy eigenvalues of a PT-symmetric Hamiltonian that is diagonalizable are real only if this C operator commutes with PT. Third, the energy eigenvalues of PT-symmetric Hamiltonians having a nondiagonalizable, Jordan-block form are real. These theorems hold for matrix Hamiltonians of any dimensionality.

id: 0902.1406
title: Vacuum polarization by a cosmic string in de Sitter spacetime
authors: E. R. Bezerra de Mello, A. A. Saharian
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures, discussion on string metric in static coordinates is added
journal: JHEP 0904:046,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1406
abstract: In this paper we investigate the vacuum polarization effect associated with a quantum massive scalar field in a higher dimensional de Sitter spacetime in the presence of a cosmic string. Because this investigation has been developed in a pure de Sitter space, here we are mainly interested on the effects induced by the presence of the string. So this analysis is developed by expressing the complete Wightman function as the sum of two terms: The first one corresponds to the bulk where the cosmic string is absent and the second one is induced by the presence of the string. By using the Abel-Plana summation formula, we show that for points away from the string the latter is finite at the coincidence limit and it is used to evaluate the vacuum averages of the square of the field and the energy-momentum tensor induced by the cosmic string. Simple asymptotic formulae are obtained for these expectation values for points near the string and at large distances from it. It is shown that, depending on the curvature radius of de Sitter spacetime, two regimes are realized with monotonic and oscillatory behavior of the vacuum expectation values at large distances.

id: 0902.1551
title: Solving the Problem of Time in Mini-superspace: Measurement of Dirac Observables
authors: Donald Marolf
comments: 12 pages, ReVTeX
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:084016,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1551
abstract: One solution to the so-called problem of time is to construct certain Dirac observables, sometimes called evolving constants of motion. There has been some discussion in the literature about the interpretation of such observables, and in particular whether single Dirac observables can be measured. Here we clarify the situation by describing a class of interactions that can be said to implement measurements of such observables. Along the way, we describe a useful notion of perturbation theory for the rigging map eta of group averaging (sometimes loosely called the physical state "projector"), which maps states from the auxiliary Hilbert space to the physical Hilbert space.

id: 0902.1783
title: Dipole emission and coherent transport in random media III. Emission from a real cavity in a continuous medium
authors: M. Donaire
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1783
abstract: This is the third of a series of papers devoted to develop a microscopical approach to the dipole emission process and its relation to coherent transport in random media. In this paper, we compute the power emitted by an induced dipole and the spontaneous decay rate of a Lorentzian-type dipole. In both cases, the emitter is placed at the center of a real cavity drilled in a continuous medium.

id: 0902.1827
title: Climbing the Jaynes-Cummings Ladder and Observing its Sqrt(n) Nonlinearity in a Cavity QED System
authors: J. M. Fink, M. Goeppl, M. Baur, R. Bianchetti, P. J. Leek, A. Blais, A. Wallraff
comments: ArXiv version of manuscript published in Nature in July 2008, 5 pages, 5 figures, hi-res version at this http URL
journal: Nature 454, 315-318 (Jul 2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1827
abstract: The already very active field of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED), traditionally studied in atomic systems, has recently gained additional momentum by the advent of experiments with semiconducting and superconducting systems. In these solid state implementations, novel quantum optics experiments are enabled by the possibility to engineer many of the characteristic parameters at will. In cavity QED, the observation of the vacuum Rabi mode splitting is a hallmark experiment aimed at probing the nature of matter-light interaction on the level of a single quantum. However, this effect can, at least in principle, be explained classically as the normal mode splitting of two coupled linear oscillators. It has been suggested that an observation of the scaling of the resonant atom-photon coupling strength in the Jaynes-Cummings energy ladder with the square root of photon number n is sufficient to prove that the system is quantum mechanical in nature. Here we report a direct spectroscopic observation of this characteristic quantum nonlinearity. Measuring the photonic degree of freedom of the coupled system, our measurements provide unambiguous, long sought for spectroscopic evidence for the quantum nature of the resonant atom-field interaction in cavity QED. We explore atom-photon superposition states involving up to two photons, using a spectroscopic pump and probe technique. The experiments have been performed in a circuit QED setup, in which ultra strong coupling is realized by the large dipole coupling strength and the long coherence time of a superconducting qubit embedded in a high quality on-chip microwave cavity.

id: 0902.1837
title: Three-Dimensional Solutions of Supersymmetrical Intertwining Relations and Pairs of Isospectral Hamiltonians
authors: F.Cannata, M.V.Ioffe, D.N.Nishnianidze
comments: 14 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys.50:052105,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1837
abstract: The general solution of SUSY intertwining relations for three-dimensional Schr\"odinger operators is built using the class of second order supercharges with nondegenerate constant metric. This solution includes several models with arbitrary parameters. We are interested only in quantum systems which are not amenable to separation of variables, i.e. can not be reduced to lower dimensional problems. All constructed Hamiltonians are partially integrable - each of them commutes with a symmetry operator of fourth order in momenta. The same models can be considered also for complex values of parameters leading to a class of non-Hermitian isospectral Hamiltonians.

id: 0902.1900
title: Mutual neutralization in low energy H^+ + H^- collisions
authors: Michael Stenrup, ?sa Larson, Nils Elander
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 79, 012713 (2009)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.1900
abstract: The mutual neutralization of H^+ and H^- ions at low collision energies is studied by means of a molecular close-coupling approach. All degrees of freedom are treated at the full quantum level taking into account also the identity of the nuclei. The relevant ^1Sigma_g,u^+ electronic states and their associated nonadiabatic radial couplings are calculated for internuclear distances between 0.5 and 50 a_0. Following a transformation into a strictly diabatic basis, these quantities enter into a set of coupled equations for the motion of the nuclei. Numerical solution of these equations allows the cross sections for scattering into the H(1)+H^*(n), n=1,2,3 channels to be calculated. In the present paper, results are reported for the collision energy region 0.001 to 100 eV, with special emphasis on the important energy region below 10 eV. The low temperature rate coefficient is obtained from a parametrization of the calculated neutralization cross section and is estimated to be valid in the range 10 to 10 000 K.

id: 0902.2163
title: Optomechanics
authors: Bj?rn Kubala, Max Ludwig, Florian Marquardt
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, submitted to the proceedings of the NATO Advanced Research Workshop 'Recent Advances in Nonlinear Dynamics and Complex System Physics', Tashkent, Uzbekistan, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2163
abstract: We review recent progress in the field of optomechanics, where one studies the effects of radiation on mechanical motion. The paradigmatic example is an optical cavity with a movable mirror, where the radiation pressure can induce cooling, amplification and nonlinear dynamics of the mirror.

id: 0902.2266
title: Ground-state factorization and quantum phase transition in dimerized spin chains
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 79, 060405(R) (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2266
abstract: We study the occurrence of ground-state factorization in dimerized $XY$ spin chains in a transverse field. Together with the usual ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic regimes, a third case emerges, with no analogous in translationally-invariant systems, consisting of an antiferromagnetic Ne\'{e}l-type ground state where pairs of spins represent the unitary cell. Then, we calculate the exact solution of the model and show that the factorizing field represent an accidental degeneracy point of the Hamiltonian. Finally, we extend the study of the existence of ground-state factorization to a more general class of models.

id: 0902.2308
title: Analytically solvable Hamiltonians for quantum systems with a nearest neighbour interaction
authors: G. Regniers, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 125301 (16pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2308
abstract: We consider quantum systems consisting of a linear chain of n harmonic oscillators coupled by a nearest neighbour interaction of the form $-q_r q_{r+1}$ ($q_r$ refers to the position of the $r$th oscillator). In principle, such systems are always numerically solvable and involve the eigenvalues of the interaction matrix. In this paper, we investigate when such a system is analytically solvable, i.e. when the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the interaction matrix have analytically closed expressions. This is the case when the interaction matrix coincides with the Jacobi matrix of a system of discrete orthogonal polynomials. Our study of possible systems leads to three new analytically solvable Hamiltonians: with a Krawtchouk interaction, a Hahn interaction or a q-Krawtchouk interaction. For each of these cases, we give the spectrum of the Hamiltonian (in analytic form) and discuss some typical properties of the spectra.

id: 0902.2464
title: Inverse Spectral Problems for Tridiagonal N by N Complex Hamiltonians
authors: Gusein Sh. Guseinov
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 018, 28 pages
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2464
abstract: In this paper, the concept of generalized spectral function is introduced for finite-order tridiagonal symmetric matrices (Jacobi matrices) with complex entries. The structure of the generalized spectral function is described in terms of spectral data consisting of the eigenvalues and normalizing numbers of the matrix. The inverse problems from generalized spectral function as well as from spectral data are investigated. In this way, a procedure for construction of complex tridiagonal matrices having real eigenvalues is obtained.

id: 0902.2549
title: Nonlinear spectroscopy with entangled photons; manipulating quantum pathways of matter
authors: O. Roslyak C.A. Marx, S. Mukamel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2549
abstract: Optical signals obtained by the material response to classical laser fields are given by nonlinear response functions which can be expressed by sums over various quantum pathways of matter. We show that some pathways can be selected by using nonclassical fields, through the entanglement of photon and material pathways, which results in a different-power law dependence on the incoming field intensity. Spectrally overlapping stimulated Raman scattering (SRS) and two-photon-absorption (TPA) pathways in a pump probe experiment are separated by controlling the degree of entanglement of pairs of incoming photons. Pathway-selectivity opens up new avenues for mapping photon into material entanglement. New material information, otherwise erased by interferences among pathways, is revealed.

id: 0902.2593
title: Crum's Theorem for `Discrete' Quantum Mechanics
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 13 pages, to be published in Prog.Theor.Phys., several comments and references added
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.122:1067-1079,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2593
abstract: In one-dimensional quantum mechanics, or the Sturm-Liouville theory, Crum's theorem describes the relationship between the original and the associated Hamiltonian systems, which are iso-spectral except for the lowest energy state. Its counterpart in `discrete' quantum mechanics is formulated algebraically, elucidating the basic structure of the discrete quantum mechanics, whose Schr\"odinger equation is a difference equation.

id: 0902.2823
title: Separability of a modified Dirac equation in a five-dimensional rotating, charged black hole in string theory
authors: Shuang-Qing Wu
comments: 20 pages, accompanied paper to arXiv:0807.2114 [hep-th] and arXiv:0808.3435 [hep-th]. Published version
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:044037,2009; Erratum-ibid.D80:069902,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2823
abstract: The aim of this paper is to investigate the separability of a spin-1/2 spinor field in a five-dimensional rotating, charged black hole constructed by Cvetic and Youm in string theory, in the case when three U(1) charges are set equal. This black hole solution represents a natural generalization of the famous four-dimensional Kerr-Newman solution to five dimensions with the inclusion of a Chern-Simons term to the Maxwell equation. It is shown that the usual Dirac equation can not be separated by variables in this general spacetime with two independent angular momenta. However if one supplements an additional counterterm into the usual Dirac operator, then the modified Dirac equation for the spin-1/2 spinor particles is separable in this rotating, charged Einstein-Maxwell-Chern-Simons black hole background geometry. A first-order symmetry operator that commutes with the modified Dirac operator has exactly the same form as that previously found in the uncharged Myers-Perry black hole case. It is expressed in terms of a rank-three totally antisymmetric tensor and its covariant derivative. This tensor obeys a generalized Killing-Yano equation and its square is a second-order symmetric Stackel-Killing tensor admitted by the five-dimensional rotating, charged black hole spacetime.

id: 0902.2844
title: Singularity Avoidance in Nonlinear Quantum Cosmology
authors: Le-Huy Nguyen, Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: 6 pages. Presented at the DSU conference in Cairo, Egypt 2008. Typos in eq. 22 and 29 of the proceedings version corrected here
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.1115:180-185,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2844
abstract: We extend our previous study on the effects of an information-theoretically motivated nonlinear correction to the Wheeler-deWitt equation in the minisuperspace scheme for FRW universes. Firstly we show that even when the geometry is hyperbolic, and matter given by a cosmological constant, the nonlinearity can still provide a barrier to screen the initial singularity, just as in the case for flat universes. Secondly, in the flat case we show that singularity avoidance in the presence of a free massless scalar field is perturbatively possible for a very large class of initially unperturbed quantum states, generalising our previous discussion using Gaussian states.

id: 0902.2979
title: Caustic formation in expanding condensates of cold atoms
authors: J. T. Chalker, B. Shapiro
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013603 (2009)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2979
abstract: We study the evolution of density in an expanding Bose-Einstein condensate that initially has a spatially varying phase, concentrating on behaviour when these phase variations are large. In this regime large density fluctuations develop during expansion. Maxima have a characteristic density that diverges with the amplitude of phase variations and their formation is analogous to that of caustics in geometrical optics. We analyse in detail caustic formation in a quasi-one dimensional condensate, which before expansion is subject to a periodic or random optical potential, and we discuss the equivalent problem for a quasi-two dimensional system. We also examine the influence of many-body correlations in the initial state on caustic formation for a Bose gas expanding from a strictly one-dimensional trap. In addition, we study a similar arrangement for non-interacting fermions, showing that Fermi surface discontinuities in the momentum distribution give rise in that case to sharp peaks in the spatial derivative of the density. We discuss recent experiments and argue that fringes reported in time of flight images by Chen and co-workers [Phys. Rev. A 77, 033632 (2008)] are an example of caustic formation.

id: 0902.3055
title: Quantum many-body theory of qubit decoherence in a finite-size spin bath. II. Ensemble dynamics
authors: Wen Yang, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 115320 (2009) [7 pages]
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3055
abstract: Decoherence of a center spin or qubit in a spin bath is essentially determined by the many-body bath evolution. The bath dynamics can start either from a pure state or, more generally, from a statistical ensemble. In the preceding article [W. Yang and R. B. Liu, Phys. Rev. B \textbf{78}, 085315 (2008)], we have developed the cluster-correlation expansion (CCE) theory for the so-called single-sample bath dynamics initiated from a factorizable pure state. Here we present the ensemble CCE theory, which is based on similar ideas of the single-sample CCE: The bath evolution is factorized into the product of all possible cluster correlations, each of which accounts for the authentic (non-factorizable) collective excitation of a group of bath spins, and for the finite-time evolution in the qubit decoherence problem, convergent results can be obtained by truncating the ensemble CCE by keeping cluster correlations up to a certain size. A difference between the ensemble CCE and single-sample CCE is that the mean-field treatment in the latter formalism of the diagonal part of the spin-spin interaction in the bath is not possible in the former case. The ensemble CCE can be applied to non-factorizable initial states. The ensemble CCE is checked against the exact solution of an XY spin bath model. For small spin baths, it is shown that single-sample dynamics is sensitive to the sampling of the initial state from a thermal ensemble and hence very different from the ensemble average.

id: 0902.3056
title: New Results in the Simultaneous Message Passing Model
authors: Rahul Jain, Hartmut Klauck
comments: 16 pages, version 1
journal: 
subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3056
abstract: Consider the following Simultaneous Message Passing (SMP) model for computing a relation f subset of X x Y x Z. In this model Alice, on input x in X and Bob, on input y in Y, send one message each to a third party Referee who then outputs a z in Z such that (x,y,z) in f. We first show optimal 'Direct sum' results for all relations f in this model, both in the quantum and classical settings, in the situation where we allow shared resources (shared entanglement in quantum protocols and public coins in classical protocols) between Alice and Referee and Bob and Referee and no shared resource between Alice and Bob. This implies that, in this model, the communication required to compute k simultaneous instances of f, with constant success overall, is at least k-times the communication required to compute one instance with constant success. This in particular implies an earlier Direct sum result, shown by Chakrabarti, Shi, Wirth and Yao, 2001, for the Equality function (and a class of other so-called robust functions), in the classical smp model with no shared resources between any parties. Furthermore we investigate the gap between the smp model and the one-way model in communication complexity and exhibit a partial function that is exponentially more expensive in the former if quantum communication with entanglement is allowed, compared to the latter even in the deterministic case.

id: 0902.3101
title: Star products: a group-theoretical point of view
authors: Paolo Aniello
comments: 42 pages; conclusions added; a few references added
journal: J.Phys.A42:475210,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3101
abstract: Adopting a purely group-theoretical point of view, we consider the star product of functions which is associated, in a natural way, with a square integrable (in general, projective) representation of a locally compact group. Next, we show that for this (implicitly defined) star product explicit formulae can be provided. Two significant examples are studied in detail: the group of translations on phase space and the one-dimensional affine group. The study of the first example leads to the Groenewold-Moyal star product. In the second example, the link with wavelet analysis is clarified.

id: 0902.3125
title: Ermakov-Lewis Invariants of the Gross-Pitaevskii Equation
authors: J.M.F.Bassalo, P.T.S.Alencar, D.G.Silva, A.B.Nassar, M. Cattani
comments: No figures 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3125
abstract: In this work we study the Ermakov-Lewis invariants of the non-linear Gross-Pitaeviskii equation

id: 0902.3175
title: The One-Way Communication Complexity of Group Membership
authors: Scott Aaronson, Fran?ois Le Gall, Alexander Russell, Seiichiro Tani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3175
abstract: This paper studies the one-way communication complexity of the subgroup membership problem, a classical problem closely related to basic questions in quantum computing. Here Alice receives, as input, a subgroup $H$ of a finite group $G$; Bob receives an element $x \in G$. Alice is permitted to send a single message to Bob, after which he must decide if his input $x$ is an element of $H$. We prove the following upper bounds on the classical communication complexity of this problem in the bounded-error setting: (1) The problem can be solved with $O(\log |G|)$ communication, provided the subgroup $H$ is normal; (2) The problem can be solved with $O(d_{\max} \cdot \log |G|)$ communication, where $d_{\max}$ is the maximum of the dimensions of the irreducible complex representations of $G$; (3) For any prime $p$ not dividing $|G|$, the problem can be solved with $O(d_{\max} \cdot \log p)$ communication, where $d_{\max}$ is the maximum of the dimensions of the irreducible $\F_p$-representations of $G$.

id: 0902.3228
title: Ultracold atomic gases in non-Abelian gauge potentials: The case of constant Wilson loop
authors: N. Goldman, A. Kubasiak, P. Gaspard, M. Lewenstein
comments: 12 pages, 2 appendices, 7 figures, extended version of arXiv:0712.2571
journal: Phys.Rev.A79:023624,2009
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3228
abstract: Nowadays it is experimentally feasible to create artificial, and in particular, non-Abelian gauge potentials for ultracold atoms trapped in optical lattices. Motivated by this fact, we investigate the fundamental properties of an ultracold Fermi gas in a non-Abelian U(2) gauge potential characterized by a constant Wilson loop. Under this specific condition, the energy spectrum exhibits a robust band structure with large gaps and reveals a new fractal figure. The transverse conductivity is related to topological invariants and is shown to be quantized when the Fermi energy lies inside a gap of the spectrum. We demonstrate that the analogue of the integer quantum Hall effect for neutral atoms survives the non-Abelian coupling and leads to a striking fractal phase diagram. Moreover, this coupling induces an anomalous Hall effect as observed in graphene.

id: 0902.3333
title: Spins coupled to a Spin Bath: From Integrability to Chaos
authors: John Schliemann
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures included, version to appear in Phys. Rev B (Rapid Comm.)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 081301(R) (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3333
abstract: Motivated by the hyperfine interaction of electron spins with surrounding nuclei, we investigate systems of central spins coupled to a bath of noninteracting spins in the framework of random matrix theory. With increasing number of central spins a transition from Poissonian statistics to the Gaussian orthogonal ensemble occurs which can be described by a generalized Brody distribution. These observations are unaltered upon applying an external magnetic field. In the transition region, the classical counterparts of the models studied have mixed phase space.

id: 0902.3445
title: Non-Commutative Markov Chains and Multi-Analytic Operators
authors: Rolf Gohm
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3445
abstract: We study a model of repeated interaction between quantum systems which can be thought of as a non-commutative Markov chain. It is shown that there exists an outgoing Cuntz scattering system associated to this model which induces an input-output formalism with a transfer function corresponding to a multi-analytic operator, in the sense of multivariate operator theory. Finally we show that observability for this system is closely related to the scattering theory of non-commutative Markov chains.

id: 0902.3547
title: Self-duality and bound states of the toric code model in a transverse field
authors: J. Vidal, R. Thomale, K. P. Schmidt, S. Dusuel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, typos in Eq.(4) corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.B80:081104,2009
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3547
abstract: We investigate the effect of a transverse magnetic field on the toric code model. We show that this problem can be mapped onto the Xu-Moore model and thus onto the quantum compass model which are known to be self-dual. We analyze the low-energy spectrum by means of perturbative continuous unitary transformations and determine accurately the energy gaps of various symmetry sectors. Our results are in very good agreement with exact diagonalization data for all values of the parameters except at the self-dual point where level crossings are responsible for a first order phase transition between a topological phase and a polarized phase. Interestingly, bound states of two and four quasiparticles with fermionic and bosonic statistics emerge, and display dispersion relations of reduced dimensionality.

id: 0902.3688
title: On the model of a classical relativistic particle of constant and universal mass and spin
authors: V. Kassandrov, N. Markova, G. Schaefer, A. Wipf
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures; some comments, important references and afterword added. Accepted to J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J.Phys.A42:315204,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3688
abstract: The deformation of the classical action for a free relativistic particle recently suggested by A. Staruszkiewicz gives rise to a spin structure which constrains the values of the invariant mass and the invariant spin to be the same for any solution of the equations of motion. We prove that both these Casimir invariants, the square of the four-momentum vector and the square of the Pauli-Luba\'{n}ski pseudo-vector, preserve the same fixed values even in the presence of an arbitrary external electromagnetic field. In the "free" case, in the centre of mass reference frame, the particle moves along a circle of fixed radius. In a homogeneous magnetic field, a number of rotational "states" is possible with frequencies slightly different from the cyclotron frequency, and "phase-like" transitions with spin flops occure at some critical value of the particle's three-momentum. In the last section, the article of Kuzenko, Lyakhovich and Segal (1994) in which, in fact, an equivalent model had been proposed and elaborated, is briefly reviewed and compared with Staruszkiewicz's approach and our results.

id: 0902.3848
title: Reduced fidelity in topological quantum phase transitions
authors: Erik Eriksson, Henrik Johannesson
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 060301(R) (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3848
abstract: We study the reduced fidelity between local states of lattice systems exhibiting topological order. By exploiting mappings to spin models with classical order, we are able to analytically extract the scaling behavior of the reduced fidelity at the corresponding quantum phase transitions out of the topologically ordered phases. Our results suggest that the reduced fidelity, albeit being a local measure, generically serves as a faithful marker of a topological quantum phase transition.

id: 0902.3879
title: Fluctuation Theorem for Arbitrary Open Quantum Systems
authors: Michele Campisi, Peter Talkner, Peter H?nggi
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 210401 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3879
abstract: Based on the observation that the thermodynamic equilibrium free energy of an open quantum system in contact with a thermal environment can be understood as the difference between the free energy of the total system and that of the bare environment, the validity of the Crooks theorem and of the Jarzynski equality is extended to open quantum systems. No restrictions on the nature of the environment or on the strength of the coupling between system and environment need to be imposed. This free energy entering the Crooks theorem and the Jarzynski equality is closely related to the Hamiltonian of mean force that generalizes the classical statistical mechanical concept of the potential of mean force.

id: 0902.3896
title: On the Spectrum of the Resonant Quantum Kicked Rotor
authors: Italo Guarneri
comments: Description of related published work has been expanded in the Introduction
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3896
abstract: It is proven that none of the bands in the quasi-energy spectrum of the Quantum Kicked Rotor is flat at any primitive resonance of any order. Perturbative estimates of bandwidths at small kick strength are established for the case of primitive resonances of prime order. Different bands scale with different powers of the kick strength, due to degeneracies in the spectrum of the free rotor.

id: 0902.3976
title: SU(1,1) Coherent States For Position-Dependent Mass Singular Oscillators
authors: Sara Cruz y Cruz, Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures. This shortened version (includes new references) has been adapted for its publication in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.50:2201-2210,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3976
abstract: The Schroedinger equation for position-dependent mass singular oscillators is solved by means of the factorization method and point transformations. These systems share their spectrum with the conventional singular oscillator. Ladder operators are constructed to close the su(1,1) Lie algebra and the involved point transformations are shown to preserve the structure of the Barut-Girardello and Perelomov coherent states.

id: 0902.4020
title: Optical Activities as Computing Resources for Space-time Symmetries
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: 13 pages, to be published in J. Mod. Optics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4020
abstract: It is known that optical activities can perform rotations. It is shown that the rotation, if modulated by attenuations, can perform symmetry operations of Wigner's little group which dictates the internal space-time symmetries of elementary particles.

id: 0902.4022
title: The Casimir force between real materials: experiment and theory
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 126 pages, 33 figures, accepted for publication in Reviews of Modern Physics
journal: Rev.Mod.Phys.81:1827-1885,2009
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4022
abstract: The physical origin of the Casimir force is connected with the existence of zero-point and thermal fluctuations. The Casimir effect is very general and finds applications in various fields of physics. This review is limited to the rapid progress at the intersection of experiment and theory that has been achieved in the last few years. It includes a critical assessment of the proposed approaches to the resolution of the puzzles arising in the applications of the Lifshitz theory of the van der Waals and Casimir forces to real materials. All the primary experiments on the measurement of the Casimir force between macroscopic bodies and the Casimir-Polder force between an atom and a wall that have been performed in the last decade are reviewed, including the theory needed for their interpretation. The methodology for the comparison between experiment and theory in the force-distance measurements is presented. The experimental and theoretical results described here provide a deeper understanding of the phenomenon of dispersion forces in real materials and offer guidance for the application of Lifshitz theory for the interpretation of the measurement results.

id: 0902.4052
title: Optical potentials using resonance states in Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: N. Fernandez-Garcia, O. Rosas-Ortiz
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, 1 table
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 128 (2008) 012044
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4052
abstract: Complex potentials are constructed as Darboux-deformations of short range, radial nonsingular potentials. They behave as optical devices which both refracts and absorbs light waves. The deformation preserves the initial spectrum of energies and it is implemented by means of a Gamow-Siegert function (resonance state). As straightforward example, the method is applied to the radial square well. Analytical derivations of the involved resonances show that they are `quantized' while the corresponding wave-functions are shown to behave as bounded states under the broken of parity symmetry of the related one-dimensional problem.

id: 0902.4134
title: A new view on superfluidity
authors: V. A. Golovko
comments: Full version of a paper published earlier in Physica A, 45 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4134
abstract: This paper represents the full version of a paper published earlier in Physica A [246 (1997), 275]. The present paper includes argumentation, proofs and details omitted in the shortened version. The papers are a further development of the approach in quantum statistical mechanics proposed by the author. The hierarchy of equations for reduced density matrices obtained previously is extended to the case corresponding to the Bose-Einstein condensation. The relevant state of the system with a condensate can be superfluid as well as nonsuperfluid. Special attention is given to the thermodynamics of superfluid systems. According to the results of the papers superfluidity is the state of a fluid whose symmetry is spontaneously broken because of a stationary flow. The state corresponds to thermodynamic equilibrium while the magnitude of the flow depends upon the temperature and is determined by thermodynamic considerations. The equations obtained are solved in two simple cases. The physical origin of superfluidity, peculiarities of the phenomenon in closed volumes and the critical velocity are discussed as well.

id: 0902.4468
title: The Josephson light-emitting diode
authors: Patrik Recher, Yuli V. Nazarov, Leo P. Kouwenhoven
comments: Main text: 4 pages, 4 figures, Supplementary material: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 156802 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4468
abstract: We consider an optical quantum dot where an electron level and a hole level are coupled to respective superconducting leads. We find that electrons and holes recombine producing photons at discrete energies as well as a continuous tail. Further, the spectral lines directly probe the induced superconducting correlations on the dot. At energies close to the applied bias voltage eV, a parameter range exists, where radiation proceeds in pairwise emission of polarization correlated photons. At energies close to 2eV, emitted photons are associated with Cooper pair transfer and are reminiscent of Josephson radiation. We discuss how to probe the coherence of these photons in a SQUID geometry via single photon interference.

id: 0902.4505
title: Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory for Open Quantum Systems with Unitary Propagation
authors: Joel Yuen-Zhou, David G. Tempel, C¨¦sar Rodr¨ªguez-Rosario, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 043001 (2010)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4505
abstract: We extend the Runge-Gross theorem for a very general class of Markovian and non-Markovian open quantum systems under weak assumptions about the nature of the bath and its coupling to the system. We show that for Kohn-Sham (KS) Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory, it is possible to rigorously include the effects of the environment within a bath functional in the KS potential, thus placing the interactions between the particles of the system and the coupling to the environment on the same footing. A Markovian bath functional inspired by the theory of nonlinear Schrodinger equations is suggested, which can be readily implemented in currently existing real-time codes. Finally, calculations on a helium model system are presented.

id: 0902.4537
title: Commutation relations for the electromagnetic field in the presence of dielectrics and conductors
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A43:155402,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4537
abstract: We determine the commutation relations satisfied by the quantized electromagnetic field in the presence of macroscopic dielectrics and conductors, with arbitrary dispersive and dissipative properties. We consider in detail the case of two plane-parallel material slabs, separated by an empty gap, and we show that at all points in the empty region between the slabs, including their surfaces, the electromagnetic fields always satisfy free-field canonical equal-time commutation relations. This result is a consequence of general analyticity and fall-off properties at large frequencies satisfied by the reflection coefficients of all real materials. It is also shown that this result does not obtain in the case of conductors, if the latter are modelled as perfect mirrors. In such a case, the free-field form of the commutation relations is recovered only at large distances from the mirrors, in agreement with the findings of previous authors. Failure of perfect-mirror boundary conditions to reproduce the correct form of the commutation relations near the surfaces of the conductors, suggests that caution should be used when these idealized boundary conditions are used in investigations of proximity phenomena originating from the quantized electromagnetic field, like the Casimir effect.

id: 0902.4574
title: Coherent state of the effective mass harmonic oscillator
authors: Atreyee Biswas, Barnana Roy
comments: 18 Pages, 5 Figures. To be published in Mod. Phys. Lett. A
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 24 (2009) 1343-1353
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4574
abstract: We construct coherent state of the effective mass harmonic oscillator and examine some of its properties. In particular closed form expressions of coherent states for different choices of the mass function are obtained and it is shown that such states are not in general x-p uncertainty states. We also compute the associated Wigner functions.

id: 0902.4628
title: Possible stimulation of nuclear alpha-decay by superfluid helium
authors: A. L. Barabanov
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX, final published version in Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 (2009)
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:092501,2009
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4628
abstract: It is suggested that superfluid helium (condensate of 4-He atoms) may stimulate nuclear alpha-decay in a situation when an alpha-emitter moves through superfluid helium with fine-tuned velocity, so that the backward-emitted alpha-particle is at rest in the laboratory frame. It is shown that the probability of stimulated alpha-decay in this case may be sizable enough to be detected.

id: 0902.4652
title: Chirality of triangular antiferromagnetic clusters as a qubit
authors: B.Georgeot, F.Mila
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, discussion on decoherence added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 200502 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4652
abstract: We show that the chirality of triangular antiferromagnetic clusters can be used as a qubit even if it is entirely decoupled from the total spin of the cluster. In particular, we estimate the orbital moment associated to the chirality, and we show that it can be large enough to allow a direct measurement of the chirality with a field perpendicular to the cluster. Consequences for molecular magnets are discussed, and an alternative implementation with Cu atoms on a surface is proposed, for which one- and two-qubit gates are worked out in detail. Decoherence effects are also discussed.

id: 0902.4828
title: Exact solution of the Klein Gordon equation in the presence of a minimal length
authors: T.K. Jana, P. Roy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4828
abstract: We obtain exact solutions of the (1+1) dimensional Klein Gordon equation with linear vector and scalar potentials in the presence of a minimal length. Algebraic approach to the problem has also been studied.

id: 0902.4845
title: Error Threshold for Color Codes and Random 3-Body Ising Models
authors: Helmut G. Katzgraber, H. Bombin, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 090501 (2009)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4845
abstract: We study the error threshold of color codes, a class of topological quantum codes that allow a direct implementation of quantum Clifford gates suitable for entanglement distillation, teleportation and fault-tolerant quantum computation. We map the error-correction process onto a statistical mechanical random 3-body Ising model and study its phase diagram via Monte Carlo simulations. The obtained error threshold of p_c = 0.109(2) is very close to that of Kitaev's toric code, showing that enhanced computational capabilities does not necessarily imply lower resistance to noise.

id: 0902.0168
title: Ashkin-Teller universality in a quantum double model of Ising anyons
authors: Charlotte Gils
comments: 11 pages, minor revisions
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P07019 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0168
abstract: We study a quantum double model whose degrees of freedom are Ising anyons. The terms of the Hamiltonian of this system give rise to a competition between single and double topologies. By studying the energy spectra of the Hamiltonian at different values of the coupling constants, we find extended gapless regions which include a large number of critical points described by conformal field theories with central charge c=1. These theories are part of the Z_2 orbifold of the bosonic theory compactified on a circle. We observe that the Hilbert space of our anyonic model can be associated with extended Dynkin diagrams of affine Lie algebras which yields exact solutions at some critical points. In certain special regimes, our model corresponds to the Hamiltonian limit of the Ashkin-Teller model, and hence integrability over a wide range of coupling parameters is established.

id: 0902.3726
title: Fermionic Casimir densities in toroidally compactified spacetimes with applications to nanotubes
authors: S. Bellucci, A. A. Saharian
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:085019,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3726
abstract: Fermionic condensate and the vacuum expectation values of the energy-momentum tensor are investigated for a massive spinor fields in higher-dimensional spacetimes with an arbitrary number of toroidally compactified spatial dimensions. By using the Abel-Plana summation formula and the zeta function technique we present the vacuum expectation values in two different forms. Applications of the general formulae to cylindrical and toroidal carbon nanotubes are given. We show that the topological Casimir energy is positive for metallic cylindrical nanotubes and is negative for semiconducting ones. The toroidal compactification of a cylindrical nanotube along its axis increases the Casimir energy for metallic-type (periodic) boundary conditions along its axis and decreases the Casimir energy for the semiconducting-type compactifications.

id: 0902.0635
title: A gap for the maximum number of mutually unbiased bases
authors: Mih¨¢ly Weiner
comments: v2: An interesting new characterization is added for a linear subspace of M_d(C) to be a subalgebra. This in turn is used to produce a more elegant proof for the main theorem. Also, more similarities are noted between the case of orthogonal Latin squares and that of mutually unbiased bases
journal: Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 141 (2013) , pg. 1963-1969
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.0635
abstract: A collection of pairwise mutually unbiased bases (in short: MUB) in d>1 dimensions may consist of at most d+1 bases. Such "complete" collections are known to exists in C^d when d is a power of a prime. However, in general little is known about the maximal number N(d) of bases that a collection of MUBs in C^d can have. In this work it is proved that a collection of d MUBs in C^d can be always completed. Hence N(d) cannot be d and when d>1 we have a dichotomy: either N(d)=d+1 (so that there exists a complete collection of MUBs), or N(d)\leq d-1. In the course of the proof an interesting new characterization is given for a linear subspace of M_d(C) to be a subalgebra.

id: 0902.2355
title: Quantum Logic in Dagger Kernel Categories
authors: Chris Heunen, Bart Jacobs
comments: 35 pages
journal: Order 27(2):177-212, 2010
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.2355
abstract: This paper investigates quantum logic from the perspective of categorical logic, and starts from minimal assumptions, namely the existence of involutions/daggers and kernels. The resulting structures turn out to (1) encompass many examples of interest, such as categories of relations, partial injections, Hilbert spaces (also modulo phase), and Boolean algebras, and (2) have interesting categorical/logical properties, in terms of kernel fibrations, such as existence of pullbacks, factorisation, and orthomodularity. For instance, the Sasaki hook and and-then connectives are obtained, as adjoints, via the existential-pullback adjunction between fibres.

id: 0902.3980
title: Causality in Condensates: Grey Solitons as Remnants of BEC Formation
authors: Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: Typos in Eq. (3), (13), and (25) fixed
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:105702,2009
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3980
abstract: Symmetry breaking during phase transitions can lead to the formation of topological defects (such as vortex lines in superfluids). However, the usually studied BEC's have the shape of a cigar, a geometry that impedes vortex formation, survival, and detection. I show that, in elongated traps, one can expect the formation of "grey solitons" (long-lived, non-topological "phase defects") as a result of the same mechanism. Their number will rise approximately in proportion to the transition rate. This steep rise is due to the increasing size of the region of the BEC cigar where the phase of the condensate wavefunction is chosen locally (rather than passed on from the already formed BEC).

id: 0902.4869
title: Higher rank numerical ranges of normal matrices
authors: Hwa-Long Gau, Chi-Kwong Li, Yiu-Tung Poon, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, to appear in SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications
journal: SIAM J. Matrix Analysis Appl, 32:23-43, 2011
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4869
abstract: The higher rank numerical range is closely connected to the construction of quantum error correction code for a noisy quantum channel. It is known that if a normal matrix $A \in M_n$ has eigenvalues $a_1, \..., a_n$, then its higher rank numerical range $\Lambda_k(A)$ is the intersection of convex polygons with vertices $a_{j_1}, \..., a_{j_{n-k+1}}$, where $1 \le j_1 < \... < j_{n-k+1} \le n$. In this paper, it is shown that the higher rank numerical range of a normal matrix with $m$ distinct eigenvalues can be written as the intersection of no more than $\max\{m,4\}$ closed half planes. In addition, given a convex polygon ${\mathcal P}$ a construction is given for a normal matrix $A \in M_n$ with minimum $n$ such that $\Lambda_k(A) = {\mathcal P}$. In particular, if ${\mathcal P}$ has $p$ vertices, with $p \ge 3$, there is a normal matrix $A \in M_n$ with $n \le \max\left\{p+k-1, 2k+2 \right\}$ such that $\Lambda_k(A) = {\mathcal P}$.

