id: 0903.0009
title: Finite-time destruction of entanglement and non-locality by environmental influences
authors: Kevin Ann, Gregg Jaeger
comments: 27 pages, 6 figures, review article to appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0009
abstract: Entanglement and non-locality are non-classical global characteristics of quantum states important to the foundations of quantum mechanics. Recent investigations have shown that environmental noise, even when it is entirely local in influence, can destroy both of these properties in finite time despite giving rise to full quantum state decoherence only in the infinite time limit. These investigations, which have been carried out in a range of theoretical and experimental situations, are reviewed here.

id: 0903.0012
title: Quantum Measurements of Coupled Two-Level Systems
authors: L. Fedichkin, M. Shapiro, M. I. Dykman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0012
abstract: We propose an approach to measuring nonresonant coupled systems, which gives a parametrically smaller error than the conventional fast projective measurements. The approach takes into account that, due to the coupling, excitations are not entirely localized on individual systems. It combines high spectral selectivity of the detector with temporal resolution and uses the ideas of the quantum diffusion theory. The results bear on quantum computing with perpetually coupled qubits.

id: 0903.0019
title: Monogamy Inequality and Residual Entanglement of Three Qubits under Decoherence
authors: Thiago R. de Oliveira
comments: Published version. Small changes in the text and conclusion improved after referee comments
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022331 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0019
abstract: Exploring an analytical expression for the convex roof of the pure state squared concurrence for rank 2 mixed states the entanglement of a system of three particles under decoherence is studied, using the monogamy inequality for mixed states and the residual entanglement obtained from it. The monogamy inequality is investigated both for the concurrence and the negativity in the case of local independent phase damping channel acting on generalized GHZ states of three particles and the local independent amplitude damping channel acting on generalized W state of three particles. It is shown that the bipartite entanglement between one qubit and the rest has a qualitative similar behavior to the entanglement between individual qubits, and that the residual entanglement in terms of the negativity cannot be a good entanglement measure for mixed states, since it can increase under local decoherence.

id: 0903.0021
title: Master Equation and Control of an Open Quantum System with Leakage
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Gershon Kurizki, Paul Brumer
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 080405 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0021
abstract: Given a multilevel system coupled to a bath, we use a Feshbach P,Q partitioning technique to derive an exact trace-nonpreserving master equation for a subspace $\mathcal{S}_{i}$ of the system. The resultant equation properly treats the leakage effect from $\mathcal{S}_{i}$ into the remainder of the system space. Focusing on a second-order approximation, we show that a one-dimensional master equation is sufficient to study problems of quantum state storage and is a good approximation, or exact, for several analytical models. It allows a natural definition of a leakage function and its control, and provides a general approach to study and control decoherence and leakage. Numerical calculations on an harmonic oscillator coupled to a room temperature harmonic bath show that the leakage can be suppressed by the pulse control technique without requiring ideal pulses.

id: 0903.0071
title: Quantum catcher - stopping particles of unknown velocities
authors: S. Schmidt, J. G. Muga, A. Ruschhaupt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0071
abstract: We propose a method to stop particles of unknown velocities by collision with an accelerated wall with trajectory ~sqrt(t). We present classical and quantum mechanical descriptions and numerical simulations that show the efficiency of the method.

id: 0903.0079
title: Quantum state preparation and macroscopic entanglement in gravitational-wave detectors
authors: Helge Mueller-Ebhardt, Henning Rehbein, Chao Li, Yasushi Mino, Kentaro Somiya, Roman Schnabel, Karsten Danzmann, Yanbei Chen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 043802 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0079
abstract: Long-baseline laser-interferometer gravitational-wave detectors are operating at a factor of 10 (in amplitude) above the standard quantum limit (SQL) within a broad frequency band. Such a low classical noise budget has already allowed the creation of a controlled 2.7 kg macroscopic oscillator with an effective eigenfrequency of 150 Hz and an occupation number of 200. This result, along with the prospect for further improvements, heralds the new possibility of experimentally probing macroscopic quantum mechanics (MQM) - quantum mechanical behavior of objects in the realm of everyday experience - using gravitational-wave detectors. In this paper, we provide the mathematical foundation for the first step of a MQM experiment: the preparation of a macroscopic test mass into a nearly minimum-Heisenberg-limited Gaussian quantum state, which is possible if the interferometer's classical noise beats the SQL in a broad frequency band. Our formalism, based on Wiener filtering, allows a straightforward conversion from the classical noise budget of a laser interferometer, in terms of noise spectra, into the strategy for quantum state preparation, and the quality of the prepared state. Using this formalism, we consider how Gaussian entanglement can be built among two macroscopic test masses, and the performance of the planned Advanced LIGO interferometers in quantum-state preparation.

id: 0903.0104
title: State reconstruction by on/off measurements
authors: A. Allevi, A. Andreoni, M. Bondani, G. Brida, M. Genovese, M. Gramegna, S. Olivares, M. G. A. Paris, P. Traina, G. Zambra
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, revised and enlarged version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022114 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0104
abstract: We demonstrate a state reconstruction technique which provides either the Wigner function or the density matrix of a field mode and requires only avalanche photodetectors, without any phase or amplitude discrimination power. It represents an alternative, of simpler implementation, to quantum homodyne tomography.

id: 0903.0129
title: Quantum Conditions on Dynamics and Control in Open Systems
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Arjun Bharioke, Paul Brumer
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 129, 041105 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0129
abstract: Quantum conditions on the control of dynamics of a system coupled to an environment are obtained. Specifically, consider a system initially in a system subspace $H_{0}$ of dimensionality $M_{0}$, which evolves to populate system subspaces $H_{1}$, $H_{2}$ of dimensionality $M_{1}$, $M_{2}$. Then there always exists an initial state in $H_0$ that does not evolve into $H_2$ if $M_{0}>dM_{2},$ where $2 \leq d \leq (M_0 +M_1 +M_2)^2$ is the number of operators in the Kraus representation. Note, significantly, that the maximum $d$ can be far smaller than the dimension of the bath. If this condition is not satisfied then dynamics from $H_{0}$ that avoids $H_{2}$ can only be attained physically under stringent conditions. An example from molecular dynamics and spectroscopy, i.e. donor to acceptor energy transfer, is provided.

id: 0903.0135
title: Electromagnetically Induced Transparency and Light Storage in an Atomic Mott Insulator
authors: U. Schnorrberger, J. D. Thompson, S. Trotzky, R. Pugatch, N. Davidson, S. Kuhr, I. Bloch
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 033003 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0135
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate electromagnetically induced transparency and light storage with ultracold 87Rb atoms in a Mott insulating state in a three dimensional optical lattice. We have observed light storage times of about 240 ms, to our knowledge the longest ever achieved in ultracold atomic samples. Using the differential light shift caused by a spatially inhomogeneous far detuned light field we imprint a "phase gradient" across the atomic sample, resulting in controlled angular redirection of the retrieved light pulse.

id: 0903.0193
title: Realistic quantum manipulation of two-level system fluctuators
authors: L. Tian, K. Jacobs
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 144503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0193
abstract: Two-level system fluctuators in superconducting devices have demonstrated coherent coupling with superconducting qubits. Here, we show that universal quantum logic gates can be realized in these two-level systems solely by tuning a superconducting resonator in which they are imbedded. Because of the large energy separation between the fluctuators, conventional gate schemes in the cavity QED approach that are widely used for solid-state qubits cannot be directly applied to the fluctuators. We study a scheme to perform the gate operations by exploiting the controllability of the superconducting resonator with realistic parameters. Numerical simulation that takes into account the decay of the resonator mode shows that the quantum logic gates can be realized with high fidelity at moderate resonator decay rate. The quantum logic gates can also be realized between fluctuators inside different Josephson junctions that are connected by a superconducting loop. Our scheme can be applied to explore the coupling between two-level system fluctuators and superconducting resonators as well as the coherent properties of the fluctuators.

id: 0903.0219
title: Generating entangled fermions by accelerated measurements on the vacuum
authors: David C. M. Ostapchuk, Robert B. Mann
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, REVTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0219
abstract: It is shown that accelerated projective measurements on the vacuum of a free Dirac spinor field results in an entangled state for an inertial observer. The physical mechanism at work is the Davies-Unruh effect. The produced state is always entangled and its entanglement increases as a function of the acceleration, reaching maximal entanglement in the asymptotic limit of infinite acceleration where Bell states are produced.

id: 0903.0231
title: Bertlmann's chocolate balls and quantum type cryptography
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures; the photo a box full of colored balls can be downloaded from this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0231
abstract: Some quantum cryptographic protocols can be implemented with specially prepared chocolate balls, others protected by value indefiniteness cannot. Similarities and differences of cryptography with quanta and chocolate are discussed. Motivated by these considerations it is proposed to certify quantum random number generators and quantum cryptographic protocols by value indefiniteness. This feature, which derives itself from Bell- and Kochen-Specker type arguments, is only present in systems with three or more mutually exclusive outcomes.

id: 0903.0248
title: Deletion, Bell's Inequality, Teleportation
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, Nirman Ganguly, Binayak.S.Choudhury
comments: 6 pages, Accepted in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing,10, 27-32 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0248
abstract: In this letter we analyze the efficacy of the entangled output of Pati-Braunstein deletion machine [3] as a teleportation channel. We analyze the possibility of it violating the Bell's inequality. Interestingly we find that for all values of the input parameter$\alpha$ the state does not violate the Bell's inequality but when used as a teleportation channel can give a fidelity higher than the classical optimum (i.e 2/3).

id: 0903.0258
title: Quantization of Cellular Automata
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Vincent Nesme
comments: 12 pages
journal: proceedings of JAC 2008, pp. 204-215
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0258
abstract: Take a cellular automaton, consider that each configuration is a basis vector in some vector space, and linearize the global evolution function. If lucky, the r esult could actually make sense physically, as a valid quantum evolution; but do es it make sense as a quantum cellular automaton? That is the main question we a ddress in this paper. In every model with discrete time and space, two things ar e required in order to qualify as a cellular automaton: invariance by translatio n and locality. We prove that this locality condition is so restrictive in the q uantum case that every quantum cellular automaton constructed in this way - i. e., by linearization of a classical one - must be reversible. We also discuss some subtleties about the extent of nonlocality that can be encountered in the o ne-dimensional case; we show that, even when the quantized version is non local, still, under some conditions, we may be unable to use this nonlocality to trans mit information nonlocally.

id: 0903.0283
title: Dissipative and quantum mechanics
authors: Roumen Tsekov
comments: 
journal: New Adv. Phys. 3 (2009) 35-44
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0283
abstract: Three existing interpretations of quantum mechanics, given by Heisenberg, Bohm and Madelung, are examined to describe dissipative quantum systems as well. It is found that the Madelung quantum hydrodynamics is the only correct approach. A new stochastic reinterpretation of the quantum mechanics is proposed, which represents the microscopic face of the Madelung hydrodynamics. The main idea is that the vacuum fluctuates permanently, which explains the probabilistic character of the quantum mechanics. Thus, it is an objective theory independent of the human beings and their measurements. The effect of the thermal fluctuations in the surrounding is also accounted for via a heuristic Langevin equation with two random forces. Some statistical characteristics of these quantum and thermal noises are determined by reproducing known results for the system phase-space dynamics.

id: 0903.0320
title: Quantum electrodynamic equations for magnetic resonance- and optical spectroscopic transitions
authors: D.Yearchuck, Y.Yerchak, A.Alexandrov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0320
abstract: Quantum electrodynamic equations for magnetic resonance- and optical spectroscopic transitions have been for the first time obtained. New phenomena - stochastic electrical and magnetic spin wave resonances are predicted to be the effects of EM-field quantization.

id: 0903.0340
title: Physics, Topology, Logic and Computation: A Rosetta Stone
authors: John C. Baez, Mike Stay
comments: 73 pages, 8 encapsulated postscript figures
journal: Physics, topology, logic and compIn New Structures for Physics, ed. Bob Coecke, Lecture Notes in Physics vol. 813, Springer, Berlin, 2011, pp. 95-174
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0340
abstract: In physics, Feynman diagrams are used to reason about quantum processes. In the 1980s, it became clear that underlying these diagrams is a powerful analogy between quantum physics and topology: namely, a linear operator behaves very much like a "cobordism". Similar diagrams can be used to reason about logic, where they represent proofs, and computation, where they represent programs. With the rise of interest in quantum cryptography and quantum computation, it became clear that there is extensive network of analogies between physics, topology, logic and computation. In this expository paper, we make some of these analogies precise using the concept of "closed symmetric monoidal category". We assume no prior knowledge of category theory, proof theory or computer science.

id: 0903.0389
title: Generation of multi-photon entanglement by propagation and detection
authors: H. Hossein-Nejad, R. Stock, D. F. V. James
comments: 9 pages, 8 figues
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0389
abstract: We investigate the change of entanglement of photons due to propagation. We find that post-selected entanglement in general varies by propagation and, as a consequence, states with maximum bi- and tri-partite entanglement can be generated from propagation of unentangled photons. We generalize the results to n photons and show that entangled states with permutation symmetry can be generated from propagation of unentangled states. Generation of n-photon GHZ states is discussed as an example of a class of states with the desired symmetry.

id: 0903.0426
title: A "toy" model in QFT with no lower bound to the energy
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Minor editorial changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0426
abstract: In quantum field theory, it is generally assumed that there is a lower bound to the energy, which is normally assumed to the the vacuum state. While this may be a reasonable assumption for a free field it is not necessarily the case for interacting fields. In this paper I will examine a "toy" model of a neutral scalar field interacting with a charged scalar field and show that there is no lower bound to the energy in this case.

id: 0903.0427
title: Perturbative quantum analysis and classical limit of the electron scattering by a solenoidal magnetic field
authors: Gabriela Murguia, Matias Moreno, Manuel Torres
comments: To appear in the proceedings of 13th Mexican School of Particles and Fields (MSPF 2008), San Carlos, Sonora, Mexico, 2-11 Oct 2008. 6 pages, 2 Postscript figures
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1116 (2009) 362
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0427
abstract: A well known example in quantum electrodynamics (QED) shows that Coulomb scattering of unpolarized electrons, calculated to lowest order in perturbation theory, yields a results that exactly coincides (in the non-relativistic limit) with the Rutherford formula. We examine an analogous example, the classical and perturbative quantum scattering of an electron by a magnetic field confined in an infinite solenoid of finite radius. The results obtained for the classical and the quantum differential cross sections display marked differences. While this may not be a complete surprise, one should expect to recover the classical expression by applying the classical limit to the quantum result. This turn not to be the case. Surprisingly enough, it is shown that the classical result can not be recuperated even if higher order corrections are included. To recover the classic correspondence of the quantum scattering problem a suitable non-perturbative methodology should be applied.

id: 0903.0468
title: Production of genuine entangled states of four atomic qubits
authors: Gui-Yun Liu, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0468
abstract: We propose an optical scheme to generate genuine entangled states of four atomic qubits in optical cavities using a single-photon source, beam splitters and single photon detectors. We show how to generate deterministically sixteen orthonormal and independent genuine entangled states of four atomic qubits. It is found that the sixteen genuine entangled states form a new type of representation of the four-atomic-qubit system, i.e., the genuine entangled-state representation. This representation brings new interesting insight onto better understanding multipartite entanglement.

id: 0903.0469
title: Spin multiplicity and entanglement swapping in radical ion recombinations
authors: L.V. Il'ichov, S.V. Anishchik
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0469
abstract: We address the problem of relative frequencies of singlet and triplet recombinations in a multiparticle system, which consists of spin-correlated radical ion pairs. The nonlocal swapping of spin correlations due to cross-recombinations is taken into account. It is shown that this swapping does not contribute to singlet and triplet recombination frequencies in the absence of spin evolution in the correlated pairs.

id: 0903.0523
title: Commutative POVMs and Fuzzy Observables
authors: S. Twareque Ali, Claudio Carmeli, Teiko Heinosaari, Alessandro Toigo
comments: Contribution to the Pekka Lahti Festschrift
journal: Foundations of Physics (2009) 39: 593-612
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0523
abstract: In this paper we review some properties of fuzzy observables, mainly as realized by commutative positive operator valued measures. In this context we discuss two representation theorems for commutative positive operator valued measures in terms of projection valued measures and describe, in some detail, the general notion of fuzzification. We also make some related observations on joint measurements.

id: 0903.0543
title: Optimal quantum learning of a unitary transformation
authors: A. Bisio, G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, S. Facchini, P. Perinotti
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032324 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0543
abstract: We address the problem of learning an unknown unitary transformation from a finite number of examples. The problem consists in finding the learning machine that optimally emulates the examples, thus reproducing the unknown unitary maximum fidelity. Learning a unitary is equivalent to storing it in the state of a quantum memory (the memory of the learning machine), and subsequently retrieving it. We prove that, whenever the unknown unitary is drawn from a group, the optimal strategy consists in a parallel call of the available uses followed by a "measure-and-rotate" retrieving. Differing from the case of quantum cloning, where the incoherent "measure-and-prepare" strategies are typically suboptimal, in the case of learning the "measure-and-rotate" strategy is optimal even when the learning machine is asked to reproduce a single copy of the unknown unitary. We finally address the problem of the optimal inversion of an unknown unitary evolution, showing also in this case the optimality of the "measure-and-rotate" strategies and applying our result to the optimal approximate realignment of reference frames for quantum communication.

id: 0903.0586
title: Arbitrarily little knowledge can give a quantum advantage for nonlocal tasks
authors: Jonathan Allcock, Harry Buhrman, Noah Linden
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0586
abstract: It has previously been shown that quantum nonlocality offers no benefit over classical correlations for performing a distributed task known as nonlocal computation. This is where separated parties must compute the value of a function without individually learning anything about the inputs. We show that giving the parties some knowledge of the inputs, however small, is sufficient to unlock the power of quantum mechanics to out-perform classical mechanics. This role of information held locally gives new insight into the general question of when quantum nonlocality gives an advantage over classical physics. Our results also reveal a novel feature of the nonlocality embodied in the celebrated task of Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt.

id: 0903.0599
title: Ingredients of a Casimir analog computer
authors: Alejandro W. Rodriguez, Alexander P. McCauley, John D. Joannopoulos, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Vol. 107, 9531-9536, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0599
abstract: We present the basic ingredients of a technique to compute quantum Casimir forces at micrometer scales using antenna measurements at tabletop, e.g. centimeter, scales, forming a type of analog computer for the Casimir force. This technique relies on a correspondence that we derive between the contour integration of the Casimir force in the complex frequency plane and the electromagnetic response of a physical dissipative medium in a finite, real frequency bandwidth.

id: 0903.0612
title: Indirect Hamiltonian Identification through a small gateway
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Koji Maruyama
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; see Video Abstract at this http URL
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 103019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0612
abstract: Identifying the nature of interactions in a quantum system is essential in understanding any physical phenomena. Acquiring information on the Hamiltonian can be a tough challenge in many-body systems because it generally requires access to all parts of the system. We show that if the coupling topology is known, the Hamiltonian identification is indeed possible indirectly even though only a small gateway to the system is used. Surprisingly, even a degenerate Hamiltonian can be estimated by applying an extra field to the gateway.

id: 0903.0630
title: Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya Interaction and Anisotropy effects on the Entanglement of Heisenberg Model
authors: M. Kargarian, R. Jafari, A. Langari
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042319 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0630
abstract: In this paper the the effect of Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction and anisotropy on the Entanglement of Heisenberg chain has been studied. While the anisotropy suppress the entanglement due to favoring of the alignment of spins, the DM interaction restores the spoiled entanglement via creation of the quantum fluctuations. Thermodynamic limit of the model and emerging of non-analytic behavior of the entanglement have also been probed. The singularities of the entanglement correspond to the critical boundary separating different phases of the model. The singularity of the entanglement derivative approaches the critical point from the gapped phase and will be symmetric if both phase on the boundary are gapped.

id: 0903.0639
title: Dynamical stability of entanglement between spin ensembles
authors: H. T. Ng, S. Bose
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 072001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0639
abstract: We study the dynamical stability of the entanglement between the two spin ensembles in the presence of an environment. For a comparative study, we consider the two cases: a single spin ensemble, and two ensembles linearly coupled to a bath, respectively. In both circumstances, we assume the validity of the Markovian approximation for the bath. We examine the robustness of the state by means of the growth of the linear entropy which gives a measure of the purity of the system. We find out macroscopic entangled states of two spin ensembles can stably exist in a common bath. This result may be very useful to generate and detect macroscopic entanglement in a common noisy environment and even a stable macroscopic memory.

id: 0903.0671
title: Two-qubit decoherence mechanisms revealed via quantum process tomography
authors: A. G. Kofman, A. N. Korotkov
comments: 15 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0671
abstract: We analyze the quantum process tomography (QPT) in the presence of decoherence, focusing on distinguishing local and non-local decoherence mechanisms for a two-partite system from experimental QPT data. In particular, we consider the $\sqrt{\rm iSWAP}$ gate realized with superconducting phase qubits and calculate the QPT matrix $\chi$ in the presence of several local and non-local decoherence processes. We determine specific patterns of these decoherence processes, which can be used for a fast identification of the main decoherence mechanisms from an experimental $\chi$-matrix.

id: 0903.0675
title: Exact Non-identity check is NQP-complete
authors: Yu Tanaka
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0675
abstract: We define a problem "exact non-identity check": Given a classical description of a quantum circuit with an ancilla system, determine whether it is strictly equivalent to the identity or not. We show that this problem is NQP-complete. In a sense of the strict equivalence condition, this problem is different from a QMA-complete problem, non-identity check defined by D. Janzing etc. As corollaries, it is derived that exact equivalence check is also NQP-complete and that it is hard to minimize quantum resources of a given quantum gate array without changing an implemented unitary operation.

id: 0903.0713
title: Entanglement, detection, and geometry of non-classical States
authors: Kisik Kim, Jaewan Kim, Joonwoo Bae
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042105 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0713
abstract: Non-classical states that are characterized by their non-positive quasi-probabilities in phase space are known to be the basis for various quantum effects. In this work, we investigate the interrelation between the non-classicality and entanglement, and then characterize the non-classicality that precisely corresponds to entanglement. The results naturally follow from two findings: one is the general structure among non-classical, entangled, separable, and classical states over Hermitian operators, and the other a general scheme to detect non-classical states.

id: 0903.0717
title: The Decay of Multiqudit Entanglement
authors: Zhao Liu, Heng Fan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 064305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0717
abstract: We investigate the decay of entanglement of a generalized N-qudit GHZ state, with each qudit passing through independently in a quantum noisy channel. By studying the time at which the entanglement completely vanishes and the time at which the entanglement becomes arbitrarily small, we try to find how the robustness of entanglement is influenced by dimension d and the number of particles N.

id: 0903.0724
title: Coherent transport of atomic wave packets in amplitude-modulated vertical optical lattices
authors: A. Alberti, G. Ferrari, V. V. Ivanov, M. L. Chiofalo, G. M. Tino
comments: 
journal: New J. Physics 12, 065037 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0724
abstract: We report on the realization of dynamical control of transport for ultra-cold Sr88 atoms loaded in an accelerated and amplitude-modulated 1D optical lattice. We tailor the energy dispersion of traveling wave packets and reversibly switch between Wannier-Stark localization and driven transport based on coherent tunneling. Within a Loschmidt-echo scheme where the atomic group velocities are reversed at once, we demonstrate a novel mirror for matter waves working independently of the momentum state and discuss possible applications to force measurements at micrometric scales.

id: 0903.0733
title: EPR-B correlations: a physically tenable local-real model
authors: A. F. Kracklauer
comments: 10 pages; latex w/ 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0733
abstract: We propose a classical, i.e., local-real physical model of processes underlying EPR experiments. The model leads to the prediction, that the visibility of the output signal will exhibit increasing variation as the coincidence window is increased, thus providing a testable criteria for its validity. If it can be sustained, this model undermines the claim that Nature has a fundamentally nonlocal feature or that irreal entities are required by quantum theory.

id: 0903.0748
title: Circuit Design for A Measurement-Based Quantum Carry-Lookahead Adder
authors: Agung Trisetyarso, Rodney Van Meter
comments: 28 pages and 14 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 8, 843 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Hardware Architecture (cs.AR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0748
abstract: We present the design and evaluation of a quantum carry-lookahead adder (QCLA) using measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC), called MBQCLA. QCLA was originally designed for an abstract, concurrent architecture supporting long-distance communication, but most realistic architectures heavily constrain communication distances. The quantum carry-lookahead adder is faster than a quantum ripple-carry adder; QCLA has logarithmic depth while ripple adders have linear depth. MBQCLA utilizes MBQC's ability to transfer quantum states in unit time to accelerate addition. MBQCLA breaks the latency limit of addition circuits in nearest neighbor-only architectures : compared to the $\Theta(n)$ limit on circuit depth for linear nearest-neighbor architectures, it can reach $\Theta(log n)$ depth. MBQCLA is an order of magnitude faster than a ripple-carry adder when adding registers longer than 100 qubits, but requires a cluster state that is an order of magnitude larger. The cluster state resources can be classified as computation and communication; for the unoptimized form, $\approx$ 88 % of the resources are used for communication. Hand optimization of horizontal communication costs results in a $\approx$ 12% reduction in spatial resources for the in-place MBQCLA circuit. For comparison, a graph state quantum carry-lookahead adder (GSQCLA) uses only $\approx$ 9 % of the spatial resources of the MBQCLA.

id: 0903.0749
title: Description of decoherence by means of translation-covariant master equations and Levy processes
authors: Bassano Vacchini
comments: 12 pages, proceedings of the 28-th Conference on Quantum Probability and Related Topics, CIMAT-Guanajuato, MEXICO
journal: QP-PQ: Quantum Probability and White Noise Analysis, Vol. 23, 254-265 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0749
abstract: Translation-covariant Markovian master equations used in the description of decoherence and dissipation are considered in the general framework of Holevo's results on the characterization of generators of covariant quantum dynamical semigroups. A general connection between the characteristic function of classical L\'evy processes and loss of coherence of the statistical operator describing the center of mass degrees of freedom of a quantum system interacting through momentum transfer events with an environment is established. The relationship with both microphysical models and experimental realizations is considered, focusing in particular on recent interferometric experiments exploring the boundaries between classical and quantum world.

id: 0903.0750
title: Confidential direct communications: a quantum approach using continuous variables
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Samuel L. Braunstein, Seth Lloyd, Stefano Mancini
comments: Invited paper. Extension of results presented in arXiv:0802.0656 (REVTeX, 11 pages, 11 figures)
journal: IEEE J. of Selected Topics in Quant. El. vol. 15 (2009), pp. 1570-1580
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0750
abstract: We consider the problem of privacy in direct communications, showing how quantum mechanics can be useful to guarantee a certain level of confidentiality. In particular, we review a continuous variable approach recently proposed by us [S. Pirandola et al., Europhys. Lett. 84, 20013 (2008)]. Here, we analyze the degree of privacy of this technique against a broader class of attacks, which includes non-Gaussian eavesdropping.

id: 0903.0815
title: Experiment, theory and the Casimir effect
authors: V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures, uses jpconf.cls style. Invited plenary talk at "60 Years of the Casimir Effect", Brasilia, June 23-27, 2008, to appear in J. Phys. Conf. Series
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.161:012003,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0815
abstract: Several problems at the interface between the field-theoretical description of the Casimir effect and experiments on measuring the Casimir force are discussed. One of these problems is connected with the definition of the Casimir free energy in ideal metal rectangular boxes satisfying the general physical requirements. It is shown that the consideration of rectangular boxes with a partition (piston) does not negate the previously known results obtained for boxes without a piston. Both sets of results are found to be in mutual agreement. Another problem is related to the use of the proximity force approximation for the interpretation of the experimental data and to the search of analytical results beyond the PFA based on the first principles of quantum field theory. Next, we discuss concepts of experimental precision and of the measure of agreement between experiment and theory. The fundamental difference between these two concepts is clarified. Finally, recent approach to the thermal Casimir force taking screening effects into account is applied to real metals. It is shown that this approach is thermodynamically and experimentally inconsistent. The physical reasons of this inconsistency are connected with the violation of thermal equilibrium which is the basic applicability condition of the Lifshitz theory.

id: 0903.0819
title: Dynamical constants of structured photons with parabolic-cylindrical symmetry
authors: B. M. Rodriguez-Lara, R. Jauregui
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 055806 (2009) [4 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0819
abstract: Electromagnetic modes with parabolic-cylindrical symmetry and their dynamical variables are studied both in the classical and quantum realm. As a result, a new dynamical constant for the electromagnetic field is identified and linked to the symmetry operator which supports it.

id: 0903.0839
title: Topological optimization of quantum key distribution networks
authors: Romain Alleaume, Francois Roueff, Eleni Diamanti, Norbert Lutkenhaus
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 075002 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0839
abstract: A Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) network is an infrastructure that allows the realization of the key distribution cryptographic primitive over long distances and at high rates with information-theoretic security. In this work, we consider QKD networks based on trusted repeaters from a topology viewpoint, and present a set of analytical models that can be used to optimize the spatial distribution of QKD devices and nodes in specific network configurations in order to guarantee a certain level of service to network users, at a minimum cost. We give details on new methods and original results regarding such cost minimization arguments applied to QKD networks. These results are likely to become of high importance when the deployment of QKD networks will be addressed by future quantum telecommunication operators. They will therefore have a strong impact on the design and requirements of the next generation of QKD devices.

id: 0903.0851
title: Verifying multi-partite mode entanglement of W states
authors: Pavel Lougovski, S.J. van Enk, Kyung Soo Choi, Scott B. Papp, Hui Deng, H.J. Kimble
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: New J. Phys 11 No 6 (June 2009) 063029
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0851
abstract: We construct a method for verifying mode entanglement of N-mode W states. The ideal W state contains exactly one excitation symmetrically shared between N modes, but our method takes the existence of higher numbers of excitations into account, as well as the vacuum state and other deviations from the ideal state. Moreover, our method distinguishes between full N-party entanglement and states with M-party entanglement with M<N, including mixtures of the latter. We specialize to the case N=4 for illustrative purposes. In the optical case, where excitations are photons, our method can be implemented using linear optics.

id: 0903.0936
title: Separability and entanglement of four-mode Gaussian states
authors: Vladimir I. Man'ko, Alexandr A. Sergeevich
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Russ. Laser Res., 28, 516 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0936
abstract: The known Peres-Horodecki criterion and scaling criterion of separability are considered on examples of three-mode and four-mode Gaussian states of electromagnetic field. It is shown that the principal minors of the photon quadrature dispersion matrix are sensitive to the change of scaling parameters. An empirical observation has shown that the bigger the modulus of negative principal minors, the more entangled the state.

id: 0903.0951
title: Bohr-van Leeuwen theorem and the thermal Casimir effect for conductors
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 12 pages, no figures. Presentation has been significantly improved, more references included. The new version matches the one accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A79:042107,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0951
abstract: The problem of estimating the thermal corrections to Casimir and Casimir-Polder interactions in systems involving conducting plates has attracted considerable attention in the recent literature on dispersion forces. Alternative theoretical models, based on distinct low-frequency extrapolations of the plates reflection coefficient for transverse electric (TE) modes, provide widely different predictions for the magnitude of this correction. In this paper we examine the most widely used prescriptions for this reflection coefficient from the point of view of their consistency with the Bohr-van Leeuwen theorem of classical statistical physics, stating that at thermal equilibrium transverse electromagnetic fields decouple from matter in the classical limit. We find that the theorem is satisfied if and only if the TE reflection coefficient vanishes at zero frequency in the classical limit. This criterion appears to rule out some of the models that have been considered recently for describing the thermal correction to the Casimir pressure with non-magnetic metallic plates.

id: 0903.0989
title: Three-dimensional theory of stimulated Raman scattering
authors: Martin W. Sorensen Anders S. Sorensen
comments: 21 pages 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0989
abstract: We present a three-dimensional theory of stimulated Raman scattering (SRS) or superradiance. In particular we address how the spatial and temporal properties of the generated SRS beam, or Stokes beam, of radiation depends on the spatial properties of the gain medium. Maxwell equations for the Stokes field operators and of the atomic operators are solved analytically and a correlation function for the Stokes field is derived. In the analysis we identify a superradiating part of the Stokes radiation that exhibit beam characteristics. We show how the intensity in this beam builds up in time and at some point largely dominates the total Stokes radiation of the gain medium. We show how the SRS depends on geometric factors such as the Fresnel number and the optical depth, and that in fact these two factors are the only factors describing the coherent radiation.

id: 0903.0996
title: Feedback generation of quantum Fock states by discrete QND measures
authors: Mazyar Mirrahimi, Igor Dotsenko, Pierre Rouchon
comments: submitted, update version with feedback law of arXiv:0905.0114 [quant-ph]
journal: IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, pp: 1451-1456, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0996
abstract: A feedback scheme for preparation of photon number states in a microwave cavity is proposed. Quantum Non Demolition (QND) measurement of the cavity field provides information on its actual state. The control consists in injecting into the cavity mode a microwave pulse adjusted to maximize the population of the desired target photon number. In the ideal case (perfect cavity and measures), we present the feedback scheme and its detailed convergence proof through stochastic Lyapunov techniques based on super-martingales and other probabilistic arguments. Quantum Monte-Carlo simulations performed with experimental parameters illustrate convergence and robustness of such feedback scheme.

id: 0903.0997
title: New application of Dirac's representation: N-mode squeezing enhanced operator and squeezed state
authors: Xue-xiang Xu, Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 8 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0997
abstract: It is known that exp[i\lamda(Q_1P_1-i/2)] is a unitary single-mode squeezing operator, where Q_1,P_1 are the coordinate and momentum operators, respectively. In this paper we employ Dirac's coordinate representation to prove that the exponential operator S_{n}=Exp[i\lamda sum_{i=1}^{n}](Q_{i}P_{i+1}+Q_{i+1}P_{i}))], (Q_{n+1}=Q_1P_{n+1}=P_1), is a n-mode squeezing operator which enhances the standard squeezing. By virtue of the technique of integration within an ordered product of operators we derive S_{n}'s normally ordered expansion and obtain new n-mode squeezed vacuum states, its Wigner function is calculated by using the Weyl ordering invariance under similar transformations.

id: 0903.1007
title: Scattering theory using smeared non-Hermitian potentials
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 24 pp
journal: Phys. Rev. D 80 (2009) 045009 (12 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1007
abstract: Complex, non-Hermitian potentials V(x) can often generate standard quantum bound states. H. F. Jones [Phys. Rev. D 78, 065032 (2008)] demonstrated that the idea cannot directly be transferred to scattering. We reveal that a return to the causal and unitary and asymptotically Hermitian scattering theory exists for potentials which are allowed slightly non-local, V=V(x,p).

id: 0903.1011
title: Parameter estimation of a 3-level quantum system with a single population measurement
authors: Zaki Leghtas, Mazyar Mirrahimi, Pierre Rouchon
comments: submitted
journal: IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, pp: 3816-3820, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1011
abstract: An observer-based Hamiltonian identification algorithm for quantum systems has been proposed recently by Bonnabel et al. The later paper provided a method to estimate the dipole moment matrix of a quantum system requiring the measurement of the populations on all states, which could be experimentally difficult to achieve. We propose here an extension to a 3-level quantum system, having access to the population of the ground state only. By more adapted choice of the control field, we will show that a continuous measurement of this observable, alone, is enough to identify the field coupling parameters (dipole moment).

id: 0903.1013
title: Theoretical analysis of mechanical displacement measurement using a multiple cavity mode transducer
authors: J. M. Dobrindt, T. J. Kippenberg
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Revised and amended version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1013
abstract: We present an optomechanical displacement transducer, that relies on three cavity modes parametrically coupled to a mechanical oscillator and whose frequency spacing matches the mechanical resonance frequency. The additional resonances allow to reach the standard quantum limit at substantially lower input power (compared to the case of only one resonance), as both, sensitivity and quantum backaction are enhanced. Furthermore, it is shown that in the case of multiple cavity modes, coupling between the modes is induced via reservoir interaction, e.g., enabling quantum backaction noise cancellation. Experimental implementation of the schemes is discussed in both the optical and microwave domain.

id: 0903.1056
title: Quantum computing based on space states without charge transfer
authors: S. Filippov, V. Vyurkov, L. Gorelik
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX format
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010) 3285-3291
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1056
abstract: An implementation of a quantum computer based on space states in double quantum dots is discussed. There is no charge transfer in qubits during calculation, therefore, uncontrollable entan-glement between them due to long-range Coulomb interaction is suppressed. Other plausible sources of decoherence caused by interaction with phonons and gates could be substantially suppressed in the structure too. We also demonstrate how all necessary quantum logic operations, initialization, writing, and read-out could be carried out in the computer.

id: 0903.1076
title: Bell's Conjecture and Faster-Than-Light Communication
authors: Luiz Carlos Ryff
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1076
abstract: The Bell-wave (B-wave) supposition has been introduced in an attempt to investigate Bell's conjecture (according to which "behind the scenes something is going faster than light"). Here it is shown, for the case of two entangled photons, that if it is further assumed that the B-waves propagate with superluminal but finite velocity then it is possible, at least in principle, to have faster-than-light (FTL) communication.

id: 0903.1085
title: Reply to "Comment on 'Anomalies in electrostatic calibrations for the measurement of the Casimir force in a sphere-plane geometry'"
authors: W.J. Kim, M. Brown-Hayes, D.A.R. Dalvit, J.H. Brownell, R. Onofrio
comments: Reply to Comment posted as arXiv:0809.3576, requested from Phys. Rev. A on December 3, 2008, accepted January 20, 2009
journal: Physical Review A 79, 026102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1085
abstract: In a recent Comment, Decca et al. [Phys. Rev. A 79, 026101 (2009); arXiv:0809.3576] discussed the origin of the anomalies recently reported by us in Phys. Rev. A 78, 036102(R) (2008); arXiv:0812.0028 . Here we restate our view, corroborated by their considerations, that quantitative geometrical and electrostatic characterizations of the conducting surfaces (a topic not discussed explicitly in the literature until very recently) are critical for the assessment of precision and accuracy of the demonstration of the Casimir force and for deriving meaningful limits on the existence of Yukawian components possibly superimposed to the Newtonian gravitational interaction.

id: 0903.1090
title: Interference contrast in multi-source few photon optics
authors: Wieslaw Laskowski, Marcin Wiesniak, Marek Zukowski, Mohamed Bourennane, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures, journal version
journal: J. Phys. B 42, 114004 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1090
abstract: Many recent experiments employ several parametric down conversion (PDC) sources to get multiphoton interference. Such interference has applications in quantum information. We study here how effects due to photon statistics, misalignment, and partial distinguishability of the PDC pairs originating from different sources may lower the interference contrast in the multiphoton experiments.

id: 0903.1102
title: Berry phase in superconducting charge qubits interacting with a cavity field
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physics Letter A 373 (2009) 3572
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1102
abstract: We propose a method for analyzing Berry phase for a multi-qubit system of superconducting charge qubits interacting with a microwave field. By suitably choosing the system parameters and precisely controlling the dynamics, novel connection found between the Berry phase and entanglement creations.

id: 0903.1133
title: What Can be Observed Locally? Round-based Models for Quantum Distributed Computing
authors: Cyril Gavoille, Adrian Kosowski, Marcin Markiewicz
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1133
abstract: Recently, several claims have been made that certain fundamental problems of distributed computing, including Leader Election and Distributed Consensus, begin to admit feasible and efficient solutions when the model of distributed computation is extended so as to apply quantum processing. This has been achieved in one of two distinct ways: (1) by initializing the system in a quantum entangled state, and/or (2) by applying quantum communication channels. In this paper, we explain why some of these prior claims are misleading, in the sense that they rely on changes to the model unrelated to quantum processing. On the positive side, we consider the aforementioned quantum extensions when applied to Linial's well-established LOCAL model of distributed computing. For both types of extensions, we put forward valid proof-of-concept examples of distributed problems whose round complexity is in fact reduced through genuinely quantum effects, in contexts which do not depend on the anonymity of nodes. Finally, we show that even the quantum variants of the LOCAL model have non-trivial limitations, captured by a very simple (purely probabilistic) notion which we call "physical locality" (PLOCAL). While this is strictly weaker than the "computational locality" of the classical LOCAL model, it nevertheless implies that for many distributed combinatorial optimization problems, such as Maximal Independent Set, the best currently known lower time bounds cannot be broken by applying quantum processing, in any conceivable way.

id: 0903.1149
title: Exact analytical results for quantum walks on star graph
authors: Xinping Xu
comments: 6 pages. Published in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A 42, 115205 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1149
abstract: In this paper, we study coherent exciton transport of continuous-time quantum walks on star graph. Exact analytical results of the transition probabilities are obtained by means of the Gram-Schmidt orthonormalization of the eigenstates. Our results show that the coherent exciton transport displays perfect revivals and strong localization on the initial node. When the initial excitation starts at the central node, the transport on star graph is equivalent to the transport on a complete graph of the same size.

id: 0903.1166
title: Testing General Relativity with Atomic Clocks
authors: S. Reynaud, C. Salomon, P. Wolf
comments: Contribution for "The Nature of Gravity" (eds. F. Everitt et al)
journal: Space Sci.Rev.148:233-247,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1166
abstract: We discuss perspectives for new tests of general relativity which are based on recent technological developments as well as new ideas. We focus our attention on tests performed with atomic clocks and do not repeat arguments present in the other contributions to the present volume. In particular, we present the scientific motivations of the space projects ACES and SAGAS.

id: 0903.1200
title: Frank-Condon principle and adjustment of optical waveguides with nonhomogeneous refractive indices
authors: Vladimir I. Man'ko, Leonid D. Mikheev, Alexandr Sergeevich
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, published version (layout of figures changed, typos corrected, references added)
journal: J. Russ. Laser Res., 30, 49 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1200
abstract: The adjustment of two different selfocs is considered using both exact formulas for the mode-connection coefficients expressed in terms of Hermite polynomials of several variables and a qualitative approach based on the Frank-Condon principle. Several examples of the refractive-index dependence are studied and illustrative plots for these examples are presented. The connection with the tomographic approach to quantum states of a two-dimensional oscillator and the Frank-Condon factors is established.

id: 0903.1204
title: Quantum Information Science and Nanotechnology
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX, 12pt, 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Computer Science (cs.OH)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1204
abstract: In this note is touched upon an application of quantum information science (QIS) in nanotechnology area. The laws of quantum mechanics may be very important for nano-scale objects. A problem with simulating of quantum systems is well known and quantum computer was initially suggested by R. Feynman just as the way to overcome such difficulties. Mathematical methods developed in QIS also may be applied for description of nano-devices. Few illustrative examples are mentioned and they may be related with so-called fourth generation of nanotechnology products.

id: 0903.1210
title: Generation of entangled coherent states for distant Bose-Einstein condensates via electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: Le-Man Kuang, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052324 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1210
abstract: In this paper, we propose a method to generate entangled coherent states between two spatially separated atomic Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) via the technique of the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). Two strong coupling laser beams and two entangled probe laser beams are used to make two distant BECs be in EIT states and to generate an atom-photon entangled state between probe lasers and distant BECs. The two BECs are initially in un-entangled product coherent states while the probe lasers are initially in an entangled state. Entangled states of two distant BECs can be created through performing projective measurements upon the two outgoing probe lasers under certain conditions. Concretely, we propose two protocols to show how to generate entangled coherent states of the two distant BECs. One is a single-photon scheme in which an entangled single-photon state serves the quantum channel to generate entangled distant BECs. The other is a multiphoton scheme where an entangled coherent state of the probe lasers is used as the quantum channel. Additionally, we also obtain some atom-photon entangled states of particular interest such as entangled states between a pair of optical Bell (or quasi-Bell) states and a pair of atomic entangled coherent (or quasi-Bell) states.

id: 0903.1262
title: Quantum chaos and operator fidelity metric
authors: Paolo Giorda, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1262
abstract: We show that the recently introduced operator fidelity metric provides a natural tool to investigate the cross-over to quantum chaotic behaviour. This metric is an information-theoretic measure of the global stability of a unitary evolution against perturbations. We use random matrix theory arguments to conjecture that the operator fidelity metric can be used as an "order parameter" to discriminates phases with regular behaviour from quantum chaotic ones. A numerical study of the onset of chaotic in the Dicke model is given in order to support the conjecture

id: 0903.1291
title: The quantum query complexity of certification
authors: Andris Ambainis, Andrew M. Childs, Fran?ois Le Gall, Seiichiro Tani
comments: 8 pages; Updated to reflect changes in final journal version and to point out that the main result only applies for k>1
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 10, 181-188 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1291
abstract: We study the quantum query complexity of finding a certificate for a d-regular, k-level balanced NAND formula. Up to logarithmic factors, we show that the query complexity is Theta(d^{(k+1)/2}) for 0-certificates, and Theta(d^{k/2}) for 1-certificates. In particular, this shows that the zero-error quantum query complexity of evaluating such formulas is O(d^{(k+1)/2}) (again neglecting a logarithmic factor). Our lower bound relies on the fact that the quantum adversary method obeys a direct sum theorem.

id: 0903.1299
title: Application of the proximity force approximation to gravitational and Yukawa-type forces
authors: R. S. Decca, E. Fischbach, G. L. Klimchitskaya, D. E. Krause, D. Lpez, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:124021,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1299
abstract: We apply the proximity force approximation, which is widely used for the calculation of the Casimir force between bodies with nonplanar boundary surfaces, to gravitational and Yukawa-type interactions. It is shown that for the gravitational force in a sphere-plate configuration the general formulation of the proximity force approximation is well applicable. For a Yukawa-type interaction we demonstrate the validity of both the general formulation of the proximity force approximation, and a simple mapping between the sphere-plate and plate-plate configurations. The claims to the contrary in some recent literature are thus incorrect. Our results justify the constraints on the parameters of non-Newtonian gravity previously obtained from the indirect dynamic measurements of the Casimir pressure.

id: 0903.1340
title: Concurrence and Entanglement Entropy of Stochastic 1-Qubit Maps
authors: Meik Hellmund, Armin Uhlmann
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review A 79 (2009) 052319
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1340
abstract: Explicit expressions for the concurrence of all positive and trace-preserving ("stochastic") 1-qubit maps are presented. We construct the relevant convex roof patterns by a new method. We conclude that two component optimal decompositions always exist. Our results can be transferred to 2xN-quantumsystems providing the concurrence for all rank two density operators as well as lower and upper bounds for their entanglement of formation. We apply these results to a study of the entanglement entropy of 1-qubit stochastic maps which preserve axial symmetry. Using analytic and numeric results we analyze the bifurcation patterns appearing in the convex roof of optimal decompositions and give results for the one-shot (Holevo-Schumacher-Westmoreland) capacity of those maps.

id: 0903.1363
title: Partial K-way Negativities of Pure Four qubit Entangled States
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, Additions to section II, Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062323 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1363
abstract: It has been shown by Versraete et. al [F. Versraete, J. Dehaene, B. De Moor, and H. Verschelde, Phys. Rev. A65, 052112 (2002)] that by stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC), a pure state of four qubits can be transformed to a state belonging to one of a set of nine families of states. By using selective partial transposition, we construct partial K-way negativities to measure the genuine 4-partite, tripartite, and bi-partite entanglement of single copy states belonging to the nine families of four qubit states. Partial K-way negativities are polynomial functions of local invariants characterizing each family of states as such entanglement monotones.

id: 0903.1415
title: Quantum state measurements using multi-pixel photon detectors
authors: I. Afek, A. Natan, O. Ambar, Y. Silberberg
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 043830 (2009) [6 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1415
abstract: The characterization and conditional preparation of multi-photon quantum states requires the use of photon number resolving detectors. We study the use of detectors based on multiple avalanche photodiode pixels in this context. We develop a general model that provides the positive operator value measures for these detectors. The model incorporates the effect of cross-talk between pixels which is unique to these devices. We validate the model by measuring coherent state photon number distributions and reconstructing them with high precision. Finally, we evaluate the suitability of such detectors for quantum state tomography and entanglement-based quantum state preparation, highlighting the effects of dark counts and cross-talk between pixels.

id: 0903.1422
title: Multiple teleportation via the partially entangled states
authors: Meiyu Wang, Fengli Yan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D, 54 (2009) 111
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1422
abstract: We investigate the multiple teleportation with some nonmaximally entangled channels. The efficiencies of two multiple teleportation protocols, the separate multiple teleportation protocol (SMTP) and the global multiple teleportation protocol (GMTP), are calculated. We show that GMTP is more efficient than SMTP.

id: 0903.1424
title: Enhancement of transmission rates in quantum memory channels with damping
authors: G. Benenti, A. D'Arrigo, G. Falci
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 020502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1424
abstract: We consider the transfer of quantum information down a single-mode quantum transmission line. Such quantum channel is modeled as a damped harmonic oscillator, the interaction between the information carriers -a train of N qubits- and the oscillator being of the Jaynes-Cummings kind. Memory effects appear if the state of the oscillator is not reset after each channel use. We show that the setup without resetting is convenient in order to increase the transmission rates, both for the transfer of quantum and classical private information. Our results can be applied to the micromaser.

id: 0903.1429
title: Remote Preparation of the Two-Particle State
authors: Yan Feng-Li, Zhang Guo-Hua
comments: 4 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 6 (2008) 485
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1429
abstract: We present a scheme of remote preparation of the two-particle state by using two Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs or two partial entangled two-particle states as the quantum channel. The probability of the successful remote state preparation is obtained.

id: 0903.1457
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency controlled by a microwave field
authors: Hebin Li, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, George R. Welch, Philip R. Hemmer, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 023820 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1457
abstract: We have experimentally studied propagation of two optical fields in a dense rubidium (Rb) vapor in the case when an additional microwave field is coupled to the hyperfine levels of Rb atoms. The Rb energy levels form a close-lambda three-level system coupled to the optical fields and the microwave field. It has been found that the maximum transmission of a probe field depends on the relative phase between the optical and the microwave fields. We have observed both constructive and destructive interference in electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). A simple theoretical model and a numerical simulation have been developed to explain the observed experimental results.

id: 0903.1462
title: Contextuality and nonlocality in 'no signaling' theories
authors: Jeffrey Bub, Allen Stairs
comments: 22 pages. Changes to Introduction and final Commentary section. Added two tables, one to Section 5, and some new references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1462
abstract: We define a family of 'no signaling' bipartite boxes with arbitrary inputs and binary outputs, and with a range of marginal probabilities. The defining correlations are motivated by the Klyachko version of the Kochen-Specker theorem, so we call these boxes Kochen-Specker-Klyachko boxes or, briefly, KS-boxes. The marginals cover a variety of cases, from those that can be simulated classically to the superquantum correlations that saturate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality, when the KS-box is a generalized PR-box (hence a vertex of the `no signaling' polytope). We show that for certain marginal probabilities a KS-box is classical with respect to nonlocality as measured by the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt correlation, i.e., no better than shared randomness as a resource in simulating a PR-box, even though such KS-boxes cannot be perfectly simulated by classical or quantum resources for all inputs. We comment on the significance of these results for contextuality and nonlocality in 'no signaling' theories.

id: 0903.1489
title: The Arrow Calculus as a Quantum Programming Language
authors: Juliana Kaizer Vizzotto, Andre Rauber Du Bois, Amr Sabry
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, submitted to WOLLIC 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1489
abstract: We express quantum computations (with measurements) using the arrow calculus extended with monadic constructions. This framework expresses quantum programming using well-understood and familiar classical patterns for programming in the presence of computational effects. In addition, the five laws of the arrow calculus provide a convenient framework for equational reasoning about quantum computations that include measurements.

id: 0903.1497
title: Quantum hashing with the icosahedral group
authors: Michele Burrello, Haitan Xu, Giuseppe Mussardo, Xin Wan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; revised version, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett.
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:160502,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1497
abstract: We study an efficient algorithm to hash any single qubit gate (or unitary matrix) into a braid of Fibonacci anyons represented by a product of icosahedral group elements. By representing the group elements by braid segments of different lengths, we introduce a series of pseudo-groups. Joining these braid segments in a renormalization group fashion, we obtain a Gaussian unitary ensemble of random-matrix representations of braids. With braids of length O[log(1/epsilon)], we can approximate all SU(2) matrices to an average error epsilon with a cost of O[log(1/epsilon)] in time. The algorithm is applicable to generic quantum compiling.

id: 0903.1535
title: Distinguishability of Gaussian States in Quantum Cryptography using Post-Selection
authors: Christian Weedbrook, Daniel J. Alton, Thomas Symul, Ping Koy Lam, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062311 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1535
abstract: We consider the distinguishability of Gaussian states from the view point of continuous-variable quantum cryptography using post-selection. Specifically, we use the probability of error to distinguish between two pure coherent (squeezed) states and two particular mixed symmetric coherent (squeezed) states where each mixed state is an incoherent mixture of two pure coherent (squeezed) states with equal and opposite displacements in the conjugate quadrature. We show that the two mixed symmetric Gaussian states (where the various components have the same real part) never give an eavesdropper more information than the two pure Gaussian states. Furthermore, when considering the distinguishability of squeezed states, we show that varying the amount of squeezing leads to a "squeezing" and "anti-squeezing" of the net information rates.

id: 0903.1564
title: Experimentally testable geometric phase of sequences of Everett's relative quantum states
authors: Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Minor changes, journal reference added
journal: Europhys. Lett. 86, 30005 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1564
abstract: Everett's concept of relative state is used to introduce a geometric phase that depends nontrivially on entanglement in a pure quantum state. We show that this phase can be measured in multiparticle interferometry. A correlation-dependent generalization of the relative state geometric phase to mixed quantum states is outlined.

id: 0903.1614
title: Quantum interferometry with complex molecules
authors: Markus Arndt, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 29 pages, 11 figures; to appear in "Quantum Coherence in Solid State Systems", Proceedings of the International School of Physics "Enrico Fermi", Course CLXXI
journal: in: B. Deveaud-Pledran, A. Quattropani, P. Schwendimann (Eds.), Quantum Coherence in Solid State Systems, International School of Physics "Enrico Fermi", Course CLXXI, Vol. 171, IOS press, Amsterdam (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1614
abstract: This chapter reviews recent experiments on matter wave interferometry with large molecules. Starting from an elementary introduction to matter wave physics we discuss far-field diffraction and near-field interferometry with thermally excited many-body systems. We describe the constraints imposed by decoherence and dephasing effects, and present an outlook to the future challenges in macromolecule and cluster interferometry.

id: 0903.1634
title: Simultaneous sub-second hyperpolarization of the nuclear and electron spins of phosphorus in silicon
authors: A. Yang, M. Steger, T. Sekiguchi, M. L. W. Thewalt, T. D. Ladd, K. M. Itoh, H. Riemann, N. V. Abrosimov, P. Becker, H.-J. Pohl
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 257401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1634
abstract: We demonstrate a method which can hyperpolarize both the electron and nuclear spins of 31P donors in Si at low field, where both would be essentially unpolarized in equilibrium. It is based on the selective ionization of donors in a specific hyperfine state by optically pumping donor bound exciton hyperfine transitions, which can be spectrally resolved in 28Si. Electron and nuclear polarizations of 90% and 76%, respectively, are obtained in less than a second, providing an initialization mechanism for qubits based on these spins, and enabling further ESR and NMR studies on dilute 31P in 28Si.

id: 0903.1637
title: Phase-noise induced limitations on cooling and coherent evolution in opto-mechanical systems
authors: P. Rabl, C. Genes, K. Hammerer, M. Aspelmeyer
comments: 
journal: PRA 80, 063819 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1637
abstract: We present a detailed theoretical discussion of the effects of ubiquitous laser noise on cooling and the coherent dynamics in opto-mechanical systems. Phase fluctuations of the driving laser induce modulations of the linearized opto-mechanical coupling as well as a fluctuating force on the mirror due to variations of the mean cavity intensity. We first evaluate the influence of both effects on cavity cooling and find that for a small laser linewidth the dominant heating mechanism arises from intensity fluctuations. The resulting limit on the final occupation number scales linearly with the cavity intensity both under weak and strong coupling conditions. For the strong coupling regime, we also determine the effect of phase noise on the coherent transfer of single excitations between the cavity and the mechanical resonator and obtain a similar conclusion. Our results show that conditions for optical ground state cooling and coherent operations are experimentally feasible and thus laser phase noise does pose a challenge but not a stringent limitation for opto-mechanical systems.

id: 0903.1638
title: An Infinite Sequence of Additive Channels: the Classical Capacity of Cloning Channels
authors: Kamil Bradler
comments: Annoying typo fixed
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol 57, No 8, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1638
abstract: We introduce an infinite sequence of quantum channels for which the Holevo capacity is additive. The channel series is closely related to the quantum channels arising from universal quantum cloning machines. The additivity proof is motivated by a special property the studied channels enjoy: the property of conjugate degradability. As a consequence of the announced proof, we also provide an easy way of proving the additivity of the Holevo capacity for the original Unruh channel for which the quantum capacity is already known. Consequently, we present not only an infinite series of finite-dimensional channels but also a nontrivial example of an infinite-dimensional channel for which the classical and quantum channel capacities are easily calculable.

id: 0903.1652
title: Quantum state preparation by phase randomization
authors: S. Boixo, E. Knill, R.D. Somma
comments: References added
journal: QIC, Vol.9, pp0833-0855, (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1652
abstract: A computation in adiabatic quantum computing is implemented by traversing a path of nondegenerate eigenstates of a continuous family of Hamiltonians. We introduce a method that traverses a discretized form of the path: At each step we apply the instantaneous Hamiltonian for a random time. The resulting decoherence approximates a projective measurement onto the desired eigenstate, achieving a version of the quantum Zeno effect. If negative evolution times can be implemented with constant overhead, then the average absolute evolution time required by our method is O(L^2/Delta) for constant error probability, where L is the length of the path of eigenstates and Delta is the minimum spectral gap of the Hamiltonian. Making explicit the dependence on the path length is useful for cases where L does not depend on Delta. The complexity of our method has a logarithmic improvement over previous algorithms of this type. The same cost applies to the discrete-time case, where a family of unitary operators is given and each unitary and its inverse can be used. Restriction to positive evolution times incurs an error that decreases exponentially with the cost. Applications of this method to unstructured search and quantum sampling are considered. In particular, we discuss the quantum simulated annealing algorithm for solving combinatorial optimization problems. This algorithm provides a quadratic speed-up in the gap of the stochastic matrix over its classical counterpart implemented via Markov chain Monte Carlo.

id: 0903.1688
title: Quantum Algorithm, Gaussian Sums, and Topological Invariants
authors: K. Shiokawa
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1688
abstract: Certain quantum topological invariants of three manifolds can be written in the form of the Gaussian sum. It is shown that such topological invariants can be approximated efficiently by a quantum computer. The invariants discussed here are obtained as a partition function of the gauge theory on three manifolds with various gauge groups. Our algorithms are applicable to Abelian and finite gauge groups and to some classes of non-Abelian gauge groups. These invariants can be directly estimated by the nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) technique used for evaluating the Gaussian sum.

id: 0903.1725
title: Numerical reconstruction of photon-number statistics from photocounting statistics: Regularization of an ill-posed problem
authors: V. N. Starkov, A. A. Semenov, H. V. Gomonay
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013813 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1725
abstract: We demonstrate a practical possibility of loss compensation in measured photocounting statistics in the presence of dark counts and background radiation noise. It is shown that satisfactory results are obtained even in the case of low detection efficiency and large experimental errors.

id: 0903.1736
title: Stationary light in cold atomic gases
authors: Gor Nikoghosyan, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013818 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1736
abstract: We discuss stationary light created by a pair of counter-propagating control fields in Lambda-type atomic gases with electromagnetically induced transparency for the case of negligible Doppler broadening. In this case the secular approximation used in the discussion of stationary light in hot vapors is no longer valid. We discuss the quality of the effective light-trapping system and show that in contrast to previous claims it is finite even for vanishing ground-state dephasing. The dynamics of the photon loss is in general non exponential and can be faster or slower than in hot gases.

id: 0903.1769
title: Wigner operator's new transformation in phase space quantum mechanics and its applications
authors: Hong-yi Fan
comments: 11 pages no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1769
abstract: Using operators' Weyl ordering expansion formula (Hong-yi Fan,\emph{\}J. Phys. A 25 (1992) 3443) we find new two-fold integration transformation about the Wigner operator $\Delta(q',p')$ ($q$-number transform) in phase space quantum mechanics, \[ \iint_{-\infty}^\infty dp' dq'/\pi \Delta (q',p') e^{-2i(p-p') (q-q')} =\delta (p-P) \delta (q-Q), \] and its inverse \[\iint_{-\infty}^\infty dq dp \delta (p-P) \delta (q-Q) e^{2i(p-p') (q-q')}=\Delta (q',p'), \] where $Q,$ $P$ are the coordinate and momentum operators, respectively. We apply it to studying mutual converting formulas among $Q-P$ ordering, $P-Q$ ordering and Weyl ordering of operators. In this way, the contents of phase space quantum mechanics can be enriched.

id: 0903.1774
title: Decoherence-free quantum dynamics in circuit QED system
authors: Ping Liao, Qin-Qin Wu, Jie-Qiao Liao, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1774
abstract: We study decoherence in a circuit QED system consisting of a charge qubit and two superconducting transmission line resonators (TLRs). We show that in the dispersive regime of the circuit QED system one TLR can be used as an auxiliary subsystem to realize decoherence-free quantum dynamics of the bipartite target system consisting of the charge qubit and the other TLR conditioned on the auxiliary TLR initially being a proper number state. Our study gives new insight into control and manipulation of decoherence in quantum systems.

id: 0903.1799
title: Emergent Classicality via Commuting Position and Momentum Operators
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: To appear in Proceedings of the 2008 DICE Conference
journal: J.Phys. Conf.Ser 174, 012005 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1799
abstract: Any account of the emergence of classicality from quantum theory must address the fact that the quantum operators representing positions and momenta do not commute, whereas their classical counterparts suffer no such restrictions. To address this, we revive an old idea of von Neumann, and seek a pair of commuting operators $X,P$ which are, in a specific sense, "close" to the canonical non-commuting position and momentum operators, $x,p$. The construction of such operators is related to the problem of finding complete sets of orthonormal phase space localized states, a problem severely limited by the Balian-Low theorem. Here these limitations are avoided by restricting attention to situations in which the density matrix is reasonably decohered (i.e., spread out in phase space).

id: 0903.1802
title: Macroscopic Superpositions, Decoherent Histories and the Emergence of Hydrodynamic Behaviour
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: To appear in: 'Everett and his Critics', eds. S. W. Saunders et al. (Oxford University Press, 2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1802
abstract: Macroscopic systems are described most completely by local densities (particle number, momentum and energy) yet the superposition states of such physical variables, indicated by the Everett interpretation, are not observed. In order to explain this, it is argued that histories of local number, momentum and energy density are approximately decoherent when coarse-grained over sufficiently large volumes. Decoherence arises directly from the proximity of these variables to exactly conserved quantities (which are exactly decoherent), and not from environmentally-induced decoherence. We discuss the approach to local equilibrium and the subsequent emergence of hydrodynamic equations for the local densities. The results are general but we focus on a chain of oscillators as a specific example in which explicit calculations may be carried out. We discuss the relationships between environmentally-induced and conservation-induced decoherence and present a unified view of these two mechanisms.

id: 0903.1823
title: Duration of interactions in quantum electrodynamics: basic concepts, temporal features of kinetic phenomena
authors: Mark E. Perel'man
comments: 26 pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1823
abstract: For temporal magnitudes describing, in details, processes of particles scattering for a long time at each necessity case a particular, ad hoc reception were used. However the desirability of general approach basing on concepts of quantum field theory and uniting two main problems, durations of delay at scattering and of formation of arisen states, seems evident. We show that the Ward-Takahashi identity allows the defining of general temporal function in the frame of QED, real part of which describes the duration of delay of scattered particle on scatterer and imaginary part describes the duration of formation ("dressing") of outgoing bare particle. The functions of same form can be revealed in the known QED descriptions of processes, i.e. they arise in the course of standard calculations, but are not entered artificially. These functions submit to the operator of duration determinable by the reciprocal analogue of the Schroedinger equation, operator of which is canonically conjugated with Hamiltonian. Definition of temporal functions leads to the developing of such kinetic theories: theory of optical dispersion (with the decision of certain known paradoxes), theory of multiphoton processes (definitions of their thresholds and saturations) and theory of phase transitions (determination of general correlation radii and the full system of critical indices). The determination of temporal functions demonstrates also the instanton-type nature of tunneling processes, makes clear sense of the adiabatic hypothesis of quantum theory and some renormalization schemes. In an application to the problem of charge nullification they lead to a restriction of allowable number of fermions of the theory.

id: 0903.1831
title: Observations on Unstable Quantons, Hyperplane Dependence and Quantum Fields
authors: Gordon N. Fleming
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures, revised with added references, section 4 revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1831
abstract: There is persistent heterodoxy in the physics literature concerning the proper treatment of those quantons that are unstable against spontaneous decay. Following a brief litany of this heterodoxy, I develop some of the consequences of assuming that such quantons can exist, undecayed and isolated, at definite times and that their treatment can be carried out within a standard quantum theoretic state space. This assumption requires hyperplane dependence for the unstable quanton states and leads to clarification of some recent results concerning deviations from relativistic time dilation of decay lifetimes. In the course of the discussion I make some observations on the relationship of unstable quantons to quantum fields.

id: 0903.1849
title: Indistinguishable photons from independent semiconductor single-photon devices
authors: Kaoru Sanaka, Alexander Pawlis, Thaddeus Ladd, Klaus Lischka, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1849
abstract: We demonstrate quantum interference between photons generated by the radiative decay processes of excitons that are bound to isolated fluorine donor impurities in ZnSe/ZnMgSe quantum-well nanostructures. The ability to generate single photons from these devices is confirmed by auto-correlation experiments, and indistinguishability of single photons from two independent devices is confirmed via a Hong-Ou-Mandel dip. These results indicate that donor impurities in appropriately engineered semiconductor structures can portray atom-like homogeneity and coherence properties, potentially enabling scalable technologies for future large-scale optical quantum computers and quantum communication networks.

id: 0903.1859
title: Free will, undecidability, and the problem of time in quantum gravity
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Jorge Pullin
comments: 10 pages, no figures. This essay received the Second Community Prize in the Foundational Questions Institute (fqxi.org) essay contest
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1859
abstract: In quantum gravity there is no notion of absolute time. Like all other quantities in the theory, the notion of time has to be introduced "relationally", by studying the behavior of some physical quantities in terms of others chosen as a "clock". We have recently introduced a consistent way of defining time relationally in general relativity. When quantum mechanics is formulated in terms of this new notion of time the resolution of the measurement problem can be implemented via decoherence without the usual pitfalls. The resulting theory has the same experimental results of ordinary quantum mechanics, but every time an event is produced or a measurement happens two alternatives are possible: a) the state collapses; b) the system evolves without changing the state. One therefore has two possible behaviors of the quantum mechanical system and physical observations cannot decide between them, not just as a matter of experimental limitations but as an issue of principle. This first-ever example of fundamental undecidability in physics suggests that nature may behave sometimes as described by one alternative and sometimes as described by another. This in particular may give new vistas on the issue of free will.

id: 0903.1904
title: Phase transitions and random quantum satisfiability
authors: C.R. Laumann, R. Moessner, A. Scardicchio, S.L. Sondhi
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. and Comp. (2010) vol. 10 (1) 1 pp. 0001-0015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1904
abstract: Alongside the effort underway to build quantum computers, it is important to better understand which classes of problems they will find easy and which others even they will find intractable. We study random ensembles of the QMA$_1$-complete quantum satisfiability (QSAT) problem introduced by Bravyi. QSAT appropriately generalizes the NP-complete classical satisfiability (SAT) problem. We show that, as the density of clauses/projectors is varied, the ensembles exhibit quantum phase transitions between phases that are satisfiable and unsatisfiable. Remarkably, almost all instances of QSAT for any hypergraph exhibit the same dimension of the satisfying manifold. This establishes the QSAT decision problem as equivalent to a, potentially new, graph theoretic problem and that the hardest typical instances are likely to be localized in a bounded range of clause density.

id: 0903.1921
title: Operational path-phase complementarity in single-photon interferometry
authors: Noam Erez, Daniel Jacobs, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1921
abstract: We examine two setups that reveal different operational implications of path-phase complementarity for single photons in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer (MZI). In both setups, the which-way (WW) information is recorded in the polarization state of the photon serving as a "flying which-way detector". In the "predictive" variant, using a {\em fixed} initial state, one obtains duality relation between the probability to correctly predict the outcome of either a which-way (WW) or which-phase (WP) measurement (equivalent to the conventional path-distinguishibility-visibility). In this setup, only one or the other (WW or WP) prediction has operational meaning in a single experiment. In the second, "retrodictive" protocol, the initial state is secretly selected {\em for each photon} by one party, Alice, among a set of initial states which may differ in the amplitudes and phases of the photon in each arm of the MZI. The goal of the other party, Bob, is to retrodict the initial state by measurements on the photon. Here, a similar duality relation between WP and WW probabilities, governs their {\em simultaneous} guesses in {\em each experimental run}.

id: 0903.1955
title: Continuous Variable Quantum Cryptography -- Discussion of Various Realisations with Qudits
authors: Ulrich Seyfarth
comments: This work is the author's diploma thesis, submitted on May 5th, 2008, in the group of Prof. Dr. G. Alber at the TU Darmstadt. Neither corrections nor additions were included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1955
abstract: We expand the recently discussed continuous-variable quantum key distribution scheme of Heid and Luetkenhaus (2006) to qudits with a lossy but noiseless quantum channel. Postselection methods are used. Secret key rates are calculated in the presence of loss for the direct and the reverse reconciliation method. In the case of reverse reconciliation the secret key rate increases with higher dimensions, in the case of direct reconciliation the result is reverse. Several ways of optimising the amplitude are discussed. In a next step the used states are generalised to squeezed states. Again secret key rates are calculated. The last part deals with the dual-homodyne detection which replaces the single-homodyne measurement. Most results are analytical and allow further treatments if the preparation symmetry stays unchanged.

id: 0903.1957
title: Arrival Times, Complex Potentials and Decoherent Histories
authors: J.J.Halliwell, J.M.Yearsley
comments: 43 pages
journal: Physics Review A 79(6): 062101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1957
abstract: We address a number of aspects of the arrival time problem defined using a complex potential of step function form. We concentrate on the limit of a weak potential, in which the resulting arrival time distribution function is closely related to the quantum-mechanical current. We first consider the analagous classical arrival time problem involving an absorbing potential, and this sheds some light on certain aspects of the quantum case. In the quantum case, we review the path decomposition expansion (PDX), in which the propagator is factored across a surface of constant time, so is very useful for potentials of step function form. We use the PDX to derive the usual scattering wave functions and the arrival time distribution function. This method gives a direct and geometrically appealing account of known results (but also points the way to how they can be extended to more general complex potentials). We use these results to carry out a decoherent histories analysis of the arrival time problem, taking advantage of a recently demonstrated connection between pulsed measurements and complex potentials. We obtain very simple and plausible expressions for the class operators (describing the amplitudes for crossing the origin during intervals of time) and show that decoherence of histories is obtained for a wide class of initial states (such as simple wave packets and superpositions of wave packets). We find that the decoherent histories approach gives results with a sensible classical limit that are fully compatible with standard results on the arrival time problem. We also find some interesting connections between backflow and decoherence.

id: 0903.1958
title: Quantum Arrival Time Formula from Decoherent Histories
authors: J.J.Halliwell, J.M.Yearsley
comments: 11 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 374(2):154-157 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1958
abstract: In the arrival time problem in quantum mechanics, a standard formula that frequently emerges as the probability for crossing the origin during a given time interval is the current integrated over that time interval. This is semiclassically correct but can be negative due to backflow. Here, we show that this formula naturally arises in a decoherent histories analysis of the arrival time problem. For a variety of initial states, we show that histories crossing during different time intervals are approximately decoherent. Probabilities may therefore be assigned and coincide with the standard formula (in a semiclassical approximation), which is therefore positive for these states. However, for initial states for which there is backflow, we show that there cannot be decoherence of histories, so probabilities may not be assigned.

id: 0903.1977
title: Robust quantum repeater with atomic ensembles against phase and polarization instability
authors: Ming Gao, Lin-Mei Liang, Cheng-Zu Li, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1977
abstract: We propose an alternative scheme for quantum repeater without phase stabilization and polarization calibration of photons transmitted over long-distance channel. We introduce time-bin photonic states and use a new two-photon interference configuration to robustly generate entanglement between distant atomic-ensemble-based memory qubits. Our scheme can be performed with current experimental setups through making some simple adjustments.

id: 0903.1992
title: Entanglement and Quantum Superposition of a Macroscopic - Macroscopic system
authors: Francesco De Martini
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1992
abstract: Two quantum Macro-states and their Macroscopic Quantum Superpositions (MQS) localized in two far apart, space - like separated sites can be non-locally correlated by any entangled couple of single-particles having interacted in the past. This novel Macro - Macro paradigm is investigated on the basis of a recent study on an entangled Micro-Macro system involving N=10^5 particles. Crucial experimental issues as the violation of Bell's inequalities by the Macro - Macro system are considered.

id: 0903.1993
title: Quantum breathing mode of trapped bosons and fermions at arbitrary coupling
authors: S. Bauch, K. Balzer, C. Henning, M. Bonitz
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80 (2009) 054515
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1993
abstract: An analysis of the quantum breathing behavior of few-particle Coulomb systems in one- and two-dimensional harmonic traps is presented. We report the existence of \emph{two independent breathing modes} and present exact numerical results for two particles at any coupling strength which smoothly connect the two known limits of an \emph {ideal} quantum and a strongly coupled \emph {classical} system. Substantial differences in the breathing frequency of two-dimensional fermions and bosons are observed which may be used as a sensitive experimental tool to probe confined interacting quantum systems.

id: 0903.2023
title: Sorting of quantum states with respect to amount of entanglement included
authors: Roman Gielerak, Marek Sawerwain
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2023
abstract: The canonical Schmidt decomposition of quantum states is discussed and its implementation to the Quantum Computation Simulator is outlined. In particular, the semiorder relation in the space of quantum states induced by the lexicographic semiorder of the space of the Schmidt coefficients is discussed. The appropriate sorting algorithms on the corresponding POSETs consisting from quantum states are formulated and theirs computer implementations are being tested.

id: 0903.2027
title: Preparation of states in open quantum mechanics
authors: Kavan Modi
comments: 4 pages
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics 18, 253 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2027
abstract: We study preparation of states for open quantum mechanics. For non-Markovian systems that are initially correlated with the environment, the affects of the preparation procedure are nontrivial. This is due to the indirect affects on the state of the environment induced via the correlations with the system and the act of preparation on the system. We give three concrete examples of preparation procedure to elucidate our claims.

id: 0903.2050
title: Magnetometry via a double-pass continuous quantum measurement of atomic spin
authors: Bradley A. Chase, Ben Q. Baragiola, Heather L. Partner, Brigette D. Black, JM Geremia
comments: 17 pages, updated to match print version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 79, 062107 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2050
abstract: We argue that it is possible in principle to reduce the uncertainty of an atomic magnetometer by double-passing a far-detuned laser field through the atomic sample as it undergoes Larmor precession. Numerical simulations of the quantum Fisher information suggest that, despite the lack of explicit multi-body coupling terms in the system's magnetic Hamiltonian, the parameter estimation uncertainty in such a physical setup scales better than the conventional Heisenberg uncertainty limit over a specified but arbitrary range of particle number N. Using the methods of quantum stochastic calculus and filtering theory, we demonstrate numerically an explicit parameter estimator (called a quantum particle filter) whose observed scaling follows that of our calculated quantum Fisher information. Moreover, the quantum particle filter quantitatively surpasses the uncertainty limit calculated from the quantum Cramer-Rao inequality based on a magnetic coupling Hamiltonian with only single-body operators. We also show that a quantum Kalman filter is insufficient to obtain super-Heisenberg scaling, and present evidence that such scaling necessitates going beyond the manifold of Gaussian atomic states.

id: 0903.2061
title: The Schr?dinger equation for open systems
authors: Yuriy E. Kuzovlev
comments: 3 pages, no figures, Latex Revtex4, with addition in the source tex file of Russian prototype of the paper rejected by JETP Letters because a referee disliked its polyvalent notations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2061
abstract: An universal exact description of kinetics of open quantum systems in terms of random wave functions and stochastic Schr\"{o}dinger equation is suggested. It is shown that evolution of random quantum states of an open system is unitary on average, and this implies validity of the optical theorem for any inelastic scattering.

id: 0903.2069
title: Scaling of the fidelity susceptibility in a disordered quantum spin chain
authors: N. Tobias Jacobson, Silvano Garnerone, Stephan Haas, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 9 pages, 16 figures, added a reference
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 184427 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2069
abstract: The phase diagram of a quantum XY spin chain with Gaussian-distributed random anisotropies and transverse fields is investigated, with focus on the fidelity susceptibility, a recently introduced quantum information theoretical measure. Monitoring the finite-size scaling of the probability distribution of this quantity as well as its average and typical values, we detect a disorder-induced disappearance of criticality and the emergence of Griffiths phases in this model. It is found that the fidelity susceptibility is not self-averaging near the disorder-free quantum critical lines. At the Ising critical point the fidelity susceptibility scales as a disorder-strength independent stretched exponential of the system size, in contrast with the quadratic scaling at the corresponding point in the disorder-free XY chain. Along the line where the average anisotropy vanishes the fidelity susceptibility appears to scale extensively, whereas in the disorder-free case this point is quantum critical with quadratic finite-size scaling.

id: 0903.2088
title: Authorized quantum computation
authors: Yu Tanaka, Mio Murao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2088
abstract: We present authorized quantum computation, where only a user with a non-cloneable quantum authorization key can perform a unitary operation created by an authenticated programmer. The security of our authorized quantum computation is based on the quantum computational complexity problem of forging the keys from an obfuscated quantum gate sequence. Under the assumption of the existence of a \textit{sufficiently-random gate shuffling algorithm}, the problem is shown to be in the NQP (Non-deterministic Quantum Polynomial)-hard class by reducing it to a NQP-Complete problem, the exact non-identity check problem. Therefore, our authorized quantum computation can be computationally secure against attacks using quantum computers.

id: 0903.2091
title: Dispersive interaction between an atom and a conducting sphere
authors: M. M. Taddei, T. N. C. Mendes, C. Farina
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2091
abstract: We calculate the van der Waals dispersive interaction between a neutral but polarizable atom and a perfectly conducting isolated sphere in the nonretarded case. We make use of two separate models, one being the semiclassical fluctuating-dipoles method, the other using ordinary quantum mechanics.

id: 0903.2117
title: Entanglement-Enhanced Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Olli Ahonen
comments: Licentiate Thesis, instructor Mikko Mottonen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2117
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) allows two spatially separated parties to securely generate a cryptographic key. The first QKD protocol, published by C. H. Bennett and G. Brassard in 1984 (BB84), describes how this is achieved by transmitting individual qubits and exchanging classical authenticated information. Any attempt to eavesdrop on the protocol introduces errors detectable by the legitimate parties. This Licentiate Thesis studies the recently introduced EEQKD protocol which builds on BB84. In EEQKD, the qubits sent individually in BB84 are entangled and thus not directly available to an eavesdropper who is, in this protocol, provided only one-by-one access to the transmission. The maximal information an eavesdropper can gain using a straightforward intercept-resend (IR) attack, is obtained for a given error rate. The secure key generation rate of EEQKD is estimated in practical scenarios including qubit loss and quantum channel noise. In addition, an exquisite vulnerability is exposed: For a particular setting of qubit entanglement, paradoxically proving most useful in the face of an IR attack, EEQKD reduces to BB84. Part of this research has been published in O. Ahonen et al., Physical Review A 78, 032314 (2008).

id: 0903.2154
title: Universal Existence of Exact Quantum State Transmissions in Interacting Media
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042315 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2154
abstract: We consider an exact state transmission, where a density matrix in one information processor A at time $t=0$ is exactly equal to that in another processor B at a later time. We demonstrate that there always exists a complete set of orthogonal states, which can be employed to perform the exact state transmission. Our result is very general in the sense that it holds for arbitrary media between the two processors and for any time interval. We illustrate our results in terms of models of spin, fermionic and bosonic chains. This complete set can be used as bases to study the perfect state transfer, which is associated with degenerated subspaces of this set of states. Interestingly, this formalism leads to a proposal of perfect state transfer via adiabatic passage, which does not depend on the specific form of the driving Hamiltonian.

id: 0903.2160
title: Feasibility of satellite quantum key distribution
authors: Cristian Bonato, Andrea Tomaello, Vania Da Deppo, Giampiero Naletto, Paolo Villoresi
comments: 23 pages, 17 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 11, 045017 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2160
abstract: In this paper we present a novel analysis of the feasibility of quantum key distribution between a LEO satellite and a ground station. First of all, we study signal propagation through a turbulent atmosphere for uplinks and downlinks, discussing the contribution of beam spreading and beam wandering. Then we introduce a model for the background noise of the channel during night-time and day-time, calculating the signal-to-noise ratio for different configurations. We also discuss the expected error-rate due to imperfect polarization-compensation in the channel. Finally, we calculate the expected key generation rate of a secure key for different configurations (uplink, downlink) and for different protocols (BB84 with and without decoy states, entanglement-based Ekert91 protocol).

id: 0903.2176
title: The double Caldeira-Leggett model: Derivation and solutions of the master equations, reservoir-induced interactions and decoherence
authors: A. Cacheffo, M. H. Y. Moussa, M. A. de Ponte
comments: 42 pages, 7 figures, new discussion added, typos added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2176
abstract: In this paper we analyze the double Caldeira-Leggett model: the path integral approach to two interacting dissipative harmonic oscillators. Assuming a general form of the interaction between the oscillators, we consider two different situations: i) when each oscillator is coupled to its own reservoir, and ii) when both oscillators are coupled to a common reservoir. After deriving and solving the master equation for each case, we analyze the decoherence process of particular entanglements in the positional space of both oscillators. To analyze the decoherence mechanism we have derived a general decay function for the off-diagonal peaks of the density matrix, which applies both to a common and separate reservoirs. We have also identified the expected interaction between the two dissipative oscillators induced by their common reservoir. Such reservoir-induced interaction, which gives rise to interesting collective damping effects, such as the emergence of relaxation- and decoherence-free subspaces, is shown to be blurred by the high-temperature regime considered in this study. However, we find that different interactions between the dissipative oscillators, described by rotating or counter-rotating terms, result in different decay rates for the interference terms of the density matrix.

id: 0903.2179
title: Non-Local Box Complexity and Secure Function Evaluation
authors: Marc Kaplan, Iordanis Kerenidis, Sophie Laplante, Jrmie Roland
comments: 23 pages
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 11(1-2), 40-69 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2179
abstract: A non-local box is an abstract device into which Alice and Bob input bits x and y respectively and receive outputs a and b respectively, where a, b are uniformly distributed and the parity of a+b equals xy. Such boxes have been central to the study of quantum or generalized non-locality as well as the simulation of non-signaling distributions. In this paper, we start by studying how many non-local boxes Alice and Bob need in order to compute a Boolean function f. We provide tight upper and lower bounds in terms of the communication complexity of the function both in the deterministic and randomized case. We then proceed to show that the study of non-local box complexity has interesting applications for classical computation as well. In particular, we look at secure function evaluation, and study the question posed by Beimel and Malkin of how many Oblivious Transfer calls Alice and Bob need in order to securely compute a function f. We show that this question is related to the non-local box complexity of the function and conclude by greatly improving their bounds. Finally, another consequence of our results is that traceless two-outcome measurements on maximally entangled states can be simulated with 3 non-local boxes, while no finite bound was previously known.

id: 0903.2211
title: Many-Worlds and Schroedinger's First Quantum Theory
authors: Valia Allori, Sheldon Goldstein, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 25 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2 minor improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2211
abstract: Schroedinger's first proposal for the interpretation of quantum mechanics was based on a postulate relating the wave function on configuration space to charge density in physical space. Schroedinger apparently later thought that his proposal was empirically wrong. We argue here that this is not the case, at least for a very similar proposal with charge density replaced by mass density. We argue that when analyzed carefully this theory is seen to be an empirically adequate many-worlds theory and not an empirically inadequate theory describing a single world. Moreover, this formulation--Schroedinger's first quantum theory--can be regarded as a formulation of the many-worlds view of quantum mechanics that is ontologically clearer than Everett's.

id: 0903.2212
title: Experimental realization of Dicke states of up to six qubits for multiparty quantum networking
authors: R. Prevedel, G. Cronenberg, M. S. Tame, M. Paternostro, P. Walther, M. S. Kim, A. Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 020503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2212
abstract: We report the first experimental generation and characterization of a six-photon Dicke state. The produced state shows a fidelity of F=0.56+/-0.02 with respect to an ideal Dicke state and violates a witness detecting genuine six-qubit entanglement by four standard deviations. We confirm characteristic Dicke properties of our resource and demonstrate its versatility by projecting out four- and five-photon Dicke states, as well as four-photon GHZ and W states. We also show that Dicke states have interesting applications in multiparty quantum networking protocols such as open-destination teleportation, telecloning and quantum secret sharing.

id: 0903.2213
title: Experimental entanglement of a six-photon symmetric Dicke state
authors: Witlef Wieczorek, Roland Krischek, Nikolai Kiesel, Patrick Michelberger, Geza Toth, Harald Weinfurter
comments: replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 020504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2213
abstract: We report on the experimental observation and characterization of a six-photon entangled Dicke state. We obtain a fidelity as high as 0.654$\pm$0.024 and prove genuine six-photon entanglement by, amongst others, a two-setting witness yielding -0.422$\pm$0.148. This state has remarkable properties; e.g., it allows obtaining inequivalent entangled states of a lower qubit number via projective measurements, and it possesses a high entanglement persistency against qubit loss. We characterize the properties of the six-photon Dicke state experimentally by detecting and analyzing the entanglement of a variety of multipartite entangled states.

id: 0903.2239
title: Topological Quantum Computing with Read-Rezayi States
authors: L. Hormozi, N.E. Bonesteel, S.H. Simon
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 160501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2239
abstract: Read-Rezayi fractional quantum Hall states are among the prime candidates for realizing non-Abelian anyons which in principle can be used for topological quantum computation. We present a prescription for efficiently finding braids which can be used to carry out a universal set of quantum gates on encoded qubits based on anyons of the Read-Rezayi states with $k>2$, $k\neq4$. This work extends previous results which only applied to the case $k = 3$ (Fibonacci) and clarifies why in that case gate constructions are simpler than for a generic Read-Rezayi state.

id: 0903.2286
title: A Controllable Interaction between Two-Level Systems inside a Josephson Junction
authors: L. Tian, K. Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, ASC conference 2008
journal: IEEE. Trans. Appl. Supercon. 19, 953 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2286
abstract: Two-level system fluctuators (TLS's) in the tunnel barrier of a Josephson junction have recently been demonstrated to cause novel energy splittings in spectroscopic measurements of superconducting phase qubits. With their strong coupling to the Josephson junction and relatively long decoherence times, TLS's can be considered as potential qubits and demonstrate coherent quantum effects. Here, we study the effective interaction between the TLS qubits that is mediated by a Josephson junction resonator driven by an external microwave source. This effective interaction can enable controlled quantum logic gates between the TLS's. Our study can be extended to other superconducting resonators coupling with TLS's.

id: 0903.2295
title: Composite pulses in NMR as non-adiabatic geometric quantum gates
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Yasusi Kondo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 024302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2295
abstract: We show that some composite pulses widely employed in NMR experiments are regarded as non-adiabatic geometric quantum gates with Aharanov-Anandan phases. Thus, we reveal the presence of a fundamental issue on quantum mechanics behind the traditional technique of the composite pulses. To examine the robustness of such composite pulses against fluctuations, we present a practical noise model in a two-level system. Then, we find that the composite pulses possesses purely geometrical nature even under a specific type of fluctuations.

id: 0903.2300
title: A Class of Self-Trapped and Self-Focusing Wave Functions in Madelung Fluid Picture of A Single Free Particle Quantum System
authors: Agung Budiyono, Ken Umeno
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2300
abstract: Using the Madelung fluid picture of Schr\"odinger equation for a single free particle moving in one spatial dimension, we shall specify a class of wave functions whose quantum probability density is being trapped by the quantum potential it itself generates. The global convexity of the quantum potential generated by the initial self-trapped wave function will then be shown to further localize the quantum probability density through a self-generated focusing equation for a finite interval of time.

id: 0903.2301
title: Dipole emission from a real cavity in a random medium. Fluorescence in a homogeneous medium II
authors: M. Donaire
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2301
abstract: In this paper we derive a general expression for the emission rate of an emitter which is placed at the center of a real cavity drilled in a generic random medium. We apply our formalism to the computation of the decay rate of a single atom which seats within a small molecule embedded in a continuous medium.

id: 0903.2304
title: Distinction of Tripartite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W States Entangled in Time (or Energy) and Space
authors: Jianming Wen, Morton H. Rubin
comments: Published in Phys. Rev. A 79, 025802 (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2304
abstract: In tripartite discrete systems, two classes of genuine tripartite entanglement have been discovered, namely, the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) class and the W class. To date, much research effort has been concentrated on the polarization entangled three-photon GHZ and W states. Most studies of continuous variable multiparticle entanglement have been focused on Gaussian states. In this Brief Report, we examine two classes of three-photon entangled states in space and time. One class is a three-mode three-photon entangled state and the other is a two-mode triphoton state. These states show behavior similar to the GHZ and W states when one of the photons is not detected. The three-mode entangled state resembles a W state, while a two-mode three-photon state resembles a GHZ state when one of the photons is traced away. We characterize the distinction between these two states by comparing the second-order correlation functions $G^{(2)}$ with the third-order correlation function $G^{(3)}$.

id: 0903.2308
title: Slot-waveguide cavities for optical quantum information applications
authors: Mark P. Hiscocks, Chun-Hsu Su, Brant C. Gibson, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg, Francois Ladouceur
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures (all in colour), minor revisions
journal: Opt.Express.17:7295-7303,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2308
abstract: To take existing quantum optical experiments and devices into more practical regimes requires the construction of robust, solid-state implementations. In particular, to observe the strong-coupling regime of atom-photon interactions requires very small cavities and large quality factors. Here we show that the slot-waveguide geometry recently introduced for photonic applications is also promising for quantum optical applications in the visible regime. We study diamond- and GaP-based slot-waveguide cavities (SWCs) compatible with diamond colour centres e.g. nitrogen-vacancy (NV) defect, and show that one can achieve increased single-photon Rabi frequencies of order O(10^11) Hz in ultra-small cavity modal volumes, nearly 2 orders of magnitude smaller than previously studied diamond-based photonic crystal cavities.

id: 0903.2309
title: A necessary condition for the thermalization of a quantum system coupled to a quantum bath
authors: Oleg Lychkovskiy
comments: v.2: The paper is substentially revised. Additional results are presented. The discussion of an exactly solvable model is added, the numerical calculations are removed; v.3: minor improvements
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 011123 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2309
abstract: A system put in contact with a large heat bath normally thermalizes. This means that the state of the system approaches an equilibrium state, the latter depending only on macroscopic characteristics of the bath (e.g. temperature), but not on the initial state of the system. The above statement is the cornerstone of the equilibrium statistical mechanics; its validity and its domain of applicability are central questions in the studies of the foundations of statistical mechanics. In the present paper we concentrate on one aspect of thermalization, namely, on the system initial state independence (ISI) of the equilibrium state. A necessary condition for the system ISI is derived in the quantum framework. We use the derived condition to prove the absence of the system ISI in a specific model. Namely, we consider a single spin coupled to a large bath, the interaction being of a specific form. Although the model under consideration is nontrivial enough to exhibit the decoherence and the approach to equilibrium, the derived necessary condition is not fulfilled and thus the equilibrium state depends on the initial state of the spin.

id: 0903.2319
title: The information about the state of a charge qubit gained by a weakly coupled quantum point contact
authors: S. Ashhab, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; Published in the proceedings of the Nobel Symposium 141: Qubits for Future Quantum Information
journal: Phys. Scr. T137, 014005 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2319
abstract: We analyze the information that one can learn about the state of a quantum two-level system, i.e. a qubit, when probed weakly by a nearby detector. We consider the general case where the qubit Hamiltonian and the qubit's operator probed by the detector do not commute. Because the qubit's state keeps evolving while being probed and the measurement data is mixed with a detector-related background noise, one might expect the detector to fail in this case. We show, however, that under suitable conditions and by proper analysis of the measurement data useful information about the initial state of the qubit can be extracted. Our approach complements the usual master-equation and quantum-trajectory approaches, which describe the evolution of the qubit's quantum state during the measurement process but do not keep track of the acquired measurement information.

id: 0903.2320
title: Witness for an entangled state with positive partial transpose
authors: Nirman Ganguly, Binayak.S.Choudhury
comments: The paper is withdrawn after noticing some errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2320
abstract: In this letter we have analyzed an entangled state in $C^{3} \bigotimes C^{3}$ having a positive partial transposition and have shown that it is an edge state. Further we have constructed explicitly a witness operator $W$ which detects the entanglement.

id: 0903.2336
title: Wigner function of pulsed fields by direct detection
authors: Maria Bondani, Alessia Allevi, Alessandra Andreoni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2336
abstract: We present the reconstruction of the Wigner function of some classical pulsed optical states obtained by direct measurement of the detected-photon probability distributions of the state displaced by a coherent field. We use a photodetector endowed with internal gain, which is operated in the non- photon-resolving regime. The measurements are performed up to mesoscopic intensities (up to more than 30 photons per pulse). The method can be applied to characterize nonclassical continuous-variable states.

id: 0903.2432
title: Operator Space Entanglement Entropy in XY Spin Chains
authors: Iztok Pizorn, Tomaz Prosen
comments: slight modifications -- as published in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 184416 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2432
abstract: The complexity of representation of operators in quantum mechanics can be characterized by the operator space entanglement entropy (OSEE). We show that in the homogeneous Heisenberg XY spin 1/2 chains the OSEE for initial local operators grows at most logarithmically with time. The prefactor in front of the logarithm generally depends only on the number of stationary points of the quasi-particle dispersion relation and for the XY model changes from 1/3 to 2/3 exactly at the point of quantum phase transition to long-range magnetic correlations in the non-equilibrium steady state. In addition, we show that the presence of a small disorder triggers a saturation of the OSEE.

id: 0903.2454
title: Experimental filtering of two-, four-, and six-photon singlets from single PDC source
authors: Magnus Radmark, Marcin Wiesniak, Marek Zukowski, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2454
abstract: Invariant entangled states remain unchanged under simultaneous identical unitary transformations of all their subsystems. We experimentally generate and characterize such invariant two-, four-, and six-photon polarization entangled states. This is done only with a suitable filtering procedure of multiple emissions of entangled photon pairs from a single source, without any interferometric overlaps. We get the desired states utilizing bosonic emission enhancement due to indistinguishability. The setup is very stable, and gives high interference contrasts. Thus, the process is a very likely candidate for various photonic demonstrations of quantum information protocols.

id: 0903.2530
title: Stationary phase method and delay times for relativistic and non-relativistic tunneling particles
authors: Alex E. Bernardini
comments: 62 pages, 10 figures, in publication
journal: Annals of Physics 324 (2009) 1303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2530
abstract: This report deals with the basic concepts on deducing transit times for quantum scattering: the stationary phase method and its relation with delay times for relativistic and non-relativistic tunneling particles. We notice that the applicability of this method is constrained by several subtleties in deriving the phase time that describes the localization of scattered wave packets. We investigate the general relation between phase times and dwell times for quantum tunneling/scattering. Considering a symmetrical collision of two identical wave packets with an one-dimensional barrier, we demonstrate that these two distinct transit time definitions are explicitly connected. The traversal times are obtained for a symmetrized (two identical bosons) and an antisymmetrized (two identical fermions) quantum colliding configuration. Multiple wave packet decomposition shows us that the phase time (group delay) describes the exact position of the scattered particles and, in addition to the exact relation with the dwell time, leads to correct conceptual understanding of both transit time definitions. At last, we extend the non-relativistic formalism to the solutions for the tunneling zone of a one-dimensional electrostatic potential in the relativistic (Dirac to Klein-Gordon) wave equation where the incoming wave packet exhibits the possibility of being almost totally transmitted through the potential barrier. The conditions for the occurrence of accelerated tunneling transmission probabilities are all quantified and the problematic superluminal interpretation based on the non-relativistic tunneling dynamics is revisited.

id: 0903.2556
title: Three-Qubit Ground State and Thermal Entanglement of $XXZ$ Model With Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya Interaction
authors: R. Jafari, A. Langari
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 9, No. 4 (2011) 1057-1079
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2556
abstract: We have studied the symmetric and non-symmetric pairwise ground state and thermal entanglement in three-qubit anisotropic Heisenberg (XXZ) and Ising in a magnetic field models and in the presence of Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction. We have found that increasing of the DM interaction and magnetic field can enhance and reduce the entanglement of system. We have shown that the non-symmetric pairwise has higher value concurrence and critical temperature (above which the entanglement vanishes) than the symmetric pairwise. For negative anisotropy the non-symmetric entanglement is a monotonic function of DM interaction while for positive anisotropy it has a maximum versus DM parameter and vanishes for larger values of DM interaction. The conditions for the existence of thermal entanglement are discussed in details. The most remarkable result happens at zero temperature where 3-qubit ground state entanglement of the system (in spite of 2-qubit counterpart) shows the fingerprint of quantum phase transition for an infinite size system.

id: 0903.2582
title: Tunneling: From Milliseconds to Attoaseconds
authors: Guenter Nimtz
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2582
abstract: How much time does a wave packet spent in tunneling a barrier? Quantum mechanical calculations result in zero time inside a barrier. In the nineties analogous tunneling experiments with microwaves were carried out confirming quantum mechanics. Electron tunneling time is hard to measure being extremely short. However, quite recently the atomic ionization tunneling time has been measured. Experimental data of photonic, phononic, and electronic tunneling time is available now. It appears that the tunneling time is a universal property in the investigated time range of twelve orders of magnitude.

id: 0903.2601
title: Bohmian Mechanics
authors: Detlef Duerr, Sheldon Goldstein, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure; an entry in the Compendium of Quantum Physics, ed. F. Weinert et al
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2601
abstract: Bohmian mechanics is a theory about point particles moving along trajectories. It has the property that in a world governed by Bohmian mechanics, observers see the same statistics for experimental results as predicted by quantum mechanics. Bohmian mechanics thus provides an explanation of quantum mechanics. Moreover, the Bohmian trajectories are defined in a non-conspiratorial way by a few simple laws.

id: 0903.2642
title: Relational Blockworld: Towards a Discrete Graph Theoretic Foundation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: W.M. Stuckey, Timothy McDevitt, Michael Silberstein
comments: 21 pp of text, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2642
abstract: We propose a discrete path integral formalism over graphs fundamental to quantum mechanics (QM) based on our interpretation of QM called Relational Blockworld (RBW). In our approach, the transition amplitude is not viewed as a sum over all field configurations, but is a mathematical machine for measuring the symmetry of the discrete differential operator and source vector of the discrete action. Therefore, we restrict the path integral to the row space of the discrete differential operator, which also contains the discrete source vector, in order to avoid singularities. In this fashion we obtain the two-source transition amplitude over a "ladder" graph with N vertices. We interpret this solution in the context of the twin-slit experiment.

id: 0903.2645
title: Train of high-power femtosecond pulses: Probe wave in a gas of prepared atoms
authors: Gevorg Muradyan, A.Zh. Muradyan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 035801 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2645
abstract: We present a new method for generating a regular train of ultrashort optical pulses in a prepared two-level medium. The train develops from incident monochromatic probe radiation travelling in a medium of atoms, which are in a quantum mechanical superposition of dressed internal states. In the frame of used linear theory for the probe radiation, the energy of individual pulses is an exponentially growing function of atom density and of interaction cross section. Pulse repetition rate is determined by the generalized Rabi frequency and can be around 1 THz and greater. We also show that the terms, extra to the dipole approximation, endow the gas by a new property: non-saturating dependence of refractive index on the dressing monochromatic field intensity. Contribution of these nonsaturating terms can be compatible with the main dipole approximation in the wavelength region of about ten micrometers (the range of CO_2 laser) or larger.

id: 0903.2655
title: Origin of chaos near critical points of quantum flow
authors: C. Efthymiopoulos, C. Kalapotharakos, G. Contopoulos
comments: accepted to Physical Review E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2655
abstract: The general theory of motion in the vicinity of a moving quantum nodal point (vortex) is studied in the framework of the de Broglie - Bohm trajectory method of quantum mechanics. Using an adiabatic approximation, we find that near any nodal point of an arbitrary wavefunction $\psi$ there is an unstable point (called X-point) in a frame of reference moving with the nodal point. We find general formulae for the nodal point - X-point complex as well as necessary and sufficient conditions of validity of the adiabatic approximation. Chaos emerges from the consecutive scattering events of the orbits with nodal point - X-point complexes. A theoretical model is constructed yielding the local value of the Lyapunov characteristic number in a scattering event, which scales as an inverse power of the speed of the nodal point in the rest frame, or proportionally to the size of the nodal point X- point complex. The results of detailed numerical experiments with different wavefunctions possessing multiple moving nodal points are reported. The statistics of the Lyapunov characteristic numbers of the orbits are found and compared to the number of encounter events of each orbit with the nodal point X-point complexes. Various phenomena appearing at first as counter-intuitive find a straightforward explanation.

id: 0903.2664
title: Role of Fermion Exchanges in Statistical Signatures of Composite Bosons
authors: M. Combescot, F. Dubin, M. A. Dupertuis
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2664
abstract: We study statistical signatures of composite bosons made of two fermions using a new many-body approach. Extending number-states to composite bosons, two-particle correlations as well as the dispersion of the probability distribution are analyzed. We show that the particle composite nature reduces the anti-bunching effect predicted for elementary bosons. Furthermore, the probability distribution exhibits a dispersion which is greater for composite bosons than for elementary bosons. This dispersion corresponds to the one of sub-Poissonian processes, as for a quantum state, but, unlike its elementary boson counterpart, it is not minimum. In general, our work shows that it is necessary to take into account the Pauli exclusion principle which takes place between fermionic components of composite bosons - along the line here used - to possibly extract statistical properties in a precise way.

id: 0903.2694
title: A Fluid Analog Model for Boundary Effects in Field Theory
authors: L.H. Ford, N.F. Svaiter
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:065034,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2694
abstract: Quantum fluctuations in the density of a fluid with a linear phonon dispersion relation are studied. In particular, we treat the changes in these fluctuations due to non-classical states of phonons and to the presence of boundaries. These effects are analogous to similar effects in relativistic quantum field theory, and we argue that the case of the fluid is a useful analog model for effects in field theory. We further argue that the changes in the mean squared density are in principle observable by light scattering experiments.

id: 0903.2705
title: Controlled multiqubit entangled states and quantum transmission in quantum molecule-spin systems
authors: Xiang Hao, Tao Pan, Taocheng Zang, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2705
abstract: he multiqubit entangled states are coherently controlled in the quantum spin systems composed of $N+1$ interacting antiferromagnetic molecular rings. The tunable intermolecular couplings arise from the local exchange interactions between electron spins of $N$ circumjacent magnets and those of one central molecular ring. The quantum dynamics of such system is analytically deduced by the effective spin hamiltonian with anisotropic Heisenberg couplings. It is found that entangled $W$ states can be generated with a high precision under the circumstance of quantum fluctuations. The multiqubit entangled state is also transferred from some molecular rings to others by the selection of intermolecular couplings.

id: 0903.2715
title: Quantifying multipartite nonlocality
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin, Stefano Pironio
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. v2: minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 090503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2715
abstract: The nonlocal correlations of multipartite entangled states can be reproduced by a classical model if sufficiently many parties join together or if sufficiently many parties broadcast their measurement inputs. The maximal number m of groups and the minimal number k of broadcasting parties that allow for the reproduction of a given set of correlations quantify their multipartite nonlocal content. We show how upper-bounds on m and lower-bounds on k can be computed from the violation of the Mermin-Svetlichny inequalities. While n-partite GHZ states violate these inequalities maximally, we find that W states violate them only by a very small amount.

id: 0903.2724
title: A theoretical analysis of experimental open quantum dynamics
authors: Kavan Modi
comments: 122 pages, 12 figures
journal: Dissertation, The University of Texas at Austin (August, 2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2724
abstract: In recent years there has been a significant development of the dynamical map formalism for initially correlated states of a system and its environment. Based on some of these results, we study quantum process tomography for initially correlated states of the system and the environment. This is beyond the usual assumption that the state of the system and the environment are initially uncorrelated. Since quantum process tomography is an experimental procedure, we wind up having to study the role of preparation of input states for open quantum experiments. We work out a theory for the general preparation procedure, and study two preparation procedures in detail. In specific, we study the stochastic preparation procedure and the projective preparation procedure and apply them to quantum process tomography. The two preparation procedures describe the ways to uncorrelate.....

id: 0903.2725
title: The wave function and the distribution of the observables in relativistic quantum theory
authors: V. F. Krotov
comments: 21 pages, in Russian
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2725
abstract: Here the probability density of relativistic particles coordinates, satisfying the formal conditions of the quantum mechanics and the special relativity, is determined (under textbooks view, such density does not exist). It is specified for the boson, neutral and charged, scalar and vector, including the photon, the electron. Uniqueness of this design has been proved. This is a relativistic invariant, describing the probability of the particle observation in points of space-time. The time is deprived of his role of a dynamic parameter of distribution and formally equalized with other coordinates. Also the meaning of the energy-momentum distribution is clarified. Conditions of such distributions observation are described. As applied to the quantum field these structures are transformed into new characteristics of particles distribution in space-time in addition to those for momentum states. Their operators for free fields are obtained. Under such model the Heisenberg's uncertainty relations are grounded for the relativistic particle; both particles and antiparticles turn out to be different states of a single particle; vacuum state of boson quantum field has zero energy.

id: 0903.2737
title: On the Casimir effect in a continuous medium
authors: Finn Ravndal
comments: 2 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2737
abstract: It is pointed out that the Casimir energy in a medium can be obtained most directly from the zero-point energy of the electromagnetic field because of its reduced propagation velocity. This brings to the fore again the old problem related to how the principle of relativity is combined with the Maxwell field equations in a continuous medium.

id: 0903.2744
title: Three criteria for quantum random number generators based on beam splitters
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 054306 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2744
abstract: We propose three criteria for the generation of random digital strings from quantum beam splitters: (i) three or more mutually exclusive outcomes corresponding to the invocation of three- and higher dimensional Hilbert spaces; (ii) the mandatory use of pure states in conjugated bases for preparation and detection; and (iii) the use of entangled singlet (unique) states for elimination of bias.

id: 0903.2746
title: Aspects of Quantum Coherence in Nanosystems
authors: Brendon W. Lovett, Ahsan Nazir
comments: Invited review paper at an introductory level, aimed at an undergraduate audience. To appear in European Journal of Physics, Special feature on Nanotechnology. 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: European Journal of Physics 30 S89 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2746
abstract: Coherence is a familiar concept in physics: It is the driving force behind wavelike phenomena such as the diffraction of light. Moreover, wave-particle duality implies that all quantum objects can exhibit coherence, and this quantum coherence is crucial to understanding the behaviour of a plethora of systems. In this article, which is written at an undergraduate level, we shall briefly introduce what is meant by coherence in a well-known classical setting, before going on to describe its quantum version. We will show that coherence is important in describing the properties of solid-state nanosystems, and especially quantum dots. Simple experiments that reveal the coherent nature of matter - and how this leads to some very powerful applications - will be described. Finally, we shall discuss the fragility of coherence and shall introduce a method for describing decoherence in open quantum systems.

id: 0903.2756
title: Quantum interference of biphotons at a blazed grating
authors: Martin Ostermeyer, Dirk Puhlmann, Dietmar Korn
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2756
abstract: Correlations between photons are interesting for a number of applications and concepts in metrology in particular for resolution improvements in different methods of quantum imaging. Since Fock-states of N-photons of wavelength lambda in interference schemes acquire N-times the phase shift of single photons these states can appear as if they had a de Broglie wavelength of lambda/N. A biphoton beam diffracted at a blazed grating shows this reduced de Broglie wavelength. This experiment can be seen as a purification of biphotons of a certain correlation strength on the one hand. On the other hand the evaluation of the one-photon and two-photon rate distributions in the Fraunhofer far field of the grating allows for an analysis of the spatial correlation between the photons. An experimental demonstration of these ideas tested for a biphoton beam generated by parametric down conversion (PDC) is reported. We demonstrate in addition that the existence of higher order spatial modes is important to observe strong spatial correlations and to observe the photonic de Broglie wavelength of lambda/2 for biphotons.

id: 0903.2764
title: Capacities of lossy bosonic memory channels
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Vittorio Giovannetti, Stefano Mancini
comments: 4 pages, 2 fugures. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 030501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2764
abstract: We introduce a general model for a lossy bosonic memory channel and calculate the classical and the quantum capacity, proving that coherent state encoding is optimal. The use of a proper set of collective field variables allows to unravel the memory, showing that the n-fold concatenation of the memory channel is unitarily equivalent to the direct product of n single-mode lossy bosonic channels.

id: 0903.2780
title: Properties of Physical Systems: Transient Singularities on Borders and Surface Transitive Zones
authors: Mark E. Perel'man
comments: 12 pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2780
abstract: Certain alternative properties of physical systems are describable by supports of arguments of response functions (e.g. light cone, borders of media) and expressed by projectors; corresponding equations of restraints lead to dispersion relations, theorems of counting, etc. As supports are measurable, their absolutely strict borders contradict the spirit of quantum theory and their quantum evolution leading to appearance of subtractions or certain needed flattening would be considered. Flattening of projectors introduce transitive zones that can be examined as a specification of adiabatic hypothesis or the Bogoliubov regulatory function in QED. For demonstration of their possibilities the phenomena of refraction and reflection of electromagnetic wave are considered; they show, in particular, the inevitable appearing of double electromagnetic layers on all surfaces that formerly were repeatedly postulated, etc. Quantum dynamics of projectors proves the neediness of subtractions that usually are artificially adding and express transient singularities and zones in squeezed forms.

id: 0903.2796
title: Cooling atoms into entangled states
authors: Giovanni Vacanti, Almut Beige
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, typos corrected
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 083008 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2796
abstract: We discuss the possibility of preparing highly entangled states by simply cooling atoms into the ground state of an applied interaction Hamiltonian. As in laser sideband cooling, we take advantage of a relatively large detuning of the desired state, while all other qubit states experience resonant laser driving. Once spontaneous emission from excited atomic states prepares the system in its ground state, it remains there with a very high fidelity for a wide range of experimental parameters and all possible initial states. After presenting the general theory, we discuss concrete applications with one and two qubits.

id: 0903.2838
title: A strong converse for classical channel coding using entangled inputs
authors: Robert Koenig, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 9 pages, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 070504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2838
abstract: A fully general strong converse for channel coding states that when the rate of sending classical information exceeds the capacity of a quantum channel, the probability of correctly decoding goes to zero exponentially in the number of channel uses, even when we allow code states which are entangled across several uses of the channel. Such a statement was previously only known for classical channels and the quantum identity channel. By relating the problem to the additivity of minimum output entropies, we show that a strong converse holds for a large class of channels, including all unital qubit channels, the d-dimensional depolarizing channel and the Werner-Holevo channel. This further justifies the interpretation of the classical capacity as a sharp threshold for information-transmission.

id: 0903.2895
title: A Unified Treatment of Convexity of Relative Entropy and Related Trace Functions, with Conditions for Equality
authors: Anna Jencova, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: Final version to appear in Rev. Math. Phys. with many typos and minor errors corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2895
abstract: We introduce a generalization of relative entropy derived from the Wigner-Yanase-Dyson entropy and give a simple, self-contained proof that it is convex. Moreover, special cases yield the joint convexity of relative entropy, and for the map (A,B) --> Tr K^* A^p K B^{1-p} Lieb's joint concavity for 0 < p < 1 and Ando's joint convexity for 1 < p < 2. This approach allows us to obtain conditions for equality in these cases, as well as conditions for equality in a number of inequalities which follow from them. These include the monotonicity under partial traces, and some Minkowski type matrix inequalities proved by Lieb and Carlen for mixed (p,q) norms. In all cases the equality conditions are independent of p; for extensions to three spaces they are identical to the conditions for equality in the strong subadditivity of relative entropy.

id: 0903.2900
title: Time evolution of Wigner function in laser process derived by entangled state representation
authors: Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 6 pages, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2900
abstract: Evaluating the Wigner function of quantum states in the entangled state representation is introduced, based on which we present a new approach for deriving time evolution formula of Wigner function in laser process. Application of this fomula to calculating time evolution of photon number is also presented, as an example, the case when the initial state is photon-added coherent state is discussed.

id: 0903.2903
title: Measuring Qutrit-Qutrit Entanglement of Orbital Angular Momentum States of an Atomic Ensemble and a Photon
authors: R. Inoue, T. Yonehara, Y. Miyamoto, M. Koashi, M. Kozuma
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 (2009) 110503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2903
abstract: Three-dimensional entanglement of orbital angular momentum states of an atomic qutrit and a single photon qutrit has been observed. Their full state was reconstructed using quantum state tomography. The fidelity to the maximally entangled state of Schmidt rank 3 exceeds the threshold 2/3. This result confirms that the density matrix cannot be decomposed into ensemble of pure states of Schmidt rank 1 or 2. That is, the Schmidt number of the density matrix must be equal to or greater than 3.

id: 0903.2945
title: Atom cooling using the dipole force of a single retroreflected laser beam
authors: Andr Xuereb, Peter Horak, Tim Freegarde
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures. [v2: As published]
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013836 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2945
abstract: We present a mechanism for cooling atoms by a laser beam reflected from a single mirror. The cooling relies on the dipole force and thus in principle applies to arbitrary refractive particles including atoms, molecules, or dielectric spheres. Friction and equilibrium temperatures are derived by an analytic perturbative approach. Finally, semiclassical Monte-Carlo simulations are performed to validate the analytic results.

id: 0903.2953
title: Tapered optical fibers as tools for probing magneto-optical trap characteristics
authors: M.J. Morrissey, K. Deasy, Y. Wu, S. Chakrabarti, S. Nic Chormaic
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2953
abstract: We present a novel technique for measuring the characteristics of a magneto-optical trap for cold atoms by monitoring the spontaneous emission from trapped atoms coupled into the guided mode of a tapered optical nanofiber. We show that the nanofiber is highly sensitive to very small numbers of atoms close to its surface. The size and shape of the MOT, determined by translating the cold atom cloud across the tapered fiber, is in excellent agreement with measurements obtained using the conventional method of fluorescence imaging using a CCD camera. The coupling of atomic fluorescence into the tapered fiber also allows us to monitor the loading and lifetime of the trap. The results are compared to those achieved by focusing the MOT fluorescence onto a photodiode and it was seen that the tapered fiber gives slightly longer loading and lifetime measurements due to the sensitivity of the fiber, even when very few atoms are present.

id: 0903.3018
title: QFT, Antimatter, and Symmetry
authors: David Wallace
comments: LaTeX; 34 pages; revision corrects a few typos and makes some minor changes for clarity. Forthcoming in Studies in the History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: Stud.Hist.Philos.Mod.Phys.40:209-222,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3018
abstract: A systematic analysis is made of the relations between the symmetries of a classical field and the symmetries of the one-particle quantum system that results from quantizing that field in regimes where interactions are weak. The results are applied to gain a greater insight into the phenomenon of antimatter.

id: 0903.3020
title: Persistence of nonlocality for bipartite quantum spin systems
authors: Kaushik P. Seshadreesan, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: Revised version in Revtex format, 20 pages, single column; few small corrections made, two small subsections added, two .eps figures added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 315305, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3020
abstract: Generic forms of the entangled states of two spin-1 (and spin-3/2) particles, along with the set of appropriate spin observables that together exhibit maximum nonlocality under the Hardy's nonlocality test are given; the maximum nonlocality is shown to be 0.09017. It is conjectured that this result holds good for a system of two spin-$j$ particles for all values of $j$. It is also shown that no maximally entangled state of two spin-$j$ particles responds to the Hardy's nonlocality test.

id: 0903.3045
title: Renormalized coordinate approach to the thermalization process
authors: G. Flores-Hidalgo, A.P.C. Malbouisson, J.M.C. Malbouisson, Y.W. Milla, A.E. Santana
comments: 16 pages, LATEX, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 79, 032105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3045
abstract: We consider a particle in the harmonic approximation coupled linearly to an environment. modeled by an infinite set of harmonic oscillators. The system (particle--environment) is considered in a cavity at thermal equilibrium. We employ the recently introduced notion of renormalized coordinates to investigate the time evolution of the particle occupation number. For comparison we first present this study in bare coordinates. For a long ellapsed time, in both approaches, the occupation number of the particle becomes independent of its initial value. The value of ocupation number of the particle is the physically expected one at the given temperature. So we have a Markovian process, describing the particle thermalization with the environment. With renormalized coordinates no renormalization procedure is required, leading directly to a finite result.

id: 0903.3069
title: Multi-channel curve crossing problems: Analytically solvable model
authors: Aniruddha Chakraborty
comments: 1 figure
journal: Mol. Phys. 107, 2459 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3069
abstract: We have proposed a general method for finding the exact analytical solution for the multi-channel curve crossing problem in presence of delta function couplings. We have analyzed the case where a potential energy curve couples to a continuum (in energy) of potential energy curves.

id: 0903.3077
title: Reversing the Weak Quantum Measurement for a Photonic Qubit
authors: Yong-Su Kim, Young-Wook Cho, Young-Sik Ra, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 17, 11978 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3077
abstract: We demonstrate the conditional reversal of a weak (partial-collapse) quantum measurement on a photonic qubit. The weak quantum measurement causes a nonunitary transformation of a qubit which is subsequently reversed to the original state after a successful reversing operation. Both the weak measurement and the reversal operation are implemented linear optically. The state recovery fidelity, determined by quantum process tomography, is shown to be over 94% for partial-collapse strength up to 0.9. We also experimentally study information gain due to the weak measurement and discuss the role of the reversing operation as an information erasure.

id: 0903.3118
title: Quantum-Secure Coin-Flipping and Applications
authors: Ivan Damgaard, Carolin Lunemann
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures. v3: minor improvements, updated references, corrected typos in definitions; additional section on efficient simulation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3118
abstract: In this paper, we prove classical coin-flipping secure in the presence of quantum adversaries. The proof uses a recent result of Watrous [Wat09] that allows quantum rewinding for protocols of a certain form. We then discuss two applications. First, the combination of coin-flipping with any non-interactive zero-knowledge protocol leads to an easy transformation from non-interactive zero-knowledge to interactive quantum zero-knowledge. Second, we discuss how our protocol can be applied to a recently proposed method for improving the security of quantum protocols [DFL+09], resulting in an implementation without set-up assumptions. Finally, we sketch how to achieve efficient simulation for an extended construction in the common-reference-string model.

id: 0903.3132
title: Scattering theory of cooling and heating in opto-mechanical systems
authors: Andr Xuereb, Peter Domokos, Jnos Asbth, Peter Horak, Tim Freegarde
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures. [v2: Corrected some typographical errors.]
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 053810 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3132
abstract: We present a one-dimensional scattering theory which enables us to describe a wealth of effects arising from the coupling of the motional degree of freedom of scatterers to the electromagnetic field. Multiple scattering to all orders is taken into account. The theory is applied to describe the scheme of a Fabry-Perot resonator with one of its mirrors moving. The friction force, as well as the diffusion, acting on the moving mirror is derived. In the limit of a small reflection coefficient, the same model provides for the description of the mechanical effect of light on an atom moving in front of a mirror.

id: 0903.3145
title: A lower bound of concurrence for multipartite quantum states
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-XiWang
comments: 8 pages,no figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 145303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3145
abstract: We study the concurrence of arbitrary multipartite mixed quantum states. An explicit lower bound of the concurrence is derived, which detects quantum entanglement of some states better than some separability criteria, and gives sufficient conditions for distilling GHZ states from tripartite states. An interesting relations between the lower bound of the concurrence for bipartite states and for tripartite states has been presented.

id: 0903.3150
title: Secure Communication using Gaussian-State Quantum Illumination
authors: Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; new version corrects several typographical errors and adds brief comments indicating that the analysis only treats passive eavesdropping
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3150
abstract: A new paradigm for secure communication, based on quantum illumination, is proposed. Alice uses spontaneous parametric down-conversion to send Bob a set of signal modes over a pure-loss channel while retaining the set of idler modes with which they are maximally entangled. Bob imposes a single information bit on the modes he receives from Alice via binary phase-shift keying. He then adds classical Gaussian noise and sends the noisy modulated modes back to Alice over the same pure-loss channel. Even though the loss and noise destroy any entanglement between the modes that Alice receives from Bob and the idler modes she has retained, she can decode Bob's bit with an error probability that can be orders of magnitude lower than what is achieved by a passive eavesdropper who receives all the photons that are lost en route from Alice to Bob and from Bob to Alice.

id: 0903.3153
title: Creating Single Collective Atomic Excitations via Spontaneous Raman Emission in Inhomogeneously Broadened Systems : Beyond the Adiabatic Approximation
authors: Carlo Ottaviani, Christoph Simon, Hugues de Riedmatten, Mikael Afzelius, Bjoern Lauritzen, Nicolas Sangouard, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 063828 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3153
abstract: The creation of single collective excitations in atomic ensembles via spontaneous Raman emission plays a key role in several quantum communication protocols, starting with the seminal DLCZ protocol [L.-M.Duan, M.D. Lukin, J.I. Cirac, and P. Zoller, Nature {\bf 414}, 413 (2001).] This process is usually analyzed theoretically under the assumptions that the write laser pulse inducing the Raman transition is far off-resonance, and that the atomic ensemble is only homogeneously broadened. Here we study the impact of near-resonance excitation for inhomogeneously broadened ensembles on the collective character of the created atomic excitation. Our results are particularly relevant for experiments with hot atomic gases and for potential future solid-state implementations.

id: 0903.3156
title: Vacuum squeezing via polarization self-rotation and excess noise in hot Rb vapors
authors: Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Arturo Lezama, Thomas W. Noel, Irina Novikova
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3156
abstract: We present experimental and theoretical analysis of quantum fluctuation in a vacuum field in the presence of orthogonal linearly polarized pump field propagating through a Rb vapor cell. Previously reported theoretical and experimental studies provided somewhat contradictory conclusions regarding the possibility to observe the "squeezed vacuum" -- the reduction of vacuum fluctuations below standard quantum limit -- in this system. Here, using the D1 transitions of Rb in a cell without buffer as as an example, we demonstrate that vacuum squeezing is corrupted by incoherent processes (such as spontaneous emission, elastic scattering, etc.), and its observation is only possible in a specific small region of the experimental parameter space. Numerical simulations, in good agreement with the experiment, demonstrate that the two excited state hyperfine levels play a crucial role in the squeezing and excess noise production. The significant influence of far-detuned atoms on the field fluctuations at low noise frequencies imposes the explicit consideration of the full velocity distribution of the atomic vapor.

id: 0903.3160
title: Group Representational Clues to a Theory Underlying Quantum Mechanics
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3160
abstract: The current form of quantum mechanics is very successful and is almost certainly correct. It is remarkable, however, that the entire structure-from the mass, spin and charge labels on particlelike states to antisymmetry to broken internal symmetries to gauge transformations to the equations of motion-is built upon concepts from group representation theory. That is, the theory is constructed exactly as if it were a representational form of an underlying theory. Our proposed form for the underlying theory is that it is based on a linear equation, OF(V)=0. F is a function of some set of independent, currently unknown variables V, with O being a linear, partial differential operator in those variables. The operator is assumed to be invariant under a group of transformations of the Vs, homomorphic to the direct product of the inhomogeneous Lorentz group and the internal symmetry group. In such a theory, a state vector, denoted by a ket with group-theoretic labels, would represent a function of the independent variables. In addition to explaining the group representational structure of quantum mechanics, an underlying theory offers insight into gauge theory.

id: 0903.3167
title: Generation of two-dimensional cluster states by using high-finesse bimodal cavities
authors: D. Gonta, S. Fritzsche, T. Radtke
comments: 12 pages, revised version accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062319 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3167
abstract: We propose two novel schemes to generate the two-dimensional 2xN and 3xN cluster states by using a chain of (two-level) Rydberg atoms in the framework of cavity QED. These schemes work in a completely deterministic way and are based on the resonant interaction of the atoms in a chain with a bimodal cavity that supports two independent modes of the photon field. We demonstrate that a 2xN cluster state can be generated efficiently with only a single bimodal cavity, while two such cavities are needed in order to construct a 3xN cluster state. It is shown, moreover, how these schemes can be extended towards the generation of MxN two-dimensional cluster states.

id: 0903.3176
title: Lie random fields
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3176
abstract: The algebras of interacting "Lie random fields" that were introduced in J. Math. Phys. 48, 122302 (2007) are developed further. The conjecture that the vacuum vector defines a state over a Lie random field algebra is proved. The difference between Lie random field algebras and quantum field algebras is the triviality of the field commutator at time-like separation, the field commutator being trivial at space-like separation in both cases. Many properties that are usually taken to be specific to quantum theory, such as the superposition of states, entanglement, quantum fluctuations, and the violation of Bell inequalities, are also properties of Lie random fields.

id: 0903.3181
title: Semirelativistic Hamiltonians and the auxiliary field method
authors: Bernard Silvestre-Brac, Claude Semay, Fabien Buisseret
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 24, 4695 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3181
abstract: Approximate analytical closed energy formulas for semirelativistic Hamiltonians of the form $\sigma\sqrt{\bm p^{2}+m^2}+V(r)$ are obtained within the framework of the auxiliary field method. This method, which is equivalent to the envelope theory, has been recently proposed as a powerful tool to get approximate analytical solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation. Various shapes for the potential $V(r)$ are investigated: power-law, funnel, square root, and Yukawa. A comparison with the exact results is discussed in detail.

id: 0903.3185
title: Ab-initio determination of Bose-Hubbard parameters for two ultracold atoms in an optical lattice using a three-well potential
authors: Philipp-Immanuel Schneider, Sergey Grishkevich, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures; typos and minor errors corrected, five references added, next-to-nearest neighbor hopping included in extended Bose-Hubbard model
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3185
abstract: We calculate numerically the exact energy spectrum of the six dimensional problem of two interacting Bosons in a three-well optical lattice. The particles interact via a full Born-Oppenheimer potential which can be adapted to model the behavior of the s-wave scattering length at Feshbach resonances. By adjusting the parameters of the corresponding Bose-Hubbard (BH) Hamiltonian the deviation between the numerical energy spectrum and the BH spectrum is minimized. This defines the optimal BH parameter set which we compare to the standard parameters of the BH model. The range of validity of the BH model with these parameter sets is examined, and an improved analytical prediction of the interaction parameter is introduced. Furthermore, an extended BH model and implications due to the energy dependence of the scattering length and couplings to higher Bloch bands at a Feshbach resonance are discussed.

id: 0903.3187
title: On non-selfadjoint operators for observables in quantum mechanics and quantum field theory
authors: Erasmo Recami, Vladislav S. Olkhovsky, Sergei P. Maydanyuk
comments: LaTeX source-file: 28 pages, with 2 Figures
journal: International Journal Modern Physics A25 (2010) 1785-1818
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3187
abstract: Aim of this paper is to show the possible significance, and usefulness, of various non-selfadjoint operators for suitable Observables in non relativistic and relativistic quantum mechanics, and in quantum electrodynamics. More specifically, this work starts dealing with: (i) the maximal hermitian (but not selfadjoint) Time operator in non-relativistic quantum mechanics and in quantum electrodynamics; and with: (ii) the problem of the four-position and four-momentum operators, each one with its hermitian and anti-hermitian parts, for relativistic spin-zero particles. Afterwards, other physically important applications of non-selfadjoint (and even non-hermitian) operators are discussed: In particular, (iii) we reanalyze in detail the interesting possibility of associating quasi-hermitian Hamiltonians with (decaying) unstable states in nuclear physics. Finally, we briefly mention the cases of quantum dissipation, as well as of the nuclear optical potential. [PACS numbers: 03.65.Ta; 03.65.-w; 03.65.Pm; 03.70.+k; 03.65.Xp; 11.10.St; 11.10.-z; 11.90.+t; 02.00.00; 03.00.00; 24.10.Ht; 03.65.Yz; 21.60.-u; 11.10.Ef; 03.65.Fd. Keywords: time operator in quantum mechanics; space-time operator; time-"Hamiltonian"; non-selfadjoint operators; non-hermitian operators; bilinear operators; time operator for discrete energy spectra; time-energy uncertainty relations; unstable states; quasi-hermitian Hamiltonians; Klein-Gordon equation; quantum dissipation; nuclear optical model].

id: 0903.3188
title: Experimental test of rotational invariance and entanglement of photonic six-qubit singlet state
authors: Magnus Radmark, Marek Zukowski, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3188
abstract: We experimentally test invariance properties of the six-photonic-qubits generalization of a singlet state. Our results clearly corroborate with theory. The invariance properties are useful to beat some types of decoherence. We also experimentally detect entanglement in the state using an appropriate witness observable, composed of local observables. Our results clearly indicate that the tested setup, which is very stable, is a good candidate for realization of various multi-party quantum communication protocols. The estimated fidelity of the produced state is very high: it reveals very strong EPR six-photon correlations of error rate below 6%.

id: 0903.3233
title: Quantum Computing with Continuous-Variable Clusters
authors: Mile Gu, Christian Weedbrook, Nicolas C. Menicucci, Timothy C. Ralph, Peter van Loock
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062318 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3233
abstract: Continuous-variable cluster states offer a potentially promising method of implementing a quantum computer. This paper extends and further refines theoretical foundations and protocols for experimental implementation. We give a cluster-state implementation of the cubic phase gate through photon detection, which, together with homodyne detection, facilitates universal quantum computation. In addition, we characterize the offline squeezed resources required to generate an arbitrary graph state through passive linear optics. Most significantly, we prove that there are universal states for which the offline squeezing per mode does not increase with the size of the cluster. Simple representations of continuous-variable graph states are introduced to analyze graph state transformations under measurement and the existence of universal continuous-variable resource states.

id: 0903.3235
title: Time-dependent Maxwell field operators and field energy density for an atom near a conducting wall
authors: R. Vasile, R. Messina, R. Passante
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062106 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3235
abstract: We consider the time evolution of the electric and magnetic field operators for a two-level atom, interacting with the electromagnetic field, placed near an infinite perfectly conducting wall. We solve iteratively the Heisenberg equations for the field operators and obtain the electric and magnetic energy density operators around the atom (valid for any initial state). Then we explicitly evaluate them for an initial state with the atom in its bare ground state and the field in the vacuum state. We show that the results can be physically interpreted as the superposition of the fields propagating directly from the atom and the fields reflected on the wall. Relativistic causality in the field propagation is discussed. Finally we apply these results to the calculation of the dynamical Casimir-Polder interaction energy in the far zone between two atoms when a boundary condition such as a conducting wall is present. Magnetic contributions to the interatomic Casimir-Polder interaction in the presence of the wall are also considered. We show that, in the limit of large times, the known results of the stationary case are recovered.

id: 0903.3249
title: State reconstruction of finite dimensional compound systems via local projective measurements and one-way classical communication
authors: F. E. S. Steinhoff, M. C. de Oliveira
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3249
abstract: For a finite dimensional discrete bipartite system, we find the relation between local projections performed by Alice, and Bob post-selected state dependence on the global state submatrices. With this result the joint state reconstruction problem for a bipartite system can be solved with strict local projections and one-way classical communication. The generalization to multipartite systems is straightforward.

id: 0903.3253
title: Light Cone Matrix Product
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 095207 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3253
abstract: We show how to combine the light-cone and matrix product algorithms to simulate quantum systems far from equilibrium for long times. For the case of the XXZ spin chain at $\Delta=0.5$, we simulate to a time of $\approx 22.5$. While part of the long simulation time is due to the use of the light-cone method, we also describe a modification of the iTEBD algorithm with improved numerical stability, and we describe how to incorporate symmetry into this algorithm. While statistical sampling error means that we are not yet able to make a definite statement, the behavior of the simulation at long times indicates the appearance of either "revivals" in the order parameter as predicted previously or of a distinct shoulder in the decay of the order parameter.

id: 0903.3288
title: Continuous-Time Quantum Walks and Trapping
authors: Elena Agliari, Oliver Muelken, Alexander Blumen
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures; to be published in International Journal of Bifurcation and Chaos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3288
abstract: Recent findings suggest that processes such as the electronic energy transfer through the photosynthetic antenna display quantal features, aspects known from the dynamics of charge carriers along polymer backbones. Hence, in modeling energy transfer one has to leave the classical, master-equation-type formalism and advance towards an increasingly quantum-mechanical picture, while still retaining a local description of the complex network of molecules involved in the transport, say through a tight-binding approach. Interestingly, the continuous time random walk (CTRW) picture, widely employed in describing transport in random environments, can be mathematically reformulated to yield a quantum-mechanical Hamiltonian of tight-binding type; the procedure uses the mathematical analogies between time-evolution operators in statistical and in quantum mechanics: The result are continuous-time quantum walks (CTQWs). However, beyond these formal analogies, CTRWs and CTQWs display vastly different physical properties. In particular, here we focus on trapping processes on a ring and show, both analytically and numerically, that distinct configurations of traps (ranging from periodical to random) yield strongly different behaviours for the quantal mean survival probability, while classically (under ordered conditions) we always find an exponential decay at long times.

id: 0903.3294
title: Particle cancellation of correlations in nonrelativistic high energy asymptotics of photoeffect
authors: E. G. Drukarev, R. H. Pratt
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3294
abstract: We investigate the total effect of correlations on photoionization of atomic shells with nonzero orbital momentum, in the nonrelativistic high energy asymptotic limit, considering the exclusive case of the dominant final state of an initial neutral atom. We find that the substantial cancellation of the dominant intra-shell carrelations, which had been reported earlier, can be understood utilizing the closure properties satisfied by the eigen functions of the nonrelativistic Hamiltonian. Considering the sum of correlations with all states, occupied or not, we show that complete sum is equal to the contribution of the high energy part of the continuum. Consequently there is a total cancellation between the contributions of the bound states and the low energy part of the continuum states. This means that the real correlations in the physical atom can be obtained as the negative of the total contribution of low energy states and continuum unoccupied states. We calculate this in framework of the quantum defect number. The approach allows us to see that the dominant intrashell correlation is going to be cancelled. We can also obtain some limits on the correlation effects by considering calculations with the screened Coulomb functions. The role of correlations in the exclusive photoionization processes is discussed.

id: 0903.3312
title: Invariants and Coherent States for Nonstationary Fermionic Forced Oscillator
authors: O. Cherbal, M. Drir, M. Maamache, D.A. Trifonov
comments: 13 pages, Latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3312
abstract: The most general form of Hamiltonian that preserves fermionic coherent states stable in time is found in the form of nonstationary fermion oscillator. Invariant creation and annihilation operators and related Fock states and coherent states are built up for the more general system of nonstationary forced fermion oscillator.

id: 0903.3318
title: Error-Tolerating Bell Inequalities via Graph States
authors: Qing Chen, Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3318
abstract: We investigate the Bell inequalities derived from the graph states with violations detectable even with the presence of noises, which generalizes the idea of error-correcting Bell inequalities [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 080501 (2008)]. Firstly we construct a family of valid Bell inequalities tolerating arbitrary $t$-qubit errors involving $3(t+1)$ qubits, e.g., 6 qubits suffice to tolerate single qubit errors. Secondly we construct also a single-error-tolerating Bell inequality with a violation that increases exponentially with the number of qubits. Exhaustive computer search for optimal error-tolerating Bell inequalities based on graph states on no more than 10 qubits shows that our constructions are optimal for single- and double-error tolerance.

id: 0903.3336
title: Nanopositioning of a diamond nanocrystal containing a single NV defect center
authors: T. van der Sar, E. C. Heeres, G. M. Dmochowski, G. de Lange, L. Robledo, T. H. Oosterkamp, R. Hanson
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures; high-resolution version available at this http URL
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 94, 173104 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3336
abstract: Precise control over the position of a single quantum object is important for many experiments in quantum science and nanotechnology. We report on a technique for high-accuracy positioning of individual diamond nanocrystals. The positioning is done with a home-built nanomanipulator under real-time scanning electron imaging, yielding an accuracy of a few nanometers. This technique is applied to pick up, move and position a single NV defect center contained in a diamond nanocrystal. We verify that the unique optical and spin properties of the NV center are conserved by the positioning process.

id: 0903.3374
title: Study of Quantum Decoherence in a Finite System -- Three Schroedinger Cats and Crossing of Classical Orbits
authors: Takuji Ishikawa
comments: 37 pages, 9 figures. For Japanese friends
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3374
abstract: Nuclei are rather classical systems in a sense. In the old days, their phenomena were roughly explained in classical rules such as the liquid drop model. This fact may be understood that when we see an finite quantum many body system like nucleus, though which is a group of quantum mechanical particles, its any collective degree of freedom has any classicality. Getting a classicality does not depend on spatial scales of objects. It is made by a phenomenon called Quantum Decoherence. We have studied about Quantum Decoherence in a finite system as nucleus. In this paper, at the harmonic three body problem (3 Schroedinger cats), it is shown that one degree of freedom as a sub-system would get classicality because of the other two degrees of freedom. Therefore we can assume that a nuclear collective degree of freedom would get classicality when it couples with any other internal degrees of freedom. In this paper, we also note that there is some relationship between the Quantum Decoherence and Crossing of classical orbits in 3 Schroedinger cats model.

id: 0903.3380
title: Ground-State Entanglement in a Coupled-Cavity Model
authors: E. K. Irish
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3380
abstract: Bipartite entanglement entropies are calculated for the ground state of the two-excitation subspace in a two-site coupled cavity model. Each region in the phase diagram (atomic insulator, polaritonic insulator, photonic superfluid, and polaritonic superfluid) is found to be characterized by unique entanglement properties. In particular, the polaritonic superfluid region exhibits multipartite entanglement among the two atoms and two cavity fields. This system provides a toy model in which a number of intriguing aspects of entanglement can be studied, such as the relationship of entanglement to phase transitions, entanglement of particles with different dimensionality, and the connection between experimentally accessible local observables and entanglement entropies.

id: 0903.3398
title: Ultra--low noise differential AC-coupled photodetector for sensitive pulse detection applications
authors: P. J. Windpassinger, M. Kubasik, M. Koschorreck, A. Boisen, N. Kjaergaard, E. S. Polzik, J. H. Mueller
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures, accepted for publication in Meas. Sci. Technol
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3398
abstract: We report on the performance of ultra low noise differential photodetectors especially designed for probing of atomic ensembles with weak light pulses. The working principle of the detectors is described together with the analysis procedures employed to extract the photon shot noise of light pulses with $\sim1 \mu$s duration. As opposed to frequency response peaked detectors, our approach allows for broadband quantum noise measurements. The equivalent noise charge (ENC) for two different hardware approaches is evaluated to 280 and 340 electrons per pulse, respectively which corresponds to a dark noise equivalent photon number of $n_\mathrm{3dB}=0.8\cdot 10^5$ and $n_\mathrm{3dB}=1.2\cdot 10^5$ in the two approaches. Finally, we discuss the possibility of removing classical correlations in the output signal caused by detector imperfection by using double--correlated sampling methods.

id: 0903.3417
title: Comment on "Non-monotonicity in the Quantum-Classical Transition: Chaos Induced by Quantum Effects"
authors: Justin Finn, Kurt Jacobs, Bala Sundaram
comments: 1 page, revtex 4, 1 eps figure
journal: PRL 102, 119401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3417
abstract: In a recent Letter [PRL 101, 074101 (2008)], Kapulkin and Pattanayak presented evidence that a quantum Duffing oscillator, sufficiently damped so that it is not classically chaotic, becomes chaotic in the transition region between quantum and classical motion. If true, this would be a striking result. However, Kapulkin and Pattanayak did not calculate the Lyapunov exponent for the system, usually regarded as the litmus-test of chaos. Here we perform this calculation, which throws considerable doubt upon their conclusions.

id: 0903.3425
title: Optimized focusing ion optics for an ultracold deterministic single ion source targeting nm resolution
authors: Robert Fickler, Wolfgang Schnitzler, Norbert M. Linke, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler, Kilian Singer
comments: 17 pages, 13 figures (including 2 color figures), submitted to special issue of Journal of Modern Optics - Conference Proceedings of PQE-2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3425
abstract: Using a segmented ion trap with mK laser-cooled ions we have realised a novel single ion source which can deterministically deliver a wide range of ion species, isotopes or ionic molecules [Schnitzler et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 070501 (2009)]. Experimental data is discussed in detail and compared with numerical simulations of ion trajectories. For the novel ion source we investigate numerically the influence of various extraction parameters on fluctuations in velocity and position of the beam. We present specialized ion optics and show from numerical simulations that nm resolution is achievable. The Paul trap, which is used as a single ion source, together with the presented ion optics, constitutes a promising candidate for a deterministic ion implantation method for applications in solid state quantum computing or classical nano-electronic devices.

id: 0903.3441
title: On the security and degradability of Gaussian channels
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Samuel L. Braunstein, Seth Lloyd
comments: Proceeding of TQC2009, 4th Workshop on Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication, and Cryptography, Waterloo, Canada, 11-13 May 2009
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 5906 (2009), pages: 47-55
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3441
abstract: We consider the notion of canonical attacks, which are the cryptographic analog of the canonical forms of a one-mode Gaussian channel. Using this notion, we explore the connections between the degradability properties of the channel and its security for quantum key distribution. Finally, we also show some relations between canonical attacks and optimal Gaussian cloners.

id: 0903.3444
title: Quantum direct communication with mutual authentication
authors: Cheng-An Yen, Shi-Jinn Horng, Hsi-Sheng Goan, Tzong-Wann Kao, Yao-Hsin Chou
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol.9, No.5&6 (2009) 0376-0394
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3444
abstract: In this paper, we first point out that some recently proposed quantum direct communication (QDC) protocols with authentication are vulnerable under some specific attacks, and the secrete message will leak out to the authenticator who is introduced to authenticate users participating in the communication. We then propose a new protocol that is capable of achieving secure QDC with authentication as long as the authenticator would do the authentication job faithfully. Our quantum protocol introduces a mutual authentication procedure, uses the quantum Bell states, and applies unitary transformations in the authentication process. Then it exploits and utilizes the entanglement swapping and local unitary operations in the communication processes. Thus, after the authentication process, the client users are left alone to communicate with each other, and the authenticator has no access to the secrete message. In addition, our protocol does not require a direct quantum link between any two users, who want to communicate with each other. This may also be an appealing advantage in the implementation of a practical quantum communication network.

id: 0903.3448
title: Comment on "Quantum Key Distribution with Classical Bob"
authors: Yong-gang Tan, Hua Lu, Qing-yu Cai
comments: In this comment, we present a frequency-shift attack on "quantum key distribution with classical Bob". This practical attack should also be considered in other two-way quantum key distribution protocols
journal: PRL 102, 098901 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3448
abstract: In this comment, we present a frequency-shift attack on "quantum key distribution with classical Bob". This practical attack should also be considered in other two-way quantum key distribution protocols.

id: 0903.3452
title: Heralded Generation of High-Visibility Three-Photon NOON States
authors: Heonoh Kim, Hee Su Park, Sang-Kyung Choi
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3452
abstract: We describe an experimental demonstration of a novel three-photon NOON state generator using a single source of photons based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC). The three-photon number-entangled state is deterministically generated by the detection of a heralding photon. Interference fringes measured with an emulated three-photon absorber reveal the three-photon de Broglie wavelength and exhibit visibility > 70% without background subtraction.

id: 0903.3464
title: Generation and propagation of entanglement in driven coupled-qubit systems
authors: Jian Li, G.S. Paraoanu
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 113020 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3464
abstract: In a bipartite system subject to decoherence from two separate reservoirs, the entanglement is typically destroyed faster than for single reservoirs. Surprisingly however, the existence of separate reservoirs can also have a beneficial entangling effect: if the qubits are coupled and driven externally by a classical field, the system ends up in a stationary state characterized by a finite degree of entanglement. This phenomenon occurs only in a certain region of the parameter space and the structure of the stationary state has a universal form which does not depend on the initial state or on the specific physical realization of the qubits. We show that the entanglement thus generated can be propagated within a quantum network using simple local unitary operations. We suggest the use of such systems as "batteries of entanglement" in quantum circuits.

id: 0903.3465
title: Efficient Circuits for Quantum Walks
authors: Chen-Fu Chiang, Daniel Nagaj, Pawel Wocjan
comments: Modified abstract, clarified conclusion, added application section in appendix and updated references
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.10, No.5&6, pp0420-0434 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3465
abstract: We present an efficient general method for realizing a quantum walk operator corresponding to an arbitrary sparse classical random walk. Our approach is based on Grover and Rudolph's method for preparing coherent versions of efficiently integrable probability distributions. This method is intended for use in quantum walk algorithms with polynomial speedups, whose complexity is usually measured in terms of how many times we have to apply a step of a quantum walk, compared to the number of necessary classical Markov chain steps. We consider a finer notion of complexity including the number of elementary gates it takes to implement each step of the quantum walk with some desired accuracy. The difference in complexity for various implementation approaches is that our method scales linearly in the sparsity parameter and poly-logarithmically with the inverse of the desired precision. The best previously known general methods either scale quadratically in the sparsity parameter, or polynomially in the inverse precision. Our approach is especially relevant for implementing quantum walks corresponding to classical random walks like those used in the classical algorithms for approximating permanents and sampling from binary contingency tables. In those algorithms, the sparsity parameter grows with the problem size, while maintaining high precision is required.

id: 0903.3506
title: Quantum computing with an electron spin ensemble
authors: J. H. Wesenberg, A. Ardavan, G. A. D. Briggs, J. J. L. Morton, R. J. Schoelkopf, D. I. Schuster, K. M?lmer
comments: Several small corrections and modifications. This version is identical to the version published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 070502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3506
abstract: We propose to encode a register of quantum bits in different collective electron spin wave excitations in a solid medium. Coupling to spins is enabled by locating them in the vicinity of a superconducting transmission line cavity, and making use of their strong collective coupling to the quantized radiation field. The transformation between different spin waves is achieved by applying gradient magnetic fields across the sample, while a Cooper Pair Box, resonant with the cavity field, may be used to carry out one- and two-qubit gate operations.

id: 0903.3520
title: Autler-Townes effect in the D1-line hyperfine structure of an alkali atom
authors: A.S.Sheremet, O.S.Mishina, N.V.Larionov, D.V.Kupriyanov
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics & Spectroscopy, #2, Vol. 108, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3520
abstract: We consider the Autler-Townes effect when a strong coupling field is applied in the hyperfine manifold of an alkali atom. Explicit solution is obtained in the case of the D1-line. We show how the hyperfine interaction modifies the dressing effects associated with the strong field as well as the sample susceptibility with respect to the probe mode. Particularly, if the strong field is far detuned from the atomic resonance line the Autler-Townes structure differs significantly from the prediction of the Lambda-type approximation. We also find that tuning the strong field in between the upper state hyperfine components enhances the Autler-Townes effect. The results are discussed in the context of quantum memory protocols based on the stimulated Raman process or EIT effect.

id: 0903.3523
title: Effective nonlinear Hamiltonians in dielectric media
authors: J. A. Crosse, Stefan Scheel
comments: Updated to journal version. 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 81, 033815 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3523
abstract: We derive an effective Hamiltonian for the nonlinear process of parametric down conversion in the presence of absorption. Based upon the Green function method for quantizing the electromagnetic field, we first set up Heisenberg's equations of motion for a single atom driven by an external electric field and in the presence of an absorbing dielectric material. The equations of motion are then solved to second order in perturbation theory which, in rotating-wave approximation, yields the standard effective interaction Hamiltonian known from free-space nonlinear optics. In a second step, we derive the local-field corrected Hamiltonian for an atom embedded in a dielectric host medium, i.e. a nonlinear crystal. Here we show that the resulting effective Hamiltonian is trilinear in the electric and noise polarization fields, and is thus capable of describing nonlinear noise processes. Furthermore, it reduces to the phenomonological nonlinear Hamiltonian for the cases where the noise polarization field, and hence absorption, vanishes.

id: 0903.3525
title: Security of quantum key distribution with arbitrary individual imperfections
authors: ?ystein Mar?y, Lars Lydersen, Johannes Skaar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032337 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3525
abstract: We consider the security of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) protocol for Quantum Key Distribution (QKD), with arbitrary individual imperfections simultaneously in the source and detectors. We provide the secure key generation rate, and show that only two parameters must be bounded to ensure security; the basis dependence of the source and a detector blinding parameter. The system may otherwise be completely uncharacterized and contain large losses.

id: 0903.3644
title: Dissipative time dependent density functional theory
authors: Roumen Tsekov
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48 (2009) 2660-2664
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3644
abstract: The simplest density functional theory due to Thomas, Fermi, Dirac and Weizsacker is employed to describe the non-equilibrium thermodynamic evolution of an electron gas. The temperature effect is introduced via the Fermi-Dirac entropy, while the irreversible dynamics is described by a nonlinear diffusion equation. A dissipative Kohn-Sham equation is also proposed, which improves the Thomas-Fermi-Weizsacker kinetic functional.

id: 0903.3651
title: Many-player entangled state solutions in game theory problems
authors: Sudhakar Yarlagadda
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3651
abstract: We propose a non-classical multi-player entangled state which eliminates the need for communication, yet can solve problems (that require coordination) better than classical approaches. For the entangled state, we propose a slater determinant of all allowed states of a filled band in a condensed matter system -- the integer quantum Hall state at filling factor 1. Such a state gives the best solution (i.e., best Nash equilibrium) for some classical stochastic problems where classical solutions are far from ideal.

id: 0903.3711
title: Temperley-Lieb Algebra, Yang-Baxterization and Universal Gate
authors: Gangcheng Wang, Chengcheng Zhou, Chunfang Sun, Taotao Hu, Qingyong Wang, Kang Xue
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3711
abstract: A method of constructing $n^{2}\times n^{2}$ matrix solutions(with $n^{3}$ matrix elements) of Temperley-Lieb algebra relation is presented in this paper. The single loop of these solutions are $d=\sqrt{n}$. Especially, a $9\times9-$matrix solution with single loop d=$\sqrt{3}$ is discussed in detail. An unitary Yang-Baxter $\breve{R}(\theta,q_{1},q_{2})$ matrix is obtained via the Yang-Baxterization process. The entanglement property and geometric property (\emph{i.e.} Berry Phase) of this Yang-Baxter system are explored.

id: 0903.3712
title: Why photons cannot be sharply localized
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 79 (2009) 032112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3712
abstract: Photons cannot be localized in a sharply defined region. The expectation value of their energy density and the photon number density can only be approximately localized, leaving an exponential tail. We show that one may sharply localize either electric or magnetic (but not both) footprints of photons, and only momentarily. In the course of time evolution this localization is immediately destroyed. However, the coherent states, like their classical counterparts, can be localized without any limitations. The main tool in our analysis is a set of space-dependent photon creation and annihilation operators defined without any reference to the mode decomposition.

id: 0903.3713
title: Entanglement and Berry Phase in a $(3\times 3)-$dimensional Yang-Baxter system
authors: Gangcheng Wang, Chunfang Sun, Qingyong Wang, Kang Xue
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3713
abstract: Based on the method which is given in Ref. [Sun et.al. arXiv:0904.0092v1], we present another $9\times 9$ unitary $\breve{R}-$matrix, solution of the Yang-Baxter Equation, is obtained in this paper. The entanglement properties of $\breve{R}-$matrix is investigated, and the arbitrary degree of entanglement for two-qutrit entangled states can be generated via $\breve{R}$-matrix acting on the standard basis. A Yang-Baxter Hamiltonian can be constructed from unitary $\breve{R}-$matrix. Then the geometric properties of this system is studied. The results showed that the Berry phase of this system can be represented under the framework of SU(2) algebra.

id: 0903.3791
title: Entanglement swapping of the valence-bond solid state with local filtering operations
authors: Heng Fan, Zi-Dan Wang, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3791
abstract: A basic problem of quantum communication is to generate entangled states between distant sites. Using entanglement swapping, we are able to generate an entangled state of the desired distance from connecting many short distance entangled states. We investigate the entanglement swapping of the Valence-Bond Solid state with un-identical local filtering operations. It is found that not only a long distance entangled state can be generated from the VBS state, but also there is a trade-off between the probability and the degree of the entanglement in the resultant state. The results are also generalized to higher dimensional cases.

id: 0903.3798
title: Study of atomic entanglement in multimode cavity optics
authors: P. Saha, N. Nayak, A. S. Majumdar
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3798
abstract: The resonant interaction between two two-level atoms and m- electromagnetic modes in a cavity is considered. Entanglement dynamics between two atoms is examined. In particular we compare dynamical variations for different cavity modes as well as for different cavity photon numbers. The collapse and revival of entanglement is exhibited by varying the atom-photon interaction times.

id: 0903.3807
title: A highly efficient two level diamond based single photon source
authors: D. A. Simpson, E. Ampem-Lassen, B. C. Gibson, S. Trpkovski, F. M. Hossain, S. T. Huntington, A. D. Greentree, L. C. L. Hollenberg, S. Prawer
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl.Phys.Lett.,94, 203107, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3807
abstract: An unexplored diamond defect centre which is found to emit stable single photons at a measured rate of 1.6 MHz at room temperature is reported. The novel centre, identified in chemical vapour deposition grown diamond crystals, exhibits a sharp zero phonon line at 734 nm with a full width at half maximum of ~ 4 nm. The photon statistics confirm the center is a single emitter and provides direct evidence of the first true two-level single quantum system in diamond.

id: 0903.3808
title: Three Resonant Ultra-Cold Bosons: Off-Resonance Effects
authors: Mattia Jona-Lasinio, Ludovic Pricoupenko
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 (2010) 023201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3808
abstract: We solve a finite range two-channel model for three resonant identical bosons. The model provides a minimal description of the various magnetic Feshbach resonances in single species ultra-cold bosonic systems, including off-resonant scattering. We obtain important insights into the interpretation of seminal experiments: the three-body recombination rate measured in Sodium and the Efimov resonances observed in Caesium. This approach quantifies non universal effects appearing for a finite magnetic field detuning.

id: 0903.3827
title: Robust control of entanglement in a Nitrogen-vacancy centre coupled to a Carbon-13 nuclear spin in diamond
authors: R. S. Said, J. Twamley
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3827
abstract: We address a problem of generating a robust entangling gate between electronic and nuclear spins in the system of a single nitrogen-vacany centre coupled to a nearest Carbon-13 atom in diamond against certain types of systematic errors such as pulse-length and off-resonance errors. We analyse the robustness of various control schemes: sequential pulses, composite pulses and numerically-optimised pulses. We find that numerically-optimised pulses, produced by the gradient ascent pulse engineering algorithm (GRAPE), are more robust than the composite pulses and the sequential pulses. The optimised pulses can also be implemented in a faster time than the composite pulses.

id: 0903.3828
title: On the derivation of the Dirac Equation
authors: R.Sartor
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3828
abstract: We point out that the anticommutation properties of the Dirac matrices can be derived without squaring the Dirac hamiltonian, that is, without explicit reference to the Klein-Gordon equation. We only require the Dirac equation to admit two linearly independent plane wave solutions with positive energy for all momenta. The necessity of negative energies as well as the trace and determinant properties of the Dirac matrices are also a direct consequence of this simple and minimal requirement.

id: 0903.3834
title: Wiring up trapped ions to study aspects of quantum information
authors: N. Daniilidis, T. Lee, R. Clark, S. Narayanan, H. H?ffner
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3834
abstract: There has been much interest in developing methods for transferring quantum information. We discuss a way to transfer quantum information between two trapped ions through a wire. The motion of a trapped ion induces oscillating charges in the trap electrodes. By sending this current to the electrodes of a nearby second trap, the motions of ions in the two traps are coupled. We investigate the electrostatics of a set-up where two separately trapped ions are coupled through an electrically floating wire. We also discuss experimental issues, including possible sources of decoherence.

id: 0903.3859
title: Non Markovian Quantum Repeated Interactions and Measurements
authors: C Pellegrini, F Petruccione
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3859
abstract: A non-Markovian model of quantum repeated interactions between a small quantum system and an infinite chain of quantum systems is presented. By adapting and applying usual pro jection operator techniques in this context, discrete versions of the integro-differential and time-convolutioness Master equations for the reduced system are derived. Next, an intuitive and rigorous description of the indirect quantum measurement principle is developed and a discrete non Markovian stochastic Master equation for the open system is obtained. Finally, the question of unravelling in a particular model of non-Markovian quantum interactions is discussed.

id: 0903.3876
title: Quantum target detection using entangled photons
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 8 pages, RevTex, 4 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 062320 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3876
abstract: We investigate performances of pure continuous variable states in discriminating thermal and identity channels by comparing their M-copy error probability bounds. This offers us a simplified mathematical analysis for quantum target detection with slightly modified features: the object -- if it is present -- perfectly reflects the signal beam irradiating it, while thermal noise photons are returned to the receiver in its absence. This model facilitates us to obtain analytic results on error-probability bounds i.e., the quantum Chernoff bound and the lower bound constructed from the Bhattacharya bound on M-copy discrimination error-probabilities of some important quantum states, like photon number states, N00N states, coherent states and the entangled photons obtained from spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC). Comparing the $M$-copy error-bounds, we identify that N00N states indeed offer enhanced sensitivity than the photon number state system, when average signal photon number is small compared to the thermal noise level. However, in the high signal-to-noise scenario, N00N states fail to be advantageous than the photon number states. Entangled SPDC photon pairs too outperform conventional coherent state system in the low signal-to-noise case. On the other hand, conventional coherent state system surpasses the performance sensitivity offered by entangled photon pair, when the signal intensity is much above that of thermal noise. We find an analogous performance regime in the lossy target detection (where the target is modeled as a weakly reflecting object) in a high signal-to-noise scenario.

id: 0903.3878
title: Bohmian particle trajectories contradict quantum mechanics
authors: Michael Zirpel
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3878
abstract: The Bohmian interpretation of quantum mechanics adds particle trajectories to the wave function and ensures that the probability distribution of the particle positions agrees with quantum mechanics at any time. This is not sufficient to avoid contradictions with quantum mechanics. There are correlations between particle positions at different times which cannot be reproduced with real particle trajectories. A simple rearrangement of an experimental test of the Bell-CHSH inequality demonstrates this.

id: 0903.3894
title: Quantum Shift Register Circuits
authors: Mark M. Wilde
comments: 17 pages, 18 figures
journal: Physical Review A 79, 062325 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3894
abstract: A quantum shift register circuit acts on a set of input qubits and memory qubits, outputs a set of output qubits and updated memory qubits, and feeds the memory back into the device for the next cycle (similar to the operation of a classical shift register). Such a device finds application as an encoding and decoding circuit for a particular type of quantum error-correcting code, called a quantum convolutional code. Building on the Ollivier-Tillich and Grassl-Roetteler encoding algorithms for quantum convolutional codes, I present a method to determine a quantum shift register encoding circuit for a quantum convolutional code. I also determine a formula for the amount of memory that a CSS quantum convolutional code requires. I then detail primitive quantum shift register circuits that realize all of the finite- and infinite-depth transformations in the shift-invariant Clifford group (the class of transformations important for encoding and decoding quantum convolutional codes). The memory formula for a CSS quantum convolutional code then immediately leads to a formula for the memory required by a CSS entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional code.

id: 0903.3896
title: An integrated atom detector: single atoms and photon statistics
authors: Dennis Heine, Marco Wilzbach, Thomas Raub, Bj?rn Hessmo, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 021804 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3896
abstract: We demonstrate a robust fiber-optics-based fluorescence detector, fully integrated on an atom chip, which detects single atoms propagating in a guide with 66% efficiency. We characterize the detector performance and the atom flux by analyzing the photon statistics. Near-perfect photon antibunching proves that single atoms are detected, and allows us to study the second-order intensity correlation function of the fluorescence over three orders of magnitude in atomic density.

id: 0903.3907
title: High rate, long-distance quantum key distribution over 250km of ultra low loss fibres
authors: D. Stucki, N. Walenta, F. Vannel, R. T. Thew, N. Gisin, H. Zbinden, S. Gray, C. R. Towery, S. Ten
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 11 075003 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3907
abstract: We present a fully automated quantum key distribution prototype running at 625 MHz clock rate. Taking advantage of ultra low loss fibres and low-noise superconducting detectors, we can distribute 6,000 secret bits per second over 100 km and 15 bits per second over 250km.

id: 0903.3910
title: Practical methods for witnessing genuine multi-qubit entanglement in the vicinity of symmetric states
authors: Geza Toth, Witlef Wieczorek, Roland Krischek, Nikolai Kiesel, Patrick Michelberger, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 13 pages including 4 figures, revtex4
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 083002 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3910
abstract: We present general numerical methods to construct witness operators for entanglement detection and estimation of the fidelity. Our methods are applied to detecting entanglement in the vicinity of a six-qubit Dicke state with three excitations and also to further entangled symmetric states. All our witnesses are designed to keep the measurement effort small. We present also general results on the efficient local decomposition of permutationally invariant operators, which makes it possible to measure projectors to symmetric states efficiently

id: 0903.3911
title: Theory of bright-state stimulated Raman adiabatic passage
authors: G.G. Grigoryan, G.V. Nikoghosyan, T. Halfmann, Y.T. Pashayan-Leroy, C. Leroy, S. Gurin
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3911
abstract: We describe analytically and numerically the process of population transfer by stimulated Raman adiabatic passage through a bright state when the pulses propagate in a medium. Limitations of the adiabaticity are analyzed and interpreted in terms of reshaping of the pulses. We find parameters for the pulses for which the population transfer is nearly complete over long distances.

id: 0903.3916
title: Long quantum transition times due to unstable semiclassical dynamics
authors: D.G. Levkov, A.G. Panin
comments: 35 pages, 8 figures; journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052110 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3916
abstract: Quantum transitions are described semiclassically as motions of systems along (complex) trajectories. We consider the cases when the semiclassical trajectories are unstable and find that durations of the corresponding transitions are large. In addition, we show that the probability distributions over transition times have unusual asymmetric form in cases of unstable trajectories. We investigate in detail three types of processes related to unstable semiclassical dynamics. First, we analyze recently proposed mechanism of multidimensional tunneling where transitions proceed by formation and subsequent decay of classically unstable "states." The second class of processes includes one-dimensional activation transitions due to energy dispersion. In this case the semiclassical transition-time distributions have universal form. Third, we investigate long-time asymptotics of transition-time distributions in the case of over-barrier wave packet transmissions. We show that behavior of these asymptotics is controlled by unstable semiclassical trajectories which linger near the barrier top.

id: 0903.3920
title: Public and private communication with a quantum channel and a secret key
authors: Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 80, 022306 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3920
abstract: We consider using a secret key and a noisy quantum channel to generate noiseless public communication and noiseless private communication. The optimal protocol for this setting is the publicly-enhanced private father protocol. This protocol exploits random coding techniques and "piggybacking" of public information along with secret-key-assisted private codes. The publicly-enhanced private father protocol is a generalization of the secret-key-assisted protocol of Hsieh, Luo, and Brun and a generelization of a protocol for simultaneous communication of public and private information suggested by Devetak and Shor.

id: 0903.3930
title: Real spectra for non-Hermitian Dirac equation in 1+1 dimensions with a most general coupling
authors: V. G. C. S. dos Santos, A. de Souza Dutra, M. B. Hott
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3930
abstract: The most general combination of couplings of fermions with external potentials in 1+1 dimensions, must include vector, scalar and pseudoscalar potentials. We consider such a mixing of potentials in a PT-symmetric time-independent Dirac equation. The Dirac equation is mapped into an effective PT-symmetric Schr\"{o}dinger equation. Despite the non-hermiticity of the effective potential, we find real energies for the fermion.

id: 0903.3931
title: Reply to Comment on "Non-monotonicity in the Quantum-Classical Transition: Chaos Induced by Quantum Effects"
authors: Kyle Kingsbury, Chris Amey, Arie Kapulkin, Arjendu Pattanayak
comments: 1 page, 1 figure, response to arxiv: 0903.3417
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 119402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3931
abstract: Response to comment by Finn et al.

id: 0903.3937
title: Slow light propagation and amplification via electromagnetically induced transparency and four-wave mixing in an optically dense atomic vapor
authors: N. B. Phillips, A. V. Gorshkov, I. Novikova
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, Conference Proceedings from PQE-2009. Uploaded new figure4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3937
abstract: We experimentally and theoretically analyze the propagation of weak signal field pulses under the conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in hot Rb vapor, and study the effects of resonant four-wave mixing (FWM). In particular, we demonstrate that in a double-$\Lambda$ system, formed by the strong control field with the weak resonant signal and a far-detuned Stokes field, both continuous-wave spectra and pulse propagation dynamics for the signal field depend strongly on the amplitude of the seeded Stokes field, and the effect is enhanced in optically dense atomic medium. We also show that the theory describing the coupled propagation of the signal and Stokes fields is in good agreement with the experimental observations.

id: 0903.3939
title: Characterizing multipartite symmetric Dicke states under the effects of noise
authors: S. Campbell, M. S. Tame, M. Paternostro
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, RevTeX4 Revised version. Accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 11 073039 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3939
abstract: We study genuine multipartite entanglement (GME) in a system of $n$ qubits prepared in symmetric Dicke states and subjected to the influences of noise. We provide general, setup-independent expressions for experimentally favorable tools such as fidelity- and collective spin-based entanglement witnesses, as well as entangled-class discriminators and multi-point correlation functions. Besides highlighting the effects of the environment on large qubit registers, we also discuss strategies for the robust detection of GME. Our work provides techniques and results for the experimental communities interested in investigating and characterizing multipartite entangled states by introducing realistic milestones for setup design and associated predictions.

id: 0903.3999
title: Correlation Measurement of Squeezed Light
authors: Leonid A. Krivitsky, Ulrik L. Andersen, Ruifang Dong, Alexander Huck, Christoffer Wittmann, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033828 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3999
abstract: We study the implementation of a correlation measurement technique for the characterization of squeezed light which is nearly free of electronic noise. With two different sources of squeezed light, we show that the sign of the covariance coefficient, revealed from the time resolved correlation data, is witnessing the presence of squeezing in the system. Furthermore, we estimate the degree of squeezing using the correlation method and compare it to the standard homodyne measurement scheme. We show that the role of electronic detector noise is minimized using the correlation approach as opposed to homodyning where it often becomes a crucial issue.

id: 0903.4013
title: Locality problem in quantum theory
authors: D.A. Slavnov
comments: 15 pages,2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4013
abstract: We discuss the locality problem in relativistic and nonrelativistic quantum theory. We show that there exists a formulation of quantum theory that, on one hand, preserves the mathematical apparatus of the standard quantum mechanics and, on the other hand, ensures the satisfaction of the locality condition for each individual event including the measurement procedure. As an example, we consider the scattering from two slits.

id: 0903.4047
title: Orthogonal polynomials induced by discrete-time quantum walks in one dimension
authors: Masatoshi Hamada, Norio Konno, Wojciech Mlotkowski
comments: 11 pages, this arXiv version has no figures
journal: Interdisciplinary Information Sciences, Vol.15, No.3, pp.367-375 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4047
abstract: In this paper we obtain some properties of orthogonal polynomials given by a weight function which is a limit density of a rescaled discrete-time quantum walk on the line.

id: 0903.4059
title: Algebraic properties of Rogers-Szego functions: I. Applications in quantum optics
authors: M A Marchiolli, M Ruzzi, D Galetti
comments: Sections 3 and 5 modified; Section 6 (Applications) included; References added; Submitted to Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4059
abstract: By means of a well-established algebraic framework, Rogers-Szego functions associated with a circular geometry in the complex plane are introduced in the context of q-special functions, and their properties are discussed in details. The eigenfunctions related to the coherent and phase states emerge from this formalism as infinite expansions of Rogers-Szego functions, the coefficients being determined through proper eigenvalue equations in each situation. Furthermore, a complementary study on the Robertson-Schrodinger and symmetrical uncertainty relations for the cosine, sine and nondeformed number operators is also conducted, corroborating, in this way, certain features of q-deformed coherent states.

id: 0903.4066
title: Time-Optimal Generation of Cluster States
authors: Robert Fisher, Haidong Yuan, Andreas Spoerl, Steffen Glaser
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4066
abstract: The definition of a cluster state naturally suggests an implementation scheme: find a physical system with an Ising coupling topology identical to that of the target state, and evolve freely for a time of 1/2J. Using the tools of optimal control theory, we address the question of whether or not this implementation is time-optimal. We present some examples where it is not and provide an explanation in terms of geodesics on the Bloch-sphere.

id: 0903.4109
title: Quantum circuit for three-qubit random states
authors: Olivier Giraud, Marko Znidaric, Bertrand Georgeot
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 80, 042309 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4109
abstract: We explicitly construct a quantum circuit which exactly generates random three-qubit states. The optimal circuit consists of three CNOT gates and fifteen single qubit elementary rotations, parametrized by fourteen independent angles. The explicit distribution of these angles is derived, showing that the joint distribution is a product of independent distributions of individual angles apart from four angles.

id: 0903.4123
title: Generalized Toffoli gates using qudit catalysis
authors: Radu Ionicioiu, Timothy P. Spiller, William J. Munro
comments: 5 pages, 3 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012312 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4123
abstract: We present quantum networks for a n-qubit controlled gate C^{n-1}(U) which use a higher dimensional (qudit) ancilla as a catalyser. In its simplest form the network has only n two-particle gates (qubit-qudit) -- this is the minimum number of two-body interactions needed to couple all n+1 subsystems (n qubits plus one ancilla). This class of controlled gates includes the generalised Toffoli gate C^{n-1}(X) on n qubits, which plays an important role in several quantum algorithms and error correction. A particular example implementing this model is given by the dispersive limit of a generalised Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian of an effective spin-s interacting with a cavity mode.

id: 0903.4143
title: A wave-function model for the CP-violation in mesons
authors: M. Courbage, T. Durt, S.M. Saberi Fathi
comments: 14 pages (third author's name corrected)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4143
abstract: In this paper we propose to associate a temporal two-component wave-function to the decay process of meson particles. This simple quantum model provides a good estimation of the CP symmetry violation parameter. This result is based on our previous paper ("Two-Level Friedrichs model and Kaonic phenomenology", Physics Letters A 362, 100-104 (2007)) where we have shown that the two-level Friedrichs Hamiltonian model makes it possible to provide a qualitatively correct phenomenological model of kaons physics. In this previous paper, we derived a violation parameter that is 14 times larger than the measured quantity. In the present paper we improve our estimation of the violation and obtain the right order of magnitude. The improvement results from a renormalized superposition of the probability amplitudes describing short and long exponential decays. The renormalization occurs because the amplitudes that we are dealing with are associated to the decay rate, and not to the integrated decay rate or survival probability as is usually the case in standard approaches to CP-violation. We also compare with recent experimental data for the mesons D and B and also there the agreement between our model and experimental data is quite satisfying.

id: 0903.4156
title: Enhanced observability of quantum post-exponential decay using distant detectors
authors: E. Torrontegui, J. G. Muga, J. Martorell, D. W. L. Sprung
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 80, 012703 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4156
abstract: We study the elusive transition from exponential to post-exponential (algebraic) decay of the probability density of a quantum particle emitted by an exponentially decaying source, in one dimension. The main finding is that the probability density at the transition time, and thus its observability, increases with the distance of the detector from the source, up to a critical distance beyond which exponential decay is no longer observed. Solvable models provide explicit expressions for the dependence of the transition on resonance and observational parameters, facilitating the choice of optimal conditions.

id: 0903.4181
title: Noiseless linear amplification via weak measurements
authors: David Menzies, Sarah Croke
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4181
abstract: We discuss the recently introduced concept of non-deterministic noiseless linear amplification, demonstrating that such an operation can only be performed perfectly with vanishing probability of success. We show that a weak measurement, which imprints the weak value of an observable of a pre-selected and post-selected system onto a probe system, can be used to approximate probabilistic noiseless amplification. This result may be applied to various tasks in continuous variable quantum information, including entanglement concentration, probabilistic cloning, and in quantum repeaters. We discuss the application of our scheme to probabilistic cloning of weak coherent states.

id: 0903.4208
title: Quantum Machines
authors: Mark Hillery, Vladimir Buzek
comments: To appear in Contemporary Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4208
abstract: We discuss quantum information processing machines. We start with single purpose machines that either redistribute quantum information or identify quantum states. We then move on to machines that can perform a number of functions, with the function they perform being determined by a program, which is itself a quantum state. Examples of both deterministic and probabilistic programmable machines are given, and we conclude with a discussion of the utility of quantum programs.

id: 0903.4225
title: Sudden death and birth of entanglement beyond the Markovian approximation
authors: Z. Y. Xu, M. Feng
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2009) 1906-1910
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4225
abstract: We investigate the entanglement dynamics of two initially entangled qubits interacting independently with two uncorrelated reservoirs beyond the Markovian approximation. Quite different from the Markovian reservoirs [C. E. Lopez et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 101 (2008) 080503], we find that entanglement sudden birth (ESB) of the two reservoirs occurs without certain symmetry with respect to the entanglement sudden death (ESD) of the two qubits. A phenomenological interpretation of entanglement revival is also given.

id: 0903.4242
title: High-order fidelity and quantum phase transition for the Heisenberg chain with next-nearest-neighbor interaction
authors: Li Wang, Shi-Jian Gu, Shu Chen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4242
abstract: In this article, we study the high order term of the fidelity of the Heisenberg chain with next-nearest-neighbor interaction and analyze its connection with quantum phase transition of Beresinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless type happened in the system. We calculate the fidelity susceptibility of the system and find that although the phase transition point can't be well characterized by the fidelity susceptibility, it can be effectively picked out by the higher order of the ground-state fidelity for finite-size systems.

id: 0903.4250
title: On the objective existence of physical processes: a physicist's philosophical view
authors: J. Sanchez-Guillen, R.A. Vazquez
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4250
abstract: Inspired by philosophical ideas of Boltzmann, which are briefly recalled, we provide strong support for the possibility and convenience of a realistic world picture, properly nuanced. The arguments have consequences for the interpretation of quantum mechanics, and for relevant concepts of quantum field and string theory, like monopoles and branes. Our view is illustrated with a cybernetic analogy and complemented with a summary of the basic philosophical concepts.

id: 0903.4256
title: Path-Phase Information Complementarity for Interfering Particles through State-Discrimination
authors: Noam Erez, Daniel Jacobs, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4256
abstract: We analyze the trade-off between the amounts of information obtainable on complementary properties of a qubit state by simultaneous measurements. We consider a "state discrimination" scenario wherein the same measurements are repeated, but the input states must be guessed in every run. We find a general complementarity relation for path-phase guesses by any generalized measurements in this scenario. The counterpart of this input-output mutual information (MI) reveals a hitherto unknown aspect of complementarity.

id: 0903.4263
title: On the dynamics of large-N O(N)-symmetric quantum systems at finite temperature
authors: P. V. Buividovich
comments: 4 pages RevTeX, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4263
abstract: Time evolution of a perturbed thermal state is studied in a quantum-mechanical system with O(N) symmetry. In the limit of large N, time dependence of O(N)-singlet expectation values can be described by classical equations of motion in a one-dimensional potential well. Time dependence of the perturbation is then described by a linear differential equation with time-dependent periodic coefficient. This equation, depending on the parameters, admits either exponentially growing/decaying or periodically oscillating solutions. It is demonstrated that only the latter possibility is actually realized, thus in such a system there is no redistribution of initial perturbation over all N degrees of freedom.

id: 0903.4268
title: A non-degenerate optical parametric oscillator as a high-flux source for quantum lithography
authors: Hugo Cable, Reeta Vyas, Surendra Singh, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 113055 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4268
abstract: We investigate the use of a non-degenerate parametric oscillator (NDPO) as a source for quantum lithography, for which the light can have high-flux and strong non-classical features. This builds on the proposal of Boto, et al. [A. N. Boto, et al., PRL (85), 2733 (2000)], for etching simple patterns on multi-photon absorbing materials with sub-Rayleigh resolution, using special two-mode entangled states of light. An NDPO has two outgoing modes differentiated by polarization or direction of propagation, but sharing the same optical frequency. We derive analytical expressions for the multi-photon absorption rates when the NDPO is operated below, near, and above its threshold. The resulting interference patterns are characterized by an effective wavelength half that for the illuminating modes. We compare our results with those for the case of a high-gain optical amplifier source, and discuss the relative merit of the NDPO.

id: 0903.4273
title: Dissipative dynamics of a Harmonic Oscillator : A non-perturbative approach
authors: Jishad Kumar, S. Sinha, P. A. Sreeram
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4273
abstract: Starting from a microscopic theory, we derive a master equation for a harmonic oscillator coupled to a bath of non-interacting oscillators. We follow a non-perturbative approach, proposed earlier by us for the free Brownian particle. The diffusion constants are calculated analytically and the positivity of the Master Equation is shown to hold above a critical temperature. We compare the long time behaviour of the average kinetic and potential energies with known thermodynamic results. In the limit of vainishing oscillator frequency of the system, we recover the results of the free Brownian particle.

id: 0903.4274
title: A Review of Perfect State Transfer and its Application as a Constructive Tool
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures. Although mainly a review, this does contain some minor new results. v2: minor improvements. v3: journal version (to appear in Int. J. Quant. Inform.)
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 8, 641 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4274
abstract: We review the subject of perfect state transfer; how one designs the (fixed) interactions of a chain of spins so that a quantum state, initially inserted on one end of the chain, is perfectly transferred to the opposite end in a fixed time. The perfect state transfer systems are then used as a constructive tool to design Hamiltonian implementations of other primitive protocols such as entanglement generation and signal amplification in measurements, before showing that, in fact, universal quantum computation can be implemented in this way.

id: 0903.4308
title: The private capacity of quantum channels is not additive
authors: Ke Li, Andreas Winter, XuBo Zou, GuangCan Guo
comments: 4+4 pages, 2 eps figures. V2 has title and abstract changed; its new structure reflects the final version of a main paper plus appendices containing mathematical details
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4308
abstract: Recently there has been considerable activity on the subject of additivity of various quantum channel capacities. Here, we construct a family of channels with sharply bounded classical, hence private capacity. On the other hand, their quantum capacity when combined with a zero private (and zero quantum) capacity erasure channel, becomes larger than the previous classical capacity. As a consequence, we can conclude for the first time that the classical private capacity is non-additive. In fact, in our construction even the quantum capacity of the tensor product of two channels can be greater than the sum of their individual classical private capacities. We show that this violation occurs quite generically: every channel can be embedded into our construction, and a violation occurs whenever the given channel has larger entanglement assisted quantum capacity than (unassisted) classical capacity.

id: 0903.4339
title: The fail of determinism and the limits of Bohm hidden variable theory
authors: Ramon Lapiedra
comments: 6 pages. We have changed the proof of the basic Bell-like inequalities. Some comments have been added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4339
abstract: We give a counter example to show that determinism as such is in contradiction to quantum mechanics. More precisely, we consider a simple quantum system and its environment, including the measurement device, and make the assumption that the time evolution of the global system, the quantum system plus this environment, is deterministic, i. e., the time evolution is given by a dynamical trajectory from some initial conditions. From this, we prove a type of Bell inequalities which are violated by quantum mechanics, reaching the conclusion that our quantum system evolves in a non deterministic way. In order to seize the interest of this conclusion, one must realize that it cannot be reached from the present experimental violation of Bell inequalities predicted by quantum mechanics, since this violation is compatible with non-local realism.

id: 0903.4354
title: Room temperature spontaneous emission enhancement from quantum dots in photonic crystal slab cavities in the telecommunications C-band
authors: Richard Hostein, Rmy Braive, Matthieu Larqu, Ko-Hsin Lee, Anne Talneau, Luc Le Gratiet, Isabelle Robert-Philip, Isabelle Sagnes, Alexios Beveratos
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters (2009) 123101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4354
abstract: We report on the control of the spontaneous emission dynamics from InAsP self-assembled quantum dots emitting in the telecommunications C-band and weakly coupled to the mode of a double heterostructure cavity etched on a suspended InP membrane at room temperature. The quality factor of the cavity mode is 44x10^3 with an ultra-low modal volume of the order of 1.2 lambda/n)^3, inducing an enhancement of the spontaneous emission rate of up a factor of 2.8 at 300 K.

id: 0903.4413
title: Polygamy of Distributed Entanglement
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Gilad Gour, Jeong San Kim
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, few typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012324 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4413
abstract: While quantum entanglement is known to be monogamous (i.e. shared entanglement is restricted in multi-partite settings), here we show that distributed entanglement (or the potential for entanglement) is by nature polygamous. By establishing the concept of one-way unlocalizable entanglement (UE) and investigating its properties, we provide a polygamy inequality of distributed entanglement in tripartite quantum systems of arbitrary dimension. We also provide a polygamy inequality in multi-qubit systems, and several trade offs between UE and other correlation measures.

id: 0903.4438
title: Comment on "A 'local observables' method for wave mechanics applied to atomic hydrogen," by Peter Bowman [Am. J. Phys. 76, 1120-1129 (2008)]
authors: Hans C. Ohanian
comments: 2 pp. To be published in Am. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4438
abstract: This comment identifies a mistake in a paper by P. Bowman that claims that the total angular momentum of the ground state of atomic hydrogen is 1.

id: 0903.4444
title: Entanglement and area law with a fractal boundary in a topologically ordered phase
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Daniel A. Lidar, Simone Severini
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 010102(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4444
abstract: Quantum systems with short range interactions are known to respect an area law for the entanglement entropy: the von Neumann entropy $S$ associated to a bipartition scales with the boundary $p$ between the two parts. Here we study the case in which the boundary is a fractal. We consider the topologically ordered phase of the toric code with a magnetic field. When the field vanishes it is possible to analytically compute the entanglement entropy for both regular and fractal bipartitions $(A,B)$ of the system, and this yields an upper bound for the entire topological phase. When the $A$-$B$ boundary is regular we have $S/p =1$ for large $p$. When the boundary is a fractal of Hausdorff dimension $D$, we show that the entanglement between the two parts scales as $S/p=\gamma\leq1/D$, and $\gamma$ depends on the fractal considered.

id: 0903.4454
title: Local hidden variable modelling, classicality, quantum separability, and the original Bell inequality
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: Edited version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011), 035305 (16pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4454
abstract: We introduce a general condition sufficient for the validity of the original Bell inequality (1964) in a local hidden variable (LHV) frame. This condition can be checked experimentally and incorporates only as a particular case the assumption on perfect correlations or anticorrelations usually argued for this inequality in the literature. Specifying this general condition for a quantum bipartite case, we introduce the whole class of bipartite quantum states, separable and nonseparable, that (i) admit an LHV description under any bipartite measurements with two settings per site; (ii) do not necessarily exhibit perfect correlations and may even have a negative correlation function if the same quantum observable is measured at both sites but (iii) satisfy the "perfect correlation" version of the original Bell inequality for any three bounded quantum observables A, A'=B, B' at sites "A" and "B", respectively. Analysing the validity of this general LHV condition under classical and quantum correlation experiments with the same physical context, we stress that, unlike the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality, the original Bell inequality distinguishes between classicality and quantum separability.

id: 0903.4460
title: Device-independent quantum key distribution secure against collective attacks
authors: Stefano Pironio, Antonio Acin, Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin, Serge Massar, Valerio Scarani
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 045021 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4460
abstract: Device-independent quantum key distribution (DIQKD) represents a relaxation of the security assumptions made in usual quantum key distribution (QKD). As in usual QKD, the security of DIQKD follows from the laws of quantum physics, but contrary to usual QKD, it does not rely on any assumptions about the internal working of the quantum devices used in the protocol. We present here in detail the security proof for a DIQKD protocol introduced in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 230501 (2008)]. This proof exploits the full structure of quantum theory (as opposed to other proofs that exploit the no-signalling principle only), but only holds again collective attacks, where the eavesdropper is assumed to act on the quantum systems of the honest parties independently and identically at each round of the protocol (although she can act coherently on her systems at any time). The security of any DIQKD protocol necessarily relies on the violation of a Bell inequality. We discuss the issue of loopholes in Bell experiments in this context.

id: 0903.4508
title: Limit theorems for discrete-time quantum walks on trees
authors: Kota Chisaki, Masatoshi Hamada, Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Interdisciplinary Information Sciences 15, 423-429 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4508
abstract: We consider a discrete-time quantum walk W_t given by the Grover transformation on the Cayley tree. We reduce W_t to a quantum walk X_t on a half line with a wall at the origin. This paper presents two types of limit theorems for X_t. The first one is X_t as t\to\infty, which corresponds to a localization in the case of an initial qubit state. The second one is X_t/t as t\to\infty, whose limit density is given by the Konno density function [1-4]. The density appears in various situations of discrete-time cases. The corresponding similar limit theorem was proved in [5] for a continuous-time case on the Cayley tree.

id: 0903.4520
title: Photonic Lattice of Coupled Microcavities in Nonpermanent Gravitational Field Produced by Rotation
authors: Dmitri L. Boiko
comments: 7 pages 2 figures,
journal: PIERS Proc., March 24-28, Hangzhou, China, 2008, pp 1100 - 1106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4520
abstract: Rotation-induced splitting of the otherwise degenerate photonic bands is predicted for a two-dimensional photonic crystal made of evanescently coupled microcavities. The symmetry-broken energy splitting is similar to the Zeeman splitting of atomic levels or electron's (hole's) magnetic moment sublevels in an external magnetic field. The orbital motion of photons in periodic photonic lattice of microcavities is shown to enhance significantly such Coriolis-Zeeman splitting as compared to a solitary microcavity [D.L. Boiko, Optics Express 2, 397 (1998)]. The equation of motion suggests that nonstationary rotation induces quantum transitions between photonic states and, furthermore, that such transitions might generate high-frequency gravitational waves.

id: 0903.4543
title: Partitioned trace distances
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 8 pages, no figures. Significant changes are made. New section on majorization is added. Theorem 4.1 is extended. The bibliography is enlarged.
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 9, 61-73 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4543
abstract: New quantum distance is introduced as a half-sum of several singular values of difference between two density operators. This is, up to factor, the metric induced by so-called Ky Fan norm. The partitioned trace distances enjoy similar properties to the standard trace distance, including the unitary invariance, the strong convexity and the close relations to the classical distances. The partitioned distances cannot increase under quantum operations of certain kind including bistochastic maps. All the basic properties are re-formulated as majorization relations. Possible applications to quantum information processing are briefly discussed.

id: 0903.4553
title: Extraction of Pure Entangled States from Many Body Systems by Distant Local Projections
authors: J. Molina-Vilaplana, H. Wichterich, V. E. Korepin, S. Bose
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062310 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4553
abstract: We study the feasibility of extracting a pure entangled state of non-complementary, and potentially well separated, regions of a quantum many-body system. It is shown that this can indeed be accomplished in non-equilibrium scenarios as well as the ground state of the considered spin chain models when one locally measures observables such as magnetization in separated blocks of spins. A general procedure is presented, which can search for the optimal way to extract a pure entangled state through local projections. Our results indicate a connection of the projective extraction of entanglement to good quantum numbers of the underlying Hamiltonian.

id: 0903.4568
title: Level statistics of a pseudo-Hermitian Dicke model
authors: Tetsuo Deguchi, Pijush K. Ghosh, Kazue Kudo
comments: RevTeX 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review E 80, 026213 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4568
abstract: A non-Hermitian operator that is related to its adjoint through a similarity transformation is defined as a pseudo-Hermitian operator. We study the level-statistics of a pseudo-Hermitian Dicke Hamiltonian that undergoes Quantum Phase Transition (QPT). We find that the level-spacing distribution of this Hamiltonian near the integrable limit is close to Poisson distribution, while it is Wigner distribution for the ranges of the parameters for which the Hamiltonian is non-integrable. We show that the assertion in the context of the standard Dicke model that QPT is a precursor to a change in the level statistics is not valid in general.

id: 0903.4574
title: Scattering resonances and two-particle bound states of the extended Hubbard model
authors: Manuel Valiente, David Petrosyan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 42, 121001 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4574
abstract: We present a complete derivation of two-particle states of the one-dimensional extended Hubbard model involving attractive or repulsive on-site and nearest-neighbour interactions. We find that this system possesses scattering resonances and two families of energy-dependent interaction-bound states which are not present in the Hubbard model with the on-site interaction alone.

id: 0903.4575
title: Entanglement in Non-Hermitian Quantum Theory
authors: Arun Kumar Pati
comments: Latex file, 13 pages, no figures. Invited plenary talk in the International Conference (Homi Bhabha Centenary Conference) on Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics (PHHQP VIII) held at BARC, Mumbai during Jan 13-16, 2009
journal: Pramana 73:485-498,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4575
abstract: Entanglement is one of the key feature of quantum world that has no classical counterpart. This arises due to the linear superposition principle and the tensor product structure of the Hilbert space when we deal with multiparticle systems. In this paper, we will introduce the notion of entanglement for quantum systems that are governed by non-Hermitian yet PT-symmetric Hamiltonians. We will show that maximally entangled states in usual quantum theory behave like non-maximally entangled states in PT-symmetric quantum theory. Furthermore, we will show how to create entanglement between two PTQubits using non-Hermitian Hamiltonians and discuss the entangling capability of such interaction Hamiltonians that are non-Hermitian in nature.

id: 0903.4600
title: Path integrals, the ABL rule and the three-box paradox
authors: D.Sokolovski*, I.Puerto Gimenez, R. Sala Mayato
comments: 
journal: Phys.Lett.A 372, (2008) 6578-6583
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4600
abstract: The three-box problem is analysed in terms of virtual pathways, interference between which is destroyed by a number of intermediate measurements. The Aharonov-Bergmann-Lebowitz (ABL) rule is shown to be a particular case of Feynman's recipe for assigning probabilities to exclusive alternatives. The 'paradoxical' features of the three box case arise in an attempt to attribute, in contradiction to the uncertainty principle, properties pertaining to different ensembles produced by different intermediate measurements to the same particle. The effect can be mimicked by a classical system, provided an observation is made to perturb the system in a non-local manner.

id: 0903.4632
title: Quantum Localization for Two Coupled Kicked Rotors
authors: Borzumehr Toloui, Leslie E. Ballentine
comments: 9 Pages, 8 figures, 5 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4632
abstract: We study a system of two coupled kicked rotors, both classically and quantum mechanically, for a wide range of coupling parameters. This was motivated by two published reports, one of which reported quantum localization, while the other reported diffusion. The classical systems are chaotic, and exhibit normal diffusive behavior. In the quantum systems, we found different regimes, depending on the strength of the coupling. For weak coupling, we found quantum localization similar to that exhibited by single kicked rotors. For strong coupling, we found a quasi-diffusive growth of the width of the momentum distribution, in which the apparent diffusion coefficient decreased as time increased. The behavior in this regime can be described by the scaling theory of weak localization for two-dimensional disordered lattices. The weak and strong coupling regimes are separated by a regime of complex intermediate behavior. Thus we explain the apparent contradiction in the literature as being due to qualitatively different regimes of behavior, which we call strong and weak quantum localization.

id: 0903.4657
title: Pure quantum interpretations are not viable
authors: I. Schmelzer
comments: Added some new arguments, rewritten others
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4657
abstract: Pure interpretations of quantum theory, which reject the classical part of the Copenhagen interpretation without adding new structure to it's quantum part, are not viable. This is a consequence of a non-uniqueness result for the canonical operators.

id: 0903.4674
title: A single structured light beam as an atomic cloud splitter
authors: B. M. Rodriguez-Lara, R. Jauregui
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 011813(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4674
abstract: We propose a scheme to split a cloud of cold non-interacting neutral atoms based on their dipole interaction with a single structured light beam which exhibits parabolic cylindrical symmetry. Using semiclassical numerical simulations, we establish a direct relationship between the general properties of the light beam and the relevant geometric and kinematic properties acquired by the atomic cloud as its passes through the beam.

id: 0903.4690
title: Repeatable procedures and maps in open quantum dynamics
authors: Thomas F. Jordan, Anil Shaji
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4690
abstract: Examples of repeatable procedures and maps are found in the open quantum dynamics of one qubit that interacts with another qubit. They show that a mathematical map that is repeatable can be made by a physical procedure that is not.

id: 0903.4706
title: Broad-band spectral control of single photon sources using a nonlinear photonic crystal cavity
authors: Murray W. McCutcheon, Darrick E. Chang, Yinan Zhang, Mikhail D. Lukin, Marko Loncar
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4706
abstract: Motivated by developments in quantum information science, much recent effort has been directed toward coupling individual quantum emitters to optical microcavities. Such systems can be used to produce single photons on demand, enable nonlinear optical switching at a single photon level, and implement functional nodes of a quantum network, where the emitters serve as processing nodes and photons are used for long-distance quantum communication. For many of these practical applications, it is important to develop techniques that allow one to generate outgoing single photons of desired frequency and bandwidth, enabling hybrid networks connecting different types of emitters and long-distance transmission over telecommunications wavelengths. Here, we propose a novel approach that makes use of a nonlinear optical resonator, in which the single photon originating from the atom-like emitter is directly converted into a photon with desired frequency and bandwidth using the intracavity nonlinearity. As specific examples, we discuss a high-finesse, TE-TM double-mode photonic crystal cavity design that allows for direct generation of single photons at telecom wavelengths starting from an InAs/GaAs quantum dot with a 950 nm transition wavelength, and a scheme for direct optical coupling of such a quantum dot with a diamond nitrogen-vacancy center at 637 nm.

id: 0903.4744
title: Deterministic quantum-public-key encryption: forward search attack and randomization
authors: Georgios M. Nikolopoulos, Lawrence M. Ioannou
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042327 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4744
abstract: In the classical setting, public-key encryption requires randomness in order to be secure against a forward search attack, whereby an adversary compares the encryption of a guess of the secret message with that of the actual secret message. We show that this is also true in the information-theoretic setting -- where the public keys are quantum systems -- by defining and giving an example of a forward search attack for any deterministic quantum-public-key bit-encryption scheme. However, unlike in the classical setting, we show that any such deterministic scheme can be used as a black box to build a randomized bit-encryption scheme that is no longer susceptible to this attack.

id: 0903.4771
title: Casimir interaction from magnetically coupled eddy currents
authors: Francesco Intravaia, Carsten Henkel
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. This version: Fig.1 improved. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:130405,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4771
abstract: We study the quantum and thermal fluctuations of eddy (Foucault) currents in thick metallic plates. A Casimir interaction between two plates arises from the coupling via quasi-static magnetic fields. As a function of distance, the relevant eddy current modes cross over from a quantum to a thermal regime. These modes alone reproduce previously discussed thermal anomalies of the electromagnetic Casimir interaction between good conductors. In particular, they provide a physical picture for the Casimir entropy whose nonzero value at zero temperature arises from a correlated, glassy state.

id: 0903.4792
title: Purity Swapping in the Jaynes-Cummings Model: Obtaining Perfect Interference Patterns from Totally Unpolarized Qubits
authors: Jesus Martinez-Manso, Jesus Martinez-Linares
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4792
abstract: We show the existence of dynamical purity swapping phenomena in the Jaynes-Cummings model. Moreover we show that purity swapping between a qubit and a generic quantum system is possible, provided they are coupled via non-unitary matrix elements interaction. We particularize to the case of a quantum optical Ramsey interferometer. We show that using purity swapping, a perfect interference pattern can be obtained at the output port of the interferometer even if we start from totally unpolarized sources. This feature is shown to be associated with the phenomena of recreation of the state vector at half of the revival time. In fact, we show that the Gea-Banacloche attractor is robust against degradation of the purity of the qubit input state. We also show that the Tsallis entropy T2 is a useful entanglement monotone allowing one to relate directly entanglement with purity exchange in interacting systems. We conjecture an Araki-Lieb type inequality for T2 that bounds the maximum interchange of purity between interacting systems.

id: 0903.4795
title: Feynman-path analysis of Hardy's paradox: measurements and the uncertainty principle
authors: D. Sokolovski, I. Puerto Gimenez, R. Sala Mayato
comments: 
journal: Phys.Lett.A, 372 (2008) 3784-3791
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4795
abstract: Hardy's paradox is analysed within Feynman's formulation of quantum mechanics. A transition amplitude is represented as a sum over virtual paths which different intermediate measurements convert into different sets of real pathways. Contradictory statements emerge when applying to the same statistical ensemble. The "strange" weak values result is also investigated in this context.

id: 0903.4810
title: Weak values and the quantum phase space
authors: A. C. Lobo, C. A. Ribeiro
comments: 07 pages, accepted for PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012112 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4810
abstract: We address the issue of how to properly treat, and in a more general setting, the concept of a weak value of a weak measurement in quantum mechanics. We show that for this purpose, one must take in account the effects of the measuring process on the entire phase space of the measuring system. By using coherent states, we go a step further than Jozsa in a recent paper, and we present an example where the result of the measurement is symmetrical in the position and momentum observables and seems to be much better suited for quantum optical implementation.

id: 0903.4843
title: Framed Hilbert space: hanging the quasi-probability pictures of quantum theory
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Joseph Emerson
comments: 46 pages, 1 table, contains a review of finite dimensional quasi-probability functions
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 063040
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4843
abstract: Building on earlier work, we further develop a formalism based on the mathematical theory of frames that defines a set of possible phase-space or quasi-probability representations of finite-dimensional quantum systems. We prove that an alternate approach to defining a set of quasi-probability representations, based on a more natural generalization of a classical representation, is equivalent to our earlier approach based on frames, and therefore is also subject to our no-go theorem for a non-negative representation. Furthermore, we clarify the relationship between the contextuality of quantum theory and the necessity of negativity in quasi-probability representations and discuss their relevance as criteria for non-classicality. We also provide a comprehensive overview of known quasi-probability representations and their expression within the frame formalism.

id: 0903.4964
title: Reexamination of a multisetting Bell inequality for qudits
authors: Yeong-Cherng Liang, Chu-Wee Lim, Dong-Ling Deng
comments: v3: Published version (minor rewordings, typos corrected, upper bounds in Table III improved/corrected); v2: 7 pages, 1 figure, 4 tables (substantially revised with new results on the tightness of the correlation inequalities included); v1: 7.5 pages, 1 figure, 4 tables (Comments are welcome)
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 80, art. 052116 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4964
abstract: The class of d-setting, d-outcome Bell inequalities proposed by Ji and collaborators [Phys. Rev. A 78, 052103] are reexamined. For every positive integer d > 2, we show that the corresponding non-trivial Bell inequality for probabilities provides the maximum classical winning probability of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt-like game with d inputs and d outputs. We also demonstrate that the general classical upper bounds given by Ji et al. are underestimated, which invalidates many of the corresponding correlation inequalities presented thereof. We remedy this problem, partially, by providing the actual classical upper bound for d less than or equal to 13 (including non-prime values of d). We further determine that for prime value d in this range, most of these probability and correlation inequalities are tight, i.e., facet-inducing for the respective classical correlation polytope. Stronger lower and upper bounds on the quantum violation of these inequalities are obtained. In particular, we prove that once the probability inequalities are given, their correlation counterparts given by Ji and co-workers are no longer relevant in terms of detecting the entanglement of a quantum state.

id: 0903.4974
title: What is realism and how can it be non-local?
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4974
abstract: The quantum theory predictions about entanglements contradict the assumptions of realism and locality when these two are taken together, the so-called non-local realism. Groblacher et al. took one step further and examined the concept of realism while admitting that entangled quantum systems are influenced not only by local parameters but also by distant parameters. Groblacher et al. called that non-local realism and tried to prove that it is still contradicted by the quantum theory.The present text analyses the consistency of the concept of non-local realism, before questioning whether the experiment contradicts it or not. The realism supposes that macroscopic apparatuses don't enforce one result or another in measurements, but only reveal pre-existent values of properties of the measured systems. However, it is shown here that if factors situated at a distance from a system are assumed to influence the system response to measurements, the wave function may be not unique. It's the macroscopic objects that pick one wave function from the different possible wave functions. So, their influence on the results cannot be denied s.t. the realism is not tenable.

id: 0903.4976
title: Infra-quantum mechanics and critical examination of Bell's theorem on locality The principles of a revolution of epistemology revealed in the descriptions of microstates
authors: Mioara Mugur-Schachter
comments: 166 pages, 17 figures, 3 pictures, French text with English summary. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0801.1893
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4976
abstract: This is an improved remake of a previous work submitted with the same title. An epistemologicalphysical, strictly qualitative discipline, IQM (infra-quantum mechanics), is constructed independently of the mathematical formalism of QM. IQM emerges under exclusively the constraints imposed by: the cognitive situation of a human being who decides to construct communicable and consensual knowledge on microstates; general requirements of human conceptualization. IMQ brings into evidence how the mathematical formalism of QM manages to signify. It explicates an integrated expression of a radically new type of descriptional form, transferred on the registering devices of macroscopic apparatuses and primordially statistical. IMQ is then considered globally and its relations with space, time, geometry, consensus, as well as with Einstein's theories, are specified. It appears that: there exists an order of progressive constructability of our conceptualizations of physical reality; this order withstands inclusion of concepts constructed inside macroscopic physics, into the primordial transferred representation of microstates; consequently the aim of directly unifying Einstein's theories, with QM, appears to be impossible. Bell's theorem on locality expresses exclusively this impossibility. Causality appears to be a modelizing concept that cannot be implemented into our primordial representations of physical entities.

id: 0903.4979
title: Relationship between quantum repeating devices and quantum seals
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012308 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4979
abstract: It is revealed that quantum repeating devices and quantum seals have a very close relationship, thus the theory in one field can be applied to the other. Consequently, it is shown that the fidelity bounds and optimality of quantum repeating devices can be violated when they are used for decoding classical information from quantum states, and security bounds for protocols sealing quantum data exist.

id: 0903.5015
title: A theoretical scheme of thermal-light ghost imaging by $N$th-order intensity correlation
authors: Ying-Chuan Liu, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 5 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5015
abstract: In this paper, we propose a theoretical scheme of ghost imaging in terms of $N$th-order correlated thermal light. We obtain the Gaussian thin lens equations in the ghost imaging protocol. We show that it is possible to produce $N-1$ ghost images of an object at different places in a nonlocal fashion by means of a higher-order correlated imaging process with an $N$th-order correlated thermal source and correlation measurement. We investigate the visibility of the ghost images in the scheme, and obtain the upper bounds of the visibility for the $N$th-order correlated thermal-light ghost imaging. It is found that the visibility of the ghost images can be dramatically enhanced when the order of correlation becomes larger.

id: 0903.5019
title: Nonlinear Phenomenology from Quantum Mechanics: Soliton in a Lattice
authors: Juha Javanainen, Uttam Shrestha
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 170405 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5019
abstract: We study a soliton in an optical lattice holding bosonic atoms quantum mechanically using both an exact numerical solution and quantum Monte Carlo simulations. The computation of the state is combined with an explicit account of the measurements of the numbers of the atoms at the lattice sites. In particular, importance sampling in the quantum Monte Carlo method arguably produces faithful simulations of individual experiments. Even though the quantum state is invariant under lattice translations, an experiment may show a noisy version of the localized classical soliton.

id: 0903.5042
title: Nonlocal setting and outcome information for violation of Bell's inequality
authors: M. Pawlowski, J. Kofler, T. Paterek, M. Seevinck, C. Brukner
comments: 5 pages, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 083051 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5042
abstract: Bell's theorem is a no-go theorem stating that quantum mechanics cannot be reproduced by a physical theory based on realism, freedom to choose experimental settings and two locality conditions: setting (SI) and outcome (OI) independence. We provide a novel analysis of what it takes to violate Bell's inequality within the framework in which both realism and freedom of choice are assumed, by showing that it is impossible to model a violation without having information in one laboratory about both the setting and the outcome at the distant one. While it is possible that outcome information can be revealed from shared hidden variables, the assumed experimenter's freedom to choose the settings forces that setting information must be non-locally transferred, even when the SI condition is obeyed. The sufficient amount of transmitted information about the setting to violate the CHSH inequality up to its quantum mechanical maximum is 0.736 bits.

id: 0903.5082
title: Quantum Darwinism
authors: Wojciech Hubert Zurek
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics, vol. 5, pp. 181-188 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5082
abstract: Quantum Darwinism describes the proliferation, in the environment, of multiple records of selected states of a quantum system. It explains how the fragility of a state of a single quantum system can lead to the classical robustness of states of their correlated multitude; shows how effective `wave-packet collapse' arises as a result of proliferation throughout the environment of imprints of the states of quantum system; and provides a framework for the derivation of Born's rule, which relates probability of detecting states to their amplitude. Taken together, these three advances mark considerable progress towards settling the quantum measurement problem.

id: 0903.5092
title: Two computable sets of multipartite entanglement measures
authors: Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Marcus Huber, Philipp Krammer
comments: 3 figures, 21 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062308 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5092
abstract: We present two sets of computable entanglement measures for multipartite systems where each subsystem can have different degrees of freedom (so-called qudits). One set, called 'separability' measure, reveals which of the subsystems are separable/entangled. For that we have to extend the concept of k-separability for multipartite systems to a novel unambiguous separability concept which we call \gamma_k-separability. The second set of entanglement measures reveals the 'kind' of entanglement, i.e. if it is bipartite, tripartite, ..., n-partite entangled and is denoted as the 'physical' measure. We show how lower bounds on both sets of measures can be obtained by the observation that any entropy may be rewritten via operational expressions known as m-concurrences. Moreover, for different classes of bipartite or multipartite qudit systems we compute the bounds explicitly and discover that they are often tight or equivalent to positive partial transposition (PPT).

id: 0903.5096
title: Coherent States
authors: Peter W. Milonni, Michael Martin Nieto
comments: To appear in: Compendium of Quantum Physics: Concepts, Experiments, History and Philosophy, eds. D. Greenberger, K. Hentschel, and F. Weinert (Springer, New York, 2009), pp. 106-108
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5096
abstract: We concisely review the history, physics and significance of coherent states.

id: 0903.5100
title: Underbarrier interference
authors: B. Ivlev
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5100
abstract: Quantum tunneling through a two-dimensional static barrier becomes unusual when a momentum of an electron has a tangent component with respect to a border of the prebarrier region. If the barrier is not homogeneous in the direction perpendicular to tunneling a fraction of the electron state is waves propagating away from the barrier. When the tangent momentum is zero a mutual interference of the waves results in an exponentially small outgoing flux. The finite tangent momentum destroys the interference due to formation of caustics by the waves. As a result, a significant fraction of the prebarrier density is carried away from the barrier providing a not exponentially small penetration even through an almost classical barrier. The total electron energy is well below the barrier.

id: 0903.5132
title: Quantal statistical phase factor accompanying inter-change of two particles
authors: Boyan D. Obreshkov
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5132
abstract: It is shown that effects of particle identity entail reduction in the number of orbital degrees-of-freedom in non-relativistic 2-particle systems from 6 to 5. This effect of redundancy in description of orbital motion is found to be in correspondence to multiplicative phase factor $(-1)^{2s}$ which accompany interchange of the two particles, where $s$ is the spin of one particle.

id: 0903.5156
title: Public-key cryptography based on bounded quantum reference frames
authors: Lawrence M. Ioannou, Michele Mosca
comments: v3: added proof that individual attacks on protocol rounds are sufficient; to appear in Theoretical Computer Science (special issue on QKD)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5156
abstract: We demonstrate that the framework of bounded quantum reference frames has application to building quantum-public-key cryptographic protocols and proving their security. Thus, the framework we introduce can be seen as a public-key analogue of the framework of Bartlett et al. (Phys. Rev. A 70, 032307), where a private shared reference frame is shown to have cryptographic application. The protocol we present in this paper is an identification scheme, which, like a digital signature scheme, is a type of authentication scheme. We prove that our protocol is both reusable and secure under the honest-verifier assumption. Thus, we also demonstrate that secure reusable quantum-public-key authentication is possible to some extent.

id: 0903.5181
title: Numerical and Analytical Approach to the Quantum Dynamics of Two Coupled Spins in Bosonic Baths
authors: Alessandro Sergi, Ilya Sinayskiy, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A vol 80, 012108 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5181
abstract: The quantum dynamics of a spin chain interacting with multiple bosonic baths is described in a mixed Wigner-Heisenberg representation. The formalism is illustrated by simulating the time evolution of the reduced density matrix of two coupled spins, where each spin is also coupled to its own bath of harmonic oscillators. In order to prove the validity of the approach, an analytical solution in the Born-Markov approximation is found. The agreement between the two methods is shown.

id: 0903.5188
title: Quantum decision theory as quantum theory of measurement
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: Latex file, 11 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 6867-6871
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5188
abstract: We present a general theory of quantum information processing devices, that can be applied to human decision makers, to atomic multimode registers, or to molecular high-spin registers. Our quantum decision theory is a generalization of the quantum theory of measurement, endowed with an action ring, a prospect lattice and a probability operator measure. The algebra of probability operators plays the role of the algebra of local observables. Because of the composite nature of prospects and of the entangling properties of the probability operators, quantum interference terms appear, which make actions noncommutative and the prospect probabilities non-additive. The theory provides the basis for explaining a variety of paradoxes typical of the application of classical utility theory to real human decision making. The principal advantage of our approach is that it is formulated as a self-consistent mathematical theory, which allows us to explain not just one effect but actually all known paradoxes in human decision making. Being general, the approach can serve as a tool for characterizing quantum information processing by means of atomic, molecular, and condensed-matter systems.

id: 0903.5230
title: Method of constructing braid group representation and entanglement in a Yang-Baxter sysytem
authors: Taotao HU, Gangcheng Wang, Chunfang Sun, Chengcheng Zhou, Qingyong Wang, kang Xue
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5230
abstract: In this paper we present reducible representation of the $n^{2}$ braid group representation which is constructed on the tensor product of n-dimensional spaces. By some combining methods we can construct more arbitrary $n^{2}$ dimensional braiding matrix S which satisfy the braid relations, and we get some useful braiding matrix S. By Yang-Baxteraition approach, we derive a $ 9\times9 $ unitary $ \breve{R}$ according to a $ 9\times9 $ braiding S-matrix we have constructed. The entanglement properties of $ \breve{R}$-matrix is investigated, and the arbitrary degree of entanglement for two-qutrit entangled states can be generated via $ \breve{R}(\theta, \phi_{1},\phi_{2})$-matrix acting on the standard basis.

id: 0903.5233
title: Experimental demonstration of photonic entanglement collapse and revival
authors: Jin-Shi Xu, Chuan-Feng Li, Ming Gong, Xu-Bo Zou, Cheng-Hao Shi, Geng Chen, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, title changed, improved presentation, accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 100502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5233
abstract: We demonstrate the collapse and revival features of the entanglement dynamics of different polarization-entangled photon states in a non-Markovian environment. Using an all-optical experimental setup, we show that entanglement can be revived even after it suffers from sudden death. A maximally revived state is shown to violate a Bell's inequality with 4.1 standard deviations which verifies its quantum nature. The revival phenomenon observed in this experiment provides an intriguing perspective on entanglement dynamics.

id: 0903.5236
title: Large Deviation Bounds for k-designs
authors: Richard A. Low
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5236
abstract: We present a technique for derandomising large deviation bounds of functions on the unitary group. We replace the Haar distribution with a pseudo-random distribution, a k-design. k-designs have the first k moments equal to those of the Haar distribution. The advantage of this is that (approximate) k-designs can be implemented efficiently, whereas Haar random unitaries cannot. We find large deviation bounds for unitaries chosen from a k-design and then illustrate this general technique with three applications. We first show that the von Neumann entropy of a pseudo-random state is almost maximal. Then we show that, if the dynamics of the universe produces a k-design, then suitably sized subsystems will be in the canonical state, as predicted by statistical mechanics. Finally we show that pseudo-random states are useless for measurement based quantum computation.

id: 0903.5256
title: On the logical operators of quantum codes
authors: Mark M. Wilde
comments: 5 pages, sequel to the findings in arXiv:0804.1404
journal: Physical Review A 79, 062322 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5256
abstract: I show how applying a symplectic Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization to the normalizer of a quantum code gives a different way of determining the code's logical operators. This approach may be more natural in the setting where we produce a quantum code from classical codes because the generator matrices of the classical codes form the normalizer of the resulting quantum code. This technique is particularly useful in determining the logical operators of an entanglement-assisted code produced from two classical binary codes or from one classical quaternary code. Finally, this approach gives additional formulas for computing the amount of entanglement that an entanglement-assisted code requires.

id: 0903.5261
title: Metric approach to quantum constraints
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Anna C.T. Gustavsson, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A 42 (2009) 295303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5261
abstract: A new framework for deriving equations of motion for constrained quantum systems is introduced, and a procedure for its implementation is outlined. In special cases the framework reduces to a quantum analogue of the Dirac theory of constrains in classical mechanics. Explicit examples involving spin-1/2 particles are worked out in detail: in one example our approach coincides with a quantum version of the Dirac formalism, while the other example illustrates how a situation that cannot be treated by Dirac's approach can nevertheless be dealt with in the present scheme.

id: 0903.5277
title: Self-adjoint extensions and spectral analysis in Calogero problem
authors: D.M. Gitman, I.V. Tyutin, B.L. Voronov
comments: 39 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5277
abstract: In this paper, we present a mathematically rigorous quantum-mechanical treatment of a one-dimensional motion of a particle in the Calogero potential $\alpha x^{-2}$. Although the problem is quite old and well-studied, we believe that our consideration, based on a uniform approach to constructing a correct quantum-mechanical description for systems with singular potentials and/or boundaries, proposed in our previous works, adds some new points to its solution. To demonstrate that a consideration of the Calogero problem requires mathematical accuracy, we discuss some "paradoxes" inherent in the "naive" quantum-mechanical treatment. We study all possible self-adjoint operators (self-adjoint Hamiltonians) associated with a formal differential expression for the Calogero Hamiltonian. In addition, we discuss a spontaneous scale-symmetry breaking associated with self-adjoint extensions. A complete spectral analysis of all self-adjoint Hamiltonians is presented.

id: 0903.5293
title: Observation of strong coupling between a micromechanical resonator and an optical cavity field
authors: Simon Groeblacher, Klemens Hammerer, Michael R. Vanner, Markus Aspelmeyer
comments: Published version
journal: Nature 460, 724-727 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5293
abstract: Achieving coherent quantum control over massive mechanical resonators is a current research goal. Nano- and micromechanical devices can be coupled to a variety of systems, for example to single electrons by electrostatic or magnetic coupling, and to photons by radiation pressure or optical dipole forces. So far, all such experiments have operated in a regime of weak coupling, in which reversible energy exchange between the mechanical device and its coupled partner is suppressed by fast decoherence of the individual systems to their local environments. Controlled quantum experiments are in principle not possible in such a regime, but instead require strong coupling. So far, this has been demonstrated only between microscopic quantum systems, such as atoms and photons (in the context of cavity quantum electrodynamics) or solid state qubits and photons. Strong coupling is an essential requirement for the preparation of mechanical quantum states, such as squeezed or entangled states, and also for using mechanical resonators in the context of quantum information processing, for example, as quantum transducers. Here we report the observation of optomechanical normal mode splitting, which provides unambiguous evidence for strong coupling of cavity photons to a mechanical resonator. This paves the way towards full quantum optical control of nano- and micromechanical devices.

id: 0903.5381
title: Non-Adiabatic Fluctuation in Measured Geometric Phase
authors: Qing Ai, Wenyi Huo, Gui Lu Long, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 024101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5381
abstract: We study how the non-adiabatic effect causes the observable fluctuation in the "geometric phase" for a two-level system, which is defined as the experimentally measurable quantity in the adiabatic limit. From the Rabi's exact solution to this model, we give a reasonable explanation to the experimental discovery of phase fluctuation in the superconducting circuit system [P. J. Leek, \textit{et al}., Science \textbf{318}, 1889 (2007)], which seemed to be regarded as the conventional experimental error.

id: 0903.5382
title: Stochastic Wave-Function Unravelling of the Generalized Lindblad Master Equation
authors: Mervlyn Moodley, Francesco Petruccione
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5382
abstract: Recently a generalized master equation was derived that extends the Lindblad theory to highly non-Markovian quantum processes (H.-P. Breuer, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{75}, 022103 (2007)). We perform a stochastic unravelling of this master equation by considering $n$ random state vectors that satisfy the corresponding stochastic differential equation for a piecewise deterministic process. As an application we consider a two-state system randomly coupled to an environment consisting of two energy bands with finite number of levels. Our numerical results are compared to results obtained from the time-convolutionless (TCL) projection operator method using correlated projection superoperators and the exact solution of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for this system.

id: 0903.5406
title: Continuous variable teleportation with Non-Gaussian resources in the characteristic function representation
authors: L. Albano Farias
comments: PhD Thesis, University of Salerno, 20 March 2008, 105 pages, 26 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5406
abstract: A characteristic function (CF) based formalism for the representation of quantum optical operations pertaining to the Continuous Variable (CV) quantum teleportation protocol for general resource and input states is introduced; allowing for modifications of basic CV teleportation; such as lossy homodyne measurements and the presence of thermal noise. The output state CF is given as a product of the CFs of resource and input. The use of non-Gaussian resources is studied by means of a general class of two-mode squeezed Bell-like states that include as special cases Gaussian, non-Gaussian and "degaussified" resources; it is shown that Bell-like resources optimized ("tailored") for maximum fidelity yield a remarkable improvement in fidelity of teleportation for the studied input states. A further generalization is introduced with two-mode squeezed superpositions of Fock states including finite truncations of Gaussian states as special cases; it is shown that the optimization for maximum fidelity reduces these resources to truncated Gaussian states. Another class of non-Gaussian resources is introduced, optimized squeezed cat-like states; their performance is shown to be higher than that of a Gaussian state; but lower than that for the Bell-like states. It is shown that the optimal non-Gaussian resources are those that most closely realize the simultaneous maximization of the entanglement, the affinity with the two-mode squeezed vacuum and the (suitably measured) amount of non-Gaussianity. The teleportation of coherent state inputs is studied using squeezed Bell-like and squeezed cat-like states superimposed over Gaussian modes representing thermal noise; it is shown that the optimized non-Gaussian resources are more robust in the presence of noise then Gaussian resources.

id: 0903.5437
title: Constrained quantum dynamics
authors: Anna C. T. Gustavsson
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. Based on the talk presented at the DICE2008 conference in Castiglioncello, September 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5437
abstract: We give an overview of the two different methods that have been introduced in order to describe the dynamics of constrained quantum systems; the symplectic formulation and the metric formulation. The symplectic method extends the work of Dirac on constrained classical systems to quantum systems, whereas the metric approach is purely a quantum mechanical method having no immediate classical counterpart. Two examples are provided that illustrate the nonlinear motion induced by the constraint.

id: 0903.5466
title: Symmetric functions of qubits in an unknown basis
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures; v2: improved results, essentially published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062316 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5466
abstract: Consider an n qubit computational basis state corresponding to a bit string x, which has had an unknown local unitary applied to each qubit, and whose qubits have been reordered by an unknown permutation. We show that, given such a state with Hamming weight |x| at most n/2, it is possible to reconstruct |x| with success probability 1 - |x|/(n-|x|+1), and thus to compute any symmetric function of x. We give explicit algorithms for computing whether or not |x| is at least t for some t, and for computing the parity of x, and show that these are essentially optimal. These results can be seen as generalisations of the swap test for comparing quantum states.

id: 0903.5468
title: Asymptotically vanishing PT-symmetric potentials and negative-mass Schroedinger equations
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Petr Siegl, Gza Lvai
comments: 15 pp, 3 figs
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2009) 1921--1924
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5468
abstract: In paper I [M. Znojil and G. L\'evai, Phys. Lett. A 271 (2000) 327] we introduced the Coulomb - Kratzer bound-state problem in its cryptohermitian, PT-symmetric version. An instability of the original model is revealed and its necessary stabilization is achieved, for almost all couplings, by an unusual, negative choice of the bare mass in Schroediner equation.

id: 0903.0036
title: Gravitational eigenstates in weak gravity I: dipole decay rates of charged particles
authors: A D Ernest
comments: 25 pages, 2 tables, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 115207
subjects: Astrophysics of Galaxies (astro-ph.GA); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0036
abstract: The experimental demonstration that neutrons can reside in gravitational quantum stationary states formed in the gravitational field of the Earth indicates a need to examine in more detail the general theoretical properties of gravitational eigenstates. Despite the almost universal study of quantum theory applied to atomic and molecular states very little work has been done to investigate the properties of the hypothetical stationary states that should exist in similar types of gravitational central potential wells, particularly those with large quantum numbers. In this first of a series of papers, we attempt to address this shortfall by developing analytic, non-integral expressions for the electromagnetic dipole state-to-state transition rates of charged particles for any given initial and final gravitational quantum states. The expressions are non-relativistic and hence valid provided the eigenstate wavefunctions do not extend significantly into regions of strong gravity. The formulae may be used to obtain tractable approximations to the transition rates that can be used to give general trends associated with certain types of transitions. Surprisingly, we find that some of the high angular momentum eigenstates have extremely long lifetimes and a resulting stability that belies the multitude of channels available for state decay.

id: 0903.0037
title: Gravitational eigenstates in weak gravity II: further approximate methods for decay rates
authors: A D Ernest
comments: 36 pages, 2 tables, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 115208
subjects: Astrophysics of Galaxies (astro-ph.GA); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0037
abstract: This paper develops further approximate methods for obtaining the dipole matrix elements and corresponding transition and decay rates of the high-n, high-l gravitational eigenstates. These methods include (1) investigation of the polar spreads of the angular components of the high-n, high-l eigenstates and the effects these have on the limiting values of the angular components of the dipole matrix elements in the case of large l and m and (2) investigation of the rapid cut off and limited width of the low-p, high-n radial eigenfunctions, and the development of an equation to determine the width, position and oscillatory behaviour of those eigenfunctions in cases of arbitrarily large values of n, l and p. The methods have wider applicability than dipole transition rate estimates and may be also used to determine limits on the rates for more general interactions. Combining the methods enables the establishment of upper limits to the total dipole decay rates of many high-n, low-p states on the state diagram to be determined, even those that have many channels available for decay. The results continue to support the hypothetical existence of a specialized set of high-n, low-p gravitational eigenfunctions that are invisible and stable, both with respect to electromagnetic decay and gravitational collapse, making them excellent dark matter candidates.

id: 0903.0047
title: Efficient atomization of cesium metal in solid helium by low energy (10 $$J) femtosecond pulses
authors: Mathieu Melich, Jacques Dupont-Roc, Philippe Jacquier
comments: 
journal: European Physical Journal D (2009) 1
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0047
abstract: Metal atoms in solid and liquid helium-4 have attracted some interest either as a way to keep the atoms in a weakly perturbing matrix, or using them as a probe for the helium host medium. Laser sputtering with nanosecond pulsed lasers is the most often used method for atom production, resulting however in a substantial perturbation of the matrix. We show that a much weaker perturbation can be obtained by using femtosecond laser pulses with energy as low as 10 $\mu$J. As an unexpected benefit, the atomic density produced is much higher.

id: 0903.0057
title: Twisted speckle entities inside wavefront reversal mirrors
authors: A.Yu.Okulov
comments: 4 pages,3 figures, Accepted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013837 (2009) [4 pages]
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0057
abstract: The previously unknown property of the optical speckle pattern reported. The interference of a speckle with an oppositely moving phase-conjugated speckle wave produces a randomly distributed ensemble of a twisted entities (ropes) surrounding optical vortex lines. These entities appear in a wide range of randomly chosen speckle parameters inside the phase-conjugating mirrors regardless to an internal physical mechanism of the wavefront reversal. These numerically generated interference patterns are relevant to a Brillouin $\bf PC$-mirrors and to a four-wave mixing $\bf PC$-mirrors based upon laser trapped ultracold atomic cloud.

id: 0903.0234
title: Some Problems of Self-Adjoint Extension in the Schrodinger equation
authors: T. Nadareishvili, A. Khelashvili
comments: 23 pages,submitted to J.Phys.A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0234
abstract: The Self-Adjoint Extension in the Schrodinger equation for potentials behaved as an attractive inverse square at the origin is critically reviewed. Original results are also presented. It is shown that the additional solutions must be retained for definite interval of parameters, which requires performing of Self-Adjoint Extension necessarily. The "Pragmatic approach" is used and some of its consequences are considered for wide class of transitive potentials. The problems of restriction of Self-Adjoint Extension parameter are also discussed. Various relevant applications are presented as well.

id: 0903.0253
title: Quadratic Lie algebras and quasi-exact solvability of the two-photon Rabi Hamiltonian
authors: S. N. Dolya
comments: 10 pages. Typos corrected
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 033512 (2009)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0253
abstract: It is proved that the two-photon Rabi Hamiltonian is quasi exactly solvable on the basis of the two different quadratic Lie algebras.

id: 0903.0273
title: Variational Methods for Path Integral Scattering
authors: Julien Carron
comments: 62+1 pages, 7 figures, PDFLaTeX, master thesis ETH Zurich; Corrected some typos
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0273
abstract: In this master thesis, a new approximation scheme to non-relativistic potential scattering is developed and discussed. The starting points are two exact path integral representations of the T-matrix, which permit the application of the Feynman-Jensen variational method. A simple Ansatz for the trial action is made, and, in both cases, the variational procedure singles out a particular one-particle classical equation of motion, given in integral form. While the first is real, in the second representation this trajectory is complex and evolves according to an effective, time dependent potential. Using a cumulant expansion, the first correction to the variational approximation is also evaluated. The high energy behavior of the approximation is investigated, and is shown to contain exactly the leading and next-to-leading order of the eikonal expansion, and parts of higher terms. Our results are then numerically tested in two particular situations where others approximations turned out to be unsatisfactory. Substantial improvements are found.

id: 0903.0541
title: Black Hole Entropy and Finite Geometry
authors: Pter Lvay, Metod Saniga, Pter Vrana, Petr Pracna
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, v2 a new paragraph added, typos corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:084036,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0541
abstract: It is shown that the $E_{6(6)}$ symmetric entropy formula describing black holes and black strings in D=5 is intimately tied to the geometry of the generalized quadrangle GQ$(2,4)$ with automorphism group the Weyl group $W(E_6)$. The 27 charges correspond to the points and the 45 terms in the entropy formula to the lines of GQ$(2,4)$. Different truncations with $15, 11$ and 9 charges are represented by three distinguished subconfigurations of GQ$(2,4)$, well-known to finite geometers; these are the "doily" (i. e. GQ$(2,2)$) with 15, the "perp-set" of a point with 11, and the "grid" (i. e. GQ$(2,1)$) with 9 points, respectively. In order to obtain the correct signs for the terms in the entropy formula, we use a non- commutative labelling for the points of GQ$(2,4)$. For the 40 different possible truncations with 9 charges this labelling yields 120 Mermin squares -- objects well-known from studies concerning Bell-Kochen-Specker-like theorems. These results are connected to our previous ones obtained for the $E_{7(7)}$ symmetric entropy formula in D=4 by observing that the structure of GQ$(2,4)$ is linked to a particular kind of geometric hyperplane of the split Cayley hexagon of order two, featuring 27 points located on 9 pairwise disjoint lines (a distance-3-spread). We conjecture that the different possibilities of describing the D=5 entropy formula using Jordan algebras, qubits and/or qutrits correspond to employing different coordinates for an underlying non-commutative geometric structure based on GQ$(2,4)$.

id: 0903.0626
title: Typical state of an isolated quantum system with fixed energy and unrestricted participation of eigenstates
authors: Boris V. Fine
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 051130 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0626
abstract: This work describes the statistics for the occupation numbers of quantum levels in a large isolated quantum system, where all possible superpositions of eigenstates are allowed, provided all these superpositions have the same fixed energy. Such a condition is not equivalent to the conventional micro-canonical condition, because the latter limits the participating eigenstates to a very narrow energy window. The statistics is obtained analytically for both the entire system and its small subsystem. In a significant departure from the Boltzmann-Gibbs statistics, the average occupation numbers of quantum states exhibit in the present case weak algebraic dependence on energy. In the macroscopic limit, this dependence is routinely accompanied by the condensation into the lowest energy quantum state. This work contains initial numerical tests of the above statistics for finite systems, and also reports the following numerical finding: When the basis states of large but finite random matrix Hamiltonians are expanded in terms of eigenstates, the participation of eigenstates in such an expansion obeys the newly obtained statistics. The above statistics might be observable in small quantum systems, but for the macroscopic systems, it rather reenforces doubts about self-sufficiency of non-relativistic quantum mechanics for justifying the Boltzmann-Gibbs equilibrium.

id: 0903.0708
title: Angular momentum and the polar basis of harmonic oscillator
authors: Mehdi Hage-Hassan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0708
abstract: In this paper we follow the Schwinger approach for angular momentum but with the polar basis of harmonic oscillator as a starting point. We derive by a new method two analytic expressions of the elements of passage matrix from the double polar basis to 4- dimensions polar basis of the harmonic oscillator. These expressions are functions of the modules of magnetic moments. The connection between our results and the results derived by the group theory of Laguerre polynomials is found. We determine a new expression for these elements in terms of magnetic moments in the general case. We deduce from these expressions the symmetries of 3j symbols. A new generating function of the Clebsh-Gordan coefficients, functions of the modules of magnetic moments are found. We prove that the generating function of recoupling coefficients 3nj for the polar basis are the same in the Schwinger's approach therefore the polar basis of harmonic oscillator may be a starting point to study the angular momentum.

id: 0903.0715
title: The Veldkamp Space of GQ(2,4)
authors: Metod Saniga, Richard M. Green, Peter Levay, Petr Pracna, Peter Vrana
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, 1 table; v2 - substantially extended, another proof of the isomorphism furnished, a coauthor and 11 references added
journal: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics 7 (2010) 1133-1145
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0715
abstract: It is shown that the Veldkamp space of the unique generalized quadrangle GQ(2,4) is isomorphic to PG(5,2). Since the GQ(2,4) features only two kinds of geometric hyperplanes, namely point's perp-sets and GQ(2,2)s, the 63 points of PG(5,2) split into two families; 27 being represented by perp-sets and 36 by GQ(2,2)s. The 651 lines of PG(5,2) are found to fall into four distinct classes: in particular, 45 of them feature only perp-sets, 216 comprise two perp-sets and one GQ(2,2), 270 consist of one perp-set and two GQ(2,2)s and the remaining 120 ones are composed solely of GQ(2,2)s, according as the intersection of two distinct hyperplanes determining the (Veldkamp) line is, respectively, a line, an ovoid, a perp-set and a grid (i. e., GQ(2,1)) of a copy of GQ(2,2). A direct "by-hand" derivation of the above-listed properties is followed by their heuristic justification based on the properties of an elliptic quadric of PG(5,2) and complemented by a proof employing combinatorial properties of a 2-(28, 12, 11)-design and associated Steiner complexes. Surmised relevance of these findings for quantum (information) theory and the so-called black hole analogy is also outlined.

id: 0903.0783
title: Phonon-induced dephasing of singlet-triplet superpositions in double quantum dots without spin-orbit coupling
authors: Katarzyna Roszak, Pawel Machnikowski
comments: Extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 19531 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0783
abstract: We show that singlet-triplet superpositions of two-electron spin states in a double quantum dot undergo a phonon-induced pure dephasing which relies only on the tunnel coupling between the dots and on the Pauli exclusion principle. As such, this dephasing process is independent of spin-orbit coupling or hyperfine interactions. The physical mechanism behind the dephasing is elastic phonon scattering, which persists to much lower temperatures than real phonon-induced transitions. Quantitative calculations performed for a lateral GaAs/AlGaAs gate-defined double quantum dot yield micro-second dephasing times at sub-Kelvin temperatures, which is consistent with experimental observations.

id: 0903.0863
title: Realizing singlet-triplet qubits in multivalley Si quantum dots
authors: Dimitrie Culcer, Lukasz Cywinski, Qiuzi Li, Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 205302 (2009)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0863
abstract: There has been significant progress in the implementation and manipulation of singlet-triplet qubits in GaAs quantum dots. Given the considerably longer spin coherence times measured in Si, considerable interest has been generated recently in Si quantum dots. The physics of these systems is considerably more complex than the physics of GaAs quantum dots owing to the presence of the valley degree of freedom, which constitutes the focus of this work. In this paper we investigate the physics of Si quantum dots and focus on the feasibility of quantum coherent singlet-triplet qubit experiments analogous to those performed in GaAs. This additional degree of freedom greatly increases the complexity of the ground state and gives rise to highly nontrivial and interesting physics in the processes of qubit initialization, coherent manipulation and readout. We discuss the operational definition of a qubit in Si-based quantum dots. We find that in the presence of valley degeneracy a singlet-triplet qubit cannot be constructed, whereas for large valley splitting (>>k_B*T) the experiment is similar to GaAs. We show that experiments on singlet-triplet qubits analogous to those in GaAs would provide a method for estimating the valley coupling in Si. A Zeeman field distinguishes between different initialized states for any valley splitting and provides a tool to determine the size of this splitting.

id: 0903.0893
title: Hidden Messenger Revealed in Hawking Radiation: a Resolution to the Paradox of Black Hole Information Loss
authors: Baocheng Zhang, Qing-yu Cai, Li You, M S Zhan
comments: Any comment are welcome! A long paper showing how this calculation can be done for other types of black holes will be submitted soon
journal: Phys.Lett.B675:98-101,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0893
abstract: Using standard statistical method, we discover the existence of correlations among Hawking radiations (of tunneled particles) from a black hole. The information carried by such correlations is quantified by mutual information between sequential emissions. Through a careful counting of the entropy taken out by the emitted particles, we show that the black hole radiation as tunneling is an entropy conservation process. While information is leaked out through the radiation, the total entropy is conserved. Thus, we conclude the black hole evaporation process is unitary.

id: 0903.0895
title: Quantum Quench from a Thermal Initial State
authors: Spyros Sotiriadis, Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; short published version, added references, minor changes
journal: EPL 87 (2009) 20002
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0895
abstract: We consider a quantum quench in a system of free bosons, starting from a thermal initial state. As in the case where the system is initially in the ground state, any finite subsystem eventually reaches a stationary thermal state with a momentum-dependent effective temperature. We find that this can, in some cases, even be lower than the initial temperature. We also study lattice effects and discuss more general types of quenches.

id: 0903.0944
title: Entanglement evolution of a spin chain bath in driving the decoherence of a coupled quantum spin
authors: Zhi-Hui Wang, Bing-Shen Wang, Zhao-Bin Su
comments: accepted by Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 104428 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0944
abstract: For an electron spin in coupling with an interacting spin chain via hyperfine-type interaction, we investigate the dynamical evolutions of the pairwise entanglement of the spin chain and a correlation function joined the electron spin with a pair of chain spins in correspondence to the electron spin coherence evolution. Both quantities manifest a periodic and a decaying evolution. The entanglement of the spin bath is significant in distinguishing the zero-coherence status exhibited in periodic and decoherence evolutions of the electron spin. The periodical concurrence evolution of the spin bath characterizes the whole system in a coherence-preserving phase, particularly for the case that the associated periodic coherence evolution is predominated by zero-value in the infinite chain-length limit, which was often regarded as the realization of decoherence.

id: 0903.1236
title: Implementation of the quantum walk step operator in lateral quantum dots
authors: K.A. van Hoogdalem, M. Blaauboer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 125309 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1236
abstract: We propose a physical implementation of the step operator of the discrete quantum walk for an electron in a one-dimensional chain of quantum dots. The operating principle of the step operator is based on locally enhanced Zeeman splitting and the role of the quantum coin is played by the spin of the electron. We calculate the probability of successful transfer of the electron in the presence of decoherence due to quantum charge fluctuations, modeled as a bosonic bath. We then analyze two mechanisms for creating locally enhanced Zeeman splitting based on, respectively, locally applied electric and magnetic fields and slanting magnetic fields. Our results imply that a success probability of > 90% is feasible under realistic experimental conditions.

id: 0903.1246
title: Testing Local Realism in $P \to VV$ Decays
authors: Junli Li, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; to appear in Science in China Series G: Physics,Mechanics & Astronomy.
journal: Sci. China G53:870-875,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1246
abstract: It was found that the vector meson pair from the pseudoscalar decays can form an entangled state. In this work we give out detailed explanations on the polarization correlation of the two entangled vector mesons. It is demonstrated that an experimental test of the Clauser-Horne inequality can be carried out through measuring the azimuthal distribution of four pseudoscalars in the cascade decay $\eta_c \to VV \to (PP)(PP)$, and the measurement of this process is feasible with the current running experiments in tau-charm factory. Moreover, a brief discussion on the polarization correlation of the two vector mesons from $B \to VV$ decays is also presented.

id: 0903.1276
title: Evidence for Universal Four-Body States Tied to an Efimov Trimer
authors: F. Ferlaino, S. Knoop, M. Berninger, W. Harm, J. P. D'Incao, H.-C. N?gerl, R. Grimm
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 140401 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1276
abstract: We report on the measurement of four-body recombination rate coefficients in an atomic gas. Our results obtained with an ultracold sample of cesium atoms at negative scattering lengths show a resonant enhancement of losses and provide strong evidence for the existence of a pair of four-body states, which is strictly connected to Efimov trimers via universal relations. Our findings confirm recent theoretical predictions and demonstrate the enrichment of the Efimov scenario when a fourth particle is added to the generic three-body problem.

id: 0903.1315
title: Optics of Rotating Systems
authors: Bahram Mashhoon
comments: 8 pages, dedicated to the memory of John A. Wheeler, v2: slightly expanded version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A79:062111,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1315
abstract: Electrodynamics of rotating systems is expected to exhibit novel nonlocal features that come about when acceleration-induced nonlocality is introduced into the special relativity theory in conformity with the Bohr-Rosenfeld principle. The implications of nonlocality for the amplitude and frequency of electromagnetic radiation received by uniformly rotating observers are investigated.

id: 0903.1346
title: Effects of Space-Time Curvature on Spin-1/2 Particle Zitterbewegung
authors: Dinesh Singh, Nader Mobed
comments: 22 pages, no figures; slight revisions; accepted for publication in Classical and Quantum Gravity
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.26:185007,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1346
abstract: This paper investigates the properties of spin-1/2 particle Zitterbewegung in the presence of a general curved space-time background described in terms of Fermi normal co-ordinates, where the spatial part is expressed using general curvilinear co-ordinates. Adopting the approach first introduced by Barut and Bracken for Zitterbewegung in the local rest frame of the particle, it is shown that non-trivial gravitational contributions to the relative position and momentum operators appear due to the coupling of Zitterbewegung frequency terms with the Ricci curvature tensor in the Fermi frame, indicating a formal violation of the weak equivalence principle. Explicit expressions for these contributions are shown for the case of quasi-circular orbital motion of a spin-1/2 particle in a Vaidya background. Formal expressions also appear for the time-derivative of the Pauli-Lubanski vector due to space-time curvature effects coupled to the Zitterbewegung frequency. As well, the choice of curvilinear co-ordinates results in non-inertial contributions in the time evolution of the canonical momentum for the spin-1/2 particle, where Zitterbewegung effects lead to stability considerations for its propagation, based on the Floquet theory of differential equations.

id: 0903.1428
title: On singular Lagrangian underlying the Schr?dinger equation
authors: A. A. Deriglazov
comments: 04 pages, published version
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:3920-3923,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1428
abstract: We analyze the properties that manifest Hamiltonian nature of the Schr\"odinger equation and show that it can be considered as originating from singular Lagrangian action (with two second class constraints presented in the Hamiltonian formulation). It is used to show that any solution to the Schr\"odinger equation with time independent potential can be presented in the form $\Psi=(-\frac{\hbar^2}{2m}\triangle+V)\phi+i\hbar\partial_t\phi$, where the real field $\phi(t, x^i)$ is some solution to nonsingular Lagrangian theory being specified below. Preservation of probability turns out to be the energy conservation law for the field $\phi$. After introducing the field into the formalism, its mathematical structure becomes analogous to those of electrodynamics: the real field $\phi$ turns out to be a kind of potential for a wave function.

id: 0903.1454
title: Distinguishing Phases with Ansatz Wavefunctions
authors: B. Bauer, V.W. Scarola, M. Troyer, K.B. Whaley
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, with new results and significantly extended discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 085118 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1454
abstract: We propose an indistinguishability measure for assessment of ansatz wavefunctions with numerically determined wavefunctions. The measure efficiently compares all correlation functions of two states and can therefore be used to distinguish phases by defining correlator classes for ansatz wavefunctions. It also allows identification of quantum critical points. We demonstrate the approach for the transverse Ising model, using the matrix product state formalism with the time evolving block decimation algorithm.

id: 0903.1471
title: Dynamics and entanglement in spherically symmetric quantum gravity
authors: Viqar Husain, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. D81:044039,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1471
abstract: The gravity-scalar field system in spherical symmetry provides a natural setting for exploring gravitational collapse and its aftermath in quantum gravity. In a canonical approach, we give constructions of the Hamiltonian operator, and of semiclassical states peaked on constraint free data. Such states provide explicit examples of physical states. We also show that matter-gravity entanglement is an inherent feature of physical states, whether or not there is a black hole.

id: 0903.1591
title: Thermal and quantum fluctuations in chains of ultracold polar molecules
authors: G. E. Astrakharchik, Gabriele De Chiara, Giovanna Morigi, Jordi Boronat
comments: Submitted to the Special issue on modern applications of trapped ions, J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys
journal: Journal of Physics B 42, 154026 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1591
abstract: Ultracold polar molecules, in highly anisotropic traps and interacting via a repulsive dipolar potential, may form one-dimensional chains at high densities. According to classical theory, at low temperatures there exists a critical value of the density at which a second order phase transition from a linear to a zigzag chain occurs. We study the effect of thermal and quantum fluctuations on these self-organized structures using classical and quantum Monte Carlo methods, by means of which we evaluate the pair correlation function and the static structure factor. Depending on the parameters, these functions exhibit properties typical of a crystalline or of a liquid system. We compare the thermal and the quantum results, identifying analogies and differences. Finally, we discuss experimental parameter regimes where the effects of quantum fluctuations on the linear - zigzag transition can be observed.

id: 0903.1665
title: Mapping Approach for Quantum-Classical Time Correlation Functions
authors: Ali Nassimi, Raymond Kapral
comments: 
journal: Canadian Journal of Chemistry 87(7), 880-890 (2009) (Special Ziegler issue)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1665
abstract: The calculation of quantum canonical time correlation functions is considered in this paper. Transport properties, such as diffusion and reaction rate coefficients, can be determined from time integrals of these correlation functions. Approximate, quantum-classical expressions for correlation functions, which are amenable to simulation, are derived. These expressions incorporate the full quantum equilibrium structure of the system but approximate the dynamics by quantum-classical evolution where a quantum subsystem is coupled to a classical environment. The main feature of the formulation is the use of a mapping basis where the subsystem quantum states are represented by fictitious harmonic oscillator states. This leads to a full phase space representation of the dynamics that can be simulated without appeal to surface-hopping methods. The results in this paper form the basis for new simulation algorithms for the computation of quantum transport properties of large many-body systems.

id: 0903.1800
title: Temporal Platonic Metaphysics
authors: A. Mikovic
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1800
abstract: In this essay we describe a platonic metaphysics where time is a fundamental idea such that the passage of time is independent of observers and the laws of physics. Furthermore, time serves to distinguish between a real and an abstract universe, where a real universe is an appropriatelly ordered set of ideas in time, while an abstract universe is such a set outside of time. We allow for non-computable and non-mathematical ideas to be part of our model of the universe in order to include intelligent observers. The part of the universe which can be described by mathematics corresponds to a mathematical structure in Tegmark's sense, while the non-mathematical part can be described by a human language. We describe the mind-brain connection in our framework, and show that it resolves the problem of obtaining abstract knowledge in platonism. We briefly discuss how different interpretations of Quantum Mechanics can be implemented in our framework and point out some physics implications, most notably that the time travel would be impossible.

id: 0903.1910
title: Geometrodynamics of polarized light: Berry phase and spin Hall effect in a gradient-index medium
authors: Konstantin Y. Bliokh
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures, review to appear in special issue of J. Opt. A: Pure Appl. Opt
journal: J. Opt. A: Pure Appl. Opt. 11, 094009 (2009)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1910
abstract: We review the geometrical-optics evolution of an electromagnetic wave propagating along a curved ray trajectory in a gradient-index dielectric medium. A Coriolis-type term appears in Maxwell equations under transition to the rotating coordinate system accompanying the ray. This term describes the spin-orbit coupling of light which consists of (i) the Berry phase responsible for a trajectory-dependent polarization variations and (ii) the spin Hall effect representing polarization-dependent trajectory perturbations. These mutual phenomena are described within universal geometrical structures underlying the problem and are explained by the dynamics of the intrinsic angular momentum carried by the wave. Such close geometro-dynamical interrelations illuminate a dual physical nature of the phenomena.

id: 0903.2030
title: Demonstration of Two-Qubit Algorithms with a Superconducting Quantum Processor
authors: L. DiCarlo, J. M. Chow, J. M. Gambetta, Lev S. Bishop, B. R. Johnson, D. I. Schuster, J. Majer, A. Blais, L. Frunzio, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 6 pages, 1 table, 4 figures, and Supplementary Information (3 pages, 3 figures); Expanded author list, updated references, and minor improvements to text and figures
journal: Nature 460, 240-244 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2030
abstract: By harnessing the superposition and entanglement of physical states, quantum computers could outperform their classical counterparts in solving problems of technological impact, such as factoring large numbers and searching databases. A quantum processor executes algorithms by applying a programmable sequence of gates to an initialized register of qubits, which coherently evolves into a final state containing the result of the computation. Simultaneously meeting the conflicting requirements of long coherence, state preparation, universal gate operations, and qubit readout makes building quantum processors challenging. Few-qubit processors have already been shown in nuclear magnetic resonance, cold ion trap and optical systems, but a solid-state realization has remained an outstanding challenge. Here we demonstrate a two-qubit superconducting processor and the implementation of the Grover search and Deutsch-Jozsa quantum algorithms. We employ a novel two-qubit interaction, tunable in strength by two orders of magnitude on nanosecond time scales, which is mediated by a cavity bus in a circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) architecture. This interaction allows generation of highly-entangled states with concurrence up to 94%. Although this processor constitutes an important step in quantum computing with integrated circuits, continuing efforts to increase qubit coherence times, gate performance and register size will be required to fulfill the promise of a scalable technology.

id: 0903.2103
title: Nonlinear delocalization on disordered Stark ladder
authors: Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Dima L.Shepelyansky
comments: Research found at this http URL
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 71, 121-124 (2009)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2103
abstract: We study effects of weak nonlineary on localization of waves in disordered Stark ladder corresponding to propagation in presence of disorder and a static field. Our numerical results show that nonlinearity leads to delocalization with subdiffusive spreading along the ladder. The exponent of spreading remains close to its value in absence of the static field.

id: 0903.2196
title: Electrically detected interferometry of Majorana fermions in a topological insulator
authors: A. R. Akhmerov, Johan Nilsson, C. W. J. Beenakker
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 216404 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2196
abstract: We show how a chiral Dirac fermion (a massless electron or hole) can be converted into a pair of neutral chiral Majorana fermions (a particle equal to its own antiparticle). These two types of fermions exist on the metallic surface of a topological insulator, respectively, at a magnetic domain wall and at a magnet-superconductor interface. Interferometry of Majorana fermions is a key operation in topological quantum computation, but the detection is problematic since these particles have no charge. The Dirac-Majorana converter enables electrical detection of the interferometric signal.

id: 0903.2242
title: Quantum Noise Interference and Back-action Cooling in Cavity Nanomechanics
authors: Florian Elste, S. M. Girvin, A. A. Clerk
comments: 4+ pages, 2 figures. Error in second last paragraph corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 102, 207209 (2009).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2242
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of a novel cavity electromechanical system where a mechanical resonator directly modulates the damping rate kappa of a driven electromagnetic cavity. We show that via a destructive interference of quantum noise, the driven cavity can effectively act like a zero-temperature bath irrespective of the ratio kappa / omega_M, where omega_M is the mechanical frequency. This scheme thus allows one to cool the mechanical resonator to its ground state without requiring the cavity to be in the so-called `good cavity' limit kappa << omega_M.

id: 0903.2254
title: Emergent superfluid crystals, frustration, and topologically defected states in multimode cavity QED
authors: Sarang Gopalakrishnan, Benjamin L. Lev, Paul M. Goldbart
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; added references
journal: Nature Physics, 4th October 2009
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2254
abstract: We propose that condensed matter phenomena involving the spontaneous emergence and dynamics of crystal lattices can be realized in the setting of ultracold Bose-condensed atoms coupled to multimode cavities. Previously, it was shown that in the case of a transversely pumped single-mode cavity, the atoms self-organize at either the even or the odd antinodes of the cavity mode, given sufficient pump intensity, and hence spontaneously break a discrete translational symmetry. Here, we demonstrate that in multimode cavities the self-organization brings the additional feature of continuous translational symmetry breaking, via a variant of Brazovskii's transition, thus paving the way for realizations of compliant lattices and associated phenomena, e.g., quantum melting, topological defects, frustration, glassiness, and even supersolidity; such phenomena are absent in ultracold atomic systems when the optical lattices are externally imposed. We apply a functional integral approach to this many-body cavity QED system, which enables us, inter alia, to calculate transition thresholds, explore fluctuations near this transition, and determine how such fluctuations are manifest in the light emitted from the cavity.

id: 0903.2256
title: Pure quantum dephasing of a solid state electron spin qubit in a large nuclear spin bath coupled by long-range hyperfine-mediated interactions
authors: L. Cywinski, W.M. Witzel, S. Das Sarma
comments: 25 pages, 10 figures, new title, one new figure, section VB changed, accepted for publication in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 245314 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2256
abstract: We investigate decoherence due to pure dephasing of a localized spin qubit interacting with a nuclear spin bath. Although in the limit of a very large magnetic field the only decoherence mechanism is spectral diffusion due to dipolar flip-flops of nuclear spins, with decreasing field the hyperfine-mediated interactions between the nuclear spins become important. We take advantage of their long-range nature, and resum the leading terms in an 1/N expansion of the decoherence time-evolution function (N, being the number of nuclear spins interacting appreciably with the electron spin, is large). For the case of the thermal uncorrelated bath we show that our theory is applicable down to low magnetic fields (~10 mT for a large dot with N=10^6) allowing for comparison with recent experiments in GaAs quantum dot spin qubits. Within this approach we calculate the free induction decay and spin echo decoherence in GaAs and InGaAs as a function of the number of the nuclei in the bath (i.e. the quantum dot size) and the magnetic field. Our theory for free induction decay in a narrowed nuclear bath is shown to agree with the exact solution for decoherence due to hyperfine-mediated interaction which can be obtained when all the nuclei-electron coupling constants are identical. For the spin echo evolution we show that the dominant decoherence process at low fields is due to interactions between nuclei having significantly different Zeeman energies (i.e. nuclei of As and two isotopes of Ga in GaAs), and we compare our results with recent measurements of spin echo signal of a single spin confined in a GaAs quantum dot. For the same set of parameters we perform calculations of decoherence under various dynamical decoupling pulse sequences, and predict the effect of these sequences in low B regime in GaAs.

id: 0903.2258
title: Black holes, information and decoherence
authors: Stephen D. H. Hsu, David Reeb
comments: 7 pages, revtex; v2: added discussion of laboratory decoherence experiments, minor changes, final version to be published in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:124037,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2258
abstract: We investigate the experimental capabilities required to test whether black holes destroy information. We show that an experiment capable of illuminating the information puzzle must necessarily be able to detect or manipulate macroscopic superpositions (i.e., Everett branches). Hence, it could also address the fundamental question of decoherence versus wavefunction collapse.

id: 0903.2261
title: Stability of a BEC with Higher-order Interactions near a Feshbach Resonance
authors: N.T. Zinner, M. Th?gersen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, Revtex4, revised version, changed title
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 023607 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2261
abstract: We consider the stability of an ultracold trapped Bose-Einstein condensate near a Feshbach resonance. Using a modified Gross-Pitaevskii equation that includes higher-order terms and a multi-channel model of Feshbach resonances, we find regions where stability can be enhanced or suppressed around experimentally measured resonances. We suggest a number of ways to probe the stability diagram. Using scattering length zero-crossings huge deviations are founds for the critical particle number. Effects are enhanced for narrow resonances or tighter traps. Macroscopic tunneling of the condensate is another possible probe for higher-order interactions, however, to see this requires very narrow resonances or very small particle numbers.

id: 0903.2365
title: Beam-like Excitations of Kerr-Schild Geometry and Semiclassical Mechanism of Black-Hole Evaporation
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 8 pages, revtex4, 3 figures, treatment is extended, new figure and references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2365
abstract: It has been observed that exact solutions for electromagnetic (EM) excitations of the Kerr-Schild (KS) geometry form outgoing beams which have very strong back reaction to metric and break the black hole horizon. As a result, interaction of a black hole with nearby electromagnetic field and electromagnetic vacuum has to cover the horizon by a set of fluctuating microholes. We integrate and analyze the Debney-Kerr-Schild equations for electromagnetic excitations of a black-hole and obtain that the exact solutions for outgoing radiation contain two related but radically different components which shed light on a possible semi-classical mechanism of black-hole evaporation: a) first component consists of the singular beam pulses which perforate horizon, breaking its impenetrability, and b) another component is regular and responsible for the loss of mass similar to the known Vaidya `shining star' radiation. We show also that the mysterious twosheeted twistor structure of the Kerr-Schild geometry corresponds to a holographic structure of quantum black hole spacetimes predicted by Stephens, t' Hooft and Whiting. The resulting Kerr-Schild geometry of fluctuating twistor-beams takes an intermediate position between the classical and quantum gravity.

id: 0903.2438
title: Quantum cosmic censor: gravitation makes reality undecidable
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Jorge Pullin
comments: 3 Pages, This essay received an honorable mention from the Gravity Research Foundation essay competition in 2008
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. D17, 2535-2538 (2008)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2438
abstract: When one takes into account gravitation, the measurement of space and time cannot be carried out with infinite accuracy. When quantum mechanics is reformulated taking into account this lack of accuracy, the resolution of the measurement problem can be implemented via decoherence without the usual pitfalls. The resulting theory has the same physical predictions of quantum mechanics with a reduction postulate, but is radically different, with the quantum states evolving unitarily in terms of the underlying variables. Gravitation therefore makes this worrisome situation, potentially leading to two completely different views of reality, irrelevant from an empirical point of view. It may however be highly relevant from a philosophical point of view.

id: 0903.2464
title: Non-Abelian optical lattices: Anomalous quantum Hall effect and Dirac Fermions
authors: N. Goldman, A. Kubasiak, A. Bermudez, P. Gaspard, M. Lewenstein, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures + additional references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 035301 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2464
abstract: We study the properties of an ultracold Fermi gas loaded in an optical square lattice and subjected to an external and classical non-Abelian gauge field. We show that this system can be exploited as an optical analogue of relativistic quantum electrodynamics, offering a remarkable route to access the exotic properties of massless Dirac fermions with cold atoms experiments. In particular we show that the underlying Minkowski space-time can also be modified, reaching anisotropic regimes where a remarkable anomalous quantum Hall effect and a squeezed Landau vacuum could be observed.

id: 0903.2597
title: Particle resonance in the Dirac equation in the presence of a delta interaction and a perturbative hyperbolic potential
authors: Victor M. Villalba, Luis A. Gonzalez-Diaz
comments: 6 pages, Latex2e, to appear in Eur. Phys. Journal C
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C61:519-525,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2597
abstract: In the present article we show that the energy spectrum of the one-dimensional Dirac equation, in the presence of an attractive vectorial delta potential, exhibits a resonant behavior when one includes an asymptotically spatially vanishing weak electric field associated with a hyperbolic tangent potential. We solve the Dirac equation in terms of Gauss hyper-geometric functions and show explicitly how the resonant behavior depends on the strength of the electric field evaluated at the support of the point interaction. We derive an approximate expression for the value of the resonances and compare the results calculated for the hyperbolic potential with those obtained for a linear perturbative potential. Finally, we characterize the resonances with the help of the phase shift and the Wigner delay time.

id: 0903.2604
title: Unified theory of exactly and quasi-exactly solvable `Discrete' quantum mechanics: I. Formalism
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 32 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys 51 (2010) 083502
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2604
abstract: We present a simple recipe to construct exactly and quasi-exactly solvable Hamiltonians in one-dimensional `discrete' quantum mechanics, in which the Schr\"{o}dinger equation is a difference equation. It reproduces all the known ones whose eigenfunctions consist of the Askey scheme of hypergeometric orthogonal polynomials of a continuous or a discrete variable. The recipe also predicts several new ones. An essential role is played by the sinusoidal coordinate, which generates the closure relation and the Askey-Wilson algebra together with the Hamiltonian. The relationship between the closure relation and the Askey-Wilson algebra is clarified.

id: 0903.2609
title: The Aharonov-Bohm Effect and Tonomura et al. Experiments. Rigorous Results
authors: Miguel Ballesteros, Ricardo Weder
comments: 63 pages,5 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics vol 50 (2009) 122108. 54 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2609
abstract: We study the Aharonov-Bohm effect under the conditions of the Tonomura et al. experiments, that gave a strong evidence of the physical existence of the Aharonov-Bohm effect, and we give the first rigorous proof that the classical Ansatz of Aharonov and Bohm is a good approximation to the exact solution of the Schroedinger equation. We provide a rigorous, quantitative, error bound for the difference in norm between the exact solution and the approximate solution given by the Aharonov-Bohm Ansatz. Our error bound is uniform in time. Using the experimental data, we rigorously prove that the results of the Tonomura et al. experiments, that were predicted by Aharonov and Bohm, actually follow from quantum mechanics. Furthermore, our results show that it would be quite interesting to perform experiments for intermediate size electron wave packets (smaller than the ones used in the Tonomura et al. experiments, that were much larger than the magnet) whose variance satisfies appropriate lower and upper bounds that we provide. One could as well take a larger magnet. In this case, the interaction of the electron wave packet with the magnet is negligible -the probability that the electron wave packet interacts with the magnet is smaller than $10^{-199}$- and, moreover, quantum mechanics predicts the results observed by Tonomura et al. with an error bound smaller than $10^{-99}$, in norm. Our error bound has a physical interpretation. For small variances it is due to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle and for large variances to the interaction with the magnet.

id: 0903.2681
title: The Jahn-Teller instability in dissipative quantum electromechanical systems
authors: Charles P. Meaney, Tim Duty, Ross H. McKenzie, Gerard J. Milburn
comments: 24 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043805 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2681
abstract: We consider the steady states of a harmonic oscillator coupled so strongly to a two-level system (a qubit) that the rotating wave approximation cannot be made. The Hamiltonian version of this model is known as the $E\otimes\beta$ Jahn-Teller model. The semiclassical version of this system exhibits a fixed point bifurcation, which in the quantum model leads to a ground state with substantial entanglement between the oscillator and the qubit. We show that the dynamical bifurcation survives in a dissipative quantum description of the system, amidst an even richer bifurcation structure. We propose two experimental implementations of this model based on superconducting cavities: a parametrically driven nonlinear nanomechanical resonator coupled capacitively to a coplanar microwave cavity and a superconducting junction in the central conductor of a coplanar waveguide.

id: 0903.2835
title: Factorization of non-linear supersymmetry in one-dimensional Quantum Mechanics. II: proofs of theorems on reducibility
authors: A.V. Sokolov
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Math. Sci. 151:2 (2008) 2924-2936
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2835
abstract: In this paper, we continue to study factorization of supersymmetric (SUSY) transformations in one-dimensional Quantum Mechanics into chains of elementary Darboux transformations with nonsingular coefficients. We define the class of potentials that are invariant under the Darboux - Crum transformations and prove a number of lemmas and theorems substantiating the formulated formerly conjectures on reducibility of differential operators for spectral equivalence transformations. Analysis of the general case is performed with all the necessary proofs.

id: 0903.2853
title: Rational Orthogonal versus Real Orthogonal
authors: Dragomir Z. Djokovic, Simone Severini, Ferenc Szollosi
comments: 23 pages
journal: Electronic Journal of Linear Algebra 18 (2009) 649-673
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2853
abstract: The main question we raise here is the following one: given a real orthogonal n by n matrix X, is it true that there exists a rational orthogonal matrix Y having the same zero-pattern? We conjecture that this is the case and prove it for n<=5. We also consider the related problem for symmetric orthogonal matrices.

id: 0903.2936
title: Coherent control of an effective two-level system in a non-Markovian biomolecular environment
authors: Jens Eckel, John Henry Reina, Michael Thorwart
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures, minor modifications, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 085001 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2936
abstract: We investigate the quantum coherent dynamics of an externally driven effective two-level system subjected to a slow Ohmic environment characteristic of biomolecular protein-solvent reservoirs in photosynthetic light harvesting complexes. By means of the numerically exact quasi adiabatic propagator path integral (QUAPI) method we are able to include non-Markovian features of the environment and show the dependence of the quantum coherence on the characteristic bath cut-off frequency omega_c as well as on the driving frequency omega_l and the field amplitude A. Our calculations extend from the weak coupling regime to the incoherent strong coupling regime. In the latter case, we find evidence for a resonant behaviour, beyond the expected behaviour, when the reorganization energy E_r coincides with the driving frequency. Moreover, we investigate how the coherent destruction of tunneling within the two-level system is influenced by the non-Markovian environment.

id: 0903.2991
title: Density, phase and coherence properties of a low dimensional Bose-Einstein systems moving in a disordered potential
authors: Chaitanya Joshi, Sankalpa Ghosh
comments: 12 pages, 15 figures, EPJB style, accepted for publication in the topical issue of EPJB on "Novel Quantum phases and Mesoscopic physics in Quantum gases"
journal: The European Physical Journal B, Vol 68, page 467-477 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2991
abstract: We present a detailed numerical study of the dynamics of a disordered one-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensates in position and momentum space. We particularly focus on the region where non-linearity and disorder simultaneously effect the time propagation of the condensate as well as the possible interference between various parts of the matter wave. We report oscillation between spatially extended and localized behavior for the propagating condensate which dies down with increasing non-linearity. We also report intriguing behavior of the phase fluctuation and the coherence properties of the matter wave. We also briefly compare these behavior with that of a two-dimensional condensate. We mention the relevance of our results to the related experiments on Anderson localization and indicate the possibility of future experiments

id: 0903.3042
title: Positive maps, positive polynomials and entanglement witnesses
authors: Lukasz Skowronek, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 325302
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3042
abstract: We link the study of positive quantum maps, block positive operators, and entanglement witnesses with problems related to multivariate polynomials. For instance, we show how indecomposable block positive operators relate to biquadratic forms that are not sums of squares. Although the general problem of describing the set of positive maps remains open, in some particular cases we solve the corresponding polynomial inequalities and obtain explicit conditions for positivity.

id: 0903.3110
title: Saddle Points in the Auxiliary Field Method
authors: Hiroki Aono, Taro Kashiwa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3110
abstract: Investigations are made on the saddle point calculations (SPC) under the auxiliary field method in path integrations. Two different ways of SPC are considered, Method(I) and Method(II), to be checked in an integral representation of the Gamma function, \Gamma (N), as a bosonic example and in a four-fermi type of Grassmann integral where one "fermion mass" \omega_0 differs from the other N-degenerate species. The recipe of Method(I) seems rather complicated than that of (II) superficially, but the case turns out to be opposite in the actual situation. A general formalism allows us to calculate for \Gamma (N) up to O(1/N^{14}). It is found that both happen to coincide in the bosonic case but in the fermionic case Method(II) shows a huge deviation in the weak coupling region where \omega_0 \ll 1.

id: 0903.3113
title: A semiclassical study of the Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: O. Babelon, L. Cantini, B. Doucot
comments: pdfLaTeX, 51 pages, 19 figures, references added and improved figure captions. To appear in J. Stat. Mech
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3113
abstract: We consider the Jaynes-Cummings model of a single quantum spin $s$ coupled to a harmonic oscillator in a parameter regime where the underlying classical dynamics exhibits an unstable equilibrium point. This state of the model is relevant to the physics of cold atom systems, in non-equilibrium situations obtained by fast sweeping through a Feshbach resonance. We show that in this integrable system with two degrees of freedom, for any initial condition close to the unstable point, the classical dynamics is controlled by a singularity of the focus-focus type. In particular, it displays the expected monodromy, which forbids the existence of global action-angle coordinates. Explicit calculations of the joint spectrum of conserved quantities reveal the monodromy at the quantum level, as a dislocation in the lattice of eigenvalues. We perform a detailed semi-classical analysis of the associated eigenstates. Whereas most of the levels are well described by the usual Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization rules, properly adapted to polar coordinates, we show how these rules are modified in the vicinity of the critical level. The spectral decomposition of the classically unstable state is computed, and is found to be dominated by the critical WKB states. This provides a useful tool to analyze the quantum dynamics starting from this particular state, which exhibits an aperiodic sequence of solitonic pulses with a rather well defined characteristic frequency.

id: 0903.3162
title: Instability of Black Hole Horizon With Respect to Electromagnetic Excitations
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: v.3: Final published version, 7pages, 3 figures, Essay, First Award of the Gravity Research Foundation 2009
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav.41:2281-2286,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3162
abstract: Analyzing exact solutions of the Einstein-Maxwell equations in the Kerr-Schild formalism we show that black hole horizon is instable with respect to electromagnetic excitations. Contrary to perturbative smooth harmonic solutions, the exact solutions for electromagnetic excitations on the Kerr background are accompanied by singular beams which have very strong back reaction to metric and break the horizon, forming the holes which allow radiation to escape interior of black-hole. As a result, even the weak vacuum fluctuations break the horizon topologically, covering it by a set of fluctuating microholes. We conclude with a series of nontrivial consequences, one of which is that there is no information loss inside of black-hole.

id: 0903.3297
title: Quantum Zeno dynamics: mathematical and physical aspects
authors: P. Facchi, S. Pascazio
comments: 52 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 493001, Topical Review
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3297
abstract: If frequent measurements ascertain whether a quantum system is still in its initial state, transitions to other states are hindered and the quantum Zeno effect takes place. However, in its broader formulation, the quantum Zeno effect does not necessarily freeze everything. On the contrary, for frequent projections onto a multidimensional subspace, the system can evolve away from its initial state, although it remains in the subspace defined by the measurement. The continuing time evolution within the projected "quantum Zeno subspace" is called "quantum Zeno dynamics:" for instance, if the measurements ascertain whether a quantum particle is in a given spatial region, the evolution is unitary and the generator of the Zeno dynamics is the Hamiltonian with hard-wall (Dirichlet) boundary conditions. We discuss the physical and mathematical aspects of this evolution, highlighting the open mathematical problems. We then analyze some alternative strategies to obtain a Zeno dynamics and show that they are physically equivalent.

id: 0903.3341
title: Comment on "Observation of a Push Force on the End Face of a Nanometer Silica Filament Exerted by Outgoing Light" [PRL 101, 243601 (2008)]
authors: Iver Brevik
comments: 1 page latex. The text is partially reformulated. To appear as a Comment in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3341
abstract: A brief discussion is given on the recent experiment of She et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 243601 (2008), arXiv:0806.2442], in relation to the Abraham-Minkowski energy-momentum problem.

id: 0903.3345
title: Time-resolved measurement of Landau-Zener tunneling in periodic potentials
authors: A. Zenesini, H. Lignier, G. Tayebirad, J. Radogostowicz, D. Ciampini, R. Mannella, S. Wimberger, O. Morsch, E. Arimondo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3345
abstract: We report time-resolved measurements of Landau-Zener tunneling of Bose-Einstein condensates in accelerated optical lattices, clearly resolving the step-like time dependence of the band populations. Using different experimental protocols we were able to measure the tunneling probability both in the adiabatic and in the diabatic bases of the system. We also experimentally determine the contribution of the momentum width of the Bose condensates to the width of the tunneling steps and discuss the implications for measuring the jump time in the Landau-Zener problem.

id: 0903.3552
title: Cavity QED in a molecular ion trap
authors: D. I. Schuster, Lev S. Bishop, I. L. Chuang, D. DeMille, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012311 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3552
abstract: We propose an approach for studying quantum information and performing high resolution spectroscopy of rotational states of trapped molecular ions using an on-chip superconducting microwave resonator. Molecular ions have several advantages over neutral molecules. Ions can be loaded into deep (1 eV) RF traps and are trapped independent of the electric dipole moment of their rotational transition. Their charge protects them from motional dephasing and prevents collisional loss, allowing 1 s coherence times when used as a quantum memory, with detection of single molecules possible in <10 ms. An analysis of the detection efficiency and coherence properties of the molecules is presented.

id: 0903.3680
title: Compact Time and Determinism for Bosons: foundations
authors: Donatello Dolce
comments: For editorial reasons the present version (0903.3680v5 accepted for publication in Found. Phys.) is focused on the foundational points of 0903.3680v4 (par.1, par.2 and par.3.2). The remaining parts (par.3.1, app.A and app.B) will be extended and published in dedicated papers. 28 pages, 3 figures
journal: Found.Phys.41:178-203,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3680
abstract: Free bosonic fields are investigated at a classical level by imposing their characteristic de Broglie periodicities as constraints. In analogy with finite temperature field theory and with extra-dimensional field theories, this compactification naturally leads to a quantized energy spectrum. As a consequence of the relation between periodicity and energy arising from the de Broglie relation, the compactification must be regarded as dynamical and local. The theory, whose fundamental set-up is presented in this paper, turns out to be consistent with special relativity and in particular respects causality. The non trivial classical dynamics of these periodic fields show remarkable overlaps with ordinary quantum field theory. This can be interpreted as a generalization of the AdS/CFT correspondence.

id: 0903.3681
title: Physical Consequences of Complex Dimensions of Fractals
authors: Eric Akkermans, Gerald V. Dunne, Alexander Teplyaev
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; v2: references added, as published in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys. Lett. 88, 40007 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3681
abstract: It has recently been realized that fractals may be characterized by complex dimensions, arising from complex poles of the corresponding zeta function, and we show here that these lead to oscillatory behavior in various physical quantities. We identify the physical origin of these complex poles as the exponentially large degeneracy of the iterated eigenvalues of the Laplacian, and discuss applications in quantum mesoscopic systems such as oscillations in the fluctuation $\Sigma^2 (E)$ of the number of levels, as a correction to results obtained in Random Matrix Theory. We present explicit expressions for these oscillations for families of diamond fractals, also studied as hierarchical lattices.

id: 0903.3740
title: Entanglement entropy with localized and extended interface defects
authors: Ferenc Igli, Zsolt Szatmri, Yu-Cheng Lin
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 024405 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3740
abstract: The quantum Ising chain of length, L, which is separated into two parts by localized or extended defects is considered at the critical point where scaling of the interface magnetization is non-universal. We measure the entanglement entropy between the two halves of the system in equilibrium, as well as after a quench, when the interaction at the interface is changed for time t>0. For the localized defect the increase of the entropy with log(L) or with log(t) involves the same effective central charge, which is a continuous function of the strength of the defect. On the contrary for the extended defect the equilibrium entropy is saturated, but the non-equilibrium entropy has a logarithmic time-dependence the prefactor of which depends on the strength of the defect.

id: 0903.3741
title: A System F accounting for scalars
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Alejandro Diaz-Caro
comments: 
journal: LMCS 8 (1:11) 2012
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3741
abstract: The Algebraic lambda-calculus and the Linear-Algebraic lambda-calculus extend the lambda-calculus with the possibility of making arbitrary linear combinations of terms. In this paper we provide a fine-grained, System F-like type system for the linear-algebraic lambda-calculus. We show that this "scalar" type system enjoys both the subject-reduction property and the strong-normalisation property, our main technical results. The latter yields a significant simplification of the linear-algebraic lambda-calculus itself, by removing the need for some restrictions in its reduction rules. But the more important, original feature of this scalar type system is that it keeps track of 'the amount of a type' that is present in each term. As an example of its use, we shown that it can serve as a guarantee that the normal form of a term is barycentric, i.e that its scalars are summing to one.

id: 0903.3875
title: Statistical quantum operation
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe, Yuichi Itto, Mamoru Matsunaga
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: Modern Physics Letters B 24, 2015 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3875
abstract: A generic unital positive operator-valued measure (POVM), which transforms a given stationary pure state to an arbitrary statistical state with perfect decoherence, is presented. This allows one to operationally realize thermalization as a special case. The loss of information due to randomness generated by the operation is discussed by evaluating the entropy. Thermalization of the bipartite spin-1/2 system is discussed as an illustrative example.

id: 0903.4368
title: Convergent relaxations of polynomial optimization problems with non-commuting variables
authors: Stefano Pironio, Miguel Navascues, Antonio Acin
comments: 35 pages. v2: Improved notation and revised proof of Theorem 1
journal: SIAM J. Optim. Volume 20, Issue 5, pp. 2157-2180 (2010)
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4368
abstract: We consider optimization problems with polynomial inequality constraints in non-commuting variables. These non-commuting variables are viewed as bounded operators on a Hilbert space whose dimension is not fixed and the associated polynomial inequalities as semidefinite positivity constraints. Such problems arise naturally in quantum theory and quantum information science. To solve them, we introduce a hierarchy of semidefinite programming relaxations which generates a monotone sequence of lower bounds that converges to the optimal solution. We also introduce a criterion to detect whether the global optimum is reached at a given relaxation step and show how to extract a global optimizer from the solution of the corresponding semidefinite programming problem.

id: 0903.4560
title: Quantum Zeno Effect
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko, Bretislav Friedrich
comments: Popular article about Quantum Zeno Effect (in Czech), in Festschrift to Prof. Rudolf Zahradnik
journal: Chem. Listy 102, 880 (2008)
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4560
abstract: We present the physics of the quantum Zeno effect, whose gist is often expressed by invoking the adage "a watched pot never boils". We review aspects of the theoretical and experimental work done on the effect since its inception in 1977, and mention some applications. We dedicate the article - with our very best wishes - to Rudolf Zahradnik at the occasion of his great jubilee. Perhaps Rudolf's lasting youthfulness and freshness are due to that he himself had been frequently observed throughout his life: until the political turn-around in 1989 by those who wished, by their surveillance, to prevent Rudolf from spoiling the youth by his personal culture and his passion for science and things beautiful and useful in general. This attempt had failed. Out of gratitude, the youth has infected Rudolf with its youthfulness. Chronically. Since 1989, Rudolf has been closely watched by the public at large. For the same traits of his as before, but with the opposite goal and for the benefit of all generations. We relish keeping him in sight ...

id: 0903.4699
title: High-field Overhauser DNP in silicon below the metal-insulator transition
authors: Anatoly E. Dementyev, David G. Cory, Chandrasekhar Ramanathan
comments: expanded and extensively modified, 20 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys, vol. 134, 154511 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4699
abstract: Single crystal silicon is an excellent system in which to explore dynamic nuclear polarization (DNP), as it exhibits a continuum of properties from metallic to insulating as a function of doping concentration and temperature. At low doping concentrations DNP has been observed to occur via the solid effect, while at very high doping concentrations an Overhauser mechanism is responsible. Here we report the hyperpolarization of 29Si in n-doped silicon crystals, with doping concentrations in the range of 1-3 x 10^17 /cc. In this regime exchange interactions between donors become extremely important. The sign of the enhancement in our experiments and its frequency dependence suggest that the 29Si spins are directly polarized by donor electrons via an Overhauser mechanism within exchange-coupled donor clusters. The exchange interaction between donors only needs to be larger than the silicon hyperfine interaction (typically much smaller than the donor hyperfine coupling) to enable this Overhauser mechanism. Nuclear polarization enhancement is observed for a range of donor clusters in which the exchange energy is comparable to the donor hyperfine interaction. The DNP dynamics are characterized by a single exponential time constant that depends on the microwave power, indicating that the Overhauser mechanism is the rate-limiting step. Since only about 2 % of the silicon nuclei are located within one Bohr radius of the donor electron, nuclear spin diffusion is important in transferring the polarization to all the spins. However, the spin-diffusion time is much shorter than the Overhauser time due to the relatively weak silicon hyperfine coupling strength. In a 2.35 T magnetic field at 1.1 K, we observed a DNP enhancement of $244 +/- 84 resulting in a silicon polarization of $10.4 +/- 3.4 % following two hours of microwave irradiation.

id: 0903.4827
title: A Supersymmetric Approach to Excited States via Quantum Monte Carlo
authors: Eric R. Bittner, Jeremy B. Maddox, Donald J. Kouri
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4827
abstract: We present here a supersymmetric (SUSY) approach for determining excitation energies within the context of a quantum Monte Carlo scheme. By using the fact that SUSY quantum mechanics gives rises to a series of isospectral Hamiltonians, we show that Monte Carlo ground-state calculations in the SUSY partners can be used to reconstruct accurately both the spectrum and states of an arbitrary Schr\"odinger equation. Since the ground-state of each partner potential is node-less, we avoid any ``node''-problem typically associated with the Monte Carlo technique. While we provide an example of using this approach to determine the tunneling states in a double-well potential, the method is applicable to any 1D potential problem. We conclude by discussing the extension to higher dimensions.

id: 0903.4837
title: Experimental demonstration of single-site addressability in a two-dimensional optical lattice
authors: Peter Wrtz, Tim Langen, Tatjana Gericke, Andreas Koglbauer, Herwig Ott
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 080404 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4837
abstract: We demonstrate single site addressability in a two-dimensional optical lattice with 600 nm lattice spacing. After loading a Bose-Einstein condensate in the lattice potential we use a focused electron beam to remove atoms from selected sites. The patterned structure is subsequently imaged by means of scanning electron microscopy. This technique allows us to create arbitrary patterns of mesoscopic atomic ensembles. We find that the patterns are remarkably stable against tunneling diffusion. Such micro-engineered quantum gases are a versatile resource for applications in quantum simulation, quantum optics and quantum information processing with neutral atoms.

id: 0903.4888
title: The Born Rule Dies
authors: Don N. Page
comments: LaTeX, 16 pages, typos in Eqs. (4.3) and (6.2) corrected
journal: JCAP 0907:008,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4888
abstract: The Born rule may be stated mathematically as the rule that probabilities in quantum theory are expectation values of a complete orthogonal set of projection operators. This rule works for single laboratory settings in which the observer can distinguish all the different possible outcomes corresponding to the projection operators. However, theories of inflation suggest that the universe may be so large that any laboratory, no matter how precisely it is defined by its internal state, may exist in a large number of very distantly separated copies throughout the vast universe. In this case, no observer within the universe can distinguish all possible outcomes for all copies of the laboratory. Then normalized probabilities for the local outcomes that can be locally distinguished cannot be given by the expectation values of any projection operators. Thus the Born rule dies and must be replaced by another rule for observational probabilities in cosmology. The freedom of what this new rule is to be is the measure problem in cosmology. A particular volume-averaged form is proposed.

id: 0903.5016
title: Pulsating and persistent vector solitons in a Bose-Einstein condensate in a lattice upon phase separation instability
authors: Uttam Shrestha, Juha Javanainen, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 (2009) 190401
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5016
abstract: We study numerically the outcome of the phase separation instability of a dual-species Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical lattice. When only one excitation mode is unstable a bound pair of a bright and dark soliton-like structures periodically appears and disappears, whereas for more than one unstable mode a persistent soliton-antisoliton pair develops. The oscillating soliton represents a regime where the two-species condensate neither remains phase-separated nor is dynamically stable.

id: 0903.5115
title: The average value inequality in sequential effect algebras
authors: Shen Jun, Wu Junde
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5115
abstract: A sequential effect algebra $(E,0,1, \oplus, \circ)$ is an effect algebra on which a sequential product $\circ$ with certain physics properties is defined, in particular, sequential effect algebra is an important model for studying quantum measurement theory. In 2005, Gudder asked the following problem: If $a, b\in (E,0,1,\oplus, \circ)$ and $a\bot b$ and $a\circ b\bot a\circ b$, is it the case that $2(a\circ b)\leq a^2\oplus b^2$ ? In this paper, we construct an example to answer the problem negatively.

id: 0903.5116
title: Remarks on the sequential effect algebras
authors: Shen Jun, Wu Junde
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5116
abstract: In this paper, first, we answer affirmatively an open problem which was presented in 2005 by professor Gudder on the sub-sequential effect algebras. That is, we prove that if $(E,0,1, \oplus, \circ)$ is a sequential effect algebra and $A$ is a commutative subset of $E$, then the sub-sequential effect algebra $\bar{A}$ generated by $A$ is also commutative. Next, we also study the following uniqueness problem: If $na=nb=c$ for some positive integer $n\geq 2$, then under what conditions $a=b$ hold? We prove that if $c$ is a sharp element of $E$ and $a|b$, then $a=b$. We give also two examples to show that neither of the above two conditions can be discarded.

id: 0903.5336
title: Geometric and deformation quantization
authors: Christoph N?lle
comments: 28 pages; sections 4.3 & 5.1 corrected + minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5336
abstract: We present a simple geometric construction linking geometric to deformation quantization. Both theories depend on some apparently arbitrary parameters, most importantly a polarization and a symplectic connection, and for real polarizations we find a compatibility condition restricting the set of admissible connections. In the special case when phase space is a cotangent bundle this compatibility condition has many solutions, and the resulting quantum theory not only reproduces the well-known geometric quantization scheme, but also allows to quantize all interesting observables. For K\"ahler manifolds there is no compatibility condition, but a canonical choice for the parameters. The explicit form of the observables however remains undetermined.

id: 0903.5368
title: New Kinetic Equations and Bogolyubov Energy Spectrum in a Fermi Quantum Plasma
authors: Nodar L.Tsintsadze, Levan N.Tsintsadze
comments: Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5368
abstract: New type of quantum kinetic equations of the Fermi particles are derived. The Bogolyubov's type of dispersion relation, which is valid for the Bose fluid, is disclosed. Model of neutral Bose atoms in dense strongly coupled plasmas with attractive interaction is discussed. A set of fluid equations describing the quantum plasmas is obtained. Furthermore, the equation of state of a degenerate Fermi plasma is derived.

id: 0903.5378
title: On the N-dimensional hydrogen atom in momentum representation
authors: Mehdi Hage-Hassan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5378
abstract: We derive the wave function for N-dimensional hydrogen atom in the momentum representation with the phase factor using the generating function method and Hankel's integral.

id: 0903.5418
title: Factor-Group-Generated Polar Spaces and (Multi-)Qudits
authors: Hans Havlicek, Boris Odehnal, Metod Saniga
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures, 1 table; Version 2 - slightly polished, updated references; Version 3 - published version in SIGMA
journal: Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications 5 (2009) 096 (15 pages)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5418
abstract: Recently, a number of interesting relations have been discovered between generalised Pauli/Dirac groups and certain finite geometries. Here, we succeeded in finding a general unifying framework for all these relations. We introduce gradually necessary and sufficient conditions to be met in order to carry out the following programme: Given a group $\vG$, we first construct vector spaces over $\GF(p)$, $p$ a prime, by factorising $\vG$ over appropriate normal subgroups. Then, by expressing $\GF(p)$ in terms of the commutator subgroup of $\vG$, we construct alternating bilinear forms, which reflect whether or not two elements of $\vG$ commute. Restricting to $p=2$, we search for ``refinements'' in terms of quadratic forms, which capture the fact whether or not the order of an element of $\vG$ is $\leq 2$. Such factor-group-generated vector spaces admit a natural reinterpretation in the language of symplectic and orthogonal polar spaces, where each point becomes a ``condensation'' of several distinct elements of $\vG$. Finally, several well-known physical examples (single- and two-qubit Pauli groups, both the real and complex case) are worked out in detail to illustrate the fine traits of the formalism.

id: 0903.5485
title: Finite Temperature Casimir Effect and Dispersion in the Presence of Compactified Extra Dimensions
authors: Marianne Rypest?l, Iver Brevik
comments: 25 pages, one figure. Minor changes in the discussion. Version to appear in Physica Scripta
journal: Phys.Scripta 82:035101,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5485
abstract: Finite temperature Casimir theory of the Dirichlet scalar field is developed, assuming that there is a conventional Casimir setup in physical space with two infinitely large plates separated by a gap R and in addition an arbitrary number q of extra compacified dimensions. As a generalization of earlier theory, we assume in the first part of the paper that there is a scalar 'refractive index' N filling the whole of the physical space region. After presenting general expressions for free energy and Casimir forces we focus on the low temperature case, as this is of main physical interest both for force measurements and also for issues related to entropy and the Nernst theorem. Thereafter, in the second part we analyze dispersive properties, assuming for simplicity q=1, by taking into account dispersion associated with the first Matsubara frequency only. The medium-induced contribution to the free energy, and pressure, is calculated at low temperatures.

id: 0903.5278
title: Damping of Exciton Rabi Rotations by Acoustic Phonons in Optically Excited InGaAs/GaAs Quantum Dots
authors: A. J. Ramsay, Achanta Venu Gopal, E. M. Gauger, A. Nazir, B. W. Lovett, A. M. Fox, M. S. Skolnick
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs, Accepted Physical review letters changes to referee comments + supplement
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.5278
abstract: We report experimental evidence identifying acoustic phonons as the principal source of the excitation-induced-dephasing (EID) responsible for the intensity damping of quantum dot excitonic Rabi rotations. The rate of EID is extracted from temperature dependent Rabi rotation measurements of the ground-state excitonic transition, and is found to be in close quantitative agreement with an acoustic-phonon model.

id: 0903.4034
title: Outer Resonances and Effective Potential Analogy in Two-Dimensional Dielectric Cavities
authors: Jinhang Cho, Inbo Kim, Sunghwan Rim, Geo-Su Yim, Chil-Min Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4034
abstract: Outer resonances are studied as one type of quasinormal modes in two-dimensional dielectric cavities with refractive index $n>1$. The outer resonances can be verified as the resonances which survive only outside the cavity in the small opening limit of the dielectric disk. We have confirmed that the outer resonances universally exist in deformed cavities irrespective of the geometry of cavity and they split into nearly degenerate states in slightly deformed cavity. Also we pointed out that the effective potential analogy is inapplicable to the description of outer resonances. Since most outer resonances in the dielectric cavities have quite high leakages, they would affect to the broad background in the density of states. Especially, for TE polarization case, relatively low-leaky outer resonances exist and it presents the possibility that they can interact with the inner resonances and affect lasing modes.

id: 0903.3277
title: High nitrogen-vacancy density diamonds for magnetometry applications
authors: V. M. Acosta, E. Bauch, M. P. Ledbetter, C. Santori, K.-M. C. Fu, P. E. Barclay, R. G. Beausoleil, H. Linget, J. F. Roch, F. Treussart, S. Chemerisov, W. Gawlik, D. Budker
comments: Accepted by PRB (July 29, 2009), 24 pages, 10 figures, 3 tables
journal: Phys.Rev.B80:115202,2009
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3277
abstract: Nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in millimeter-scale diamond samples were produced by irradiation and subsequent annealing under varied conditions. The optical and spin relaxation properties of these samples were characterized using confocal microscopy, visible and infrared absorption, and optically detected magnetic resonance. The sample with the highest NV- concentration, approximately 16 ppm = 2.8 x 10^{18} cm^{-3}, was prepared with no observable traces of neutrally-charged vacancy defects. The effective transverse spin relaxation time for this sample was T2* = 118(48) ns, predominately limited by residual paramagnetic nitrogen which was determined to have a concentration of 52(7) ppm. Under ideal conditions, the shot-noise limited sensitivity is projected to be ~150 fT/\sqrt{Hz} for a 100 micron-scale magnetometer based on this sample. Other samples with NV- concentrations from .007 to 12 ppm and effective relaxation times ranging from 27 to 291 ns were prepared and characterized.

id: 0903.2102
title: Accuracy thresholds of topological color codes on the hexagonal and square-octagonal lattices
authors: Masayuki Ohzeki
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, the previous title was "Threshold of topological color code". This is the published version in Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.2102
abstract: Accuracy thresholds of quantum error correcting codes, which exploit topological properties of systems, defined on two different arrangements of qubits are predicted. We study the topological color codes on the hexagonal lattice and on the square-octagonal lattice by the use of mapping into the spin glass systems. The analysis for the corresponding spin glass systems consists of the duality, and the gauge symmetry, which has succeeded in deriving locations of special points, which are deeply related with the accuracy thresholds of topological error correcting codes. We predict that the accuracy thresholds for the topological color codes would be $1-p_c = 0.1096-8 $ for the hexagonal lattice and $1-p_c = 0.1092-3$ for the square-octagonal lattice, where $1-p$ denotes the error probability on each qubit. Hence both of them are expected to be slightly lower than the probability $1-p_c = 0.110028$ for the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov bound with a zero encoding rate.

id: 0903.4641
title: Relativity implications of the quantum phase
authors: Stephen G. Low
comments: Quantum Theory and Symmetries 7 (Prague, Aug. 2011)
journal: 2012 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 343 012069
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4641
abstract: The quantum phase leads to projective representations of symmetry groups in quantum mechanics. The projective representations are equivalent to the unitary representations of the central extension of the group. A celebrated example is Wigner's formulation of special relativistic quantum mechanics as the projective representations of the inhomogeneous Lorentz group. However, Wigner's formulation makes no mention of the Weyl-Heisenberg group and the hermitian representation of its algebra that are the Heisenberg commutation relations fundamental to quantum physics. We put aside the relativistic symmetry and show that the maximal quantum symmetry that leaves the Heisenberg commutation relations invariant is the projective representations of the conformally scaled inhomogeneous symplectic group. The Weyl-Heisenberg group and noncommutative structure arises directly because the quantum phase requires projective representations. We then consider the relativistic implications of the quantum phase that lead to the Born line element and the projective representations of an inhomogeneous unitary group that defines a noninertial quantum theory. (Understanding noninertial quantum mechanics is a prelude to understanding quantum gravity.) The remarkable properties of this symmetry and its limits are studied.

id: 0903.0566
title: Quantum LDPC codes with positive rate and minimum distance proportional to n^{1/2}
authors: Jean-Pierre Tillich, Gilles Zemor
comments: 21 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory. Vol. 60, No 2, pp. 1193--1202. 2014
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.0566
abstract: The current best asymptotic lower bound on the minimum distance of quantum LDPC codes with fixed non-zero rate is logarithmic in the blocklength. We propose a construction of quantum LDPC codes with fixed non-zero rate and prove that the minimum distance grows proportionally to the square root of the blocklength.

id: 0903.1960
title: Conformal Tightness of Holographic Scaling in Black Hole Thermodynamics
authors: Horacio E. Camblong, Carlos R. Ordonez
comments: 23 pages, 1 figure. v2 & v3: expanded explanations and proofs, references added, typos corrected; v3: published version
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 30 (2013) 175007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.1960
abstract: The near-horizon conformal symmetry of nonextremal black holes is shown to be a mandatory ingredient for the holographic scaling of the scalar-field contribution to the black hole entropy. This conformal tightness is revealed by semiclassical first-principle scaling arguments through an analysis of the multiplicative factors in the entropy due to the radial and angular degrees of freedom associated with a scalar field. Specifically, the conformal SO(2,1) invariance of the radial degree of freedom conspires with the area proportionality of the angular momentum sums to yield a robust holographic outcome.

