id: 0904.0003
title: The impact of classical electronics constraints on a solid-state logical qubit memory
authors: James E. Levy, Anand Ganti, Cynthia A. Phillips, Benjamin R. Hamlet, Andrew J. Landahl, Thomas M. Gurrieri, Robert D. Carr, Malcolm S. Carroll
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0003
abstract: We describe a fault-tolerant memory for an error-corrected logical qubit based on silicon double quantum dot physical qubits. Our design accounts for constraints imposed by supporting classical electronics. A significant consequence of the constraints is to add error-prone idle steps for the physical qubits. Even using a schedule with provably minimum idle time, for our noise model and choice of error-correction code, we find that these additional idles negate any benefits of error correction. Using additional qubit operations, we can greatly suppress idle-induced errors, making error correction beneficial, provided the qubit operations achieve an error rate less than $2 \times 10^{-5}$. We discuss other consequences of these constraints such as error-correction code choice and physical qubit operation speed. While our analysis is specific to this memory architecture, the methods we develop are general enough to apply to other architectures as well.

id: 0904.0036
title: Optimized Noise Filtration through Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Hermann Uys, Michael J. Biercuk, John J. Bollinger
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures version 2 - Different nomenclature to describe sequences - More detailed explanation contrasting feedback routine implemented here to that in previous work - Statements on the constraints on noise spectra which will allow improved error suppression added. - Typos corrected and other minor changes made
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0036
abstract: One approach to maintaining phase coherence of qubits through dynamical decoupling consists of applying a sequence of Hahn spin-echo pulses. Recent studies have shown that, in certain noise environments, judicious choice of the delay times between these pulses can greatly improve the suppression of phase errors compared to traditional approaches. By enforcing a simple analytical condition, we obtain sets of dynamical decoupling sequences that are designed for optimized noise filtration and are spectrum-independent up to a single scaling factor set by the coherence time of the system. We demonstrate the efficacy of these sequences in suppressing phase errors through measurements on a model qubit system, $^{9}$Be$^{+}$ ions in a Penning trap. Our combined theoretical and experimental studies show that in high-frequency-dominated noise environments this approach may suppress phase errors orders of magnitude more efficiently than comparable techniques can.

id: 0904.0049
title: Non-critical squeezing in 2-transverse-mode optical parametric oscillators
authors: Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Alejandro Romanelli, Eugenio Rold¨¢n, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 81, 043829 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0049
abstract: In this article we explore the quantum properties of a degenerate optical parametric oscillator when it is tuned to the first family of transverse modes at the down converted frequency.

id: 0904.0056
title: Fault tolerant quantum key distribution based on quantum dense coding with collective noise
authors: Xi-Han Li, Bao-Kui Zhao, Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 5 page, no figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Informaton 7(8), 1479-1489 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0056
abstract: We present two robust quantum key distribution protocols against two kinds of collective noise, following some ideas in quantum dense coding. Three-qubit entangled states are used as quantum information carriers, two of which forming the logical qubit which is invariant with a special type of collective noise. The information is encoded on logical qubits with four unitary operations, which can be read out faithfully with Bell-state analysis on two physical qubits and a single-photon measurement on the other physical qubit, not three-photon joint measurements. Two bits of information are exchanged faithfully and securely by transmitting two physical qubits through a noisy channel. When the losses in the noisy channel is low, these protocols can be used to transmit a secret message directly in principle.

id: 0904.0060
title: Modelling the effect of charge noise on the exchange interaction between spins
authors: M. J. Testolin, J. H. Cole, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0060
abstract: We describe how the effect of charge noise on a pair of spins coupled via the exchange interaction can be calculated by modelling charge fluctuations as a random telegraph noise process using probability density functions. We develop analytic expressions for the time dependent superoperator of a pair of spins as a function of fluctuation amplitude and rate. We show that the theory can be extended to include multiple fluctuators, in particular, spectral distributions of fluctuators. These superoperators can be included in time dependent analyses of the state of spin systems designed for spintronics or quantum information processing to determine the decohering effects of exchange fluctuations.

id: 0904.0090
title: The representations of Temperley-Lieb algebras and entanglement in a Yang-Baxter system
authors: Chunfang Sun, Gangcheng Wang, Taotao Hu, Chengcheng Zhou, Qingyong Wang, Kang Xue
comments: 6 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 7, No. 6 (2009) 1285-1293
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0090
abstract: A method of constructing Temperley-Lieb algebras(TLA) representations has been introduced in [Xue \emph{et.al} arXiv:0903.3711]. Using this method, we can obtain another series of $n^{2}\times n^{2}$ matrices $U$ which satisfy the TLA with the single loop $d=\sqrt{n}$. Specifically, we present a $9\times9$ matrix $U$ with $d=\sqrt{3}$. Via Yang-Baxterization approach, we obtain a unitary $ \breve{R}(\theta ,\varphi_{1},\varphi_{2})$-matrix, a solution of the Yang-Baxter Equation. This $9\times9$ Yang-Baxter matrix is universal for quantum computing.

id: 0904.0092
title: Entanglement and Berry Phase in a $9\times 9$ Yang-Baxter system
authors: Chunfang Sun, Gangcheng Wang, Kang Xue
comments: 10 pages
journal: Quant.Inf.Proc.8:415-429,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0092
abstract: A M-matrix which satisfies the Hecke algebraic relations is presented. Via the Yang-Baxterization approach, we obtain a unitary solution $\breve{R}(\theta,\varphi_{1},\varphi_{2})$ of Yang-Baxter Equation. It is shown that any pure two-qutrit entangled states can be generated via the universal $\breve{R}$-matrix assisted by local unitary transformations. A Hamiltonian is constructed from the $\breve{R}$-matrix, and Berry phase of the Yang-Baxter system is investigated. Specifically, for $ \varphi_{1}=\varphi_{2}$, the Hamiltonian can be represented based on three sets of SU(2) operators, and three oscillator Hamiltonians can be obtained. Under this framework, the Berry phase can be interpreted.

id: 0904.0107
title: Random unitary dynamics of quantum networks
authors: J. Novotny, G. Alber, I. Jex
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0107
abstract: We investigate the asymptotic dynamics of quantum networks under repeated applications of random unitary operations. It is shown that in the asymptotic limit of large numbers of iterations this dynamics is generally governed by a typically low dimensional attractor space. This space is determined completely by the unitary operations involved and it is independent of the probabilities with which these unitary operations are applied. Based on this general feature analytical results are presented for the asymptotic dynamics of arbitrarily large cyclic qubit networks whose nodes are coupled by randomly applied controlled-NOT operations.

id: 0904.0115
title: Dynamics of an inhomogeneous quantum phase transition
authors: Jacek Dziarmaga, Marek M. Rams
comments: 7 pages; version to appear in a special issue of New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 055007 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0115
abstract: We argue that in a second order quantum phase transition driven by an inhomogeneous quench density of quasiparticle excitations is suppressed when velocity at which a critical point propagates across a system falls below a threshold velocity equal to the Kibble-Zurek correlation length times the energy gap at freeze-out divided by $\hbar$. This general prediction is supported by an analytic solution in the quantum Ising chain. Our results suggest, in particular, that adiabatic quantum computers can be made more adiabatic when operated in an "inhomogeneous" way.

id: 0904.0150
title: Hidden symmetry and nonlinear paraxial atom optics
authors: Fran?ois Impens
comments: Final Version. Changes in the abstract and minor changes in the text with respect to the version published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 063617 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0150
abstract: A hidden symmetry of the nonlinear wave equation is exploited to analyse the propagation of paraxial and uniform atom-laser beams in time-independent, quadratic and cylindrical potentials varying smoothly along the propagation axis. The quality factor and the paraxial ABCD formalism are generalized to account exactly for mean-field interaction effects in such beams. Using an approach based on moments, these theoretical tools provide a very simple and yet exact picture of the interacting beam profile evolution. Guided atom laser experiments are discussed. This treatment addresses simultaneously optical and atomic beams in a unified manner, exploiting the formal analogy between nonlinear optics and nonlinear paraxial atom optics.

id: 0904.0163
title: Quantum Optical Metrology -- The Lowdown on High-N00N States
authors: Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 38 pages, 10 figures
journal: Contemporary Physics 49 (2): 125-143 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0163
abstract: Quantum states of light, such as squeezed states or entangled states, can be used to make measurements (metrology), produce images, and sense objects with a precision that far exceeds what is possible classically, and also exceeds what was once thought to be possible quantum mechanically. The primary idea is to exploit quantum effects to beat the shot-noise limit in metrology and the Rayleigh diffraction limit in imaging and sensing. Quantum optical metrology has received a boost in recent years with an influx of ideas from the rapidly evolving field of optical quantum information processing. Both areas of research exploit the creation and manipulation of quantum-entangled states of light. We will review some of the recent theoretical and experimental advances in this exciting new field of quantum optical metrology, focusing on examples that exploit a particular two-mode entangled photon state -- the High-N00N state.

id: 0904.0234
title: The impact of magnetic properties on atom-wall interaction
authors: G. Bimonte, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A79:042906,2009.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0234
abstract: The Lifshitz-type formulas for the free energy and Casimir-Polder force acting between an atom possessing a permanent magnetic moment and a wall made of different materials are derived. Simple model allowing analytic results is considered where the atomic magnetic susceptibility is frequency-independent and wall is made of ideal metal. Numerical computations of the Casimir-Polder force are performed for H atom interacting with walls made of ideal metal, nonmagnetic (Au) and ferromagnetic (Fe) metals and of ferromagnetic dielectric. It is shown that for the first three wall materials the inclusion of the magnetic moment of an atom decreases and for the fourth material increases the magnitude of the Casimir-Polder force.

id: 0904.0238
title: Bragg spectroscopy for measuring Casimir-Polder interactions with Bose-Einstein condensates above corrugated surfaces
authors: Gustavo A. Moreno, Diego A. R. Dalvit, Esteban Calzetta
comments: revised version
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 033009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0238
abstract: We propose a method to probe dispersive atom-surface interactions by measuring via two-photon Bragg spectroscopy the dynamic structure factor of a Bose-Einstein condensate above corrugated surfaces. This method takes advantage of the condensate coherence to reveal the spatial Fourier components of the lateral Casimir-Polder interaction energy.

id: 0904.0267
title: Casimir forces in the time domain: I. Theory
authors: Alejandro W. Rodriguez, Alexander P. McCauley, John D. Joannopoulos, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, 80(1):012115, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0267
abstract: We introduce a method to compute Casimir forces in arbitrary geometries and for arbitrary materials based on the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) scheme. The method involves the time-evolution of electric and magnetic fields in response to a set of current sources, in a modified medium with frequency-independent conductivity. The advantage of this approach is that it allows one to exploit existing FDTD software, without modification, to compute Casimir forces. In this manuscript, part I, we focus on the derivation, implementation choices, and essential properties of the time-domain algorithm, considered both analytically and illustrated in the simplest parallel-plate geometry. Part II presents results for more complex two- and three-dimensional geometries.

id: 0904.0281
title: A Generalization of Quantum Stein's Lemma
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 30 pages. (see posting by M. Piani arXiv:0904.2705 for a different proof of the strict positiveness of the regularized relative entropy of entanglement on every entangled state). published version.
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 295, 791 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0281
abstract: We present a generalization of quantum Stein's Lemma to the situation in which the alternative hypothesis is formed by a family of states, which can moreover be non-i.i.d.. We consider sets of states which satisfy a few natural properties, the most important being the closedness under permutations of the copies. We then determine the error rate function in a very similar fashion to quantum Stein's Lemma, in terms of the quantum relative entropy. Our result has two applications to entanglement theory. First it gives an operational meaning to an entanglement measure known as regularized relative entropy of entanglement. Second, it shows that this measure is faithful, being strictly positive on every entangled state. This implies, in particular, that whenever a multipartite state can be asymptotically converted into another entangled state by local operations and classical communication, the rate of conversion must be non-zero. Therefore, the operational definition of multipartite entanglement is equivalent to its mathematical definition.

id: 0904.0290
title: Wigner-Yanase-Dyson information as a measure of quantum uncertainty of mixed states
authors: D. Li, X. Li, H. Huang, X. Li, L.C. Kwek
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0290
abstract: In this paper, we consider Wigner-Yanase-Dyson information as a measure of quantum uncertainty of a mixed state. We study some of the interesting properties of this generalized measure. The construction is reminiscent of the generalized entropies that have shown to be useful in many applications.

id: 0904.0295
title: On the geometric distance between quantum states with positive partial transposition and private states
authors: Jeong San Kim, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 16 pages
journal: Letters in Mathematical Physics 92(1): pp. 67 - 79 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0295
abstract: We prove an analytic positive lower bound for the geometric distance between entangled positive partial transpose (PPT) states of a broad class and any private state that delivers one secure key bit. Our proof holds for any Hilbert space of finite dimension. Although our result is proven for a specific class of PPT states, we show that our bound nonetheless holds for all known entangled PPT states with non-zero distillable key rates whether or not they are in our special class.

id: 0904.0306
title: Generalized Faraday law derived from classical forces in a rotating frame
authors: Taeseung Choi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0306
abstract: We show the additional spin dependent classical force due to the rotation of an electron spin's rest frame is essential to derive a spin-Faraday law by using an analogy with the usual Faraday law. The contribution of the additional spin dependent force to the spin-Faraday law is the same as that of the spin geometric phase. With this observations, Faraday law is generalized to include both the usual Faraday and the spin-Faraday laws in a unified manner.

id: 0904.0307
title: Capacity with energy constraint in coherent state channel
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol.56, No.8, 4071 -- 4079, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0307
abstract: We consider two kind of energy constraints when the output state is a coherent state. One is a constraint on the total energy during a fixed period; the other is a constraint on the total energy for a single code. The first setting can be easily dealt with by using the conventional capacity formula. The second setting requires the general capacity formula for a classical-quantum channel.

id: 0904.0310
title: All-optical Imprinting of Geometric Phases onto Matter Waves
authors: Qi Zhang, Jiangbin Gong, C.H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 043632 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0310
abstract: Traditional optical phase imprinting of matter waves is of a dynamical nature. In this paper we show that both Abelian and non-Abelian geometric phases can be optically imprinted onto matter waves, yielding a number of interesting phenomena such as wavepacket re-directing and wavepacket splitting. In addition to their fundamental interest, our results open up new opportunities for robust optical control of matter waves.

id: 0904.0392
title: One-dimensional discrete-time quantum walks on random environments
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 12 pages, minor corrections, Journal-ref added
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol.8, No.5, pp.387-399 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0392
abstract: We consider discrete-time nearest-neighbor quantum walks on random environments in one dimension. Using the method based on a path counting, we present both quenched and annealed weak limit theorems for the quantum walk.

id: 0904.0416
title: Quasi-Eigenstate Evolution in Open Chaotic Billiards
authors: Sang-Bum Lee, Juhee Yang, Songky Moon, Soo-Young Lee, Jeong-Bo Shim, Sang Wook Kim, Jai-Hyung Lee, Kyungwon An
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0416
abstract: We experimentally studied evolution of quasi-eigenmodes as classical dynamics undergoing a transition from being regular to chaotic in open quantum billiards. In a deformation-variable microcavity we traced all high-Q cavity modes in a wide range of frequency as the cavity deformation increased. By employing an internal parameter we were able to obtain a mode-dynamics diagram at a given deformation, showing avoided crossings between different mode groups, and could directly observe the coupling strengths induced by ray chaos among encountering modes. We also show that the observed mode-dynamics diagrams reflect the underlying classical ray dynamics in the phase space.

id: 0904.0418
title: Quantum Darwinism in a hazy environment
authors: Michael Zwolak, H. T. Quan, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 110402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0418
abstract: Quantum Darwinism recognizes that we - the observers - acquire our information about the "systems of interest" indirectly from their imprints on the environment. Here, we show that information about a system can be acquired from a mixed-state, or hazy, environment, but the storage capacity of an environment fragment is suppressed by its initial entropy. In the case of good decoherence, the mutual information between the system and the fragment is given solely by the fragment's entropy increase. For fairly mixed environments, this means a reduction by a factor 1-h, where h is the haziness of the environment, i.e., the initial entropy of an environment qubit. Thus, even such hazy environments eventually reveal the state of the system, although now the intercepted environment fragment must be larger by ~1/(1-h) to gain the same information about the system.

id: 0904.0456
title: Quantum phase estimation with lossy interferometers
authors: R. Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, U. Dorner, B. J. Smith, J. S. Lundeen, W. Wasilewski, K. Banaszek, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013825 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0456
abstract: We give a detailed discussion of optimal quantum states for optical two-mode interferometry in the presence of photon losses. We derive analytical formulae for the precision of phase estimation obtainable using quantum states of light with a definite photon number and prove that maximization of the precision is a convex optimization problem. The corresponding optimal precision, i.e. the lowest possible uncertainty, is shown to beat the standard quantum limit thus outperforming classical interferometry. Furthermore, we discuss more general inputs: states with indefinite photon number and states with photons distributed between distinguishable time bins. We prove that neither of these is helpful in improving phase estimation precision.

id: 0904.0488
title: Sub-Planck scale structures in the P{?}schl-Teller potential and their sensitivity to perturbations
authors: Utpal Roy, Suranjana Ghosh, P. K. Panigrahi, David Vitali
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, replaced with revised version. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052115 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0488
abstract: We find the existence of sub-Planck scale structures in the P{\"o}schl-Teller potential, which is an exactly solvable potential with both symmetric and asymmetric features. We analyze these structures in both cases by looking at the Wigner distribution of the state evolved from an initial coherent state up to various fractional revival times. We also investigate the sensitivity to perturbations of the P{\"o}schl-Teller potential and we verify that, similar to the harmonic oscillator, the presence of sub-Planck structure in phase space is responsible for a high sensitivity to phase-space displacements.

id: 0904.0496
title: Spin squeezing in a generalized one-axis twisting model
authors: Guang-Ri Jin, Yong-Chun Liu, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 14pages, 5 figures, new references are added, to be appeared in New J. Phys
journal: New Journal of Physics 11 (2009) 073049
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0496
abstract: We investigate the dependence of spin squeezing on the polar angle of the initial coherent spin state $|\theta_0, \phi_0>$ in a generalized one-axis twisting model, where the detuning $\delta$ is taken into account. We show explicitly that regardless of $\delta$ and $\phi_0$, previous results of the ideal one-axis twisting is recovered as long as $\theta_0=\pi/2$. For a small departure of $\theta_0$ from $\pi/2$, however, the achievable variance $(V_{-})_{\min}\sim N^{2/3}$, larger than the ideal case $N^{1/3}$. We also find that the maximal-squeezing time $t_{\min}$ scales as $N^{-5/6}$. Analytic expressions of $(V_{-})_{\min}$ and $t_{\min}$ are presented, which agree with numerical simulations.

id: 0904.0500
title: Hybrid photonic crystal cavity and waveguide for coupling to diamond NV-centers
authors: Paul E. Barclay, Kai-Mei Fu, Charles Santori, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17, Issue 12, pp. 9588-9601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0500
abstract: A design for an ultra-high Q photonic crystal nanocavity engineered to interact with nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers located near the surface of a single crystal diamond sample is presented. The structure is based upon a nanowire photonic crystal geometry, and consists of a patterned high refractive index membrane, such as gallium phosphide (GaP), supported by a diamond substrate. The nanocavity supports a mode with quality factor Q > 1.5 million and mode volume V < 0.52 (\lambda/n_\text{GaP})^3, and promises to allow Purcell enhanced collection of spontaneous emission from an NV located more than 50 nm below the diamond surface. The nanowire photonic crystal waveguide can be used to efficiently couple light into and out of the cavity, or as an efficient broadband collector of NV phonon sideband emission. The proposed structures can be fabricated using existing materials and processing techniques.

id: 0904.0510
title: Level Crossings in Complex Two-Dimensional Potentials
authors: Qing-hai Wang
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. Submitted as a conference proceeding of PHHQP 8
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0510
abstract: Two-dimensional PT-symmetric quantum-mechanical systems with the complex cubic potential V_{12}=x^2+y^2+igxy^2 and the complex Henon-Heiles potential V_{HH}=x^2+y^2+ig(xy^2-x^3/3) are investigated. Using numerical and perturbative methods, energy spectra are obtained to high levels. Although both potentials respect the PT symmetry, the complex energy eigenvalues appear when level crossing happens between same parity eigenstates.

id: 0904.0563
title: Splitting of quantum information using N-qubit linear cluster states
authors: Sreraman Muralidharan, Sakshi Jain, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: Updated version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0563
abstract: We provide a number of schemes for the splitting up of quantum information among $k$ parties using a $N$-qubit linear cluster state as a quantum channel, such that the original information can be reconstructed only if all the parties cooperate. Explicit circuits are provided for these schemes, which are based on the concept of measurement based locking and unlocking of quantum information. These are experimentally feasible as they require measurements to be performed only on product basis.

id: 0904.0632
title: Ultrafast optical spin echo for electron spins in semiconductors
authors: Susan M. Clark, Kai-Mei C. Fu, Qiang Zhang, Thaddeus D. Ladd, Colin Stanley, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0632
abstract: Spin-based quantum computing and magnetic resonance techniques rely on the ability to measure the coherence time, T2, of a spin system. We report on the experimental implementation of all-optical spin echo to determine the T2 time of a semiconductor electron-spin system. We use three ultrafast optical pulses to rotate spins an arbitrary angle and measure an echo signal as the time between pulses is lengthened. Unlike previous spin-echo techniques using microwaves, ultrafast optical pulses allow clean T2 measurements of systems with dephasing times T2* fast in comparison to the timescale for microwave control. This demonstration provides a step toward ultrafast optical dynamic decoupling of spin-based qubits.

id: 0904.0667
title: Raman scheme for adjustable bandwidth quantum memory
authors: J.-L. Le Gouet, P. R. Berman
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012320 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0667
abstract: We propose a scenario of quantum memory for light based on Raman scattering. The storage medium is a vapor and the different spectral components of the incoming signal are stored in different atomic velocity classes. One uses appropriate pulses to reverse the resulting Doppler phase shift and to regenerate the signal, without distortion, in the backward direction. The different stages of the protocol are detailed and the recovery efficiency is calculated in the semi-classical picture. Since the memory bandwidth is determined by the Raman transition Doppler width, it can be adjusted by changing the angle of the signal and control beams. The optical depth also depends on the beam angle. As a consequence the available optical depth can be optimized, depending on the needed bandwidth. The predicted recovery efficiency is close to 100% for large optical depth.

id: 0904.0704
title: Quantum hypothesis testing with group symmetry
authors: Fumio Hiai, Milan Mosonyi, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 33 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 103304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0704
abstract: The asymptotic discrimination problem of two quantum states is studied in the setting where measurements are required to be invariant under some symmetry group of the system. We consider various asymptotic error exponents in connection with the problems of the Chernoff bound, the Hoeffding bound and Stein's lemma, and derive bounds on these quantities in terms of their corresponding statistical distance measures. A special emphasis is put on the comparison of the performances of group-invariant and unrestricted measurements.

id: 0904.0723
title: Bohmian mechanics versus Madelung quantum hydrodynamics
authors: R. Tsekov
comments: The paper is dedicated to the 100th anniversary of A.B. Datsev
journal: Ann. Univ. Sofia, Fac. Phys. SE (2012) 112-119
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0723
abstract: It is shown that the Bohmian mechanics and the Madelung quantum hydrodynamics are different theories and the latter is a better ontological interpretation of quantum mechanics. A new stochastic interpretation of quantum mechanics is proposed, which is the background of the Madelung quantum hydrodynamics. Its relation to the complex mechanics is also explored. A new complex hydrodynamics is proposed, which eliminates completely the Bohm quantum potential. It describes the quantum evolution of the probability density by a convective diffusion with imaginary transport coefficients.

id: 0904.0741
title: Efficient Computation of Casimir Interactions between Arbitrary 3D Objects
authors: M. T. Homer Reid, Alejandro W. Rodriguez, Jacob White, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:040401,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0741
abstract: We introduce an efficient technique for computing Casimir energies and forces between objects of arbitrarily complex 3D geometries. In contrast to other recently developed methods, our technique easily handles non-spheroidal, non-axisymmetric objects and objects with sharp corners. Using our new technique, we obtain the first predictions of Casimir interactions in a number of experimentally relevant geometries, including crossed cylinders and tetrahedral nanoparticles.

id: 0904.0764
title: Overlaps in pilot wave field theories
authors: I. Schmelzer
comments: Final minor corrections. accepted by Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics vol. 40 nr. 3, 289-300 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0764
abstract: Recently doubts have been raised about the ability of pilot wave theories with field ontology to recover the predictions of quantum field theory. In particular, Struyve has questioned that the overlap between wave functionals of macroscopically different states with fixed particle number is really non-significant. With numerical computations and some further plausibility arguments we show that the overlap between n-particle states in field theory decreases almost exponentially with the number of particles and becomes non-significant already for small particle numbers.

id: 0904.0844
title: Quantum switch for single-photon transport in a coupled superconducting transmission line resonator array
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, Jin-Feng Huang, Yu-xi Liu, Le-Man Kuang, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages,3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 014301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0844
abstract: We propose and study an approach to realize quantum switch for single-photon transport in a coupled superconducting transmission line resonator (TLR) array with one controllable hopping interaction. We find that the single-photon with arbitrary wavevector can transport in a controllable way in this system. We also study how to realize controllable hopping interaction between two TLRs via a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID). When the frequency of the SQUID is largely detuned from those of the two TLRs, the variables of the SQUID can be adiabatically eliminated and thus a controllable interaction between two TLRs can be obtained.

id: 0904.0886
title: Feynman's path integral and mutually unbiased bases
authors: J Tolar, G Chadzitaskos
comments: 12 pages, submitted to Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor., minor corrections
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 245306 (11 pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0886
abstract: Our previous work on quantum mechanics in Hilbert spaces of finite dimensions N is applied to elucidate the deep meaning of Feynman's path integral pointed out by G. Svetlichny. He speculated that the secret of the Feynman path integral may lie in the property of mutual unbiasedness of temporally proximal bases. We confirm the corresponding property of the short-time propagator by using a specially devised N x N -approximation of quantum mechanics in L^2(R) applied to our finite-dimensional analogue of a free quantum particle.

id: 0904.0915
title: Light scattering by ultracold atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Stefan Rist, Chiara Menotti, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 13 pages, 6 fig, (accepted in PRA)
journal: PRA 81, 013404 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0915
abstract: We investigate theoretically light scattering of photons by ultracold atoms in an optical lattice in the linear regime. A full quantum theory for the atom-photon interactions is developed as a function of the atomic state in the lattice along the Mott-insulator -- superfluid phase transition, and the photonic scattering cross section is evaluated as a function of the energy and of the direction of emission. The predictions of this theory are compared with the theoretical results of a recent work on Bragg scattering in time-of-flight measurements [A.M. Rey, {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 72}, 023407 (2005)]. We show that, when performing Bragg spectroscopy with light scattering, the photon recoil gives rise to an additional atomic site to site hopping, which can interfere with ordinary tunneling of matter waves and can significantly affect the photonic scattering cross section.

id: 0904.0918
title: Strange behavior of the relativistic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations
authors: Pawe? Caban, Jakub Rembieli¨½ski, Marta W?odarczyk
comments: 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 014102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0918
abstract: We show that configurations exist in which the correlation functions and the degree of violation of Bell-type inequalities in the relativistic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) experiment have local extrema for some values of the velocities of the EPR particles. Moreover, this strange behavior can be observed for both discussed relativistic spin operators and for spin-1/2 as well as spin-1 particles.

id: 0904.0923
title: Scrutinizing single-qubit quantum channels: Theory and experiment with trapped ions
authors: Thilo Hannemann, Christof Wunderlich, Martin Plesch, Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0923
abstract: We report experimental implementation of various types of qubit channels using an individual trapped ion. We analyzed experimental data and we performed tomographic reconstruction of quantum channels based on these data. Specifically, we studied phase damping channels, where the damping acts either in the xy-plane of the Bloch sphere or in an arbitrary plane that includes the origin of the Bloch sphere. We also experimentally realized and consequently analyzed quantum channels that in addition to phase damping affect also a polarization rotation. We used three reconstruction schemes for estimation of quantum channels from experimental data: (1) a linear inverse method, (2) a maximum likelihood estimation, and (3) a constrained maximum likelihood estimation. We took into account realistic experimental conditions where imperfect test-state preparations and biased measurements are incorporated into the estimation schemes. As a result we found that imperfections present in the process of preparation of test states and as well as in measurements of the considered ion trap system do not limit the control of the implementation of the desired channel. Even imperfect preparation of test state and subsequent measurements still provide sufficient resources for the complete quantum-channel tomography.

id: 0904.0931
title: Contextuality, Nonlocality and Counterfactual Arguments
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Karl Wienand
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0931
abstract: In this paper, following an elementary line of thought which somewhat differs from the usual one, we prove once more that any deterministic theory predictively equivalent to quantum mechanics unavoidably exhibits a contextual character. The purpose of adopting this perspective is that of paving the way for a critical analysis of the use of counterfactual arguments when dealing with nonlocal physical processes.

id: 0904.0939
title: A Parallel Algorithm for Solving the 3d Schrodinger Equation
authors: Michael Strickland, David Yager-Elorriaga
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures; published version
journal: J.Comput.Phys.229:6015-6026,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0939
abstract: We describe a parallel algorithm for solving the time-independent 3d Schrodinger equation using the finite difference time domain (FDTD) method. We introduce an optimized parallelization scheme that reduces communication overhead between computational nodes. We demonstrate that the compute time, t, scales inversely with the number of computational nodes as t ~ N_nodes^(-0.95 +/- 0.04). This makes it possible to solve the 3d Schrodinger equation on extremely large spatial lattices using a small computing cluster. In addition, we present a new method for precisely determining the energy eigenvalues and wavefunctions of quantum states based on a symmetry constraint on the FDTD initial condition. Finally, we discuss the usage of multi-resolution techniques in order to speed up convergence on extremely large lattices.

id: 0904.0956
title: Entanglement Sudden Death in a Quantum Memory
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 6 pages, 3 composite figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022310 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0956
abstract: I explore entanglement dynamics in examples of quantum memories, decoherence free subspaces (DFS) and noiseless subsystems (NS), to determine how a complete loss of entanglement affects the ability of these techniques to protect quantum information. Using negativity and concurrence as entanglement measures, I find that in general there is no correlation between the complete loss of entanglement in the system and the fidelity of the stored quantum information. These results complement previous results in which quantum protocols not explictly based on entanglement exhibit little correlation between ESD and the accuracy of the given protocol.

id: 0904.0958
title: The interpretation of quantum mechanics: where do we stand?
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0958
abstract: We reconsider some important foundational problems of quantum mechanics. After reviewing the measurement problem and discussing its unavoidability, we analyze some proposals to overcome it. This analysis leads us to reconsider the current debate on our best theory, i.e. quantum mechanics itself. We stress that, after the remarkable interest and the many efforts which have lead, in the last years of the past century, to a revival of the subject, and, more important, to new interesting results, we are now witnessing a re-emergence of the vague and unprofessional positions which have characterized the debate in the second quarter of the XXth century. In particular we consider as extremely serious the fact that a completely mistaken position concerning the real meaning of Bell's theorem seems to have been taken by many scientists in the field.

id: 0904.1033
title: Minimum detection efficiency for a loophole-free violation of the Braunstein-Caves chained Bell inequalities
authors: Adan Cabello, Jan-Ake Larsson, David Rodriguez
comments: REVTeX4, 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79 (2009) 062109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1033
abstract: The chained Bell inequalities of Braunstein and Caves involving N settings per observer have some interesting applications. Here we obtain the minimum detection efficiency required for a loophole-free violation of the Braunstein-Caves inequalities for any N > 2. We discuss both the case in which both particles are detected with the same efficiency and the case in which the particles are detected with different efficiencies.

id: 0904.1034
title: Possibility of generalized monogamy relations for multipartite entanglement beyond three qubits
authors: Christopher Eltschka, Andreas Osterloh, Jens Siewert
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1034
abstract: We discuss the possibility to interpret the residual entanglement for more than three qubits in terms of distributed multipartite entanglement, or, in other words, possible extensions of the Coffman-Kundu-Wootters monogamy equality to higher qubit numbers. Existing knowledge on entanglement in multipartite systems puts narrow constraints on the form of such extensions. We study various examples for families of pure four-qubit states for which the characterization of three-qubit and four-qubit entanglement in terms of polynomial invariants is known. These examples indicate that, although families with such extensions do exist, a generalized monogamy equality cannot be found along those lines.

id: 0904.1044
title: Probabilistic Interpretation of Resonant States
authors: Naomichi Hatano, Tatsuro Kawamoto, Joshua Feinberg
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Pramana Journal of Physics as an article in the proceedings of Homi Bhabha Centenary Conference on Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics PHHQP VIII; this version are with added references as well as some rewording after reviewer's suggestions
journal: Pramana 73:553-564,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1044
abstract: We provide probabilistic interpretation of resonant states. This we do by showing that the integral of the modulus square of resonance wave functions (i.e., the conventional norm) over a properly expanding spatial domain is independent of time, and therefore leads to probability conservation. This is in contrast with the conventional employment of a bi-orthogonal basis that precludes probabilistic interpretation, since wave functions of resonant states diverge exponentially in space. On the other hand, resonant states decay exponentially in time, because momentum leaks out of the central scattering area. This momentum leakage is also the reason for the spatial exponential divergence of resonant state. It is by combining the opposite temporal and spatial behaviors of resonant states that we arrive at our probabilistic interpretation of these states. The physical need to normalize resonant wave functions over an expanding spatial domain arises because particles leak out of the region which contains the potential range and escape to infinity, and one has to include them in the total count of particle number.

id: 0904.1058
title: Witnessing entanglement in phase space using inefficient detectors
authors: Seung-Woo Lee, Hyunseok Jeong, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; Revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1058
abstract: We propose a scheme for witnessing entanglement in phase space by significantly inefficient detectors. The implementation of this scheme does not require any additional process for correcting errors in contrast to previous proposals. Moreover, it allows us to detect entanglement without full a priori knowledge of the detection efficiency. It is shown that entanglement in single photon entangled and two-mode squeezed states can be witnessed with detection efficiency as low as 40%. Our approach enhances the possibility of witnessing entanglement in various physical systems using current detection technologies.

id: 0904.1073
title: Performance of quantum data transmission systems in the presence of thermal noise
authors: G. Cariolaro, G. Pierobon
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in IEEE Trans. on Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1073
abstract: In the literature the performance of quantum data transmission systems is usually evaluated in the absence of thermal noise. A more realistic approach taking into account the thermal noise is intrinsically more difficult because it requires dealing with Glauber coherent states in an infinite--dimensional space. In particular, the exact evaluation of the optimal measurement operators is a very difficult task, and numerical approximation is unavoidable. The paper faces the problem by approximating the P-representation of the noisy quantum states with a large but finite number of terms and applying to them the square root measurement (SRM) approach. Comparisons with the exact solution obtained with convex semidefinite programming show that the SRM approach gives quite accurate results. As application, the performance of quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) and phase shift keying (PSK) systems is considered. In spite of the fact that the SRM approach is not optimal and overestimates the error probability, also in these cases the quantum detection maintains its superiority with respect to the classical homodyne detection.

id: 0904.1124
title: Spin tomography and star-product kernel for qubits and qutrits
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX file, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 30 (2009) 129-145
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1124
abstract: Using the irreducible tensor-operator technique, we establish the relation between different forms of spin tomograms. Quantizer and dequantizer operators are presented in simple explicit forms and are specified for the low-spin states. The kernel of the star-product is evaluated for qubits and qutrits and its connection with a generic formula is found.

id: 0904.1147
title: On the Construction for Quantum Code ((n,K, d))p via Logic Function over Fp
authors: Shuqin Zhong, Zhi Ma, Yajie Xu, Xing Lv
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1147
abstract: This paper studies the construction for quantum codes with parameters $((n,K,d))_{p}$ by use of an \textit{n}-variable logic function with APC distance $d'\ge 2$ over ${\rm {\mathbb F}}_{p} $, where $d$ is related to $d'$. We obtain $d\le d'$ and the maximal $K$ for all $d=d'-k$, $0\le k\le d'-2$. We also discuss the basic states and the equivalent conditions of saturating quantum Singleton bound.

id: 0904.1175
title: Entanglement generation with a quantum channel and a shared state
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, pp. 2713-2717, Austin, Texas, USA
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1175
abstract: We introduce a new protocol, the channel-state coding protocol, to quantum Shannon theory. This protocol generates entanglement between a sender and receiver by coding for a noisy quantum channel with the aid of a noisy shared state. The mother and father protocols arise as special cases of the channel-state coding protocol, where the channel is noiseless or the state is a noiseless maximally entangled state, respectively. The channel-state coding protocol paves the way for formulating entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting codes that are robust to noise in shared entanglement. Finally, the channel-state coding protocol leads to a Smith-Yard superactivation, where we can generate entanglement using a zero-capacity erasure channel and a non-distillable bound entangled state.

id: 0904.1177
title: A use of the central limit theorem to obtain a classical limit for the center-of-mass tomogram
authors: Grigori G. Amosov, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 7 pages
journal: Physica Scripta 80 (2009) 025006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1177
abstract: We investigate the dependence of the center-of-mass tomogram of a system with many degrees of freedom $N$ on the Planck constant $\hbar $. It is shown that to use the central limit theorem under taking the limit $N\to +\infty $ one should keep the energy of the system to be constant. In the case, the resulting distribution is Gaussian if the initial distribution is a product of independent excited states of a quantum oscillator or even and odd coherent states either. Then, if one turns the Planck constant $\hbar \to 0$ we get $\delta $-function associated with the distribution concentrated in zero with the probability equal to one.

id: 0904.1184
title: Quantum states prepared by realistic entanglement swapping
authors: Artur Scherer, Regina B. Howard, Barry C. Sanders, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 44 pages, 7 figures, Published with minor changes in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062310 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1184
abstract: Entanglement swapping between photon pairs is a fundamental building block in schemes using quantum relays or quantum repeaters to overcome the range limits of long-distance quantum key distribution. We develop a closed-form solution for the actual quantum states prepared by realistic entanglement swapping, which takes into account experimental deficiencies due to inefficient detectors, detector dark counts, and multiphoton-pair contributions of parametric down-conversion sources. We investigate how the entanglement present in the final state of the remaining modes is affected by the real-world imperfections. To test the predictions of our theory, comparison with previously published experimental entanglement swapping is provided.

id: 0904.1191
title: Open-system dynamics of graph-state entanglement
authors: Daniel Cavalcanti, Rafael Chaves, Leandro Aolita, Luiz Davidovich, Antonio Acin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs - accepted by PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 030502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1191
abstract: We consider graph states of arbitrary number of particles undergoing generic decoherence. We present methods to obtain lower and upper bounds for the system's entanglement in terms of that of considerably smaller subsystems. For an important class of noisy channels, namely the Pauli maps, these bounds coincide and thus provide the exact analytical expression for the entanglement evolution. All the results apply also to (mixed) graph-diagonal states, and hold true for any convex entanglement monotone. Since any state can be locally depolarized to some graph-diagonal state, our method provides a lower bound for the entanglement decay of any arbitrary state. Finally, this formalism also allows for the direct identification of the robustness under size scaling of graph states in the presence of decoherence, merely by inspection of their connectivities.

id: 0904.1216
title: The Ramsauer-Townsend Effect and the de Broglie-Bohm Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. M. F. Bassalo, P. T. S. Alencar, A. Nassar, M. Cattani
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1216
abstract: In this work we study the Ramsauer-Townsend effect.First, we use the Quantum Mechanical Formalism of Schrodinger. After, it is calculated with the Quantum Mechanical Formalism of de Broglie-Bohm. In this case, we use the Kostin equation, taking into account the energy dissipation of the electrons scattered by sharp edged potential wells.

id: 0904.1232
title: High-fidelity atomic-state teleportation protocol with non-maximally-entangled states
authors: Grzegorz Chimczak, Ryszard Tana?
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1232
abstract: We propose a protocol of the long-distance atomic state teleportation via cavity decay, which allows for high-fidelity teleportation even with currently available optical cavities. The protocol is based on the scheme proposed by Bose \emph{et al.} [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\textbf{83}}, 5158 (1999)] but with one important modification: it employs non-maximally-entangled states instead of maximally entangled states.

id: 0904.1262
title: High-brightness single photon source from a quantum dot in a directional-emission nanocavity
authors: Mitsuru Toishi, Dirk Englund, Andrei Faraon, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1262
abstract: We analyze a single photon source consisting of an InAs quantum dot coupled to a directional-emission photonic crystal (PC) cavity implemented in GaAs. On resonance, the dot's lifetime is reduced by more than 10 times, to 45ps. Compared to the standard three-hole defect cavity, the perturbed PC cavity design improves the collection efficiency into an objective lens (NA=0.75) by factor 6, and improves the coupling efficiency of the collected light into a single mode fiber by factor 1.9. The emission frequency is determined by the cavity mode, which is antibunched to g(2)=0.05. The cavity design also enables efficient coupling to a higher-order cavity mode for local optical excitation of cavity-coupled quantum dots.

id: 0904.1275
title: Implementing Genuine Multi-Qubit Entanglement of Two-Level-System Inside a Superconducting Phase Qubit
authors: Long-Bao Yu, Zheng-Yuan Xue, Z. D. Wang, Yang Yu, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1275
abstract: The interaction between a superconducting phase qubit and the two-level systems locating inside the Josephson tunnel barrier is shown to be described by the XY model, which is naturally used to implement the iSWAP gate. With this gate, we propose a scheme to efficiently generate genuine multi-qubit entangled states of such two-level systems, including multipartite W state and cluster states. In particularly, we show that, with the help of the phase qubit, the entanglement witness can be used to efficiently detect the produced genuine multi-qubit entangled states. Furthermore, we analyze that the proposed approach for generating multi-qubit entangled states can be used in a wide class of candidates for quantum computation.

id: 0904.1306
title: Cavity-assisted squeezing of a mechanical oscillator
authors: K. Jaehne, C. Genes, K. Hammerer, M. Wallquist, E.S. Polzik, P. Zoller
comments: 7.1 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: PRA 79 063819 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1306
abstract: We investigate the creation of squeezed states of a vibrating membrane or a movable mirror in an opto-mechanical system. An optical cavity is driven by squeezed light and couples via radiation pressure to the membrane/mirror, effectively providing a squeezed heat-bath for the mechanical oscillator. Under the conditions of laser cooling to the ground state, we find an efficient transfer of squeezing with roughly 60% of light squeezing conveyed to the membrane/mirror (on a dB scale). We determine the requirements on the carrier frequency and the bandwidth of squeezed light. Beyond the conditions of ground state cooling, we predict mechanical squashing to be observable in current systems.

id: 0904.1327
title: Security bound of continuous-variable quantum key distribution with noisy coherent states and channel
authors: Yong Shen, Jian Yang, Hong Guo
comments: 4 pages and 3 figures; Two references (ref. [1] and [2] in this new version) are added;
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1327
abstract: Security of a continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocol based on noisy coherent states and channel is analyzed. Assuming the noise of coherent states is induced by Fred, a neutral party relative to others, we prove that the prepare and measurement scheme and entanglement-based scheme are equivalent. Then, we show that this protocol is secure against Gaussian collective attacks even if the channel is lossy and noisy, and further, a lower bound to the secure key rate is derived.

id: 0904.1351
title: Characterization of PPT states and measures of entanglement
authors: W.A. Majewski, T. Matsuoka, M. Ohya
comments: We would be grateful for remarks
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1351
abstract: A detailed characterization of PPT states, both in the Heisenberg and in the Schr\"odinger picture, is given. Measures of entanglement are defined and discussed in details. Illustrative examples are provided.

id: 0904.1372
title: The Analytic Continuation of the Lippmann-Schwinger Eigenfunctions, and Antiunitary Symmetries
authors: Rafael de la Madrid
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 043, 14 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1372
abstract: We review the way to analytically continue the Lippmann-Schwinger bras and kets into the complex plane. We will see that a naive analytic continuation leads to nonsensical results in resonance theory, and we will explain how the non-obvious but correct analytical continuation is done. We will see that the physical basis for the non-obvious but correct analytic continuation lies in the invariance of the Hamiltonian under anti-unitary symmetries such as time reversal or PT.

id: 0904.1387
title: First Order Quantum Phase Transition in Adiabatic Quantum Computation
authors: M. H. S. Amin, V. Choi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062326 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1387
abstract: We investigate the connection between local minima in the problem Hamiltonian and first order quantum phase transitions during an adiabatic quantum computation. We demonstrate how some properties of the local minima can lead to an extremely small gap that is exponentially sensitive to the Hamiltonian parameters. Using perturbation expansion, we derive an analytical formula that can not only predict the behavior of the gap, but also provide insight on how to controllably vary the gap size by changing the parameters. We show agreement with numerical calculations for a weighted maximum independent set problem instance.

id: 0904.1390
title: Lower bound on the communication cost of simulating bipartite quantum correlations
authors: T. V¨¦rtesi, E. Bene
comments: 5 pages, no figures. v2: filled gap in the proof of Sec. IIC
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062316 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1390
abstract: Suppose Alice and Bob share a maximally entangled state of any finite dimension and each perform two-outcome measurements on the respective part of the state. It is known, due to the recent result of Regev and Toner, that if a classical model is augmented with two bits of communication then all the quantum correlations arising from these measurements can be reproduced. Here we show that two bits of communication is in fact necessary for the perfect simulation. In particular, we prove that a pair of maximally entangled four-dimensional quantum systems cannot be simulated by a classical model augmented by only one bit of communication.

id: 0904.1422
title: Some features of the state-space trajectories followed by robust entangled four-qubit states during decoherence
authors: A.P. Majtey, A. Borras, A.R. Plastino, M. Casas, A. Plastino
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures; new title, minor changes
journal: Int. J. of Quantum Information, 8, 505 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1422
abstract: In a recent work (Borras et al., Phys. Rev. A {\bf 79}, 022108 (2009)), we have determined, for various decoherence channels, four-qubit initial states exhibiting the most robust possible entanglement. Here we explore some geometrical features of the trajectories in state space generated by the decoherence process, connecting the initially robust pure state with the completely decohered mixed state obtained at the end of the evolution. We characterize these trajectories by recourse to the distance between the concomitant time dependent mixed state and different reference states.

id: 0904.1451
title: Quantum walk on a line for a trapped ion
authors: Peng Xue, Barry C. Sanders, Dietrich Leibfried
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 183602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1451
abstract: We show that a multi-step quantum walk can be realized for a single trapped ion with interpolation between quantum and random walk achieved by randomizing the generalized Hadamard coin flip phase. The signature of the quantum walk is manifested not only in the ion's position but also its phonon number, which makes an ion trap implementation of the quantum walk feasible.

id: 0904.1501
title: Origin of the Canonical Ensemble: Thermalization with Decoherence
authors: Shengjun Yuan, Mikhail I. Katsnelson, Hans De Raedt
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication by J. Phys. Soc. Jpn
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 78, 094003 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1501
abstract: We solve the time-dependent Schrodinger equation for the combination of a spin system interacting with a spin bath environment. In particular, we focus on the time development of the reduced density matrix of the spin system. Under normal circumstances we show that the environment drives the reduced density matrix to a fully decoherent state, and furthermore the diagonal elements of the reduced density matrix approach those expected for the system in the canonical ensemble. We show one exception to the normal case is if the spin system cannot exchange energy with the spin bath. Our demonstration does not rely on time-averaging of observables nor does it assume that the coupling between system and bath is weak. Our findings show that the canonical ensemble is a state that may result from pure quantum dynamics, suggesting that quantum mechanics may be regarded as the foundation of quantum statistical mechanics.

id: 0904.1506
title: Heisenberg-Weyl algebra revisited: Combinatorics of words and paths
authors: P. Blasiak, A. Horzela, G. H. E. Duchamp, K. A. Penson, A. I. Solomon
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 415204 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1506
abstract: The Heisenberg-Weyl algebra, which underlies virtually all physical representations of Quantum Theory, is considered from the combinatorial point of view. We provide a concrete model of the algebra in terms of paths on a lattice with some decomposition rules. We also discuss the rook problem on the associated Ferrers board; this is related to the calculus in the normally ordered basis. From this starting point we explore a combinatorial underpinning of the Heisenberg-Weyl algebra, which offers novel perspectives, methods and applications.

id: 0904.1511
title: Optimal quantum strong coin flipping
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Iordanis Kerenidis
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1511
abstract: Coin flipping is a fundamental cryptographic primitive that enables two distrustful and far apart parties to create a uniformly random bit [Blu81]. Quantum information allows for protocols in the information theoretic setting where no dishonest party can perfectly cheat. The previously best-known quantum protocol by Ambainis achieved a cheating probability of at most 3/4 [Amb01]. On the other hand, Kitaev showed that no quantum protocol can have cheating probability less than $1/\sqrt{2}$ [Kit03]. Closing this gap has been one of the important open questions in quantum cryptography. In this paper, we resolve this question by presenting a quantum strong coin flipping protocol with cheating probability arbitrarily close to $1/\sqrt{2}$. More precisely, we show how to use any weak coin flipping protocol with cheating probability $1/2+\epsilon$ in order to achieve a strong coin flipping protocol with cheating probability $1/\sqrt{2}+O(\epsilon)$. The optimal quantum strong coin flipping protocol follows from our construction and the optimal quantum weak coin flipping protocol described by Mochon [Moc07].

id: 0904.1513
title: Solutions of PT symmetric tight-binding chain and its equivalent Hermitian counterpart
authors: L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:052107,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1513
abstract: We study the Non-Hermitian quantum mechanics for the discrete system. This paper gives an exact analytic single-particle solution for an $N$-site tight-binding chain with two conjugated imaginary potentials $\pm i\gamma $ at two end sites, which Hamiltonian has parity-time symmetry ($\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry). Based on the Bethe ansatz results, it is found that, in single-particle subspace, this model is comprised of two phases, an unbroken symmetry phase with a purely real energy spectrum in the region $\gamma \prec \gamma_{c}$ and a spontaneously-broken symmetry phase with $N-2$ real and 2 imaginary eigenvalues in the region $\gamma \succ \gamma_{c}$. The behaviors of eigenfunctions and eigenvalues in the vicinity of $\gamma_{c}$ are investigated. It is shown that the boundary of two phases possesses the characteristics of exceptional point. We also construct the equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian of the present model in the framework of metric-operator theory. We find out that the equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian can be written as another bipartite lattice model with real long-range hoppings.

id: 0904.1549
title: Fast Amplification of QMA
authors: Daniel Nagaj, Pawel Wocjan, Yong Zhang
comments: 15 pages
journal: QIC Vol.9 No.11&12 (2009), 1053-1068
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1549
abstract: Given a verifier circuit for a problem in QMA, we show how to exponentially amplify the gap between its acceptance probabilities in the `yes' and `no' cases, with a method that is quadratically faster than the procedure given by Marriott and Watrous. Our construction is natively quantum, based on the analogy of a product of two reflections and a quantum walk. Second, in some special cases we show how to amplify the acceptance probability for good witnesses to 1, making a step towards the proof that QMA with one-sided error is equal to QMA. Finally, we simplify the filter-state method to search for QMA witnesses by Poulin and Wocjan.

id: 0904.1609
title: Quantized self-intervening detector networks
authors: George Jaroszkiewicz
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1609
abstract: A range of quantum optics experiments is discussed in which the apparatus can be modified by detector outcomes during the course of any run. Starting with a single beamsplitter network, we work our way through a series of more complex scenarios, culminating with a proposed self-intervening experiment which could provide evidence for the existence of the Heisenberg cut, the supposed boundary between classical and quantum physics.

id: 0904.1618
title: Theory versus experiment for vacuum Rabi oscillations in lossy cavities (II): Direct test of uniqueness of vacuum
authors: Marcin Wilczewski, Marek Czachor
comments: Sequel to PRA 79, 033836 (2009) [arXiv:0811.3177]
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013802 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1618
abstract: The paper continues the analysis of vacuum Rabi oscillations we started in Part I [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 79}, 033836 (2009)]. Here we concentrate on experimental consequences for cavity QED of two different classes of representations of harmonic oscillator Lie algebras. The zero-temperature master equation, derived in Part I for irreducible representations of the algebra, is reformulated in a reducible representation that models electromagnetic fields by a gas of harmonic oscillator wave packets. The representation is known to introduce automatic regularizations that in irreducible representations would have to be justified by ad hoc arguments. Predictions based on this representation are characterized in thermodynamic limit by a single parameter $\varsigma$, responsible for collapses and revivals of Rabi oscillations in exact vacuum. Collapses and revivals disappear in the limit $\varsigma\to\infty$. Observation of a finite $\varsigma$ would mean that cavity quantum fields are described by a non-Wightmanian theory, where vacuum states are zero-temperature Bose-Einstein condensates of a finite-particle bosonic oscillator gas and, thus, are non-unique. The data collected in the experiment of Brune {\it et al.} [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf{76}}, 1800 (1996)] are consistent with any $\varsigma>400$.

id: 0904.1624
title: Squeezing via spontaneous rotational symmetry breaking in a four-wave mixing cavity
authors: Ferran V. Garcia-Ferrer, Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel, Eugenio Rold¨¢n
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics 45, 1404-1414 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1624
abstract: We predict the generation of noncritically squeezed light through the spontaneous rotational symmetry breaking occurring in a Kerr cavity. The model considers a $\chi^{(3)}$ cavity that is pumped by two Gaussian beams of frequencies $\omega_{1}$ and $\omega_{2}$. The cavity configuration is such that two signal modes of equal frequency $\omega_{\mathrm{s}}=(\omega_{1}% +\omega_{2})/2$ are generated, these signal fields being first order Laguerre--Gauss modes. In this system a spontaneous breaking of the rotational symmetry occurs as the signal field corresponds to a Hermite--Gauss TEM mode. This symmetry breaking leads to the perfect and non--critical (i.e., non dependent on the parameter values) squeezing of the angular momentum of the output TEM mode, which is another TEM mode spatially orthogonal to that in which bright emission occurs.

id: 0904.1628
title: Asymptotic Efficiency and Finite Sample Performance of Frequentist Quantum State Estimation
authors: Raj Chakrabarti, Anisha Ghosh
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a bug in the estimation code
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1628
abstract: We undertake a detailed study of the performance of maximum likelihood (ML) estimators of the density matrix of finite-dimensional quantum systems, in order to interrogate generic properties of frequentist quantum state estimation. Existing literature on frequentist quantum estimation has not rigorously examined the finite sample performance of the estimators and associated methods of hypothesis testing. While ML is usually preferred on the basis of its asymptotic properties - it achieves the Cramer-Rao (CR) lower bound - the finite sample properties are often less than optimal. We compare the asymptotic and finite-sample properties of the ML estimators and test statistics for two different choices of measurement bases: the average case optimal or mutually unbiased bases (MUB) and a representative set of suboptimal bases, for spin-1/2 and spin-1 systems. We show that, in both cases, the standard errors of the ML estimators sometimes do not contain the true value of the parameter, which can render inference based on the asymptotic properties of the ML unreliable for experimentally realistic sample sizes. The results indicate that in order to fully exploit the information geometry of quantum states and achieve smaller reconstruction errors, the use of Bayesian state reconstruction methods - which, unlike frequentist methods, do not rely on asymptotic properties - is desirable, since the estimation error is typically lower due to the incorporation of prior knowledge.

id: 0904.1649
title: On the brightness of the Thomson lamp. A prolegomenon to quantum recursion theory
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, revised and accepted for UC09
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol. 5715, ed. by C.S. Calude, et al. (Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1649
abstract: Some physical aspects related to the limit operations of the Thomson lamp are discussed. Regardless of the formally unbounded and even infinite number of "steps" involved, the physical limit has an operational meaning in agreement with the Abel sums of infinite series. The formal analogies to accelerated (hyper-) computers and the recursion theoretic diagonal methods are discussed. As quantum information is not bound by the mutually exclusive states of classical bits, it allows a consistent representation of fixed point states of the diagonal operator. In an effort to reconstruct the self-contradictory feature of diagonalization, a generalized diagonal method allowing no quantum fixed points is proposed.

id: 0904.1655
title: State-independent experimental test of quantum contextuality
authors: G. Kirchmair, F. Z?hringer, R. Gerritsma, M. Kleinmann, O. G¨¹hne, A. Cabello, R. Blatt, C. F. Roos
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, one reference added
journal: Nature 460, 494 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1655
abstract: The question of whether quantum phenomena can be explained by classical models with hidden variables is the subject of a long lasting debate. In 1964, Bell showed that certain types of classical models cannot explain the quantum mechanical predictions for specific states of distant particles. Along this line, some types of hidden variable models have been experimentally ruled out. An intuitive feature for classical models is non-contextuality: the property that any measurement has a value which is independent of other compatible measurements being carried out at the same time. However, the results of Kochen, Specker, and Bell show that non-contextuality is in conflict with quantum mechanics. The conflict resides in the structure of the theory and is independent of the properties of special states. It has been debated whether the Kochen-Specker theorem could be experimentally tested at all. Only recently, first tests of quantum contextuality have been proposed and undertaken with photons and neutrons. Yet these tests required the generation of special quantum states and left various loopholes open. Here, using trapped ions, we experimentally demonstrate a state-independent conflict with non-contextuality. The experiment is not subject to the detection loophole and we show that, despite imperfections and possible measurement disturbances, our results cannot be explained in non-contextual terms.

id: 0904.1658
title: Non-Markovian Dynamics of Entanglement for Multipartite Systems
authors: Jiang Zhou, Chengjun Wu, Mingyi Zhu, Hong Guo
comments: 10 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1658
abstract: Entanglement dynamics for a couple of two-level atoms interacting with independent structured reservoirs is studied using a non-perturbative approach. It is shown that the revival of atom entanglement is not necessarily accompanied by the sudden death of reservoir entanglement, and vice versa. In fact, atom entanglement can revive before, simultaneously or even after the disentanglement of reservoirs. Using a novel method based on the population analysis for the excited atomic state, we present the quantitative criteria for the revival and death phenomena. For giving a more physically intuitive insight, the quasimode Hamiltonian method is applied. Our quantitative analysis is helpful for the practical engineering of entanglement.

id: 0904.1663
title: Testing the Stability of the Fine Structure Constant in the Laboratory
authors: N. Kolachevsky, A. Matveev, J. Alnis, C. Parthey, T. Steinmetz, T. Wilken, R. Holzwarth, Th. Udem, T.W. Haensch
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures, The ISSI Workshop, 6-10 October 2008, on The Nature of Gravity "Confronting Theory and Experiment in Space"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1663
abstract: In this review we discuss the progress of the past decade in testing for a possible temporal variation of the fine structure constant $\alpha$. Advances in atomic sample preparation, laser spectroscopy and optical frequency measurements led to rapid reduction of measurement uncertainties. Eventually laboratory tests became the most sensitive tool to detect a possible variation of $\alpha$ at the present epoch. We explain the methods and technologies that helped make this possible.

id: 0904.1694
title: Feasibility of continuous-variable quantum key distribution with noisy coherent states
authors: Vladyslav C. Usenko, Radim Filip
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, several changes made, section on realistic reconciliation added, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022318 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1694
abstract: We address security of the quantum key distribution scheme based on the noisy modulation of coherent states and investigate how it is robust against noise in the modulation regardless of the particular technical implementation. As the trusted preparation noise is shown to be security breaking even for purely lossy channels, we reveal the essential difference between two types of trusted noise, namely sender-side preparation noise and receiver-side detection noise, the latter being security preserving. We consider the method of sender-side state purification to compensate the preparation noise and show its applicability in the realistic conditions of channel loss, untrusted channel excess noise, and trusted detection noise. We show that purification makes the scheme robust to the preparation noise (i.e., even the arbitrary noisy coherent states can in principle be used for the purpose of quantum key distribution). We also take into account the effect of realistic reconciliation and show that the purification method is still efficient in this case up to a limited value of preparation noise.

id: 0904.1718
title: Restoring integrability in one-dimensional quantum gases by two-particle correlations
authors: I. E. Mazets, J. Schmiedmayer
comments: revtex4, 4 pages, 1 figure (PDF)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 061603(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1718
abstract: We show that thermalization and the breakdown of integrability in the one dimensional Lieb-Liniger model caused by local three-body elastic interactions is suppressed by pairwise quantum correlations when approaching the strongly correlated regime. If the relative momentum $k$ is small compared to the two-body coupling constant $c$ the three-particle scattering state is suppressed by a factor of $(k/c)^{12}$. This demonstrates that in one dimensional quantum systems it is not the freeze-out of two body collisions but the strong quantum correlations which ensures integrability.

id: 0904.1774
title: Berry's phase in the two-level model
authors: A.C. Aguiar Pinto, M. Moutinho, M.T. Thomaz
comments: 11 pages, no figure
journal: Braz. J. Phys. vol.39, n.2, pp. 326-330 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1774
abstract: We study the adiabatic evolution of a two-level model in the presence of an external classical electric field. The coupling between the quantum model and the classical field is taken in the electric dipole approximation. In this regime, we show the absence of geometric phases in the interacting two-level model in the presence of any periodic real time-dependent classical electric field. We obtain a conservative scalar potential in the calculation of Berry's phases of the instantaneous eigenstates of the model. For complex electric fields, we recover the existence of geometric phases. In particular, the geometric phases of the instantaneous eigenstates of the model in the presence of a positive or of a negative frequency component of the monochromatic electric field differ by an overall sign. As a check on our results, we map this interacting two-level model onto a spin-1/2 model under the action of a classical magnetic field. We confirm that the first one acquires Berry's phase only in the rotating wave approximation [RWA].

id: 0904.1779
title: Slow Light of an Amplitude Modulated Gaussian Pulse in Cesium Vapor
authors: Wenzhuo Tang, Bin Luo, Yu Liu, Hong Guo
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1779
abstract: Slow light of an amplitude modulated Gaussian (AMG) pulse in cesium vapor is demonstrated and studied, as an appropriate amplitude modulation to a single pulse can expand its spectrum and thus increase the utilization efficiency of the bandwidth of a slow light system. In a single-$\Lambda$ type electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) system, the slowed AMG pulse experiences severe distortion, mainly owing to the frequency dependent transmission of medium. Additionally, due to its spectral distribution, the frequency dependent dispersion of the medium causes simultaneous slow and fast light of different spectral components and thus a certain dispersive distortion of the AMG pulse. Further, a post-processing method is proposed to recover the slowed (distorted) pulse, which indicates that by introducing a linear optical system with a desired gain spectrum we can recover the pulse in an "all-optical" way. Finally, we discuss the limitations during this compensation procedure in detail. Although it is demonstrated in the cesium vapor using EIT, this method should be applicable to a wide range of slow light systems.

id: 0904.1788
title: On the Existence of certain Quantum Algorithms
authors: Bjoern Grohmann
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1788
abstract: We investigate the question if quantum algorithms exist that compute the maximum of a set of conjugated elements of a given number field in quantum polynomial time. We will relate the existence of these algorithms for a certain family of number fields to an open conjecture from elementary number theory.

id: 0904.1791
title: Increased pump acceptance bandwidth in spontaneous parametric downconversion process using Bragg reflection waveguides
authors: K. Thyagarajan, R. Das, O. Alibart, M. de Micheli, D. B. Ostrowsky, S. Tanzilli
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 16 Issue 6, pp.3577-3582 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1791
abstract: In this paper we show that by suitably tailoring the dispersion characteristics of a Bragg reflection waveguide (BRW) mode, it is possible to achieve efficient photon pair generation over a large pump bandwidth while maintaining narrow signal bandwidth. The structure proposed consists of a high index core BRW with a periodically poled GaN core and periodically stratified cladding made up of alternate layers of $Al_{0.02}Ga_{0.98}N$ and $Al_{0.45}Ga_{0.55}N$. Such photon-pair generators should find applications in realizing compact and stable sources for quantum information processing.

id: 0904.1863
title: Irreducible multiparty correlation can be created by local operations
authors: D. L. Zhou
comments: 4 pages, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022113 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1863
abstract: Generalizing Amari's work titled "Information geometry on hierarchy of probability distributions", we define the degrees of irreducible multiparty correlations in a multiparty quantum state based on quantum relative entropy. We prove that these definitions are equivalent to those derived from the maximal von Neaumann entropy principle. Based on these definitions, we find a counterintuitive result on irreducible multiparty correlations: although the degree of the total correlation in a three-party quantum state does not increase under local operations, the irreducible three-party correlation can be created by local operations from a three-party state with only irreducible two-party correlations. In other words, even if a three-party state is initially completely determined by measuring two-party Hermitian operators, the determination of the state after local operations have to resort to the measurements of three-party Hermitian operators.

id: 0904.1912
title: A Study of Channel Estimation and Postprocessing in Quantum Key Distribution Protocols
authors: Shun Watanabe
comments: PhD thesis, March 2009, Tokyo Institute of Technology. 133 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1912
abstract: This thesis investigate the channel estimation and the postprocessing of the quantum key distribution protocols. In particular, we propose a new channel estimation procedure, in which we utilize the bit sequences transmitted and received by different bases, and a new postprocessing with two-way classical communication. Then, we show that the key generation rates of the QKD protocols with our channel estimation and/or our postprocessing are higher than those with conventional ones.

id: 0904.1925
title: Concatenated tensor network states
authors: R. H¨¹bener, V. Nebendahl, W. D¨¹r
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 025004 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1925
abstract: We introduce the concept of concatenated tensor networks to efficiently describe quantum states. We show that the corresponding concatenated tensor network states can efficiently describe time evolution and possess arbitrary block-wise entanglement and long-ranged correlations. We illustrate the approach for the enhancement of matrix product states, i.e. 1D tensor networks, where we replace each of the matrices of the original matrix product state with another 1D tensor network. This procedure yields a 2D tensor network, which includes -- already for tensor dimension two -- all states that can be prepared by circuits of polynomially many (possibly non-unitary) two-qubit quantum operations, as well as states resulting from time evolution with respect to Hamiltonians with short-ranged interactions. We investigate the possibility to efficiently extract information from these states, which serves as the basic step in a variational optimization procedure. To this aim we utilize known exact and approximate methods for 2D tensor networks and demonstrate some improvements thereof, which are also applicable e.g. in the context of 2D projected entangled pair states. We generalize the approach to higher dimensional- and tree tensor networks.

id: 0904.1926
title: Matrix Product States for dynamical simulation of infinite chains
authors: M. C. Ba?uls, M. B. Hastings, F. Verstraete, J. I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 7 EPS figures, extra references and figure; accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 240603 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1926
abstract: We propose a new method for computing the ground state properties and the time evolution of infinite chains based on a transverse contraction of the tensor network. The method does not require finite size extrapolation and avoids explicit truncation of the bond dimension along the evolution. By folding the network in the time direction prior to contraction, time dependent expectation values and dynamic correlation functions can be computed after much longer evolution time than with any previous method. Moreover, the algorithm we propose can be used for the study of some non-invariant infinite chains, including impurity models.

id: 0904.1946
title: Thermal entanglement of one-dimensional Heisenberg quantum spin chains in magnetic fields
authors: Shou-Shu Gong, Gang Su
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012323 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1946
abstract: The thermal pairwise entanglement (TE) of the S=1/2 XY chain in a transverse magnetic field is exactly resolved by means of the Jordan-Wigner transformation. It is found that the TE vanishes at a common temperature Tc~0.4843J, which is irrelevant to the field. A thermal quantity is proposed to witness the entangled state. Furthermore, the TE of the S=1/2 antiferromagnetic-ferromagnetic (AF-F) Heisenberg chain is studied by the transfer-matrix renormalization group method.The TEs of the spins coupled by AF and F interactions are found to behave distinctively. The vanishing temperature of the field-induced TE of the spins coupled by F interactions is observed to change with the magnetic field. The results are further confirmed and analyzed by the mean-field theory.

id: 0904.1952
title: Mixing and Decoherence in Continuous-time quantum walks on long-range interacting cycles
authors: S. Salimi, R. Radgohar
comments: 15 pages, 2 Figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 475302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1952
abstract: We study the effect of small decoherence in continuous-time quantum walks on long-range interacting cycles, which are constructed by connecting all the two nodes of distance m on the cycle graph. In our investigation, each node is continuously monitored by an individual point contact, which induces the decoherence process. We obtain the analytical probability distribution and the mixing time upper bound. Our results show that, for small rates of decoherence, themixing time upper bound is independent of distance parameter m and is proportional to inverse of decoherence rate.

id: 0904.1969
title: Time-Symmetric Quantum Theory of Smoothing
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, v2: accepted by PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters 102, 250403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1969
abstract: Smoothing is an estimation technique that takes into account both past and future observations, and can be more accurate than filtering alone. In this Letter, a quantum theory of smoothing is constructed using a time-symmetric formalism, thereby generalizing prior work on classical and quantum filtering, retrodiction, and smoothing. The proposed theory solves the important problem of optimally estimating classical Markov processes coupled to a quantum system under continuous measurements, and is thus expected to find major applications in future quantum sensing systems, such as gravitational wave detectors and atomic magnetometers.

id: 0904.1994
title: Practical post-processing for quantum-key-distribution experiments
authors: Xiongfeng Ma, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Jean-Christian Boileau, H. F. Chau
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: Computers & Security Volume 30, Issue 4, June 2011, Pages 172-177
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1994
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) promises unconditionally secure key generation between two distant parties by wisely exploiting properties of quantum mechanics. In QKD, experimental measurements on quantum states are transformed to a secret key and this has to be done in accordance with a security proof. Unfortunately, many theoretical proofs are not readily implementable in experiments and do not consider all practical issues. Therefore, in order to bridge this "practical gap", we integrate a few existing theoretical results together with new developments, in effect producing a simple and complete recipe for classical post-processing that one can follow to derive a secret key from the measurement outcomes in an actual QKD experiment. This integration is non-trivial and our consideration is both practical and comprehensive in the sense that we take into account the finiteness of the key length and consider the effects on security of several essential primitives (including authentication, error handling, and privacy amplification). Furthermore, we quantify the security of the final secret key that is universally composable. We show that the finite-size effect mainly comes from phase error estimation. Our result is applicable to the BB84 protocol with a single or entangled photon source.

id: 0904.1997
title: Classical and quantum structuralism
authors: Bob Coecke, Eric Oliver Paquette, Dusko Pavlovic
comments: 43 pages, 60 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1997
abstract: In recent work, symmetric dagger-monoidal (SDM) categories have emerged as a convenient categorical formalization of quantum mechanics. The objects represent physical systems, the morphisms physical operations, whereas the tensors describe composite systems. Classical data turn out to correspond to Frobenius algebras with some additional properties. They express the distinguishing capabilities of classical data: in contrast with quantum data, classical data can be copied and deleted. The algebraic approach thus shifts the paradigm of "quantization" of a classical theory to "classicization" of a quantum theory. Remarkably, the simple SDM framework suffices not only for this conceptual shift, but even allows us to distinguish the deterministic classical operations (i.e. functions) from the nondeterministic classical operations (i.e. relations), and the probabilistic classical operations (stochastic maps). Moreover, a combination of some basic categorical constructions (due to Kleisli, resp. Grothendieck) with the categorical presentations of quantum states, provides a resource sensitive account of various quantum-classical interactions: of classical control of quantum data, of classical data arising from quantum measurements, as well as of the classical data processing in-between controls and measurements. A salient feature here is the graphical calculus for categorical quantum mechanics, which allows a purely diagrammatic representation of classical-quantum interaction.

id: 0904.2009
title: The Pauli exclusion principle and beyond
authors: Alexander A. Klyachko
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. Letters, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2009
abstract: The Pauli exclusion principle can be stated as inequality $<\psi|\rho|\psi>\le 1$ for the electron density matrix $\rho$. Nowadays it is replaced by skew symmetry of the multi-electron wave function. The replacement leads to numerous additional constraints on $\rho$, which are discussed in this letter together with their physical implications, in particular for spin magnetic moment of a multi-electron system.

id: 0904.2015
title: Localization of resonance eigenfunctions on quantum repellers
authors: Leonardo Ermann, Gabriel G. Carlo, Marcos Saraceno
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 054102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2015
abstract: We introduce a new phase space representation for open quantum systems. This is a very powerful tool to help advance in the study of the morphology of their eigenstates. We apply it to two different versions of a paradigmatic model, the baker map. This allows to show that the long-lived resonances are strongly scarred along the shortest periodic orbits that belong to the classical repeller. Moreover, the shape of the short-lived eigenstates is also analyzed. Finally, we apply an antiunitary symmetry measure to the resonances that permits to quantify their localization on the repeller.

id: 0904.2029
title: Probabilistic teleportation via a non-maximally entangled GHZ state
authors: Yan Fengli, Yan Tao
comments: 5 pages
journal: Chinese Science Bulletin, 55 (10) (2010 ) 902-906
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2029
abstract: We present a scheme for probabilistic teleportation via a non-maximally entangled GHZ state. Quantum teleportation will succeed with a certain probability if the sender makes a generalized Bell state measurement, the cooperator performs a generalized $X$ basis measurement, and the receiver introduces an auxiliary particle, performs a collective unitary transformation and makes a measurement on the auxiliary particle. The success probability of the teleportation is given. We also obtain the maximum of the success probability of the teleportation.

id: 0904.2045
title: Adaptive Measurements in the Optical Quantum Information Laboratory
authors: H. M. Wiseman, D. W. Berry, S. D. Bartlett, B. L. Higgins, G. J. Pryde
comments: 12 pages, invited paper to be published in IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics: Quantum Communications and Information Science
journal: IEEE J. Sel. Top. Quantum Electron., 15, 1661-1672 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2045
abstract: Adaptive techniques make practical many quantum measurements that would otherwise be beyond current laboratory capabilities. For example: they allow discrimination of nonorthogonal states with a probability of error equal to the Helstrom bound; they allow measurement of the phase of a quantum oscillator with accuracy approaching (or in some cases attaining) the Heisenberg limit; and they allow estimation of phase in interferometry with a variance scaling at the Heisenberg limit, using only single qubit measurement and control. Each of these examples has close links with quantum information, in particular experimental optical quantum information: the first is a basic quantum communication protocol; the second has potential application in linear optical quantum computing; the third uses an adaptive protocol inspired by the quantum phase estimation algorithm. We discuss each of these examples, and their implementation in the laboratory, but concentrate upon the last, which was published most recently [Higgins {\em et al.}, Nature vol. 450, p. 393, 2007].

id: 0904.2048
title: Necessary conditions on entanglement catalysts
authors: Yuval Sanders, Gilad Gour
comments: Brief Report, 4 pages, accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 054302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2048
abstract: Given a pure state transformation $\psi\mapsto\phi$ restricted to entanglement-assisted local operations with classical communication, we determine a lower bound for the dimension of a catalyst allowing that transformation. Our bound is stated in terms of the generalised concurrence monotones (the usual concurrence of two qubits is one such monotone). We further provide tools for deriving further conditions upon catalysts of pure state transformations.

id: 0904.2054
title: Continuous-time quantum walks on star graphs
authors: S. Salimi
comments: 17, page; 4 figure
journal: Annals of Physics 324 (2009) 1185--1193
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2054
abstract: In this paper, we investigate continuous-time quantum walk on star graphs. It is shown that quantum central limit theorem for a continuous-time quantum walk on star graphs for $N$-fold star power graph, which are invariant under the quantum component of adjacency matrix, converges to continuous-time quantum walk on $K_2$ graphs (Complete graph with two vertices) and the probability of observing walk tends to the uniform distribution.

id: 0904.2057
title: Continuous-Time Classical and Quantum Random Walk on Direct Product of Cayley Graphs
authors: S. Salimi, M. A. Jafarizadeh
comments: 21, page. Accepted for publication on CTP
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 51 (2009) 1003-1009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2057
abstract: In this paper we define direct product of graphs and give a recipe for obtained probability of observing particle on vertices in the continuous-time classical and quantum random walk. In the recipe, the probability of observing particle on direct product of graph obtain by multiplication of probability on the corresponding to sub-graphs, where this method is useful to determine probability of walk on complicated graphs. Using this method, we calculate the probability of continuous-time classical and quantum random walks on many of finite direct product cayley graphs (complete cycle, complete $K_n$, charter and $n$-cube). Also, we inquire that the classical state the stationary uniform distribution is reached as $t\longrightarrow \infty$ but for quantum state is not always satisfy.

id: 0904.2086
title: Absorbing boundary conditions for dynamical many-body quantum systems
authors: S?lve Selst?, Simen Kvaal
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2086
abstract: In numerical studies of the dynamics of unbound quantum mechanical systems, absorbing boundary conditions are frequently applied. Although this certainly provides a useful tool in facilitating the description of the system, its applications to systems consisting of more than one particle is problematic. This is due to the fact that all information about the system is lost upon absorption of one particle; a formalism based solely on the Scrh{\"o}dinger equation is not able to describe the remainder of the system as particles are lost. Here we demonstrate how the dynamics of a quantum system with a given number of identical fermions may be described in a manner which allows for particle loss. A consistent formalism which incorporates the evolution of sub-systems with a reduced number of particles is constructed through the Lindblad equation. Specifically, the transition from an $N$-particle system to an $(N-1)$-particle system due to a complex absorbing potential is achieved by relating the Lindblad operators to annihilation operators. The method allows for a straight forward interpretation of how many constituent particles have left the system after interaction. We illustrate the formalism using one-dimensional two-particle model problems.

id: 0904.2143
title: Scheme for fault-tolerant holonomic computation on stabilizer codes
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, Todd A. Brun, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 22 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022325 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2143
abstract: This paper generalizes and expands upon the work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 070502 (2009)] where we introduced a scheme for fault-tolerant holonomic quantum computation (HQC) on stabilizer codes. HQC is an all-geometric strategy based on non-Abelian adiabatic holonomies, which is known to be robust against various types of errors in the control parameters. The scheme we present shows that HQC is a scalable method of computation, and opens the possibility for combining the benefits of error correction with the inherent resilience of the holonomic approach. We show that with the Bacon-Shor code the scheme can be implemented using Hamiltonian operators of weight 2 and 3.

id: 0904.2148
title: Casimir-Lifshitz force between moving plates at different temperatures
authors: T.G. Philbin, U. Leonhardt
comments: 18 pages. Expanded derivation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2148
abstract: The zero-temperature Casimir-Lifshitz force between two plates moving parallel to each other at arbitrary constant speed was found in [New J. Phys. 11, 033035 (2009)]. The solution is here generalized to the case where the plates are at different temperatures. The Casimir-Lifshitz force is obtained by calculating the electromagnetic stress tensor, using the method employed by Antezza et al. [Phys. Rev. A 77, 022901 (2008)] for non-moving plates at different temperatures. The perpendicular force on the plates has contributions from the quantum vacuum and from the thermal radiation; both of these contributions are influenced by the motion. In addition to the perpendicular force, thermal radiation from the moving plates gives rise to a lateral component of the Casimir-Lifshitz force, an effect with no quantum-vacuum contribution. The zero-temperature results are reproduced, in particular the non-existence of a quantum-vacuum friction between the plates.

id: 0904.2155
title: Optical Activity of a Dilute Dielectric Medium: Pasteur and the Molecular Symmetries
authors: M.Cattani, J.M.F.Bassalo
comments: 26 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2155
abstract: In 1848 Pasteur conjectured that the rotation of the polarization plane of the light in a dilute dielectric medium is generated by the molecular symmetries of the medium where the light propagates. Our objective is to show that Pasteur hypothesis was correct using basic knowledge of electromagnetism and quantum mechanics. In Sections 2-5 we present a brief review of the fundamental concepts of the electromagnetism necessary to study the optical activity. In Sections 6-8 using the quantum mechanical perturbation theory and taking into account the molecular symmetries we calculate the optical activity of the medium. It will be shown that the theoretical predictions that are in good agreement with the experimental results give support to the Pasteur hypothesis.

id: 0904.2211
title: Efficient quantum circuits for arbitrary sparse unitaries
authors: Stephen P. Jordan, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 4 pages. Substantially expanded since v1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2211
abstract: Arbitrary exponentially large unitaries cannot be implemented efficiently by quantum circuits. However, we show that quantum circuits can efficiently implement any unitary provided it has at most polynomially many nonzero entries in any row or column, and these entries are efficiently computable. One can formulate a model of computation based on the composition of sparse unitaries which includes the quantum Turing machine model, the quantum circuit model, anyonic models, permutational quantum computation, and discrete time quantum walks as special cases. Thus we obtain a simple unified proof that these models are all contained in BQP. Furthermore our general method for implementing sparse unitaries simplifies several existing quantum algorithms.

id: 0904.2267
title: High-performance diamond-based single-photon sources for quantum communication
authors: Chun-Hsu Su, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, 3 tables, revisions to excitation parameters
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:052308,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2267
abstract: Quantum communication places stringent requirements on single-photon sources. Here we report a theoretical study of the cavity Purcell enhancement of two diamond point defects, the nickel-nitrogen (NE8) and silicon-vacancy (SiV) centers, for high-performance, near on-demand single-photon generation. By coupling the centers strongly to high-finesse optical photonic-bandgap cavities with modest quality factor Q = O(10^4) and small mode volume V = O(\lambda^3), these system can deliver picosecond single-photon pulses at their zero-phonon lines with probabilities of 0.954 (NE8) and 0.812 (SiV) under a realistic optical excitation scheme. The undesirable blinking effect due to transitions via metastable states can also be suppressed with O(10^{-4}) blinking probability. We analyze the application of these enhanced centers, including the previously-studied cavity-enhanced nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center, to long-distance BB84 quantum key distribution (QKD) in fiber-based, open-air terrestrial and satellite-ground setups. In this comparative study, we show that they can deliver performance comparable with decoy state implementation with weak coherent sources, and are most suitable for open-air communication.

id: 0904.2286
title: Reversible computation as a model for the quantum measurement process
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 5 pages
journal: Cybernetics and Systems 98 Volume I, ed. by R. Trappl (Austrian Society for Cybernetic Studies, Vienna, 1998), pp. 102-106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2286
abstract: One-to-one reversible automata are introduced. Their applicability to a modelling of the quantum mechanical measurement process is discussed.

id: 0904.2293
title: Sturm-Schroedinger equations: formula for metric
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Hendrik B. Geyer
comments: 14pp
journal: Pramana - J. Phys. 73, 299 - 306 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2293
abstract: Sturm-Schroedinger equations $H\psi=E W\psi$ with $H\neq H^\dagger$ and $W\neq W^\dagger \neq I$ are considered, with a weak point of the theory lying in the purely numerical matrix-inversion form of the double-series definition of the necessary metric operator $\Theta$ in the physical Hilbert space of states [M. Znojil, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 215304]. This shortcoming is removed here via an amended, single-series definition of $\Theta$.

id: 0904.2343
title: Purification of multipartite entanglement by local operations
authors: Ming Yang, Fei Yan, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2343
abstract: Multipartite entanglement purification is revisited by using the Local operations and classical communications(LOCCs). We demonstrate our idea by considering the tripartite case, i.e. the purification of tripartite entanglement. We express the general tripartite entangled states in a special representation of total spin operators $J_{123}^{2}$ and $% J_{12}^{2}$ of tripartite system with eigenvalues 15/4 and 2 respectively. This basis is a \textit{genuine basis} because it consists of of all the genuine entangled states of tripartite system. Our protocol is a recurrence one, and only two copies of the initial mixed tripartite entangled states are needed in each round. It is shown that if the initial fidelity is larger than a threshold 0.4, the purification process will succeed.The yield of the current protocol is higher than the previous multipartite entanglement purification protocols. As a by-product, we can get a bipartite pure Bell state when the purification protocol fails for W state. Our protocol also shows that there may be some special kind of tripartite entanglement which belongs to neither W-type entanglement nor GHZ-type entanglement.

id: 0904.2420
title: Molecular Ensemble Based Remote Quantum Storage for Charge Qubit via Quasi-Dark State
authors: H. R. Zhang, Y. B. Gao, Z. R. Gong, C. P. Sun
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2420
abstract: We propose a quantum storage scheme independent of the current time-control schemes, and study a "quantum data bus" (transmission line resonator) in a hybrid system consisting of a circuit QED system integrated with a cold molecular ensemble. Here, an effective interaction between charge qubit and molecule is mediated by the off-resonate field in the data bus. Correspondingly, the charge state can be mapped into the collective quasi-spin state of the molecular ensemble via the standard dark state based adiabatic manipulation.

id: 0904.2459
title: Single-particle machine for quantum thermalization
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, H. Dong, C. P. Sun
comments: 9 pages,4 figures,
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052121 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2459
abstract: The long time accumulation of the \textit{random} actions of a single particle "reservoir" on its coupled system can transfer some temperature information of its initial state to the coupled system. This dynamic process can be referred to as a quantum thermalization in the sense that the coupled system can reach a stable thermal equilibrium with a temperature equal to that of the reservoir. We illustrate this idea based on the usual micromaser model, in which a series of initially prepared two-level atoms randomly pass through an electromagnetic cavity. It is found that, when the randomly injected atoms are initially prepared in a thermal equilibrium state with a given temperature, the cavity field will reach a thermal equilibrium state with the same temperature as that of the injected atoms. As in two limit cases, the cavity field can be cooled and "coherently heated" as a maser process, respectively, when the injected atoms are initially prepared in ground and excited states. Especially, when the atoms in equilibrium are driven to possess some coherence, the cavity field may reach a higher temperature in comparison with the injected atoms. We also point out a possible experimental test for our theoretical prediction based on a superconducting circuit QED system.

id: 0904.2490
title: Defeating Passive Eavesdropping with Quantum Illumination
authors: Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure; new version corrects a significant typographical error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2490
abstract: Quantum illumination permits Alice and Bob to communicate at 50 Mbit/s over 50 km of low-loss fiber with error probability less than 10^(-6) while the optimum passive eavesdropper's error probability must exceed 0.28.

id: 0904.2504
title: Exact theoretical description of two ultracold atoms in a single site of a 3D optical lattice using realistic interatomic interaction potentials
authors: Sergey Grishkevich, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2504
abstract: A theoretical approach was developed for an exact numerical description of a pair of ultracold atoms interacting via a central potential that are trapped in a three-dimensional optical lattice. The coupling of center-of-mass and relative-motion coordinates is explicitly considered using a configuration-interaction (exact-diagonalization) technique. Deviations from the harmonic approximation are discussed for several heteronuclear alkali-metal atom pairs trapped in a single site of an optical lattice. The consequences are discussed for the analysis of a recent experiment [C. Ospelkaus et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 120402 (2006)] in which radio-frequency association was used to create diatomic molecules from a fermionic and a bosonic atom and to measure their binding energies close to a magnetic Feshbach resonance.

id: 0904.2557
title: An Introduction to Quantum Error Correction and Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation
authors: Daniel Gottesman
comments: 46 pages, with large margins. Includes quant-ph/0004072 plus 30 pages of new material, mostly on fault-tolerance
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2557
abstract: Quantum states are very delicate, so it is likely some sort of quantum error correction will be necessary to build reliable quantum computers. The theory of quantum error-correcting codes has some close ties to and some striking differences from the theory of classical error-correcting codes. Many quantum codes can be described in terms of the stabilizer of the codewords. The stabilizer is a finite Abelian group, and allows a straightforward characterization of the error-correcting properties of the code. The stabilizer formalism for quantum codes also illustrates the relationships to classical coding theory, particularly classical codes over GF(4), the finite field with four elements. To build a quantum computer which behaves correctly in the presence of errors, we also need a theory of fault-tolerant quantum computation, instructing us how to perform quantum gates on qubits which are encoded in a quantum error-correcting code. The threshold theorem states that it is possible to create a quantum computer to perform an arbitrary quantum computation provided the error rate per physical gate or time step is below some constant threshold value.

id: 0904.2560
title: Quantum Fourier Transform Over Galois Rings
authors: Yong Zhang
comments: Latex, 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2560
abstract: Galois rings are regarded as "building blocks" of a finite commutative ring with identity. There have been many papers on classical error correction codes over Galois rings published. As an important warm-up before exploring quantum algorithms and quantum error correction codes over Galois rings, we study the quantum Fourier transform (QFT) over Galois rings and prove it can be efficiently preformed on a quantum computer. The properties of the QFT over Galois rings lead to the quantum algorithm for hidden linear structures over Galois rings.

id: 0904.2589
title: Analogue Hawking Radiation in a dc-SQUID Array Transmission Line
authors: P. D. Nation, M. P. Blencowe, A. J. Rimberg, E. Buks
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 087004 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2589
abstract: We propose the use of a superconducting waveguide formed from an array of dc-SQUID's for investigating analogue Hawking radiation. Biasing the array with a space-time varying flux modifies the propagation velocity of the waveguide, leading to an effective metric with an horizon. Being a fundamentally quantum mechanical device, this setup allows for investigations of quantum effects such as back-reaction and analogue space-time fluctuations on the Hawking process.

id: 0904.2599
title: Demonstration of a scalable, multiplexed ion trap for quantum information processing
authors: D.R. Leibrandt, J. Labaziewicz, R.J. Clark, I.L. Chuang, R.J. Epstein, C. Ospelkaus, J.H. Wesenberg, J.J. Bollinger, D. Leibfried, D.J. Wineland, D. Stick, J. Sterk, C. Monroe, C.-S. Pai, Y. Low, R. Frahm, R.E. Slusher
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2599
abstract: A scalable, multiplexed ion trap for quantum information processing is fabricated and tested. The trap design and fabrication process are optimized for scalability to small trap size and large numbers of interconnected traps, and for integration of control electronics and optics. Multiple traps with similar designs are tested with Cd+, Mg+, and Sr+ ions at room temperature and with Sr+ at 6 K, with respective ion lifetimes of 90 s, 300 +/- 30 s, 56 +/- 6 s, and 4.5 +/- 1.1 hours. The motional heating rate for Mg+ at room temperature and a trap frequency of 1.6 MHz is measured to be 7 +/- 3 quanta per millisecond. For Sr+ at 6 K and 540 kHz the heating rate is measured to be 220 +/- 30 quanta per second.

id: 0904.2609
title: Characterizing measurement-based quantum gates in quantum many-body systems using correlation functions
authors: Thomas Chung, Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. Proceedings paper for an invited talk at Theory Canada 4 (2008), published in the Canadian Journal of Physics
journal: Can. J. Phys., 87, 219 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2609
abstract: In measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC), local adaptive measurements are performed on the quantum state of a lattice of qubits. Quantum gates are associated with a particular measurement sequence, and one way of viewing MBQC is that such a measurement sequence prepares a resource state suitable for `gate teleportation'. We demonstrate how to quantify the performance of quantum gates in MBQC by using correlation functions on the pre-measurement resource state.

id: 0904.2614
title: Control of bound-pair transport by periodic driving
authors: K. Kudo, T. Boness, T.S. Monteiro
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 063409 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2614
abstract: We investigate the effect of periodic driving by an external field on systems with attractive pairing interactions. These include spin systems (like the ferromagnetic XXZ model) as well as ultracold fermionic atoms described by the attractive Hubbard model. We show that a well-known phenomenon seen in periodically driven systems--the renormalization of the exchange coupling strength--acts selectively on bound-pairs of spins/atoms, relative to magnon/bare atom states. Thus one can control the direction and speed of transport of bound-pair relative to magnon/unpaired atom states, and thus coherently achieve spatial separation of these components. Applications to recent experiments on transport with fermionic atoms in optical lattices which consist of mixtures of bound-pairs and bare atoms are discussed.

id: 0904.2616
title: Strongly correlated quantum dynamics of multimode light coupled to a two-level atom in a cavity
authors: Tarun Kumar, Aranya B Bhattacherjee, ManMohan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2616
abstract: We study a composite multimode light-two-level atom system in a cavity. We show that coupling of the two-level atom to multiple modes of the light destroys the Mott phase of the composite system thus making the system less useful platform for developing concepts in quantum information processing.

id: 0904.2642
title: Quantum correlation in disordered spin systems: entanglement and applications to magnetic sensing
authors: Paola Cappellaro, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2642
abstract: We propose a strategy to generate a many-body entangled state in a collection of randomly placed, dipolarly coupled electronic spins in the solid state. By using coherent control to restrict the evolution into a suitable collective subspace, this method enables the preparation of GHZ-like and spin-squeezed states even for randomly positioned spins, while in addition protecting the entangled states against decoherence. We consider the application of this squeezing method to improve the sensitivity of nanoscale magnetometer based on Nitrogen-Vacancy spin qubits in diamond.

id: 0904.2656
title: Diagrams of States in Quantum Information: an Illustrative Tutorial
authors: Sara Felloni, Alberto Leporati, Giuliano Strini
comments: 29 pages, 25 figures, to be published in IJUC - International Journal of Unconventional Computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2656
abstract: We present "Diagrams of States", a way to graphically represent and analyze how quantum information is elaborated during the execution of quantum circuits. This introductory tutorial illustrates the basics, providing useful examples of quantum computations: elementary operations in single-qubit, two-qubit and three-qubit systems, immersions of gates on higher dimensional spaces, generation of single and multi-qubit states, procedures to synthesize unitary, controlled and diagonal matrices. To perform the analysis of quantum processes, we directly derive diagrams of states from physical implementations of quantum circuits associated to the processes. Complete diagrams are then rearranged into simplified diagrams, to visualize the overall effects of computations. Conversely, diagrams of states help to conceive new quantum algorithms, by schematically describing desired manipulations of quantum information with intuitive diagrams and then by guessing the equivalent complete diagrams, from which the corresponding quantum circuit is obtained effortlessly. Related examples and analysis of complex algorithms will be provided in future works, for whose comprehension this first tutorial offers the necessary introduction.

id: 0904.2686
title: Noise-induced quantum coherence and persistent Rabi oscillations in a Josephson flux qubit
authors: A.N. Omelyanchouk, S. Savel'ev, A.M. Zagoskin, E. Il'ichev, Franco Nori
comments: Figures replaced. References added. Text improved
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 212503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2686
abstract: We demonstrate theoretically the noise-stimulated enhancement of quantum coherence in a superconducting flux qubit. First, an external classical noise can increase the off-diagonal components of the qubit density matrix. Second, in the presence of noise, the Rabi oscillations survive for times significantly longer than the Rabi decay time in a noiseless system. These Rabi oscillations appear as a modulation of the forced response of the qubit to the ac driving field. These effects can be considered as a manifestation of quantum stochastic resonance and are relevant to experimental techniques, such as Rabi spectroscopy.

id: 0904.2703
title: Correlations in Grover search
authors: Jian Cui, Heng Fan
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures, summary is revised, more contents are added
journal: Jian Cui and Heng Fan 2010 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 045305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2703
abstract: Grover search is a well-known quantum algorithm that outperforms any classical search algorithm. It is known that quantum correlations such as entanglement are necessary for the power of quantum computation. But entanglement is not the only kind of quantum correlations. Other quantum correlations such as quantum discord are also useful to capture some aspects of the nonclassical correlation. We investigate several kinds of correlations including both quantum and classical in the whole process of Grover search algorithm. These correlations are the concurrence, entanglement of formation, quantum discord, classical correlation and mutual information. The behaviors of quantum discord, classical correlation and mutual information are almost the same while the concurrence is different. When the search is over, all kinds of correlations are zero, we argue that this is necessary for the final step in the search.

id: 0904.2705
title: Relative Entropy of Entanglement and Restricted Measurements
authors: M. Piani
comments: 5 pages; see arXiv:0904.0281 for a different proof of the strict positiveness of the regularized relative entropy of entanglement on every entangled state
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 160504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2705
abstract: We introduce variants of relative entropy of entanglement based on the optimal distinguishability from unentangled states by means of restricted measurements. In this way, we are able to prove that the standard regularized entropy of entanglement is strictly positive for all multipartite entangled states. In particular, this implies that the asymptotic creation of a multipartite entangled state by means of local operations and classical communication always requires the consumption of a non-local resource at a strictly positive rate.

id: 0904.2737
title: Standard Quantum Limit for Probing Mechanical Energy Quantization
authors: Haixing Miao, Stefan Danilishin, Thomas Corbitt, Yanbei Chen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:100402,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2737
abstract: We derive a standard quantum limit for probing mechanical energy quantization in a class of systems with mechanical modes parametrically coupled to external degrees of freedom. To resolve a single mechanical quantum, it requires a strong-coupling regime -- the decay rate of external degrees of freedom is smaller than the parametric coupling rate. In the case for cavity-assisted optomechanical systems, e.g. the one proposed by Thompson et al., zero-point motion of the mechanical oscillator needs to be comparable to linear dynamical range of the optical system which is characterized by the optical wavelength divided by the cavity finesse.

id: 0904.2759
title: Span programs and quantum query complexity: The general adversary bound is nearly tight for every boolean function
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 70 pages, 2 figures
journal: Extended abstract in Proc. 50th IEEE Symp. on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS), 2009, pages 544-551
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2759
abstract: The general adversary bound is a semi-definite program (SDP) that lower-bounds the quantum query complexity of a function. We turn this lower bound into an upper bound, by giving a quantum walk algorithm based on the dual SDP that has query complexity at most the general adversary bound, up to a logarithmic factor. In more detail, the proof has two steps, each based on "span programs," a certain linear-algebraic model of computation. First, we give an SDP that outputs for any boolean function a span program computing it that has optimal "witness size." The optimal witness size is shown to coincide with the general adversary lower bound. Second, we give a quantum algorithm for evaluating span programs with only a logarithmic query overhead on the witness size. The first result is motivated by a quantum algorithm for evaluating composed span programs. The algorithm is known to be optimal for evaluating a large class of formulas. The allowed gates include all constant-size functions for which there is an optimal span program. So far, good span programs have been found in an ad hoc manner, and the SDP automates this procedure. Surprisingly, the SDP's value equals the general adversary bound. A corollary is an optimal quantum algorithm for evaluating "balanced" formulas over any finite boolean gate set. The second result extends span programs' applicability beyond the formula evaluation problem. A strong universality result for span programs follows. A good quantum query algorithm for a problem implies a good span program, and vice versa. Although nearly tight, this equivalence is nontrivial. Span programs are a promising model for developing more quantum algorithms.

id: 0904.2783
title: Tailoring Effective Exchange Interactions via Domain Walls in Coupled Heisenberg Rings
authors: Vanita Srinivasa, Jeremy Levy
comments: 30 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2783
abstract: The nature of the exchange coupling variation in an antiferromagnetic spin-1/2 system can be used to tailor its ground-state properties. In particular, dimerized Heisenberg rings containing domain walls have localized states which can serve as "flying spin qubits" when the domain walls are moved. We show theoretically that, when two of these rings are coupled, the movement of the domain walls leads to modulation of the effective exchange interaction between the qubits. Appropriately chosen configurations of domain walls can give rise to ferromagnetic effective exchange. We describe how these spin rings may be used as basic building blocks to construct quantum spin systems whose properties are tunable by virtue of the exchange variation within the rings.

id: 0904.2793
title: General methods to control right-invariant systems on compact Lie groups and multilevel quantum systems
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2793
abstract: For a right-invariant system on a compact Lie group G, I present two methods to design a control to drive the state from the identity to any element of the group. The first method, under appropriate assumptions, achieves exact control to the target but requires estimation of the `size' of a neighborhood of the identity in G. The second method, does not involve any mathematical difficulty, and obtains control to a desired target with arbitrary accuracy. A third method is then given combining the main ideas of the previous methods. This is also very simple in its formulation and turns out to be generically more efficient as illustrated by one of the examples we consider. The methods described in the paper provide arbitrary constructive control for any right-invariant system on a compact Lie group. I give examples including closed multilevel quantum systems and lossless electrical networks. In particular, the results can be applied to the coherent control of general multilevel quantum systems.

id: 0904.2807
title: Three-Party Entanglement in Tripartite Teleportation Scheme through Noisy Channels
authors: Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, DaeKil Park, Sayatnova Tamaryan
comments: 27 pages, 8 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 10 (2010) 0377-0397
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2807
abstract: We have tried to interpret the physical role of the three-tangle and $\pi$-tangle in the real physical information process. For the model calculation we adopt the three-party teleportation scheme through the various noisy channels. The three parties consist of sender, accomplice and receiver. It is shown that the $\pi$-tangles for the X- and Z-noisy channels vanish at $\kappa t \to \infty$ limit, where $\kappa t$ is a parameter introduced in the master equation of Lindblad form. In this limit the receiver's maximum fidelity reduces to the classical limit 2/3. However, this nice feature is not maintained at the Y- and isotropy-noise channels. For Y-noise channel the $\pi$-tangle vanishes at $0.61 \leq \kappa t$. At $\kappa t = 0.61$ the receiver's maximum fidelity becomes 0.57, which is much less than the classical limit. Similar phenomenon occurs at the isotropic noise channel. We also computed the three-tangles analytically for the X- and Z-noise channels. The remarkable fact is that the three-tangle for Z-noise channel is exactly same with the corresponding $\pi$-tangle. In the X-noise channel the three-tangle vanishes at $0.10 \leq \kappa t$. At $\kappa t = 0.10$ the receiver's fidelity can be reduced to the classical limit provided that the accomplice performs the measurement appropriately. However, the receiver's maximum fidelity becomes 8/9, which is much larger than the classical limit. Since the Y- and isotropy-noise channels are rank-8 mixed states, their three-tangles are not computed explicitly. Instead, we have derived their upper bounds with use of the analytical three-tangles for other noisy channels. Our analysis strongly suggests that we need different three-party entanglement measure whose value is between three-tangle and $\pi$-tangle.

id: 0904.2809
title: Bound of Entanglement of Assistance and Monogamy Constraints
authors: Zong-Guo Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Sergio Albeverio, W. M. Liu
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2809
abstract: We investigate the entanglement of assistance which quantifies capabilities of producing pure bipartite entangled states from a pure tripartite state. The lower bound and upper bound of entanglement of assistance are obtained. In the light of the upper bound, monogamy constraints are proved for arbitrary n-qubit states.

id: 0904.2812
title: Finite Geometries with Qubit Operators
authors: Ambar N. Sengupta
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2812
abstract: Finite projective geometries, especially the Fano plane, have been observed to arise in the context of certain quantum gate operators. We use Clifford algebras to explain why these geometries, both planar and higher dimensional, appear in the context of multi-qubit composite systems.

id: 0904.2857
title: Exact dynamics of entanglement and entropy in structured environments
authors: L. Mazzola, S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, K. -A. Suominen
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 085505 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2857
abstract: We study the exact entanglement dynamics of two qubits interacting with a common zero-temperature non-Markovian reservoir. We consider the two qubits initially prepared in Bell-like states or extended Werner-like states. We study the dependence of the entanglement dynamics on both the degree of purity and the amount of entanglement of the initial state. We also explore the relation between the entanglement and the von Neumann entropy dynamics and find that these two quantities are correlated for initial Bell-like states.

id: 0904.2923
title: Modal, Spectral, and Polarization Entanglement in Guided-Wave Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: Mohammed F. Saleh, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin Carl Teich
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, journal paper
journal: Physical Review A 79, 053842 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2923
abstract: We examine the modal, spectral, and polarization entanglement properties of photon pairs generated in a nonlinear, periodically poled, two-mode waveguide (1-D planar or 2-D circular) via nondegenerate spontaneous parametric down-conversion. Any of the possible degrees of freedom -- mode number, frequency, or polarization -- can be used to distinguish the down-converted photons while the others serve as attributes of entanglement. Distinguishing the down-converted photons based on their mode numbers enables us to efficiently generate spectral or polarization entanglement that is either narrowband or broadband. On the other hand, when the generated photons are distinguished by their frequencies in a Type-0 process, modal entanglement turns out to be an efficient alternative to polarization entanglement. Moreover, modal entanglement in Type-II down-conversion may be used to generate a doubly entangled state in frequency and polarization.

id: 0904.2947
title: Entanglement Capacity of Nonlocal Hamiltonians : A Geometric Approach
authors: Behzad Lari, Ali Saif M. Hassan, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 8 pages, 1 figures
journal: Physical Review A 80, 062305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2947
abstract: We develop a geometric approach to quantify the capability of creating entanglement for a general physical interaction acting on two qubits. We use the entanglement measure proposed by us for $N$-qubit pure states (PRA \textbf{77}, 062334 (2008)). Our procedure reproduces the earlier results (PRL \textbf{87}, 137901 (2001)). The geometric method has the distinct advantage that it gives an experimental way to monitor the process of optimizing entanglement production.

id: 0904.3001
title: Complexity of D-dimensional hydrogenic systems in position and momentum spaces
authors: S. Lopez-Rosa, D. Manzano, J. S. Dehesa
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, accepted in Physica A
journal: Physica A 388 (2009) 15
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3001
abstract: The internal disorder of a D-dimensional hydrogenic system, which is strongly associated to the non-uniformity of the quantum-mechanical density of its physical states, is investigated by means of the shape complexity in the two reciprocal spaces. This quantity, which is the product of the disequilibrium or averaging density and the Shannon entropic power, is mathematically expressed for both ground and excited stationary states in terms of certain entropic functionals of Laguerre and Gegenbauer (or ultraspherical) polynomials. We emphasize the ground and circular states, where the complexity is explicitly calculated and discussed by means of the quantum numbers and dimensionality. Finally, the position and momentum shape complexities are numerically discussed for various physical states and dimensionalities, and the dimensional and Rydberg energy limits as well as their associated uncertainty products are explicitly given. As a byproduct, it is shown that the shape complexity of the system in a stationary state does not depend on the strength of the Coulomb potential involved.

id: 0904.3009
title: Characterization of Spectral Entanglement of Spontaneous Parametric-Down Conversion Biphotons
authors: G. Brida, V. Caricato, M. Genovese, M. Gramegna, M.V.Fedorov, S.P.Kulik
comments: 
journal: EPL 87 (2009) 64003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3009
abstract: We verified operational approach based on direct measurement of entanglement degree for bipartite systems. In particular spectral distributions of single counts and coincidence for pure biphoton states generated by train of short pump pulses have been measured and entanglement quantifier calculated. The approach gives upper bound of entanglement stored in total biphoton states, which can reach extremely high value up to $10^{4}-10^{5}$.

id: 0904.3011
title: Entanglement Transmission Capacity of Compound Channels
authors: Igor Bjelakovic, Holger Boche, Janis Noetzel
comments: To appear in the proceedings of ISIT 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3011
abstract: We determine the optimal achievable rate at which entanglement can be reliably transmitted when the memoryless channel used during transmission is unknown both to sender and receiver. To be more precise, we assume that both of them only know that the channel belongs to a given set of channels. Thus, they have to use encoding and decoding schemes that work well for the whole set.

id: 0904.3048
title: Quantum particles from classical statistics
authors: C.Wetterich
comments: New material on quantum formalism and wave function for classical particles. Part of previous material is moved to a separate paper. 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3048
abstract: Quantum particles and classical particles are described in a common setting of classical statistical physics. The property of a particle being "classical" or "quantum" ceases to be a basic conceptual difference. The dynamics differs, however, between quantum and classical particles. We describe position, motion and correlations of a quantum particle in terms of observables in a classical statistical ensemble. On the other side, we also construct explicitly the quantum formalism with wave function and Hamiltonian for classical particles. For a suitable time evolution of the classical probabilities and a suitable choice of observables all features of a quantum particle in a potential can be derived from classical statistics, including interference and tunneling. Besides conceptual advances, the treatment of classical and quantum particles in a common formalism could lead to interesting cross-fertilization between classical statistics and quantum physics.

id: 0904.3059
title: Mirror-mediated cooling: a paradigm for particle cooling via the retarded dipole force
authors: Tim Freegarde, James Bateman, Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Peter Horak
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures
journal: Annual Review of Cold Atoms and Molecules 1, 353 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3059
abstract: Cooling forces result from the retarded dipole interaction between an illuminated particle and its reflection. For a one-dimensional example, we find cooling times of milliseconds and limiting temperatures in the millikelvin range. The force, which may be considered the prototype for cavity-mediated cooling, may be enhanced by plasmon and geometric resonances at the mirror.

id: 0904.3061
title: Polygamy of Entanglement in Multipartite Quantum Systems
authors: Jeong San Kim
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review A 80 022302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3061
abstract: We show that bipartite entanglement distribution (or entanglement of assistance) in multipartite quantum systems is by nature polygamous. We first provide an analytic upper bound for the concurrence of assistance in bipartite quantum systems, and derive a polygamy inequality of multipartite entanglement in arbitrary dimensional quantum systems.

id: 0904.3175
title: Cold and Ultracold Molecules: Science, Technology, and Applications
authors: Lincoln D. Carr, David DeMille, Roman V. Krems, Jun Ye
comments: 82 pages, 9 figures, review article to appear in New Journal of Physics Special Issue on Cold and Ultracold Molecules
journal: New J. Phys. v. 11, p. 055049 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3175
abstract: This article presents a review of the current state of the art in the research field of cold and ultracold molecules. It serves as an introduction to the Special Issue of the New Journal of Physics on Cold and Ultracold Molecules and describes new prospects for fundamental research and technological development. Cold and ultracold molecules may revolutionize physical chemistry and few body physics, provide techniques for probing new states of quantum matter, allow for precision measurements of both fundamental and applied interest, and enable quantum simulations of condensed-matter phenomena. Ultracold molecules offer promising applications such as new platforms for quantum computing, precise control of molecular dynamics, nanolithography, and Bose-enhanced chemistry. The discussion is based on recent experimental and theoretical work and concludes with a summary of anticipated future directions and open questions in this rapidly expanding research field.

id: 0904.3180
title: Packet Spreading and Einstein Retardation
authors: M. I. Shirokov
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3180
abstract: According to the classical special theory of relativity any nonstationary system moving with velocity $v$ must evolve (e.g., decay) $1/\gamma$ times slower than the system at rest, $\gamma =(1-v^2)^{-1/2}$ (the Einstein retardation ER). Quantum mechanics allows one to calculate the evolution of both systems separately and to compare them thus verifying ER. It is shown here that ER is not valid for a simple system: the spreading packet of the free spinless particle. Earlier it was shown that ER does not hold for some other systems. So one may state that ER is not a universal kinematic law in quantum mechanics.

id: 0904.3229
title: No-Cloning Theorem on Quantum Logics
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Hideki Imai
comments: To appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 102107 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3229
abstract: This paper discusses the no-cloning theorem in a logico-algebraic approach. In this approach, an orthoalgebra is considered as a general structure for propositions in a physical theory. We proved that an orthoalgebra admits cloning operation if and only if it is a Boolean algebra. That is, only classical theory admits the cloning of states. If unsharp propositions are to be included in the theory, then a notion of effect algebra is considered. We proved that an atomic Archimedean effect algebra admitting cloning operation is a Boolean algebra. This paper also presents a partial result indicating a relation between cloning on effect algebras and hidden variables.

id: 0904.3235
title: Influence of modal loss on the quantum state generation via cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: D. Mogilevtsev, T. Tyc, N. Korolkova
comments: To appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3235
abstract: In this work we investigate an influence of decoherence effects on quantum states generated as a result of the cross-Kerr nonlinear interaction between two modes. For Markovian losses (both photon loss and dephasing), a region of parameters when losses still do not lead to destruction of non-classicality is identified. We emphasize the difference in impact of losses in the process of state generation as opposed to those occurring in propagation channel. We show moreover, that correlated losses in modern realizations of schemes of large cross-Kerr nonlinearity might lead to enhancement of non-classicality.

id: 0904.3238
title: Non-local quantum correlations and detection processes in QFT
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 23 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022117 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3238
abstract: Quantum detection processes in QFT must play a key role in the description of quantum field correlations, such as the appearance of entanglement, and of causal effects. We consider the detection in the case of a simple QFT model with a suitable interaction to exact treatment, consisting of a quantum scalar field coupled linearly to a classical scalar source. We then evaluate the response function to the field quanta of two-level point-like quantum model detectors, and analyze the effects of the approximation adopted in standard detection theory. We show that the use of the RWA, that characterizes the Glauber detection model, leads in the detector response to non-local terms corresponding to an instantaneously spreading of source effects over the whole space. Other detector models, obtained with non-standard or the no-application of RWA, give instead local responses to field quanta, apart from source independent vacuum contribution linked to preexisting correlations of zero-point field.

id: 0904.3245
title: Experimental violation of a Bell inequality with two different degrees of freedom of entangled particle pairs
authors: Xiao-song Ma, Angie Qarry, Johannes Kofler, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, typos in Fig.1 corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3245
abstract: We demonstrate hybrid entanglement of photon pairs via the experimental violation of a Bell inequality with two different degrees of freedom (DOF), namely the path (linear momentum) of one photon and the polarization of the other photon. Hybrid entangled photon pairs are created by Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion and coherent polarization to path conversion for one photon. For that photon, path superposition is analyzed, and polarization superposition for its twin photon. The correlations between these two measurements give an S-parameter of S=2.653+/-0.027 in a CHSH inequality and thus violate local realism for two different DOF by more than 24 standard deviations. This experimentally supports the idea that entanglement is a fundamental concept which is indifferent to the specific physical realization of Hilbert space.

id: 0904.3258
title: The information about the state of a qubit gained by a weakly coupled detector
authors: S. Ashhab, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 21 pages (two column), 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 083017 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3258
abstract: We analyze the information that one can learn about the state of a quantum two-level system, i.e. a qubit, when probed weakly by a nearby detector. In particular, we focus on the case when the qubit Hamiltonian and the qubit's operator being probed by the detector do not commute. Because the qubit's state keeps evolving while being probed and because the measurement data is mixed with a detector-related background noise, one might expect the detector to fail in this case. We show, however, that under suitable conditions and by proper analysis of the measurement data useful information about the state of the qubit can be extracted. It turns out that the measurement basis is stochastically determined every time the experiment is repeated. We analyze in detail the probability distributions that govern the choice of measurement bases. We also analyze the information acquisition rate and show that it is largely unaffected by the apparent conflict between the measurement and intrinsic qubit dynamics. We discuss the relation between our analysis and the stochastic master equation that describes the evolution of the qubit's state under the influence of measurement and decoherence. In particular, we write down a stochastic equation that encompasses the usual stochastic master equation for the evolution of the qubit's density matrix and additionally contains the measurement information that can be extracted from the observed signal.

id: 0904.3265
title: Quantum Computers: Noise Propagation and Adversarial Noise Models
authors: Gil Kalai
comments: 50 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3265
abstract: In this paper we consider adversarial noise models that will fail quantum error correction and fault-tolerant quantum computation. We describe known results regarding high-rate noise, sequential computation, and reversible noisy computation. We continue by discussing highly correlated noise and the "boundary," in terms of correlation of errors, of the "threshold theorem." Next, we draw a picture of adversarial forms of noise called (collectively) "detrimental noise." Detrimental noise is modeled after familiar properties of noise propagation. However, it can have various causes. We start by pointing out the difference between detrimental noise and standard noise models for two qubits and proceed to a discussion of highly entangled states, the rate of noise, and general noisy quantum systems.

id: 0904.3286
title: Simulating Bell inequalities violation with classical optics encoded qbits
authors: M. Goldin, D. Francisco, S. Ledesma
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3286
abstract: We present here a classical optics device based on an imaging architecture as analogy of a quantum system where the violation of the Bell inequality can be evidenced. In our case, the two qbits entangled state needed to obtain non classical correlations is encoded using an electromagnetic wave modulated in amplitude and phase. Computational states are represented in a way where each one of the two qbits is associated with two orthogonal directions in the input plane. In addition, unitary operations involved in the measurement of the observables are simulated with the use of a coherent optical processor. The images obtained in the output of the process, contain all the information about the joint, marginal and conditional probabilities. By measuring the intensity distribution in the image plane we evaluate the mean values of the simulated observables. The obtained experimental results show, in an illustrative manner, how some correlations of Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt type exceed the upper bound imposed by the local realism hypothesis as a consequence of the joint effect of entanglement and two-particle interference.

id: 0904.3292
title: Normal mode splitting in a coupled system of nanomechanical oscillator and parametric amplifier cavity
authors: Sumei Huang, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 7 pages,9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033807 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3292
abstract: We study how an optical parametric amplifier inside the cavity can affect the normal mode splitting behavior of the coupled movable mirror and the cavity field. We work in the resolved sideband regime. The spectra exhibit a double-peak structure as the parametric gain is increased. Moreover, for a fixed parametric gain, the double-peak structure of the spectrum is more pronounced with increasing the input laser power. We give results for mode splitting. The widths of the split lines are sensitive to parametric gain.

id: 0904.3353
title: Parameter scaling in a novel measure of quantum-classical difference for decohering chaotic systems
authors: Nathan Wiebe, Parin Sripakdeevong, Arnaldo Gammal, Arjendu K. Pattanayak
comments: 4 pages, submitted at Physical Review
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3353
abstract: In this paper we introduce a diagnostic for measuring the quantum-classical difference for open quantum systems, which is the normalized size of the quantum terms in the Master equation for Wigner function evolution. For a driven Duffing oscillator, this measure shows remarkably precise scaling over long time-scales with the parameter $\zeta_0=\hbar^2/D$. We also see that, independent of $\zeta_0$ the dynamics follows a similar pattern. For small $\zeta_0$ all of our curves collapses to essentially a single curve when scaled by the maximum value of the quantum-classical difference. In both limits of large and small $\zeta_0$ we see a saturation effect in the size of the quantum-classical difference; that is, the instantaneous difference between quantum and classical evolutions cannot be either too small or too large.

id: 0904.3390
title: Quantification of Nonclassicality
authors: C. Gehrke, J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052118 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3390
abstract: To quantify single mode nonclassicality, we start from an operational approach. A positive semi-definite observable is introduced to describe a measurement setup. The quantification is based on the negativity of the normally ordered version of this observable. Perfect operational quantumness corresponds to the quantum-noise-free measurement of the chosen observable. Surprisingly, even moderately squeezed states may exhibit perfect quantumness for a properly designed measurement. The quantification is also considered from an axiomatic viewpoint, based on the algebraic structure of the quantum states and the quantum superposition principle. Basic conclusions from both approaches are consistent with this fundamental principle of the quantum world.

id: 0904.3426
title: Iterative phase estimation
authors: Caleb J O'Loan
comments: Published version. Some inequalities strengthend
journal: 2010 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 015301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3426
abstract: We give an iterative algorithm for phase estimation of a parameter theta, which is within a logarithmic factor of the Heisenberg limit. Unlike other methods, we do not need any entanglement or an extra rotation gate which can perform arbitrary rotations with almost perfect accuracy: only a single copy of the unitary channel and basic measurements are needed. Simulations show that the algorithm is successful. We also look at iterative phase estimation when depolarizing noise is present. It is seen that the algorithm is still successful provided the number of iterative stages is below a certain threshold.

id: 0904.3472
title: A quantum logical and geometrical approach to the study of improper mixtures
authors: Graciela Domenech, Federico Holik, Cesar Massri
comments: submitted to the Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 51 (2010) 521081
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3472
abstract: We study improper mixtures from a quantum logical and geometrical point of view. Taking into account the fact that improper mixtures do not admit an ignorance interpretation and must be considered as states in their own right, we do not follow the standard approach which considers improper mixtures as measures over the algebra of projections. Instead of it, we use the convex set of states in order to construct a new lattice whose atoms are all physical states: pure states and improper mixtures. This is done in order to overcome one of the problems which appear in the standard quantum logical formalism, namely, that for a subsystem of a larger system in an entangled state, the conjunction of all actual properties of the subsystem does not yield its actual state. In fact, its state is an improper mixture and cannot be represented in the von Neumann lattice as a minimal property which determines all other properties as is the case for pure states or classical systems. The new lattice also contains all propositions of the von Neumann lattice. We argue that this extension expresses in an algebraic form the fact that -alike the classical case- quantum interactions produce non trivial correlations between the systems. Finally, we study the maps which can be defined between the extended lattice of a compound system and the lattices of its subsystems.

id: 0904.3476
title: No labeling quantum mechanics of indiscernible particles
authors: G. Domenech, F. Holik, L. Kniznik, D. Krause
comments: submitted to the special issue of the International Journal of Theoretical Physics dedicated to the IQSA Meeting "Quantum Structures Brussels-Gdansk '08"
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics 49 (2010) 3085
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3476
abstract: Our aim in this paper is to show an example of the formalism we have developed to avoid the label-tensor-product-vector-space-formalism of quantum mechanics when dealing with indistinguishable quanta. States in this new vector space, that we call the Q-space, refer only to occupation numbers and permutation operators act as the identity operator on them, reflecting in the formalism the unobservability of permutations, a goal of quasi-set theory.

id: 0904.3522
title: The Clausius inequality beyond the weak coupling limit: The quantum Brownian oscillator revisited
authors: ILki Kim, Guenter Mahler
comments: 30 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81 (2010) 011101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3522
abstract: We consider a quantum linear oscillator coupled at an arbitrary strength to a bath at an arbitrary temperature. We find an exact closed expression for the oscillator density operator. This state is non-canonical but can be shown to be equivalent to that of an uncoupled linear oscillator at an effective temperature T_{eff} with an effective mass and an effective spring constant. We derive an effective Clausius inequality delta Q_{eff} =< T_{eff} dS, where delta Q_{eff} is the heat exchanged between the effective (weakly coupled) oscillator and the bath, and S represents a thermal entropy of the effective oscillator, being identical to the von-Neumann entropy of the coupled oscillator. Using this inequality (for a cyclic process in terms of a variation of the coupling strength) we confirm the validity of the second law. For a fixed coupling strength this inequality can also be tested for a process in terms of a variation of either the oscillator mass or its spring constant. Then it is never violated. The properly defined Clausius inequality is thus more robust than assumed previously.

id: 0904.3533
title: Dynamic equations for three different qudits in a magnetic field
authors: E. A. Ivanchenko
comments: 11 pages
journal: Journal of Mathematical physics, v. 50,042704 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3533
abstract: A closed system of equations for the local Bloch vectors and spin correlation functions of three magnetic qudits, which are in an arbitrary, time-dependent, external magnetic field, is obtained using decomplexification of the Liouville-von Neumann equation. The algorithm of the derivation of the dynamic equations is presented. In the basis convenient for the important physical applications structure constants of algebra su(2S+1) are calculated.

id: 0904.3551
title: Compact set of invariants characterizing graph states of up to eight qubits
authors: Adan Cabello, Antonio J. Lopez-Tarrida, Pilar Moreno, Jose R. Portillo
comments: REVTeX4, 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 (2009) 012102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3551
abstract: The set of entanglement measures proposed by Hein, Eisert, and Briegel for n-qubit graph states [Phys. Rev. A 69, 062311 (2004)] fails to distinguish between inequivalent classes under local Clifford operations if n > 6. On the other hand, the set of invariants proposed by van den Nest, Dehaene, and De Moor (VDD) [Phys. Rev. A 72, 014307 (2005)] distinguishes between inequivalent classes, but contains too many invariants (more than 2 10^{36} for n=7) to be practical. Here we solve the problem of deciding which entanglement class a graph state of n < 9 qubits belongs to by calculating some of the state's intrinsic properties. We show that four invariants related to those proposed by VDD are enough for distinguishing between all inequivalent classes with n < 9 qubits.

id: 0904.3554
title: A complete characterization of the spectrum of the Kitaev model on spin ladders
authors: Vahid Karimipour
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures, more references added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 214435 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3554
abstract: We study the Kitaev model on a ladder network and find the complete spectrum of the Hamiltonian in closed form. Closed and manageable forms for all eigenvalues and eigenvectors, allow us to calculate the partition function and averages of non-local operators in addition to the reduced density matrices of different subsystems at arbitrary temperatures. It is also briefly discussed how these considerations can be generalized to more general lattices, including three-leg ladders and two dimensional square lattices.

id: 0904.3556
title: Thresholds for topological codes in the presence of loss
authors: Thomas M. Stace, Sean D. Barrett, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett., but comments still very welcome. TMS and SDB contributed equally to this work
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3556
abstract: Many proposals for quantum information processing are subject to detectable loss errors. In this paper, we show that topological error correcting codes, which protect against computational errors, are also extremely robust against losses. We present analytical results showing the maximum tolerable loss rate is 50 %, which is determined by the square-lattice bond percolation threshold. This saturates the bound set by the no-cloning theorem. Our numerical results support this, and show a graceful trade-off between computational and loss errors.

id: 0904.3576
title: General theory of measurement with two copies of a quantum state
authors: Ariel Bendersky, Juan Pablo Paz, Marcelo Terra Cunha
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3576
abstract: We analyze the possible results of the most general measurement on two copies of a quantum state. We show that $\mu$ can label a set of outcomes of such measurement if and only if there is a family of completely co--positive (ccP) maps $C_\mu$ such that the probability of occurrence $Prob(\mu)$ is the fidelity of the map $C_\mu$, i.e. $Prob(\mu)= Tr(\rho C_\mu(\rho))$ which must add up to the fully depolarizing map. This implies that a POVM on two copies induces a measure on the set of ccP maps (i.e., a ccPMVM). We present examples of ccPMVM's and discuss their tomographic applications showing that two copies of a state provide an exponential improvement in the efficiency of quantum state tomography. This enables the existence of an efficient universal detector.

id: 0904.3603
title: Quantum Bus of Metal Nanowire with Surface Plasmon Polaritons
authors: Guo-Ping Guo, Zhi-Rong Lin, Tao Tu, Hai-Ou Li, Chang-Ling Zou, Xi-Feng Ren, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3603
abstract: We develop an architecture for distributed quantum computation using quantum bus of plasmonic circuits and spin qubits in self-assembled quantum dots. Deterministic quantum gates between two distant spin qubits can be reached by using an adiabatic approach in which quantum dots couple with highly detuned plasmon modes in a metallic nanowire. Plasmonic quantum bus offers a robust and scalable platform for quantum optics experiments and the development of on-chip quantum networks composed of various quantum nodes, such as quantum dots, molecules and nanoparticles.

id: 0904.3617
title: Entanglement assisted spin-wave atom interferometer
authors: Yu-Ao Chen, Xiao-Hui Bao, Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Shuai Chen, Bo Zhao, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures (including appendix)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 104, 043601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3617
abstract: We report the observation of phase-super resolution in a motion-sensitive spin-wave (SW) atom interferometer utilizing a NOON-type entanged state. The SW interferometer is implemented by generating a superposition of two SWs and observing the interference between them, where the interference fringe is sensitive to the atomic collective motion. By heralded generation of a second order NOON state in the SW interferometer, we clearly observe the interference pattern with phase super-resolution. The demonstrated SW interferometer can in principle be scaled up to highly entangled quantum state, and thus is of fundamental importance to implement quantum-enhanced-measurement.

id: 0904.3621
title: Berry phase and entanglement of 3 qubits in a new Yang-Baxter system
authors: Taotao Hu, Chunfeng Wu, Kang Xue
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 083509 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3621
abstract: In this paper we construct a new $8\times8$ $\mathbb{M}$ matrix from the $4\times4$ $M$ matrix, where $\mathbb{M}$ / $M$ is the image of the braid group representation. The $ 8\times8 $ $\mathbb{M}$ matrix and the $4\times4$ $M$ matrix both satisfy extraspecial 2-groups algebra relations. By Yang-Baxteration approach, we derive a unitary $ \breve{R}(\theta, \phi)$ matrix from the $\mathbb{M}$ matrix with parameters $\phi$ and $\theta$. Three-qubit entangled states can be generated by using the $\breve{R}(\theta,\phi)$ matrix. A Hamiltonian for 3 qubits is constructed from the unitary $\breve{R}(\theta,\phi)$ matrix. We then study the entanglement and Berry phase of the Yang-Baxter system.

id: 0904.3637
title: Quantum kinetic equation before and after Big Bang
authors: M.V. Altaisky
comments: LaTeX, 15 pages, 5 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3637
abstract: The energy dissipation in a gas of structured objects, e.g. molecules, is considered in density matrix formalism. It is shown that the macroscopic irreversibility of the kinetic processes can be considered as a consequence of the microscopic operator ordering. Our approach is free of any special assumptions on the space-time geometry, except for the general causality assumptions, so it can be applied to a wide variety of processes, from the cosmological processes at Big Bang stage till the energy dissipation in molecular gases.

id: 0904.3641
title: Universal resources for approximate and stochastic measurement-based quantum computation
authors: C. E. Mora, M. Piani, A. Miyake, M. Van den Nest, W. D¨¹r, H. J. Briegel
comments: 17 pages; abstract shortened with respect to the published version to respect the arXiv limit of 1,920 characters
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042315 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3641
abstract: We investigate which quantum states can serve as universal resources for approximate and stochastic measurement-based quantum computation, in the sense that any quantum state can be generated from a given resource by means of single-qubit (local) operations assisted by classical communication. More precisely, we consider the approximate and stochastic generation of states, resulting e.g. from a restriction to finite measurement settings or from possible imperfections in the resources or local operations. We show that entanglement-based criteria for universality obtained for the exact, deterministic case can be lifted to the much more general approximate, stochastic case, moving from the idealized situation considered in previous works, to the practically relevant context of non-perfect state preparation. We find that any entanglement measure fulfilling some basic requirements needs to reach its maximum value on some element of an approximate, stochastic universal family of resource states, as the resource size grows. This allows us to rule out various families of states as being approximate, stochastic universal. We provide examples of resources that are efficient approximate universal, but not exact deterministic universal. We also study the robustness of universal resources for measurement-based quantum computation under realistic assumptions about the (imperfect) generation and manipulation of entangled states, giving an explicit expression for the impact that errors made in the preparation of the resource have on the possibility to use it for universal approximate and stochastic state preparation. Finally, we discuss the relation between our entanglement-based criteria and recent results regarding the uselessness of states with a high degree of geometric entanglement as universal resources.

id: 0904.3660
title: Exact Quantum Query Algorithm for Error Detection Code Verification
authors: Alina Vasilieva
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3660
abstract: Quantum algorithms can be analyzed in a query model to compute Boolean functions. Function input is provided in a black box, and the aim is to compute the function value using as few queries to the black box as possible. A repetition code is an error detection scheme that repeats each bit of the original message r times. After a message with redundant bits is transmitted via a communication channel, it must be verified. If the received message consists of r-size blocks of equal bits, the conclusion is that there were no errors. The verification procedure can be interpreted as an application of a query algorithm, where input is a message to be checked. Classically, for N-bit message, values of all N variables must be queried. We present an exact quantum algorithm that uses only N/2 queries.

id: 0904.3671
title: Generation of polarization squeezed light in periodically poled nonlinear crystal
authors: V. G. Dmitriev, R. Singh
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: nternational Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI) Year: 2003 Vol: 1 Issue: 3 (September 2003) Page: 403 - 416
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3671
abstract: Theoretical analysis is presented on quantum state evolution of polarization light waves at frequencies $\omega_{o}$ and $\omega_{e}$ in a periodically poled nonlinear crystal (PPNC). It is shown that the variances of all the four Stokes parameters can be squeezed.

id: 0904.3691
title: Clifford group dipoles and the enactment of Weyl/Coxeter group W(E8) by entangling gates
authors: Michel Planat
comments: version revised according the recommendations of a referee
journal: General Mathematics Notes 2, 1 (2011) 96-113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3691
abstract: Peres/Mermin arguments about no-hidden variables in quantum mechanics are used for displaying a pair (R, S) of entangling Clifford quantum gates, acting on two qubits. From them, a natural unitary representation of Coxeter/Weyl groups W(D5) and W(F4) emerges, which is also reflected into the splitting of the n-qubit Clifford group Cn into dipoles C$\pm$n . The union of the three-qubit real Clifford group C+ 3 and the Toffoli gate ensures a orthogonal representation of the Weyl/Coxeter group W(E8), and of its relatives. Other concepts involved are complex reflection groups, BN pairs, unitary group designs and entangled states of the GHZ family.

id: 0904.3692
title: Strong causality from weak via continuous monitoring
authors: John Jeffers
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 373, 1911, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3692
abstract: Repeated unbiased measurements cause a continual application of the weak causality principle, leading to an apparent arrow of time for continuously-monitored quantum systems.

id: 0904.3696
title: Photon noise in a random laser amplifier with fluctuating properties
authors: V.Yu. Fedorov, S.E. Skipetrov
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 063822 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3696
abstract: We study fluctuations of the number of photocounts measured by an ideal photodetector illuminated by light scattered in an amplifying disordered medium, below the threshold for random lasing. We show that the variance of fluctuations and their correlation function carry information about fluctuating properties of the medium. A direct link is established between the fluctuations of the number of photocounts due to the amplified spontaneous emission (ASE) and the dimensionless conductance g of the medium. Our results suggest a possibility of probing amplifying disordered media by analyzing statistics of their ASE, without illuminating them from outside by a probe beam.

id: 0904.3697
title: Quantum Electrodynamics of a Nanocavity Coupled with Exciton Complexes in a Quantum Dot
authors: Makoto Yamaguchi, Takashi Asano, Kazunobu Kojima, Susumu Noda
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3697
abstract: Here, a comprehensive theory of the couplings between a nanocavity and exciton complexes in a quantum dot is developed, which successfully predicts the spectral triplet in the strong coupling regime that has been observed in several experiments but is unexpected according to conventional cavity quantum electrodynamics. The quantum anti-Zeno effect is found to play an essential role in the appearance of the central peak in the triplet under a low-excitation regime. The effect of hyperfine interactions is also discussed, which results in the cavity-mediated mixing of bright and dark exciton states. These results provide significant insights into solid-state cavity quantum electrodynamics.

id: 0904.3745
title: Feedback Control Using Only Quantum Back-Action
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, 3 eps figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 043005 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3745
abstract: The traditional approach to feedback control is to apply forces to a system by modifying the Hamiltonian. Here we show that quantum systems can be controlled without any Hamiltonian feedback, purely by exploiting the random quantum back-action of a continuous weak measurement. We demonstrate that, quite remarkably, the quantum back-action of such an adaptive measurement is just as effective at controlling quantum systems as traditional feedback.

id: 0904.3754
title: Dynamical Casimir effect for a massless scalar field between two concentric spherical shells with mixed boundary condictions
authors: F. Pascoal, L. C. C¨¦leri, S. S. Mizrahi, M. H. Y. Moussa, C. Farina
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3754
abstract: We analyze the dynamical Casimir effect for a massless scalar field confined between two concentric spherical shells which impose on the field mixed boundary conditions. We thus complement a previous result [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{78}, 032521 (2008)], where the same problem was considered but in that case the field was submitted to a Dirichlet boundary condition in both moving spherical shells. A general expression for the average number of created particles is deduced for an arbitrary law of radial motion of the spherical shells. This expression is then applied to harmonic oscillations of the shells and the number of created particles is analyzed and compared with the results obtained under Dirichlet-Dirichlet boundary conditions.

id: 0904.3860
title: Multipartite entanglement detection via structure factors
authors: Philipp Krammer, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bruss, Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Leong Chuang Kwek, Chiara Macchiavello
comments: 5 pages, title slightly changed, content considerably changed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 100502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3860
abstract: We establish a relation between entanglement of a many-body system and its diffractive properties, where the link is given by structure factors. Based on these, we provide a general analytical construction of multi-qubit entanglement witnesses. The proposed witnesses contain two-point correlations. They could be either measured in a scattering experiment or via local measurements, depending on the underlying physical system. For some explicit examples of witnesses we analyze the properties of the states that are detected by them. We further study the robustness of these witnesses with respect to noise.

id: 0904.3874
title: Highly entangled multi-qubit states with simple algebraic structure
authors: Juan E. Tapiador, Julio C. Hernandez-Castro, John A. Clark, Susan Stepney
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3874
abstract: Recent works by Brown et al and Borras et al have explored numerical optimisation procedures to search for highly entangled multi-qubit states according to some computationally tractable entanglement measure. We present an alternative scheme based upon the idea of searching for states having not only high entanglement but also simple algebraic structure. We report results for 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 qubits discovered by this approach, showing that many of such states do exist. In particular, we find a maximally entangled 6-qubit state with an algebraic structure simpler than the best results known so far. For the case of 7, we discover states with high, but not maximum, entanglement and simple structure, as well as other desirable properties. Some preliminary results are shown for the case of 8 qubits.

id: 0904.3887
title: Casimir Force Between Dielectric Media with Free Charges
authors: Johan S. H?ye, Iver Brevik
comments: 15 pages latex, no figures. Some background material added in section 2, on the statistical mechanical method. To appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3887
abstract: The statistical mechanical approach to Casimir problems for dielectrics separated by a vacuum gap turns out to be compact and effective. A central ingredient of this method is the effect of interacting fluctuating dipole moments of the polarizable particles. At arbitrary temperature the path integral formulation of quantized particles, developed by H{\o}ye-Stell and others, is needed. At high temperature - the limit considered in the present paper - the classical theory is however sufficient. Our present theory is related to an idea put forward earlier by Jancovici and {\v{S}}amaj (2004), namely to evaluate the Casimir force between parallel plates invoking an electronic plasma model and the Debye-H\"uckel theory for electrolytes. Their result was recently recovered by H{\o}ye (2008), using a related statistical mechanical method. In the present paper we generalize this by including a constant permittivity in the description. The present paper generalizes our earlier theory for parallel plates (1998), as well as for spherical dielectrics (2001). We also consider the Casimir force between a polarizable particle and a conductor with a small density of charges, finding agreement with the result recently derived by Pitaevskii (2008).

id: 0904.3892
title: Phase diagram of imbalanced strongly interacting fermions on a one-dimensional optical lattice
authors: Alberto Anfossi, Luca Barbiero, Arianna Montorsi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 043602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3892
abstract: We show that the Hubbard Hamiltonian with particle-assisted tunneling rates --recently proposed to model a fermionic mixture near a broad Feshbach resonance-- displays a ground state phase diagram with superfluid, insulating, and phase separated regimes. In the latter case, when the populations are balanced the two phases coexist in microscopic antiferromagnetic domains. Macroscopic phase segregation into a high-density superfluid of molecules, and a low-density Fermi liquid of single atoms appears in the density profile above a critical polarization p_c.

id: 0904.3911
title: Quantum linear Boltzmann equation
authors: Bassano Vacchini, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 63 pages, 6 figures; v3:corresponds to published version
journal: Physics Reports 478 (2009) 71-120
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3911
abstract: We review the quantum version of the linear Boltzmann equation, which describes in a non-perturbative fashion, by means of scattering theory, how the quantum motion of a single test particle is affected by collisions with an ideal background gas. A heuristic derivation of this Lindblad master equation is presented, based on the requirement of translation-covariance and on the relation to the classical linear Boltzmann equation. After analyzing its general symmetry properties and the associated relaxation dynamics, we discuss a quantum Monte Carlo method for its numerical solution. We then review important limiting forms of the quantum linear Boltzmann equation, such as the case of quantum Brownian motion and pure collisional decoherence, as well as the application to matter wave optics. Finally, we point to the incorporation of quantum degeneracies and self-interactions in the gas by relating the equation to the dynamic structure factor of the ambient medium, and we provide an extension of the equation to include internal degrees of freedom.

id: 0904.3923
title: Control, measurement and propagation of entanglement in photon pairs generated through type-II parametric downconversion
authors: Yasser Jeronimo-Moreno, Alfred B. U'Ren
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033839 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3923
abstract: We present a study of the effects of dispersion on the properties of photon pairs generated by type-II, collinear spontaneous parametric downconversion. Specifically, we take into consideration the effects of a chirped pump, as well as of dispersive propagation of the photon pairs. We present expressions for the joint amplitude both in the spectral and temporal domains, as well as for the chronocyclic Wigner function of heralded single photons, which fully characterizes the single photon spectral (temporal) properties. On the one hand, we show that unwanted effects of pump chirp in terms of the heralded single photon duration can be suppressed for states designed to be factorable and spectrally elongated. On the other hand, we show that pump chirp constitutes an effective tool for the control of the degree of photon-pair entanglement. We show that when frequency-entangled photon pairs propagate through a dispersive medium, entanglement can "migrate" between the modulus and phase of the joint temporal amplitude.

id: 0904.3945
title: Fair Loss-Tolerant Quantum Coin Flipping
authors: Guido Berlin, Gilles Brassard, Felix Bussieres, Nicolas Godbout
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure; various minor typos corrected in version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3945
abstract: Coin flipping is a cryptographic primitive in which two spatially separated players, who in principle do not trust each other, wish to establish a common random bit. If we limit ourselves to classical communication, this task requires either assumptions on the computational power of the players or it requires them to send messages to each other with sufficient simultaneity to force their complete independence. Without such assumptions, all classical protocols are so that one dishonest player has complete control over the outcome. If we use quantum communication, on the other hand, protocols have been introduced that limit the maximal bias that dishonest players can produce. However, those protocols would be very difficult to implement in practice because they are susceptible to realistic losses on the quantum channel between the players or in their quantum memory and measurement apparatus. In this paper, we introduce a novel quantum protocol and we prove that it is completely impervious to loss. The protocol is fair in the sense that either player has the same probability of success in cheating attempts at biasing the outcome of the coin flip. We also give explicit and optimal cheating strategies for both players.

id: 0904.3946
title: Flipping quantum coins
authors: Guido Berlin, Gilles Brassard, Felix Bussieres, Nicolas Godbout, Joshua A. Slater, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Communications 2, 561 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3946
abstract: Coin flipping is a cryptographic primitive in which two distrustful parties wish to generate a random bit in order to choose between two alternatives. This task is impossible to realize when it relies solely on the asynchronous exchange of classical bits: one dishonest player has complete control over the final outcome. It is only when coin flipping is supplemented with quantum communication that this problem can be alleviated, although partial bias remains. Unfortunately, practical systems are subject to loss of quantum data, which restores complete or nearly complete bias in previous protocols. We report herein on the first implementation of a quantum coin-flipping protocol that is impervious to loss. Moreover, in the presence of unavoidable experimental noise, we propose to use this protocol sequentially to implement many coin flips, which guarantees that a cheater unwillingly reveals asymptotically, through an increased error rate, how many outcomes have been fixed. Hence, we demonstrate for the first time the possibility of flipping coins in a realistic setting. Flipping quantum coins thereby joins quantum key distribution as one of the few currently practical applications of quantum communication. We anticipate our findings to be useful for various cryptographic protocols and other applications, such as an online casino, in which a possibly unlimited number of coin flips has to be performed and where each player is free to decide at any time whether to continue playing or not.

id: 0904.3963
title: Optimization of Generalized Multichannel Quantum Defect reference functions for Feshbach resonance characterization
authors: Rachidi Oss¨¦ni, Olivier Dulieu, Maurice Raoult
comments: submitte to Journal of Physics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3963
abstract: This work stresses the importance of the choice of the set of reference functions in the Generalized Multichannel Quantum Defect Theory to analyze the location and the width of Feshbach resonance occurring in collisional cross-sections. This is illustrated on the photoassociation of cold rubidium atom pairs, which is also modeled using the Mapped Fourier Grid Hamiltonian method combined with an optical potential. The specificity of the present example lies in a high density of quasi-bound states (closed channel) interacting with a dissociation continuum (open channel). We demonstrate that the optimization of the reference functions leads to quantum defects with a weak energy dependence across the relevant energy threshold. The main result of our paper is that the agreement between the both theoretical approaches is achieved only if optimized reference functions are used.

id: 0904.3966
title: Formation and interactions of cold and ultracold molecules: new challenges for interdisciplinary physics
authors: Olivier Dulieu, Carlo Gabbanini
comments: to appear in Reports on Progress in Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3966
abstract: Progress on researches in the field of molecules at cold and ultracold temperatures is reported in this review. It covers extensively the experimental methods to produce, detect and characterize cold and ultracold molecules including association of ultracold atoms, deceleration by external fields and kinematic cooling. Confinement of molecules in different kinds of traps is also discussed. The basic theoretical issues related to the knowledge of the molecular structure, the atom-molecule and molecule-molecule mutual interactions, and to their possible manipulation and control with external fields, are reviewed. A short discussion on the broad area of applications completes the review.

id: 0904.4020
title: Nuclear spin qubits in a trapped-ion quantum computer
authors: M. Feng, Y.Y. Xu, F. Zhou, D. Suter
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052331 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4020
abstract: Physical systems must fulfill a number of conditions to qualify as useful quantum bits (qubits) for quantum information processing, including ease of manipulation, long decoherence times, and high fidelity readout operations. Since these conditions are hard to satisfy with a single system, it may be necessary to combine different degrees of freedom. Here we discuss a possible system, based on electronic and nuclear spin degrees of freedom in trapped ions. The nuclear spin yields long decoherence times, while the electronic spin, in a magnetic field gradient, provides efficient manipulation, and the optical transitions of the ions assure a selective and efficient initialization and readout.

id: 0904.4026
title: Pseudo-Hermitian continuous-time quantum walks
authors: S. Salimi, A. Sorouri
comments: 13 page, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 275304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4026
abstract: In this paper we present a model exhibiting a new type of continuous-time quantum walk (as a quantum mechanical transport process) on networks, which is described by a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian possessing a real spectrum. We call it pseudo-Hermitian continuous-time quantum walk. We introduce a method to obtain the probability distribution of walk on any vertex and then study a specific system. We observe that the probability distribution on certain vertices increases compared to that of the Hermitian case. This formalism makes the transport process faster and can be useful for search algorithms.

id: 0904.4028
title: Interaction-assisted SU(2) adiabatic holonomies in Josephson phase qubits
authors: Andrei Galiautdinov
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4028
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating SU(2) adiabatic geometric phases in a circuit consisting of three capacitively coupled flux-biased Josephson phase qubits.

id: 0904.4050
title: Extensive nonadditivity of privacy
authors: Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin
comments: 4 pages, two figures. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 120503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4050
abstract: Quantum information theory establishes the ultimate limits on communication and cryptography in terms of channel capacities for various types of information. The private capacity is particularly important because it quantifies achievable rates of quantum key distribution. We study the power of quantum channels with limited private capacity, focusing on channels that dephase in random bases. These display extensive nonadditivity of private capacity: a channel with 2 log d input qubits has a private capacity less than 2, but when used together with a second channel with zero private capacity the joint capacity jumps to (1/2)log d. In contrast to earlier work which found nonadditivity vanishing as a fraction of input size or conditional on unproven mathematical assumptions, this provides a natural setting manifesting nonadditivity of privacy of the strongest possible sort.

id: 0904.4051
title: Near-field cavity optomechanics with nanomechanical oscillators
authors: G. Anetsberger, O. Arcizet, Q.P. Unterreithmeier, R. Rivi¨¨re, A. Schliesser, E.M. Weig, J.P. Kotthaus, T.J. Kippenberg
comments: manuscript (7 pages, 4 figures) and supplement (9 pages, 4 figures); accepted for publication in Nature Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4051
abstract: Cavity-enhanced radiation pressure coupling between optical and mechanical degrees of freedom allows quantum-limited position measurements and gives rise to dynamical backaction enabling amplification and cooling of mechanical motion. Here we demonstrate purely dispersive coupling of high Q nanomechanical oscillators to an ultra-high finesse optical microresonator via its evanescent field, extending cavity optomechanics to nanomechanical oscillators. Dynamical backaction mediated by the optical dipole force is observed, leading to laser-like coherent nanomechanical oscillations solely due to radiation pressure. Moreover, sub-fm/Hz^(1/2) displacement sensitivity is achieved, with a measurement imprecision equal to the standard quantum limit (SQL), which coincides with the nanomechanical oscillator's zero-point fluctuations. The achievement of an imprecision at the SQL and radiation-pressure dynamical backaction for nanomechanical oscillators may have implications not only for detecting quantum phenomena in mechanical systems, but also for a variety of other precision experiments. Owing to the flexibility of the near-field coupling approach, it can be readily extended to a diverse set of nanomechanical oscillators and particularly provides a route to experiments where radiation pressure quantum backaction dominates at room temperature, enabling ponderomotive squeezing or QND measurements.

id: 0904.4072
title: Security of Trusted Repeater Quantum Key Distribution Networks
authors: Louis Salvail, Momtchil Peev, Eleni Diamanti, Romain Alleaume, Norbert Lutkenhaus, Thomas Laenger
comments: 29 pages, 3 figures accepted for publication in Journal of Computer Security
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4072
abstract: A Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) network is an infrastructure capable of performing long-distance and high-rate secret key agreement with information-theoretic security. In this paper we study security properties of QKD networks based on trusted repeater nodes. Such networks can already be deployed, based on current technology. We present an example of a trusted repeater QKD network, developed within the SECOQC project. The main focus is put on the study of secure key agreement over a trusted repeater QKD network, when some nodes are corrupted. We propose an original method, able to ensure the authenticity and privacy of the generated secret keys.

id: 0904.4073
title: SECOQC Business White Paper
authors: Solange Ghernaouti-Helie, Igli Tashi, Thomas Laenger, Christian Monyk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4073
abstract: In contemporary cryptographic systems, secret keys are usually exchanged by means of methods, which suffer from mathematical and technology inherent drawbacks. That could lead to unnoticed complete compromise of cryptographic systems, without a chance of control by its legitimate owners. Therefore a need for innovative solutions exists when truly and reliably secure transmission of secrets is required for dealing with critical data and applications. Quantum Cryptography (QC), in particular Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) can answer that need. The business white paper (BWP) summarizes how secret key establishment and distribution problems can be solved by quantum cryptography. It deals with several considerations related to how the quantum cryptography innovation could contribute to provide business effectiveness. It addresses advantages and also limitations of quantum cryptography, proposes a scenario case study, and invokes standardization related issues. In addition, it answers most frequently asked questions about quantum cryptography.

id: 0904.4083
title: Optimal Axis Compensation in Quantum Key Distribution Protocols over Unital Channels
authors: Shun Watanabe, Ryutaroh Matsumoto, Tomohiko Uyematsu
comments: 24 pages, no figure, A part of this paper will be presented at 2009 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory. The results in Section 2.3.2 is additionally shown in this paper
journal: Theoretical Computer Science, vol. 560, pp. 91-106, December 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4083
abstract: The axis compensation is a procedure in which the sender and the receiver compensate the axes of their transmitter and detector so that the bit sequence can be transmitted more reliably. We show the optimal axis compensations maximizing the key generation rate for unital channels. We consider the case in which only Bob is allowed to compensate his axis, and the case in which both Alice and Bob are allowed to compensate their axes. In the former case, we show that we should utilize the mismatched measurement outcomes in the channel estimation phase. In the latter case, we show that we do not have to utilize the mismatched measurement outcomes in the channel estimation phase.

id: 0904.4088
title: Quantum Mirrors and Crossing Symmetry as Heart of Ghost Imaging
authors: D. B. Ion, M. L. Ion, L. Rusu
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4088
abstract: In this paper it is proved that the key to understanding the ghost imaging mystery are the crossing symmetric photon reactions in the nonlinear media. Hence, the laws of the plane quantum mirror (QM) and that of spherical quantum mirror, observed in the ghost imaging experiments, are obtained as natural consequences of the energy-momentum conservation laws. So, it is shown that the ghost imaging laws depend only on the energy-momentum conservation and not on the photons entanglement. The extension of these results to the ghost imaging with other kind of light is discussed. Some fundamental experiments for a decisive tests of the [SPDC-DFG]-quantum mirror are suggested.

id: 0904.4144
title: Opto-Electrical Cooling of Polar Molecules
authors: M. Zeppenfeld, M. Motsch, P.W.H. Pinkse, G. Rempe
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 80, 041401(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4144
abstract: We present an opto-electrical cooling scheme for polar molecules based on a Sisyphus-type cooling cycle in suitably tailored electric trapping fields. Dissipation is provided by spontaneous vibrational decay in a closed level scheme found in symmetric-top rotors comprising six low-field-seeking rovibrational states. A generic trap design is presented. Suitable molecules are identified with vibrational decay rates on the order of 100Hz. A simulation of the cooling process shows that the molecular temperature can be reduced from 1K to 1mK in approximately 10s. The molecules remain electrically trapped during this time, indicating that the ultracold regime can be reached in an experimentally feasible scheme.

id: 0904.4165
title: Realization of Topological Quantum Computation with surface codes
authors: Su-Peng Kou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4165
abstract: In this paper, the degenerate ground states of Z2 topological order on a plane with holes (the so-called surface codes) are used as the protected code subspace to build a topological quantum computer by tuning their quantum tunneling effect. Using a designer Hamiltonian - the Kitaev toric-code model as an example, we study quantum tunneling effects of the surface codes and obtain its effective theory. Finally, we show how to do topological quantum computation including the initialization, the unitary transformation and the measurement.

id: 0904.4172
title: C++QED: a framework for simulating open quantum dynamics
authors: Andras Vukics
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4172
abstract: C++QED is a framework for simulating open quantum dynamics in general. Historically, it has in the first place been developed for problems in moving-particle cavity QED, but since then has been applied in other fields as well. It is known to be able to simulate full Master equation up to several thousand, and quantum trajectories up to several hundred thousand dimensions. The basic idea of the framework is to allow users to build arbitrarily complex interacting quantum systems from elementary free subsystems and interactions between them, and simulate their time evolution with a number of available time-evolution drivers. Apart from providing a number of elements out of the box, there are several tools which facilitate the implementation of new elements. These are being added continuously, on demand.

id: 0904.4201
title: Delayed creation of entanglement in superconducting qubits interacting with a microwave field
authors: M. Abdel-Aty, M. Everitt
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures,
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4201
abstract: We explore the role played by the intrinsic decoherence in superconducting charge qubits in the presence of a microwave field applied as a magnetic flux. We study how the delayed creation of entanglement, which is opposite to the sudden death of entanglement, can be induced. We compute the time evolution of the population inversion, total correlation and entanglement, taking into account the junction mixed state and dissipation of the cavity field. We show that although decoherence destroys the correlation of the junction and field, information of the initial state may be obtained via quasi-probability distribution functions.

id: 0904.4209
title: The 50% advanced information rule of the quantum algorithms
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli
comments: 18 pages, submitted with minor changes to the International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4209
abstract: The oracle chooses a function out of a known set of functions and gives to the player a black box that, given an argument, evaluates the function. The player should find out a certain character of the function through function evaluation. This is the typical problem addressed by the quantum algorithms. In former theoretical work, we showed that a quantum algorithm requires the number of function evaluations of a classical algorithm that knows in advance 50% of the information that specifies the solution of the problem. Here we check that this 50% rule holds for the main quantum algorithms. In the structured problems, a classical algorithm with the advanced information, to identify the missing information should perform one function evaluation. The speed up is exponential since a classical algorithm without advanced information should perform an exponential number of function evaluations. In unstructured database search, a classical algorithm that knows in advance 50% of the n bits of the database location, to identify the n/2 missing bits should perform Order(2 power n/2) function evaluations. The speed up is quadratic since a classical algorithm without advanced information should perform Order(2 power n) function evaluations. The 50% rule identifies the problems solvable with a quantum sped up in an entirely classical way, in fact by comparing two classical algorithms, with and without the advanced information.

id: 0904.4210
title: Quantum optics with quantum gases: controlled state reduction by designed light scattering
authors: Igor B. Mekhov, Helmut Ritsch
comments: updated, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013604 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4210
abstract: Cavity enhanced light scattering off an ultracold gas in an optical lattice constitutes a quantum measurement with a controllable form of the measurement back-action. Time-resolved counting of scattered photons alters the state of the atoms without particle loss implementing a quantum nondemolition (QND) measurement. The conditional dynamics is given by the interplay between photodetection events (quantum jumps) and no-count processes. The class of emerging atomic many-body states can be chosen via the optical geometry and light frequencies. Light detection along the angle of a diffraction maximum (Bragg angle) creates an atom-number squeezed state, while light detection at diffraction minima leads to the macroscopic superposition states (Schroedinger cat states) of different atom numbers in the cavity mode. A measurement of the cavity transmission intensity can lead to atom-number squeezed or macroscopic superposition states depending on its outcome. We analyze the robustness of the superposition with respect to missed counts and find that a transmission measurement yields more robust and controllable superposition states than the ones obtained by scattering at a diffraction minimum.

id: 0904.4214
title: Quantum walk of a trapped ion in phase space
authors: H. Schmitz, R. Matjeschk, Ch. Schneider, J. Glueckert, M. Enderlein, T. Huber, T. Schaetz
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4214
abstract: We implement the proof of principle for the quantum walk of one ion in a linear ion trap. With a single-step fidelity exceeding 0.99, we perform three steps of an asymmetric walk on the line. We clearly reveal the differences to its classical counterpart if we allow the walker/ion to take all classical paths simultaneously. Quantum interferences enforce asymmetric, non-classical distributions in the highly entangled degrees of freedom (of coin and position states). We theoretically study and experimentally observe the limitation in the number of steps of our approach, that is imposed by motional squeezing. We propose an altered protocol based on methods of impulsive steps to overcome these restrictions, in principal allowing to scale the quantum walk to several hundreds of steps.

id: 0904.4241
title: On the Theory of Casimir-Polder Forces
authors: Bo-Sture Skagerstam, Per Kristian Rekdal, Asle Heide Vaskinn
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures. Minor corrections. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022902 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4241
abstract: We consider the energy shift for an atom close to a non-magnetic body with a magnetic moment coupled to a quantized magnetic field. The corresponding repulsive Casimir-Polder force is obtained for a perfect conductor, a metal, a dielectric medium, with dielectric properties modeled by a Drude formula, and a superconductor at zero temperature. The dielectric properties of the superconductor is obtained by making use of the Mattis-Bardeen linear response theory and we present some useful expressions for the low-frequency conductivity. The quantum dynamics with a given initial state is discussed in terms of the well-known Weisskopf-Wigner theory and is compared with corresponding results for a electric dipole coupling. The results obtained are compatible with a conventional master equation approach. In order to illustrate the dependence on geometry and material properties, numerical results are presented for the ground state using a two-level approximation.

id: 0904.4242
title: Control of quantum interference in the quantum eraser
authors: L Neves, G Lima, J Aguirre, F A Torres-Ruiz, C Saavedra, A Delgado
comments: Submitted to New Journal of Physics, March 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4242
abstract: We have implemented an optical quantum eraser with the aim of studying this phenomenon in the context of state discrimination. An interfering single photon is entangled with another one serving as a which-path marker. As a consequence, the visibility of the interference as well as the which-path information are constrained by the overlap (measured by the inner product) between the which-path marker states, which in a more general situation are non-orthogonal. In order to perform which-path or quantum eraser measurements while analyzing non-orthogonal states, we resort to a probabilistic method for the unambiguous modification of the inner product between the two states of the which-path marker in a discrimination-like process.

id: 0904.4258
title: Generation of continuous variable squeezing and entanglement of trapped ions in time-varying potentials
authors: Alessio Serafini, Alex Retzker, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 10 pages, submitted to Quantum Information Processing (special issue on Quantum Decoherence and Entanglement)
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 8, 619 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4258
abstract: We investigate the generation of squeezing and entanglement for the motional degrees of freedom of ions in linear traps, confined by time-varying and oscillating potentials, comprised of an DC and an AC component. We show that high degrees of squeezing and entanglement can be obtained by controlling either the DC or the AC trapping component (or both), and by exploiting transient dynamics in regions where the ions' motion is unstable, without any added optical control. Furthermore, we investigate the time-scales over which the potentials should be switched in order for the manipulations to be most effective.

id: 0904.4259
title: Disproofs of Bell, GHZ, and Hardy Type Theorems and the Illusion of Entanglement
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 26 pages; Bell's incomplete accounting of the EPR elements of reality is made more evident. See also arXiv:quant-ph/0703179v2, arXiv:0707.1333v2, arXiv:0806.3078v1, and arXiv:1005.4932v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4259
abstract: An elementary topological error in Bell's representation of the EPR elements of reality is identified. Once recognized, it leads to a topologically correct local-realistic framework that provides exact, deterministic, and local underpinning of at least the Bell, GHZ-3, GHZ-4, and Hardy states. The correlations exhibited by these states are shown to be exactly the classical correlations among the points of a 3 or 7-sphere, both of which are closed under multiplication, and hence preserve the locality condition of Bell. The alleged non-localities of these states are thus shown to result from misidentified topologies of the EPR elements of reality. When topologies are correctly identified, local-realistic completion of any arbitrary entangled state is always guaranteed in our framework. This vindicates EPR, and entails that quantum entanglement is best understood as an illusion.

id: 0904.4260
title: Big consequences of small changes (Non-locality and non-linearity of Hartree-Fock equations)
authors: M. Ya. Amusia
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4260
abstract: It is demonstrated that non-locality and non-linearity of Hartree-Fock equations dramatically affect the properties of their solutions that essentially differ from solutions of Schr?dinger equation with a local potential. Namely, it acquires extra zeroes, has different coordinate asymptotic, violates so-called gauge-invariance, has different scattering phases at zero energy, has in some cases several solutions with the same set of quantum numbers, usually equivalent expressions of current and Green's functions became non-equivalent. These features result in a number of consequences for probabilities of some physical processes, leading e. g. to extra width of atomic Giant resonances and enhance considerably the ionization probability of inner atomic electrons by a strong field.

id: 0904.4297
title: Generalized thermo vacuum state derived by the partial trace method
authors: Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 5 pages, no figure, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4297
abstract: By virtue of the technique of integration within an ordered product (IWOP) of operators we present a new approach for deriving generalized thermo vacuum state which is simpler in form that the result by using the Umezawa-Takahashi approach, in this way the thermo field dynamics can be developed. Applications of the new state are discussed.

id: 0904.4306
title: Topological Quantum Image Analysis
authors: George Chapline, Jonathan L DuBois
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4306
abstract: A new approach to analyzing visual images is proposed, based on the idea of converting an optical image into a spatially varying pattern of polarized squeezed light, which is then used to produce a pattern of chiral edge currents in a thin film topological insulator. Thin films of Bi or Bi doped with Sb which are punctured with an array of sub-micron holes may be a way of realizing this kind of optical quantum information processing.

id: 0904.4308
title: A large-scale one-way quantum computer in an array of coupled cavities
authors: G. W. Lin, X. B. Zou, X. M. Lin, G. C. Guo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 95, 224102(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4308
abstract: We propose an efficient method to realize a large-scale one-way quantum computer in a two-dimensional (2D) array of coupled cavities, based on coherent displacements of an arbitrary state of cavity fields in a closed phase space. Due to the nontrivial geometric phase shifts accumulating only between the qubits in nearest-neighbor cavities, a large-scale 2D cluster state can be created within a short time. We discuss the feasibility of our method for scale solid-state quantum computation

id: 0904.4316
title: Anomalous lack of decoherence of the Macroscopic Quantum Superpositions based on phase-covariant Quantum Cloning
authors: Francesco De Martini, Fabio Sciarrino, Nicolo' Spagnolo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett.103, 100501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4316
abstract: We show that all Macroscopic Quantum Superpositions (MQS) based on phase-covariant quantum cloning are characterized by an anomalous high resilence to the de-coherence processes. The analysis supports the results of recent MQS experiments and leads to conceive a useful conjecture regarding the realization of complex decoherence - free structures for quantum information, such as the quantum computer.

id: 0904.4317
title: State mapping and discontinuous entanglement transfer in a multipartite open system
authors: M. Bina, F. Casagrande, M. Genoni, A. Lulli, M. G. A. Paris
comments: revised and enlarged, title changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4317
abstract: We describe the transfer of quantum information and correlations from an entangled tripartite bosonic system to three separate qubits through their local environments also in the presence of various dissipative effects. Optimal state mapping and entanglement transfer are shown in the framework of optical cavity quantum electrodynamics involving qubit-like radiation states and two-level atoms via the mediation of cavity modes. For an input GHZ state mixed with white noise we show the occurrence of sudden death and birth of entanglement that is discontinuously exchanged among the tripartite subsystems.

id: 0904.4336
title: Manipulating spatial qudit states with programmable optical devices
authors: G. Lima, A. Vargas, L. Neves, R. Guzm¨¢n, C. Saavedra
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 17, 10688-10696 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4336
abstract: The study of how to generate high-dimensional quantum states (qudits) is justified by the advantages that they can bring for the field of quantum information. However, to have some real practical potential for quantum communication, these states must be also of simple manipulation. Spatial qudits states, which are generated by engineering the transverse momentum of the parametric down-converted photons, have been until now considered of hard manipulation. Nevertheless, we show in this work a simple technique for modifying these states. This technique is based on the use of programmable diffractive optical devices, that can act as spatial light modulators, to define the Hilbert space of these photons instead of pre-fabricated multi-slits.

id: 0904.4366
title: Rotation and vibration of diatomic molecule in the spatially-dependent mass Schrodinger equation with generalized q-deformed Morse potential
authors: Sameer Ikhdair
comments: 26 pages
journal: Chemical Physics 361 (1-2) (2009) 9-17
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4366
abstract: The analytic solutions of the spatially-dependent mass Schrodinger equation of diatomic molecules with the centrifugal term l(l+1)/r2 for the generalized q-deformed Morse potential are obtained approximately by means of a parametric generalization of the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method combined with the Pekeris approximation scheme. The energy eigenvalues and the corresponding normalized radial wave functions are calculated in closed form with a physically motivated choice of a reciprocal Morse-like mass function, m(r)=m0/(1-deltae^{-a(r-r_{e})})2, 0<delta<1, where a and r_{e} are the range of the potential and the equilibrium position of the nuclei. The constant mass case when delta=0 is also studied. The energy states for H2, LiH, HCl and CO diatomic molecules are calculated and compared favourably well with those obtained by using other approximation methods for arbitrary vibrational n and rotational l quantum numbers.

id: 0904.4373
title: Universal Quantum Computation with Abelian Anyon Models
authors: James R. Wootton, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, presented at 6th QPL workshop
journal: ENTCS 270, 209-218 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4373
abstract: We consider topological quantum memories for a general class of abelian anyon models defined on spin lattices. These are non-universal for quantum computation when restricting to topological operations alone, such as braiding and fusion. The effects of additional non-topological operations, such as spin measurements, are studied. These are shown to allow universal quantum computation, while still utilizing topological protection. Our work gives an insight into the relation between abelian models and their non-abelian counterparts.

id: 0904.4388
title: Partial Decoherence of Histories and the Diosi Test
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: 15 pages. Submitted to Quantum Information Processing, special issue on Quantum Decoherence and Entanglement (projected publication date: October 2009)
journal: Quantum Inf Process 8(6):479-491 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4388
abstract: In the decoherent histories approach to quantum theory, attention focuses on the conditions under which probabilities may be assigned to sets of quantum histories. A variety of conditions have been proposed, but the most important one is decoherence, which means that the interference between every pair of histories in the set is zero. Weaker conditions have been considered, such as consistency, or linear positivity, but these are ruled out by the requirement of consistent composition of subsystems, proposed by Diosi. Here we propose a new condition which we call partial decoherence, and is the requirement that every history has zero interference with its negation. This is weaker than decoherence and stronger than linear positivity (but its relation to consistency is less simply defined -- it is neither stronger nor weaker). Most importantly, it satisfies the Diosi condition. A strengthened Diosi condition is proposed, which partial decoherence narrowly fails, due to an unusual property of inhomogeneous histories. In an appendix an example is given of a set of histories which are consistent but not decoherent.

id: 0904.4405
title: Cavity-Enhanced Rayleigh Scattering
authors: Michael Motsch, Martin Zeppenfeld, Pepijn W. H. Pinkse, Gerhard Rempe
comments: v2: 13 pages, 7 figures, small changes to the text, extended description of the theoretical model
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 063022 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4405
abstract: We demonstrate Purcell-like enhancement of Rayleigh scattering into a single optical mode of a Fabry-Perot resonator for several thermal atomic and molecular gases. The light is detuned by more than an octave, in this case by hundreds of nanometers, from any optical transition, making particle excitation and spontaneous emission negligible. The enhancement of light scattering into the resonator is explained quantitatively as an interference effect of light waves emitted by a classical driven dipole oscillator. Applications of our method include the sensitive, non-destructive in-situ detection of ultracold molecules.

id: 0904.4439
title: An introduction to the tomographic picture of quantum mechanics
authors: A. Ibort, V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, A. Simoni, F. Ventriglia
comments: 64 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4439
abstract: Starting from the famous Pauli problem on the possibility to associate quantum states with probabilities, the formulation of quantum mechanics in which quantum states are described by fair probability distributions (tomograms, i.e. tomographic probabilities) is reviewed in a pedagogical style. The relation between the quantum state description and the classical state description is elucidated. The difference of those sets of tomograms is described by inequalities equivalent to a complete set of uncertainty relations for the quantum domain and to nonnegativity of probability density on phase space in the classical domain. Intersection of such sets is studied. The mathematical mechanism which allows to construct different kinds of tomographic probabilities like symplectic tomograms, spin tomograms, photon number tomograms, etc., is clarified and a connection with abstract Hilbert space properties is established. Superposition rule and uncertainty relations in terms of probabilities as well as quantum basic equation like quantum evolution and energy spectra equations are given in explicit form. A method to check experimentally uncertainty relations is suggested using optical tomograms. Entanglement phenomena and the connection with semigroups acting on simplexes are studied in detail for spin states in the case of two qubits. The star-product formalism is associated with the tomographic probability formulation of quantum mechanics.

id: 0904.4461
title: Chirped Biphotons and Their Compression in Optical Fibres
authors: M.V. Chekhova, G.Kh. Kitaeva, O.A. Shumilkina, I.P. Degiovanni, M. Genovese, A. Meda
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 193602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4461
abstract: We show that broadband biphoton wavepackets produced via Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion (SPDC) in crystals with linearly aperiodic poling can be easily compressed in time using the effect of group-velocity dispersion in optical fibres. This result could foster important developments in quantum metrology and lithography.

id: 0904.4483
title: Theoretical framework for quantum networks
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Giacomo M. D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 23 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022339 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4483
abstract: We present a framework to treat quantum networks and all possible transformations thereof, including as special cases all possible manipulations of quantum states, measurements, and channels, such as, e.g., cloning, discrimination, estimation, and tomography. Our framework is based on the concepts of quantum comb-which describes all transformations achievable by a given quantum network-and link product-the operation of connecting two quantum networks. Quantum networks are treated both from a constructive point of view-based on connections of elementary circuits-and from an axiomatic one-based on a hierarchy of admissible quantum maps. In the axiomatic context a fundamental property is shown, which we call universality of quantum memory channels: any admissible transformation of quantum networks can be realized by a suitable sequence of memory channels. The open problem whether this property fails for some nonquantum theory, e.g., for no-signaling boxes, is posed.

id: 0904.4492
title: Finite temperature topological order in 2D topological color codes
authors: Mehdi Kargarian
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012321 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4492
abstract: In this work the topological order at finite temperature in two-dimensional color code is studied. The topological entropy is used to measure the behavior of the topological order. Topological order in color code arises from the colored string-net structures. By imposing the hard constrained limit the exact solution of the entanglement entropy becomes possible. For finite size systems, by raising the temperature, one type of string-net structure is thermalized and the associative topological entropy vanishes. In the thermodynamic limit the underlying topological order is fragile even at very low temperatures. Taking first the thermodynamic limit and then the zero-temperature limit and vice versa does not commute, and their difference is related only to the topology of regions. The contribution of the colors and symmetry of the model in the topological entropy is also discussed. It is shown how the gauge symmetry of the color code underlies the topological entropy.

id: 0904.4510
title: Quantum state transfer through a qubit network with energy shifts and fluctuations
authors: Andrea Casaccino, Seth Lloyd, Stefano Mancini, Simone Severini
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Int. J. of Quant. Inf. vol. 7 (2009), pp. 1417-1427
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4510
abstract: We study quantum state transfer through a qubit network modeled by spins with XY interaction, when relying on a single excitation. We show that it is possible to achieve perfect transfer by shifting (adding) energy to specific vertices. This technique appears to be a potentially powerful tool to change, and in some cases improve, transfer capabilities of quantum networks. Analytical results are presented for all-to-all networks and all-to-all networks with a missing link. Moreover, we evaluate the effect of random fluctuations on the transmission fidelity.

id: 0904.4523
title: A scalable quantum computer with an ultranarrow optical transition of ultracold neutral atoms in an optical lattice
authors: K. Shibata, S. Kato, A. Yamaguchi, S. Uetake, Y. Takahashi
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4523
abstract: We propose a new quantum-computing scheme using ultracold neutral ytterbium atoms in an optical lattice. The nuclear Zeeman sublevels define a qubit. This choice avoids the natural phase evolution due to the magnetic dipole interaction between qubits. The Zeeman sublevels with large magnetic moments in the long-lived metastable state are also exploited to address individual atoms and to construct a controlled-multiqubit gate. Estimated parameters required for this scheme show that this proposal is scalable and experimentally feasible.

id: 0904.4549
title: Bose-Einstein condensates on tilted lattices: coherent, chaotic and subdiffusive dynamics
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky, Edgar A. G¨®mez, Hans J¨¹rgen Korsch
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81 (2010} 025603
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4549
abstract: The dynamics of a (quasi)one-dimensional interacting atomic Bose-Einstein condensate in a tilted optical lattice is studied in a discrete mean-field approximation, i.e., in terms of the discrete nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation. If the static field is varied the system shows a plethora of dynamical phenomena. In the strong field limit we demonstrate the existence of (almost) non-spreading states which remain localized on the lattice region populated initially and show coherent Bloch oscillations with fractional revivals in the momentum space (so called quantum carpets). With decreasing field, the dynamics becomes irregular, however, still confined in configuration space. For even weaker fields we find sub-diffusive dynamics with a wave-packet width spreading as $t^{1/4}$.

id: 0904.4564
title: Generation of atomic entangled states in a bi-mode cavity via adiabatic passage
authors: Li-Bo Chen, Peng Shi, Yong-Jian Gu, Lin Xie, Li-Zhen Ma
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Comm. 284, 5020-5023 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4564
abstract: We propose schemes to prepare atomic entangled states in a bi-mode cavity via stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) and fractional stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (f-STIRAP) tech- niques. According to the simulation results, our schemes keep the cavity modes almost unexcited and the atomic excited states are nearly unpopulated during the whole process. The simulation also shows that the error probability is very small.

id: 0904.4571
title: The speed of quantum and classical learning for performing the k-th root of NOT
authors: Daniel Manzano, Marcin Pawlowski, Caslav Brukner
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 113018
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4571
abstract: We consider quantum learning machines -- quantum computers that modify themselves in order to improve their performance in some way -- that are trained to perform certain classical task, i.e. to execute a function which takes classical bits as input and returns classical bits as output. This allows a fair comparison between learning efficiency of quantum and classical learning machine in terms of the number of iterations required for completion of learning. We find an explicit example of the task for which numerical simulations show that quantum learning is faster than its classical counterpart. The task is extraction of the k-th root of NOT (NOT = logical negation), with k=2^m and m \in N. The reason for this speed-up is that classical machine requires memory of size log k=m to accomplish the learning, while the memory of a single qubit is sufficient for the quantum machine for any k.

id: 0904.4576
title: Experimental test of quantum contextuality in neutron interferometry
authors: H. Bartosik, J. Klepp, C. Schmitzer, S. Sponar, A. Cabello, H. Rauch, Y. Hasegawa
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 (2009) 040403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4576
abstract: We performed an experimental test of the Kochen-Specker theorem based on an inequality derived from the Peres-Mermin proof, using spin-path (momentum) entanglement in a single neutron system. Following the strategy proposed by Cabello et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 130404 (2008)], a Bell-like state was generated and three expectation values were determined. The observed violation 2.291 +/- 0.008 > 1 clearly shows that quantum mechanical predictions cannot be reproduced by noncontextual hidden variables theories.

id: 0904.4577
title: Experimental characterization of three-wave mixing in a multimode nonlinear KTiOPO_4 waveguide
authors: Michal Karpinski, Czeslaw Radzewicz, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 94, 181105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4577
abstract: We report experimental determination of the phase-matching function for type-II three-wave mixing in a periodically poled KTiOPO_4 waveguide in the 792-815 nm spectral region. The measurement was performed by sum-frequency generation of spectrally tuned fundamental components. Strong dependence of the observed signal on the excited spatial modes in the waveguide has been observed and fully interpreted. These results indicate a route to employ the waveguide for spontaneous parametric down-conversion producing photon pairs in well-defined spatial modes.

id: 0904.4621
title: Experimental superradiance and slow light effects for quantum memories
authors: Andreas Walther, Atia Amari, Stefan Kr?ll, Alexey Kalachev
comments: RevTeX, 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4621
abstract: The effects of high optical depth phenomena, such as superradiance, are investigated in potential quantum memory materials. The results may have relevance for several schemes, including CRIB, AFC and EIT-based quantum memories, which are based on using ensembles as storage media. It is shown that strong superradiant effects, manifested as decay rates larger than 1/T2*, are present even for moderate values of alphaL < 5, and increases as a function of alphaL. For even higher alphaL, effects like off-resonant slow light is demonstrated and discussed, and finally, the efficiency of time-reversed optimized input pulses are tested. A maximum retrieval efficiency of ~20% is reached, and agreement with the theoretically expected result is discussed.

id: 0904.4642
title: Approximating the ground state of gapped quantum spin systems
authors: Eman Hamza, Spyridon Michalakis, Bruno Nachtergaele, Robert Sims
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50 (2009) 095213
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4642
abstract: We consider quantum spin systems defined on finite sets $V$ equipped with a metric. In typical examples, $V$ is a large, but finite subset of Z^d. For finite range Hamiltonians with uniformly bounded interaction terms and a unique, gapped ground state, we demonstrate a locality property of the corresponding ground state projector. In such systems, this ground state projector can be approximated by the product of observables with quantifiable supports. In fact, given any subset, X, of V the ground state projector can be approximated by the product of two projections, one supported on X and one supported on X^c, and a bounded observable supported on a boundary region in such a way that as the boundary region increases, the approximation becomes better. Such an approximation was useful in proving an area law in one dimension, and this result corresponds to a multi-dimensional analogue.

id: 0904.4654
title: Controllability and Observability of Multi-Spin Systems: Constraints by Symmetry and by Relaxation
authors: U. Sander, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures; extended update, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4654
abstract: We investigate the universality of multi-spin systems in architectures of various symmetries of coupling type and topology. Explicit reachability sets under symmetry constraints are provided. Thus for a given (possibly symmetric) experimental coupling architecture several decision problems can be solved in a unified way: (i) can a target Hamiltonian be simulated? (ii) can a target gate be synthesised? (iii) to which extent is the system observable by a given set of detection operators? and, as a special case of the latter, (iv) can an underlying system Hamiltonian be identified with a given set of detection operators? Finally, in turn, lack of symmetry provides a convenient necessary condition for full controllability. Though often easier to assess than the well-established Lie-algebra rank condition, this is not sufficient unless the candidate dynamic simple Lie algebra can be pre-identified uniquely, which is fortunately less complicated than expected.

id: 0904.4663
title: The role of preparation in quantum process tomography
authors: Kavan Modi, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 11 pages, 4 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052119 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4663
abstract: In a recent letter one of us pointed out how differences in preparation procedures for quantum experiments can lead to non-trivial differences in the results of the experiment. The difference arise from the initial correlations between the system and environment. Therefore, any quantum experiment that is prone to the influences from the environment must be prepared carefully. In this paper, we study quantum process tomography in light of this. We suggest several experimental setups, where preparation of initial state plays a role on the final outcome of the experiment. We show that by studying the linearity and the positivity of the resulting maps the experimenter can determine the nature of the initial correlations between the system and the environment.

id: 0904.4666
title: Many worlds and modality in the interpretation of quantum mechanics: an algebraic approach
authors: G. Domenech, H. Freytes, C. de Ronde
comments: submitted to the Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 50 (2009) 072108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4666
abstract: Many worlds interpretations (MWI) of quantum mechanics avoid the measurement problem by considering every term in the quantum superposition as actual. A seemingly opposed solution is proposed by modal interpretations (MI) which state that quantum mechanics does not provide an account of what `actually is the case', but rather deals with what `might be the case', i.e. with possibilities. In this paper we provide an algebraic framework which allows us to analyze in depth the modal aspects of MWI. Within our general formal scheme we also provide a formal comparison between MWI and MI, in particular, we provide a formal understanding of why --even though both interpretations share the same formal structure-- MI fall pray of Kochen-Specker (KS) type contradictions while MWI escape them.

id: 0904.4667
title: Fermionic Projected Entangled Pair States
authors: Christina V. Kraus, Norbert Schuch, Frank Verstraete, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052338 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4667
abstract: We introduce a family of states, the fPEPS, which describes fermionic systems on lattices in arbitrary spatial dimensions. It constitutes the natural extension of another family of states, the PEPS, which efficiently approximate ground and thermal states of spin systems with short-range interactions. We give an explicit mapping between those families, which allows us to extend previous simulation methods to fermionic systems. We also show that fPEPS naturally arise as exact ground states of certain fermionic Hamiltonians. We give an example of such a Hamiltonian, exhibiting criticality while obeying an area law.

id: 0904.4668
title: Spatial modes in waveguided parametric down-conversion
authors: Andreas Christ, Kaisa Laiho, Andreas Eckstein, Thomas Lauckner, Peter J. Mosley, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033829 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4668
abstract: The propagation of several spatial modes has a significant impact on the structure of the emission from parametric down-conversion in a nonlinear waveguide. This manifests itself not only in the spatial correlations of the photon pairs but also, due to new phase-matching conditions, in the output spectrum, radically altering the degree of entanglement within each pair. Here we investigate both theoretically and experimentally the results of higher-order spatial-mode propagation in nonlinear waveguides. We derive conditions for the creation of pairs in these modes and present observations of higher-order mode propagation in both the spatial and spectral domains. Furthermore, we observe correlations between the different degrees of freedom and finally we discuss strategies for mitigating any detrimental effects and optimizing pair production in the fundamental mode.

id: 0904.4706
title: Abrupt and gradual changes of information through the Kane solid state computer
authors: N. Metwally
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr 82 (2010) 035004 (7pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4706
abstract: The susceptibility of the transformed information to the filed and system parameters is investigated for the Kane solid state computer. It has been shown, that the field polarization and the initial state of the system play the central roles on the abrupt and gradual quench of the purity and the fidelity. If the field and the initial state are in different polarizations, then the purity and the fidelity decrease abruptly, while for the common polarization the decay is gradual and smooth. For some class of initial states one can send the information without any loss. Therefore, by controlling on the devices one can increase the time of safe communication, reduce the amount of exchange information between the state and its environment and minimize the purity decrease rate.

id: 0904.4720
title: Capacitance measurements and electrostatic calibrations in experiments measuring the Casimir force
authors: R. S. Decca, E. Fischbach, G. L. Klimchitskaya, D. E. Krause, D. L¨®pez, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, 1 table; minor changes are made in accordance with the published version
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A, v.26, N22, pp.3930-3943 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4720
abstract: We compare the results of capacitance measurements in the lens-plane and sphere-plane configurations with theoretical predictions from various models of a spherical surface. It is shown that capacitance measurements are incapable of discriminating between models of perfect and modified spherical surfaces in an experiment demonstrating the anomalous scaling law for the electric force. Claims to the contrary in the recent literature are explained by the use of irregular comparison. The data from capacitance measurements in an experiment measuring the Casimir force using a micromechanical torsional oscillator are shown to be in excellent agreement with theoretical predictions using the model of a perfect spherical surface.

id: 0904.4730
title: Extended JC-Dicke model for a two-component atomic BEC inside a cavity
authors: Yong Li, Peng Zhang, Z. D. Wang
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4730
abstract: We consider a trapped two-component atomic Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC), where each atom with three energy-levels is coupled to an optical cavity field and an external classical optical field as well as a microwave field to form the so-called $\Delta$-type configuration. After adiabatically eliminating the atomic excited state, an extended JC-Dicke model is derived under the rotating-wave approximation. The scaled ground-state energy and the phase diagram of this model Hamiltonian are investigated in the framework of mean-field approach. A new phase transition is revealed when the amplitude of microwave field changes its sign.

id: 0904.4762
title: Entanglement Generation by Qubit Scattering in Three Dimensions
authors: Yuichiro Hida, Hiromichi Nakazato, Kazuya Yuasa, Yasser Omar
comments: 21 pages, 19 figures, the final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 (2009) 012310 (18 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4762
abstract: A qubit (a spin-1/2 particle) prepared in the up state is scattered by local spin-flipping potentials produced by the two target qubits (two fixed spins), both prepared in the down state, to generate an entangled state in the latter when the former is found in the down state after scattering. The scattering process is analyzed in three dimensions, both to lowest order and in full order in perturbation, with an appropriate renormalization for the latter. The entanglement is evaluated in terms of the concurrence as a function of the incident and scattering angles, the size of the incident wave packet, and the detector resolution, to clarify the key elements for obtaining an entanglement with high quality. The characteristics of the results are also discussed in the context of (in)distinguishability of alternative paths for a quantum particle.

id: 0904.4766
title: A Note on Quantum Entanglement and PPT
authors: Shao-Ming Fei, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 9 pages
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 7(2009)587-593
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4766
abstract: We study quantum states for which the PPT criterion is both sufficient and necessary for separability. We present a class of 3x3 bipartite mixed states and show that these states are separable if and only if they are PPT.

id: 0904.4785
title: Retarded Casimir-Polder force on an atom near reflecting microstructures
authors: Claudia Eberlein, Robert Zietal
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4785
abstract: We derive the fully retarded energy shift of a neutral atom in two different geometries useful for modelling etched microstructures. First we calculate the energy shift due to a reflecting cylindrical wire, and then we work out the energy shift due to a semi-infinite reflecting half-plane. We analyze the results for the wire in various limits of the wire radius and the distance of the atom from the wire, and obtain simple asymptotic expressions useful for estimates. For the half-plane we find an exact representation of the Casimir-Polder interaction in terms of a single, fast converging integral, which is easy to evaluate numerically.

id: 0904.4787
title: Hamilton's theory of turns revisited
authors: N. Mukunda, S. Chaturvedi, R. Simon
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4787
abstract: We present a new approach to Hamilton's theory of turns for the groups SO(3) and SU(2) which renders their properties, in particular their composition law, nearly trivial and immediately evident upon inspection. We show that the entire construction can be based on binary rotations rather than mirror reflections.

id: 0904.4801
title: Hawking Radiation from an Acoustic Black Hole on an Ion Ring
authors: Birger Horstmann, Benni Reznik, Serena Fagnocchi, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, minor revisions, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:250403,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4801
abstract: In this article we propose to simulate acoustic black holes with ions in rings. If the ions are rotating with a stationary and inhomogeneous velocity profile, regions can appear where the ion velocity exceeds the group velocity of the phonons. In these regions phonons are trapped like light in black holes, even though we have a discrete field theory and a nonlinear dispersion relation. We study the appearance of Hawking radiation in this setup and propose a scheme to detect it.

id: 0904.4818
title: Multipartite bound entanglement and multi-setting Bell inequalities
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Kabgyun Jeong, Taewan Kim, Kyungjin Lee, Soojoon Lee
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032330 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4818
abstract: D\"{u}r [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 87}, 230402 (2001)] constructed $N$-qubit bound entangled states which violate a Bell inequality for $N\ge 8$, and his result was recently improved by showing that there exists an $N$-qubit bound entangled state violating the Bell inequality if and only if $N\ge 6$ [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 79}, 032309 (2009)]. On the other hand, it has been also shown that the states which D\"{u}r considered violate Bell inequalities different from the inequality for $N\ge 6$. In this paper, by employing different forms of Bell inequalities, in particular, a specific form of Bell inequalities with $M$ settings of the measuring apparatus for sufficiently large $M$, we prove that there exists an $N$-qubit bound entangled state violating the $M$-setting Bell inequality if and only if $N\ge 4$.

id: 0904.4837
title: Coherent manipulation of Bose-Einstein condensates with state-dependent microwave potentials on an atom chip
authors: Pascal Boehi, Max F. Riedel, Johannes Hoffrogge, Jakob Reichel, Theodor W. Haensch, Philipp Treutlein
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature Physics 5, 592 - 597 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4837
abstract: Entanglement-based technologies, such as quantum information processing, quantum simulations, and quantum-enhanced metrology, have the potential to revolutionise our way of computing and measuring and help clarifying the puzzling concept of entanglement itself. Ultracold atoms on atom chips are attractive for their implementation, as they provide control over quantum systems in compact, robust, and scalable setups. An important tool in this system is a potential depending on the internal atomic state. Coherent dynamics in this potential combined with collisional interactions allows entanglement generation both for individual atoms and ensembles. Here, we demonstrate coherent manipulation of Bose-condensed atoms in such a potential, generated in a novel way with microwave near-fields on an atom chip. We reversibly entangle atomic internal and motional states, realizing a trapped-atom interferometer with internal-state labelling. Our system provides control over collisions in mesoscopic condensates, paving the way for on-chip generation of many-particle entanglement and quantum-enhanced metrology with spin-squeezed states.

id: 0904.4847
title: Sudden death of distillability in qutrit-qutrit systems
authors: Wei Song, Lin Chen, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: published version, small changes in Sec.III, 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 80, 012331 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4847
abstract: We introduce the concept of distillability sudden death, i.e., free entangled states can evolve into non-distillable (bound entangled or separable) states in finite time under local noise. We describe the phenomenon through a specific model of local dephasing noise and compare the behavior of states in terms of the Bures fidelity. Then we propose a few methods to avoid distillability sudden death of states under (general) local dephasing noise, so that free entangled states can be robust against decoherence. Moreover, we find that bound entangled states are unstable in the limit of infinite time.

id: 0904.4861
title: How long can a quantum memory withstand depolarizing noise?
authors: Fernando Pastawski, Alastair Kay, Norbert Schuch, Ignacio Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Accepted version, Journal-Ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 080501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4861
abstract: We investigate the possibilities and limitations of passive Hamiltonian protection of a quantum memory against depolarizing noise. Without protection, the lifetime of a single qubit is independent of N, the number of qubits composing the memory. In the presence of a protecting Hamiltonian, the lifetime increases at most logarithmically with N. We construct an explicit time-independent Hamiltonian which saturates this bound, exploiting the noise itself to achieve the protection.

id: 0904.4862
title: A quantum de Finetti theorem in phase space representation
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 010102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4862
abstract: The quantum versions of de Finetti's theorem derived so far express the convergence of n-partite symmetric states, i.e., states that are invariant under permutations of their n parties, towards probabilistic mixtures of independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) states. Unfortunately, these theorems only hold in finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces, and their direct generalization to infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces is known to fail. Here, we address this problem by considering invariance under orthogonal transformations in phase space instead of permutations in state space, which leads to a new type of quantum de Finetti's theorem that is particularly relevant to continuous-variable systems. Specifically, an n-mode bosonic state that is invariant with respect to this continuous symmetry in phase space is proven to converge towards a probabilistic mixture of i.i.d. Gaussian states (actually, n identical thermal states).

id: 0904.4870
title: Quantum superadditivity in linear optics networks: sending bits via multiple access Gaussian channels
authors: L. Czekaj, J. K. Korbicz, R. W. Chhajlany, P. Horodecki
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4870
abstract: We study classical capacity regions of quantum Gaussian multiple access channels (MAC). In classical variants of such channels, whilst some capacity superadditivity-type effects such as the so called {\it water filling effect} may be achieved, a fundamental classical additivity law can still be identified, {\it viz.} adding resources to one sender is never advantageous to other senders in sending their respective information to the receiver. Here, we show that quantum resources allows violation of this law, by providing two illustrative schemes of experimentally feasible Gaussian MACs.

id: 0904.4892
title: Problems in the Lifshitz Theory of Atom-Wall Interaction
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, E. V. Blagov, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, style file ws-ijmpa.cls is used
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A, Vol. 24, Nos. 8 & 9, p. 1777- 1788 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4892
abstract: Problems in the Lifshitz theory of atom-wall interaction arise when the dc conductivity of dielectric wall is included into the model of the dielectric response. We review the low-temperature behavior of the free energy and entropy of dispersion interaction for both dielectric and metallic walls. Consistency of the obtained results with thermodynamics and experimental data is analyzed. Recent attempts to include the screening effects and diffusion currents into the Lifshitz theory are considered. It is shown that this leads to the violation of the Nernst heat theorem for wide classes of wall materials. The physical reasons for the emergence of thermodynamic and experimental inconsistencies are elucidated.

id: 0904.4895
title: Could one make a diamond-based quantum computer?
authors: A Marshall Stoneham, A H Harker, Gavin W Morley
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 21, 364222 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4895
abstract: We assess routes to a diamond-based quantum computer, where we specifically look towards scalable devices, with at least 10 linked quantum gates. Such a computer should satisfy the deVincenzo rules and might be used at convenient temperatures. The specific examples we examine are based on the optical control of electron spins. For some such devices, nuclear spins give additional advantages. Since there have already been demonstrations of basic initialisation and readout, our emphasis is on routes to two-qubit quantum gate operations and the linking of perhaps 10-20 such gates. We analyse the dopant properties necessary, especially centres containing N and P, and give results using simple scoping calculations for the key interactions determining gate performance. Our conclusions are cautiously optimistic: it may be possible to develop a useful quantum information processor that works above cryogenic temperatures.

id: 0904.4916
title: Discrete, Tunable Color Entanglement
authors: S. Ramelow, L. Ratschbacher, A. Fedrizzi, N. K. Langford, A. Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 253601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4916
abstract: Although frequency multiplexing of information has revolutionized the field of classical communications, the color degree of freedom (DOF) has been used relatively little for quantum applications. We experimentally demonstrate a new hybrid quantum gate that transfers polarization entanglement of non-degenerate photons onto the color DOF. We create, for the first time, high quality, discretely color-entangled states (with energy bandgap up to 8.4 THz) without any filtering or postselection, and unambiguously verify and quantify the amount of entanglement (tangle, 0.611$\pm$0.009) by reconstructing a restricted density matrix; we generate a range of maximally entangled states, including a set of mutually unbiased bases for an encoded qubit space. The technique can be generalized to transfer polarization entanglement onto other photonic DOFs, like orbital angular momentum.

id: 0904.4920
title: Density matrix of a single photon produced in parametric down conversion derived
authors: Piotr Kolenderski, Wojciech Wasilewski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 015801 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4920
abstract: We introduce an effective numerical method of density matrix determination of fiber coupled single photon generated in process of spontaneous parametric down conversion in type I non-collinear configuration. The presented theory has been successfully applied in case of source exploited in Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 123601 (2007) to demonstrate the experimental characterization of spectral state of single photon.

id: 0904.4925
title: Hopf Fibration and Quantum Entanglement in Qubit Systems
authors: P. A. Pinilla, J. R. Luthra
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4925
abstract: Based on the geometry of entangled three and two qubit states, we present the connection between the entanglement measure of the three-qubit state defined using the last Hopf fibration and the entanglement measures known as two- and three-tangle. Moreover, the generalization of the geometric representation of four qubit state and a potential entanglement measure is studied using sedenions for the simplification of the Hilbert space S^31 of the four qubit system. An entanglement measure is proposed and the degree of entanglement is calculated for specific states. The difficulties of a possible generalization are discussed.

id: 0904.0170
title: Intertwining Symmetry Algebras of Quantum Superintegrable Systems
authors: Juan A. Calzada, Javier Negro, Mariano A. del Olmo
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 039, 23 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0170
abstract: We present an algebraic study of a kind of quantum systems belonging to a family of superintegrable Hamiltonian systems in terms of shape-invariant intertwinig operators, that span pairs of Lie algebras like $(su(n),so(2n))$ or $(su(p,q),so(2p,2q))$. The eigenstates of the associated Hamiltonian hierarchies belong to unitary representations of these algebras. It is shown that these intertwining operators, related with separable coordinates for the system, are very useful to determine eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the Hamiltonians in the hierarchy. An study of the corresponding superintegrable classical systems is also included for the sake of completness.

id: 0904.0369
title: Laguerre-type derivatives: Dobinski relations and combinatorial identities
authors: K. A. Penson, P. Blasiak, A. Horzela, A. I. Solomon, G. H. E. Duchamp
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 083512 (2009)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0369
abstract: We consider properties of the operators D(r,M)=a^r(a^\dag a)^M (which we call generalized Laguerre-type derivatives), with r=1,2,..., M=0,1,..., where a and a^\dag are boson annihilation and creation operators respectively, satisfying [a,a^\dag]=1. We obtain explicit formulas for the normally ordered form of arbitrary Taylor-expandable functions of D(r,M) with the help of an operator relation which generalizes the Dobinski formula. Coherent state expectation values of certain operator functions of D(r,M) turn out to be generating functions of combinatorial numbers. In many cases the corresponding combinatorial structures can be explicitly identified.

id: 0904.0504
title: Single-Photon Entanglement in the keV Regime via Coherent Control of Nuclear Forward Scattering
authors: Adriana P¨¢lffy, Christoph H. Keitel, J?rg Evers
comments: minor changes, updated to the final version; 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 017401 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0504
abstract: Generation of single-photon entanglement is discussed in nuclear forward scattering. Using successive switchings of the direction of the nuclear hyperfine magnetic field, the coherent scattering of photons on nuclei is controlled such that two signal pulses are generated out of one initial pump pulse. The two time-resolved correlated signal pulses have different polarizations and energy in the keV regime. Spatial separation of the entangled field modes and extraction of the signal from the background can be achieved with the help of state-of-the-art x-ray polarizers and piezoelectric fast steering mirrors.

id: 0904.0527
title: Quantum vacuum effects from boundaries of designer potentials
authors: Tomasz Konopka
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0527
abstract: Vacuum energy in quantum field theory, being the sum of zero-point energies of all field modes, is formally infinite but yet, after regularization or renormalization, can give rise to finite observable effects. One way of understanding how these effects arise is to compute the vacuum energy in an idealized system such as a large cavity divided into disjoint regions by pistons. In this paper, this type of calculation is carried out for situations where the potential affecting a field is not the same in all regions of the cavity. It is shown that the observable parts of the vacuum energy in such potentials do not fall off to zero as the region where the potential is nontrivial becomes large. This unusual behavior might be interesting for tests involving quantum vacuum effects and for studies on the relation between vacuum energy in quantum field theory and geometry.

id: 0904.0550
title: Topologically distinct classes of valence bond solid states with their parent Hamiltonians
authors: Hong-Hao Tu, Guang-Ming Zhang, Tao Xiang, Zheng-Xin Liu, Tai-Kai Ng
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures; to be published in Physical Review B
journal: Physical Review B 80, 014401 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0550
abstract: We introduce a general method to construct one-dimensional translationally invariant valence bond solid states with a built-in Lie group $G$ and derive their matrix product representations. The general strategies to find their parent Hamiltonians are provided so that the valence bond solid states are their unique ground states. For quantum integer spin-$S$ chains, we discuss two topologically distinct classes of valence bond solid states: One consists of two virtual SU(2) spin-$J$ variables in each site and another is formed by using two $SO(2S+1)$ spinors. Among them, a new spin-1 fermionic valence bond solid state, its parent Hamiltonian, and its properties are discussed in detail. Moreover, two types of valence bond solid states with SO(5) symmetry are further generalized and their respective properties are analyzed as well.

id: 0904.0567
title: Rotational and rotationless states of weakly-bound molecules
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko, Bretislav Friedrich
comments: slightly corrected version, 4 pages, 1 figure, 3 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 050501(R) (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0567
abstract: By making use of the quantization rule of Raab and Friedrich [P. Raab and H. Friedrich, Phys. Rev. A 78, 022707 (2008)], we derive simple and accurate formulae for the number of rotational states supported by a weakly-bound vibrational level of a diatomic molecule and the rotational constants of any such levels up to the threshold, and provide a criterion for determining whether a given weakly-bound vibrational level is rotationless. The results depend solely on the long-range part of the molecular potential and are applicable to halo molecules.

id: 0904.0609
title: Tunneling of the 3rd kind
authors: Holger Gies, Joerg Jaeckel
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures
journal: JHEP 0908:063,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0609
abstract: We study a new kind of tunneling of particles through a barrier particular to quantum field theory. Here, the particles traverse the barrier by splitting into a virtual pair of particles of a different species which interacts only very weakly with the barrier and can therefore pass through it. Behind the barrier, the pair recombines into a particle of the original species. As an example, we discuss the case where photons split into a pair of minicharged particles. This process could be observed in experiments of the light-shining-through-a-wall type and may be used to search for minicharged particles in laboratory experiments.

id: 0904.0734
title: Short proofs of theorems of Mirsky and Horn on diagonals and eigenvalues of matrices
authors: Eric A. Carlen, Elliott H. Lieb
comments: This is the final version of the paper as published in EJLA
journal: Electronic Journal of Linear Algebra, vol. 18, 438-441 (2009)
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0734
abstract: A theorem of Mirsky provides necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of an N-square complex matrix with prescribed diagonal entries and prescribed eigenvalues. We give a simple inductive proof of this theorem.

id: 0904.0738
title: An infinite family of solvable and integrable quantum systems on a plane
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦rick Tremblay, Alexander V. Turbiner, Pavel Winternitz
comments: 30 pages, Introduction extended, description of known integrals given, some statements clarified, one reference added, will be published in J Phys A (FTC)
journal: Journal of Phys A 42 (2009) 242001
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0738
abstract: An infinite family of exactly-solvable and integrable potentials on a plane is introduced. It is shown that all already known rational potentials with the above properties allowing separation of variables in polar coordinates are particular cases of this family. The underlying algebraic structure of the new potentials is revealed as well as its hidden algebra. We conjecture that all members of the family are also superintegrable and demonstrate this for the first few cases. A quasi-exactly-solvable and integrable generalization of the family is found.

id: 0904.0950
title: Quantum Smoluchowski equation for driven systems
authors: Raoul Dillenschneider, Eric Lutz
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 042101 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0950
abstract: We consider a driven quantum harmonic oscillator strongly coupled to a heat bath. Starting from the exact quantum Langevin equation, we use a Green's function approach to determine the corresponding semiclassical equation for the Wigner phase space distribution. In the limit of high friction, we apply Brinkman's method to derive the quantum Smoluchowski equation for the probability distribution in position space. We further determine the range of validity of the equation and discuss the special case of a Brownian parametric oscillator.

id: 0904.0960
title: Principles and Dynamics of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Spyros Efthimiades
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0960
abstract: The fundamental principle of quantum mechanics is that the probabilities of physical outcomes are obtained from the intermediate states and processes of the interacting particles, considered as happening concurrently. When the interaction is described by a potential, the total energy of the particle is equal to its total kinetic plus potential energies. We derive the Schrodinger and Dirac equations as the conditions the wavefunction must satisfy at each point in order to fulfill the corresponding energy equation. In our approach quantum theory is tangible, experimentally justified and theoretically consistent. PACS numbers: 03.65.-w Keywords: Quantum principles; Quantum dynamics; Schrodinger equation; Dirac equation

id: 0904.1000
title: Testing the Bell Inequality at Experiments of High Energy Physics
authors: Xi-Qing Hao, Hong-Wei Ke, Yi-Bing Ding, Peng-Nian Shen, Xue-Qian Li
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: Chin.Phys.C (HEP & NP)34:311-318,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1000
abstract: Besides using the laser beam, it is very tempting to directly testify the Bell inequality at high energy experiments where the spin correlation is exactly what the original Bell inequality investigates. In this work, we follow the proposal raised in literature and use the successive decays $J/\psi\to\gamma\eta_c\to \Lambda\bar\Lambda\to p\pi^-\bar p\pi^+$ to testify the Bell inequality. Our goal is twofold, namely, we first make a Monte-Carlo simulation of the processes based on the quantum field theory (QFT). Since the underlying theory is QFT, it implies that we pre-admit the validity of quantum picture. Even though the QFT is true, we need to find how big the database should be, so that we can clearly show deviations of the correlation from the Bell inequality determined by the local hidden variable theory. There have been some critiques on the proposed method, so in the second part, we suggest some improvements which may help to remedy the ambiguities indicated by the critiques. It may be realized at an updated facility of high energy physics, such as BES III.

id: 0904.1043
title: Calculation of the Self-energy of Open Quantum Systems
authors: Keita Sasada, Naomichi Hatano
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, published in J. Phys. Soc. Jpn
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 77 (2008) 025003
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1043
abstract: We propose an easy method of calculating the self-energy of semi-infinite leads attached to a mesoscopic system.

id: 0904.1059
title: Entanglement production due to quench dynamics of an anisotropic XY chain in a transverse field
authors: K. Sengupta, Diptiman Sen
comments: 5 pages including 4 figures; added a figure on multipartite entanglement and some references -- this is the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032304 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1059
abstract: We compute concurrence and negativity as measures of two-site entanglement generated by a power-law quench (characterized by a rate 1/tau and an exponent alpha) which takes an anisotropic XY chain in a transverse field through a quantum critical point (QCP). We show that only the even-neighbor pairs of sites get entangled in such a process. Moreover, there is a critical rate of quench, 1/tau_c, above which no two-site entanglement is generated; the entire entanglement is multipartite. The ratio of the two-site entanglements between consecutive even neighbors can be tuned by changing the quench rate. We also show that for large tau, the concurrence (negativity) scales as sqrt{alpha/tau} (alpha/tau), and we relate this scaling behavior to defect production by the quench through a QCP.

id: 0904.1072
title: The Quantum Links of the Anyons and their Entanglement
authors: Viorel Laurentiu Cartas
comments: 12 pages,4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1072
abstract: In this paper, after a brief presentation of the physical 2+1 dimensional place where the anyons evolve, there is established the links creation probability for the anyons. The departure point is the celebrated Laughlin wave function. Then, two cases of quantum links are emphasized, considering two and three anyons. In the first case a two qubits register is attached. The unitary transformation (e.g. the UCNOT unitary transformation) can map not-entangled quantum states to the quantum and topological entangled states, as there are highlighted in this paper for the two anyons link case. The six qubit register which is attached to the three anyons link is only shortly presented since it represents a work in progress. The topologic and quantum states are represented by ket vectors and correspondingly by diagrams.

id: 0904.1087
title: Quantum Lightcone Fluctuations in Compactified Spacetimes
authors: Hongwei Yu, N.F. Svaiter, L.H. Ford
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:124019,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1087
abstract: We treat the effects of compactified spatial dimensions on the propagation of light in the uncompactified directions in the context of linearized quantum gravity. We find that the flight times of pulses can fluctuate due to modification of the graviton vacuum by the compactification. In the case of a five dimensional Kaluza-Klein theory, the mean variation in flight time can grow logarithmically with the flight distance. This effect is in principle observable, but too small to serve as a realistic probe of the existence of extra dimensions. We also examine the effect of the compactification on the widths of spectral lines, and find that there is a small line narrowing effect. This effect is also small for compactification well above the Planck scale, but might serve as a test of the existence of extra dimensions.

id: 0904.1134
title: Finite Size Effects in Equations of State under non-trivial Boundary Conditions
authors: Nobuhiro Yonezawa
comments: 18pages, 3 figures
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 123 (2010), 35-50
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1134
abstract: We study free particles in a one-dimensional box with combinations of two types of boundary conditions: the Dirichlet condition and a one-parameter family of quasi-Neumann conditions at the two walls. We calculate energy spectra approximately and obtain equations of state having the same (one-dimensional) volume dependence as van der Waals equations of state. The dependence of the equations of state is examined for particles obeying Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein, or Fermi-Dirac statistics. Our results suggest that the deviation from ideal gas may also be realized as finite size effects due to the interaction between the particles and the walls.

id: 0904.1160
title: Spin dynamics and structure formation in a spin-1 condensate in a magnetic field
authors: Jordi Mur-Petit
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. Matches published version
journal: Physical Review A 79, 063603 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1160
abstract: We study the dynamics of a trapped spin-1 condensate in a magnetic field. First, we analyze the homogeneous system, for which the dynamics can be understood in terms of orbits in phase space. We analytically solve for the dynamical evolution of the populations of the various Zeeman components of the homogeneous system. This result is then applied via a local density approximation to trapped quasi-1D condensates. Our analysis of the trapped system in a magnetic field shows that both the mean-field and Zeeman regimes are simultaneously realized, and we argue that the border between these two regions is where spin domains and phase defects are generated. We propose a method to experimentally tune the position of this border.

id: 0904.1213
title: Separability and ground state factorization in quantum spin systems
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, G. Adesso, F. Illuminati
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 224434 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1213
abstract: We investigate the existence and the properties of fully separable (fully factorized) ground states in quantum spin systems. Exploiting techniques of quantum information and entanglement theory we extend a recently introduced method and construct a general, self-contained theory of ground state factorization in frustration free quantum spin models defined on lattices in any spatial dimension and for interactions of arbitrary range. We show that, quite generally, non exactly solvable translationally invariant models in presence of an external uniform magnetic field can admit exact, fully factorized ground state solutions. Unentangled ground states occur at finite values of the Hamiltonian parameters satisfying well defined balancing conditions between the applied field and the interaction strengths. These conditions are analytically determined together with the type of magnetic orderings compatible with factorization and the corresponding values of the fundamental observables such as energy and magnetization. The method is applied to a series of examples of increasing complexity, including translationally-invariant models with short, long, and infinite ranges of interaction, as well as systems with spatial anisotropies, in low and higher dimensions. We also illustrate how the general method, besides yielding a large series of novel exact results for complex models in any dimension, recovers, as particular cases, the results previously achieved on simple models in low dimensions exploiting direct methods based on factorized mean-field ansatz.

id: 0904.1350
title: Excitation spectra of strongly correlated lattice bosons and polaritons
authors: Peter Pippan, Hans Gerd Evertz, Martin Hohenadler
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033612 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1350
abstract: Spectral properties of the Bose-Hubbard model and a recently proposed coupled-cavity model are studied by means of quantum Monte Carlo simulations in one dimension. Both models exhibit a quantum phase transition from a Mott insulator to a superfluid phase. The dynamic structure factor $S(k,\omega)$ and the single-particle spectrum $A(k,\omega)$ are calculated, focusing on the parameter region around the phase transition from the Mott insulator with density one to the superfluid phase, where correlations are important. The strongly interacting nature of the superfluid phase manifests itself in terms of additional gapped modes in the spectra. Comparison is made to recent analytical work on the Bose-Hubbard model. Despite some subtle differences due to the polaritonic particles in the cavity model, the gross features are found to be very similar to the Bose-Hubbard case. For the polariton model, emergent particle-hole symmetry near the Mott lobe tip is demonstrated, and temperature and detuning effects are analyzed. A scaling analysis for the generic transition suggests mean field exponents, in accordance with field theory results.

id: 0904.1769
title: Mesoscopic Shelving Readout of Superconducting Qubits in Circuit QED
authors: B. G. U. Englert, G. Mangano, M. Mariantoni, R. Gross, J. Siewert, E. Solano
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 134514 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1769
abstract: We present a method for measuring the internal state of a superconducting qubit inside an on-chip microwave resonator. We show that one qubit state can be associated with the generation of an increasingly large cavity coherent field, while the other remains associated with the vacuum. By measuring the outgoing resonator field with conventional devices, an efficient single-shot QND-like qubit readout can be achieved, enabling a high-fidelity measurement in the spirit of the electron-shelving technique for trapped ions. We expect that the proposed ideas can be adapted to different superconducting qubit designs and contribute to the further improvement of qubit readout fidelity.

id: 0904.1801
title: Jensen Inequalities for Tunneling Probabilities in Complex Systems
authors: D. M. Andrade, M. S. Hussein
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.C80:034610,2009
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1801
abstract: The Jensen theorem is used to derive inequalities for semi-classical tunneling probabilities for systems involving several degrees of freedom. These Jensen inequalities are used to discuss several aspects of sub-barrier heavy-ion fusion reactions. The inequality hinges on general convexity properties of the tunneling coefficient calculated with the classical action in the classically forbidden region.

id: 0904.1872
title: Statistics of Resonances in One Dimensional Continuous Systems
authors: Joshua Feinberg
comments: latex, 8 pages, no figures; original material, based on an invited lecture at the Homi Bhabha Centenary conference on "Non-Hermitian operators in quantum physics", Bhaba Atomic Research Center, Mumbai, January 2009
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1872
abstract: We study the average density of resonances (DOR) of a disordered one-dimensional continuous open system. The disordered system is semi-infinite, with white-noise random potential, and it is coupled to the external world by a semi-infinite continuous perfect lead. Our main result is an integral representation for the DOR which involves the probability density function of the logarithmic derivative of the wave function at the contact point.

id: 0904.1947
title: A summation formula over the zeros of a combination of the associated Legendre functions with a physical application
authors: A. A. Saharian
comments: 14 pages
journal: J.Phys.A42:465210,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1947
abstract: By using the generalized Abel-Plana formula, we derive a summation formula for the series over the zeros of a combination of the associated Legendre functions with respect to the degree. The summation formula for the series over the zeros of the combination of the Bessel functions, previously discussed in the literature, is obtained as a limiting case. As an application we evaluate the Wightman function for a scalar field with general curvature coupling parameter in the region between concentric spherical shells on background of constant negative curvature space. For the Dirichlet boundary conditions the corresponding mode-sum contains series over the zeros of the combination of the associated Legendre functions. The application of the summation formula allows us to present the Wightman function in the form of the sum of two integrals. The first one corresponds to the Wightman function for the geometry of a single spherical shell and the second one is induced by the presence of the second shell. The boundary-induced part in the vacuum expectation value of the field squared is investigated. For points away from the boundaries the corresponding renormalization procedure is reduced to that for the boundary-free part.

id: 0904.1963
title: Continuity of the von Neumann entropy
authors: M.E. Shirokov
comments: 42 pages, the minor changes have been made, the new applications of the continuity condition have been added. To appear in Commun. Math. Phys
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., vol. 296, no. 3, 625-654 (2010).
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.1963
abstract: A general method for proving continuity of the von Neumann entropy on subsets of positive trace-class operators is considered. This makes it possible to re-derive the known conditions for continuity of the entropy in more general forms and to obtain several new conditions. The method is based on a particular approximation of the von Neumann entropy by an increasing sequence of concave continuous unitary invariant functions defined using decompositions into finite rank operators. The existence of this approximation is a corollary of a general property of the set of quantum states as a convex topological space called the strong stability property. This is considered in the first part of the paper.

id: 0904.2113
title: Doves and hawks in economics revisited. An evolutionary quantum game theory-based analysis of financial crises
authors: Matthias Hanauske, Jennifer Kunz, Steffen Bernius, Wolfgang K?nig
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Finance (q-fin.GN); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Trading and Market Microstructure (q-fin.TR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2113
abstract: The last financial and economic crisis demonstrated the dysfunctional long-term effects of aggressive behaviour in financial markets. Yet, evolutionary game theory predicts that under the condition of strategic dependence a certain degree of aggressive behaviour remains within a given population of agents. However, as the consequences of the financial crisis exhibit, it would be desirable to change the 'rules of the game' in a way that prevents the occurrence of any aggressive behaviour and thereby also the danger of market crashes. The paper picks up this aspect. Through the extension of the in literature well-known Hawk-Dove game by a quantum approach, we can show that dependent on entanglement, also evolutionary stable strategies can emerge, which are not predicted by classical evolutionary game theory and where the total economic population uses a non aggressive quantum strategy.

id: 0904.2153
title: Dissipative dynamics of superconducting hybrid qubit systems
authors: Enrique Montes, Jesus M. Calero, John H. Reina
comments: To appear in J. Phys.: Conf. Series (2009)
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 167 (2009) 012014
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2153
abstract: We perform a theoretical study of composite superconducting qubit systems for the case of a coupled qubit configuration based on a hybrid qubit circuit made of both charge and phase qubits, which are coupled via a sigma(x)xsigma(z) interaction. We compute the system's eigen-energies in terms of the qubit transition frequencies and the strength of the inter-qubit coupling, and describe the sensitivity of the energy crossing/anti-crossing features to such coupling. We compute the hybrid system's dissipative dynamics for the cases of i) collective and ii) independent decoherence, whereby the system interacts with one common and two different baths of harmonic oscillators, respectively. The calculations have been performed within the Bloch-Redfield formalism and we report the solutions for the populations and the coherences of the system's reduced density matrix. The dephasing and relaxation rates are explicitly calculated as a function of the heat bath temperature.

id: 0904.2172
title: Exotic Freezing of Response in Quantum Many-Body System
authors: Arnab Das
comments: Presentation modified; version accepted in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, Vol. 82, 172402 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2172
abstract: We show that when a quantum many-body system is subjected to coherent periodic driving, the response may exhibit exotic freezing behavior in high driving frequency ($\omega$) regime. In a periodically driven classical thermodynamic system, freezing at high $\omega$ occurs when $1/\omega$ is much smaller than the characteristic relaxation time of the system, and hence the freezing always increases there as $\omega$ is increased. Here, in the contrary, we see surprising non-monotonic freezing behavior of the response with $\omega$, showing curious peak-valley structure. Quite interestingly, the entire system tends to freeze almost absolutely (the freezing peaks) when driven with a certain combination of driving parameters values (amplitude and $\omega$) due to coherent suppression of dynamics of the quantum many-body modes, which has no classical analog. We demonstrate this new freezing phenomenon analytically (supported by large-scale numerics) for a general class of integrable quantum spin systems.

id: 0904.2209
title: Comment on "Solutions of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau equation for a pseudoscalar potential step in (1+1) dimensions
authors: T.R. Cardoso, L.B. Castro, A.S. de Castro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2209
abstract: It is shown that the paper "Solutions of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau equation for a pseudoscalar potential step in (1+1) dimensions" by Abdelmalek Boumali has a number of misconceptions.

id: 0904.2224
title: First high-resolution spectroscopy of 201Hg+ hyperfine structure: a sensitive probe of nuclear structure and the hyperfine anomaly
authors: E. A. Burt, S. Taghavi-Larigani, R. L. Tjoelker
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2224
abstract: Using 201Hg+ contained within a linear quadrupole rf ion trap that is part of an atomic clock, we report the first high-resolution spectroscopy on the hyperfine structure of 201Hg+. We measure the absolute ground state hyperfine interval to be 29.954365821130(171)(62)(10) GHz, more than 8 orders of magnitude improvement over the previous measurement. The first error estimate in parentheses is the statistical error in the shifted line center measurement, the second is systematic uncertainty, and the third is calibration uncertainty in the hydrogen maser reference standard. By comparison to the already accurately known ground state hyperfine interval for 199Hg+, we are able to derive a new value for the hyperfine anomaly in singly ionized mercury, Delta(S1/2, 199Hg+, 201Hg+) = -0.0016257(5), now limited by knowledge of the nuclear magnetic moment ratio.

id: 0904.2287
title: QFT as pilot-wave theory of particle creation and destruction
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 29 pages, 2 figures, version accepted for publication in Int. J. Mod. Phys. A
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A25:1477-1505,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2287
abstract: States in quantum field theory (QFT) are represented by many-particle wave functions, such that a state describing n particles depends on n spacetime positions. Since a general state is a superposition of states with different numbers of particles, the wave function lives in the configuration space identified with a product of an infinite number of 4-dimensional Minkowski spacetimes. The squared absolute value of the wave function is interpreted as the probability density in the configuration space, from which the standard probabilistic predictions of QFT can be recovered. Such a formulation and probabilistic interpretation of QFT allows to interpret the wave function as a pilot wave that describes deterministic particle trajectories, which automatically includes a deterministic and continuous description of particle creation and destruction. In particular, when the conditional wave function associated with a quantum measurement ceases to depend on one of the spacetime coordinates, then the 4-velocity of the corresponding particle vanishes, describing a trajectory that stops at a particular point in spacetime. In a more general situation a dependence on this spacetime coordinate is negligibly small but not strictly zero, in which case the trajectory does not stop but the measuring apparatus still behaves as if this particle has been destroyed.

id: 0904.2294
title: Supersymmetric quantum mechanics living on topologically nontrivial Riemann surfaces
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Vit Jakubsky
comments: 14pp
journal: Pramana - J. Phys. 73, 397 - 404 (2009)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2294
abstract: Supersymmetric quantum mechanics is constructed in a new non-Hermitian representation. Firstly, the map between the partner operators $H^{(\pm)}$ is chosen antilinear. Secondly, both these components of a super-Hamiltonian ${\cal H}$ are defined along certain topologically nontrivial complex curves $r^{(\pm)}(x)$ which spread over several Riemann sheets of the wave function. The non-uniqueness of our choice of the map ${\cal T}$ between "tobogganic" partner curves $r^{(+)}(x)$ and $r^{(-)}(x)$ is emphasized.

id: 0904.2300
title: Cosmology and entanglement
authors: Marco Genovese
comments: 
journal: Adv. Sci. Lett. 2, 303-309 (2009)
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2300
abstract: In this paper we present the problem of quantum to classical transition of quantum fluctuations during inflation and in particular the question of evolution of entanglement. After a general introduction, three specific very recent works are discussed in some more detail drawing some conclusion about the present status of these researches.

id: 0904.2324
title: Universality of the Anderson transition with the quasiperiodic kicked rotor
authors: G. Lemari¨¦, B. Gr¨¦maud, D. Delande
comments: 4 figures, 3 tables (published version)
journal: EPL 87, 37007 (2009)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2324
abstract: We report a numerical analysis of the Anderson transition in a quantum-chaotic system, the quasiperiodic kicked rotor with three incommensurate frequencies. It is shown that this dynamical system exhibits the same critical phenomena as the truly random 3D-Anderson model. By taking proper account of systematic corrections to one-parameter scaling, the universality of the critical exponent is demonstrated. Our result $\nu = 1.59 \pm 0.01$ is in perfect agreement with the value found for the Anderson model.

id: 0904.2351
title: Molecular architectures based on pi-conjugated block copolymers for global quantum computation
authors: Cesar A. Mujica Martinez, Julio C. Arce, John H. Reina, Michael Thorwart
comments: To appear in J. Phys.: Conf. Series (2009)
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 167, 012061 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2351
abstract: We propose a molecular setup for the physical implementation of a barrier global quantum computation scheme based on the electron-doped pi-conjugated copolymer architecture of nine blocks PPP-PDA-PPP-PA-(CCH-acene)-PA-PPP-PDA-PPP (where each block is an oligomer). The physical carriers of information are electrons coupled through the Coulomb interaction, and the building block of the computing architecture is composed by three adjacent qubit systems in a quasi-linear arrangement, each of them allowing qubit storage, but with the central qubit exhibiting a third accessible state of electronic energy far away from that of the qubits' transition energy. The third state is reached from one of the computational states by means of an on-resonance coherent laser field, and acts as a barrier mechanism for the direct control of qubit entanglement. Initial estimations of the spontaneous emission decay rates associated to the energy level structure allow us to compute a damping rate of order 10^{-7} s, which suggest a not so strong coupling to the environment. Our results offer an all-optical, scalable, proposal for global quantum computing based on semiconducting pi-conjugated polymers.

id: 0904.2464
title: Finsler Geometrical Path Integral
authors: Takayoshi Ootsuka, Erico Tanaka
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:1917-1921,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2464
abstract: A new definition for the path integral is proposed in terms of Finsler geometry. The conventional Feynman's scheme for quantisation by Lagrangian formalism suffers problems due to the lack of geometrical structure of the configuration space where the path integral is defined. We propose that, by implementing the Feynman's path integral on an extended configuration space endowed with a Finsler structure, the formalism could be justified as a proper scheme for quantisation from Lagrangian only, that is, independent from Hamiltonian formalism. The scheme is coordinate free, and also a covariant framework which does not depend on the choice of time coordinate.

id: 0904.2648
title: Comparison of the photoluminescence properties of semiconductor quantum dots and non-blinking diamond nanoparticles. Observation of the diffusion of diamond nanoparticles in living cells
authors: Orestis Faklaris, Damien Garrot, Fran?ois Treussart, Vandana Joshi, Patrick Curmi, Jean-Paul Boudou, Thierry Sauvage
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2648
abstract: Long-term observations of photoluminescence at the single-molecule level were until recently very diffcult, due to the photobleaching of organic ?uorophore molecules. Although inorganic semiconductor nanocrystals can overcome this diffculty showing very low photobleaching yield, they suffer from photoblinking. A new marker has been recently introduced, relying on diamond nanoparticles containing photoluminescent color centers. In this work we compare the photoluminescence of single quantum dots (QDs) to the one of nanodiamonds containing a single-color center. Contrary to other markers, photoluminescent nanodiamonds present a perfect photostability and no photoblinking. At saturation of their excitation, nanodiamonds photoluminescence intensity is only three times smaller than the one of QDs. Moreover, the bright and stable photoluminescence of nanodiamonds allows wide ?eld observations of single nanoparticles motion. We demonstrate the possibility of recording the tra jectory of such single particle in culture cells.

id: 0904.2702
title: Humean Supervenience in the Light of Contemporary Science
authors: Vassilios Karakostas
comments: 33 pages
journal: Metaphysica (2009) 10: 1-26
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2702
abstract: It is shown that Lewis' ontological doctrine of Humean supervenience incorporates at its foundation the so-called separability principle of classical physics. In view of the systematic violation of the latter within quantum mechanics, the claim that contemporary physical science may posit non-supervenient relations beyond the spatiotemporal ones is reinforced on a foundational basis concerning constraints on the state-representation of physical systems. Depending on the mode of assignment of states to physical systems, unit state vectors versus statistical density operators, we distinguish between strongly and weakly non-Humean, non-supervenient relations. It is demonstrated that in either case the relations of quantum entanglement constitute prototypical examples of irreducible physical relations that do not supervene upon a spatiotemporal arrangement of Humean qualities, weakening, thereby, the thesis of Humean supervenience. It is examined, in this respect, the status of Lewis' recombination principle, whereas his conception of lawhood is critically investigated. It is concluded that the assumption of ontological reductionism, as expressed in Lewis' Humean doctrine, cannot be regarded as a reliable code of the nature of the physical world and its contents. It is proposed instead that, due to the undeniable existence of non-supervenient relations, a metaphysic of relations of a moderate kind ought to be acknowledged as an indispensable part of our understanding of the natural world at a fundamental level.

id: 0904.2732
title: Efficient spectroscopy of single embedded emitters using optical fiber taper waveguides
authors: Marcelo Davanco, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: Final published version Optics Express Vol. 17, p. 10542 (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2732
abstract: A technique based on using optical fiber taper waveguides for probing single emitters embedded in thin dielectric membranes is assessed through numerical simulations. For an appropriate membrane geometry, photoluminescence collection efficiencies in excess of 10 % are predicted, exceeding the efficiency of standard free-space collection by an order of magnitude. Our results indicate that these fiber taper waveguides offer excellent prospects for performing efficient spectroscopy of single emitters embedded in thin films, such as a single self-assembled quantum dot in a semiconductor membrane.

id: 0904.2746
title: Scalar field cosmology: its non-linear Schr?dinger-type formulation
authors: Burin Gumjudpai
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, invited review monograph in chapter 4 of book "Dark Energy Current Advances and Ideas" (Research Signpost)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2746
abstract: Scalar field cosmology is a model for dark energy and inflation. It has been recently found that the standard Friedmann formulation of the scalar field cosmology can be expressed in a non-linear Schr\"{o}dinger-type equation. The new mathematical formulation is hence called non-linear Schr\"{o}dinger (NLS) formulation which is suitable for a FRLW cosmological system with non-negligible barotropic fluid density. Its major features are reviewed here.

id: 0904.2768
title: The Bogoliubov/de Gennes system, the AKNS hierarchy, and nonlinear quantum mechanical supersymmetry
authors: Francisco Correa, Gerald V. Dunne, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures; published version
journal: Annals Phys.324:2522-2547,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2768
abstract: We show that the Ginzburg-Landau expansion of the grand potential for the Bogoliubov-de Gennes Hamiltonian is determined by the integrable nonlinear equations of the AKNS hierarchy, and that this provides the natural mathematical framework for a hidden nonlinear quantum mechanical supersymmetry underlying the dynamics.

id: 0904.2771
title: Topological phases and quantum computation
authors: Alexei Kitaev, Chris Laumann
comments: 31 pages. Lectures given by Alexei Kitaev at the 2008 Les Houches Summer School "Exact methods in low-dimensional physics and quantum computing"
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2771
abstract: This is a collection of lecture notes from three lectures given by Alexei Kitaev at the 2008 Les Houches summer school "Exact methods in low-dimensional physics and quantum computing." They provide a pedagogical introduction to topological phenomena in 1-D superconductors and in the 2-D topological phases of the toric code and honeycomb model.

id: 0904.2782
title: Martin L?f - Solovay - Chaitin Axiom of Reduction versus Von Mises - Church Axiom of Reduction
authors: Gavriel Segre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2782
abstract: Under the assumption that the quantum random number generator Quantis by Id Quantique is a fair quantum coin, experimental indications of the fact that independent tosses of a quantum coin don't pass the Iterated Logarithm Randomness' Test are shown. The consequential observed experimental violation of the Martin L\"{o}f - Solovay - Chaitin Axiom of Reduction of Quantum Mechanics is then interpreted as the indication of the necessity of replacing it with the weaker Von Mises - Church Axiom of Reduction whose Game Theoretic meaning is explained.

id: 0904.2815
title: Hidden nonassociative structure in supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Vladimir Dzhunushaliev
comments: one reference is added
journal: Annalen Phys.19:382-388,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2815
abstract: It is shown that the Hamilton equations in supersymmetric quantum mechanics can be presented in nonassociative form, where the Hamiltonian is decomposed into two nonassociative factors.

id: 0904.2830
title: New exact solutions of the standard pairing model for well-deformed nuclei
authors: Feng Pan, Ming-Xia Xie, Xin Guan, Lian-Rong Dai, J. P. Draayer
comments: 10 pages, Revtex4
journal: Phys.Rev.C80:044306,2009
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2830
abstract: A new step-by-step diagonalization procedure for evaluating exact solutions of the nuclear deformed mean-field plus pairing interaction model is proposed via a simple Bethe ansatz in each step from which the eigenvalues and corresponding eigenstates can be obtained progressively. This new approach draws upon an observation that the original one- plus two-body problem in a $k$-particle Hilbert subspace can be mapped unto a one-body grand hard-core boson picture that can be solved step by step with a simple Bethe ansatz known from earlier work. Based on this new procedure, it is further shown that the extended pairing model for deformed nuclei [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 112503 (2004) ] is similar to the standard pairing model with the first step approximation, in which only the lowest energy eigenstate of the standard pure pairing interaction part is taken into consideration. Our analysis show that the standard pairing model with the first step approximation displays similar pair structures of first few exact low-lying states of the model, which, therefore, provides a link between the two models.

id: 0904.2852
title: Exactly Solvable Quasi-hermitian Transverse Ising Model
authors: Tetsuo Deguchi, Pijush K. Ghosh
comments: RevTeX 6 pages, no figures; Added discussions and references, version to appear in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 475208
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2852
abstract: A non-hermitian deformation of the one-dimensional transverse Ising model is shown to have the property of quasi-hermiticity. The transverse Ising chain is obtained from the starting non-hermitian Hamiltonian through a similarity transformation. Consequently, both the models have identical eigen-spectra, although the eigen-functions are different. The metric in the Hilbert space, which makes the non-hermitian model unitary and ensures the completeness of states, has been constructed explicitly. Although the longitudinal correlation functions are identical for both the non-hermitian and the hermitian Ising models, the difference shows up in the transverse correlation functions, which have been calculated explicitly and are not always real. A proper set of hermitian spin operators in the Hilbert space of the non-hermitian Hamiltonian has been identified, in terms of which all the correlation functions of the non-hermitian Hamiltonian become real and identical to that of the standard transverse Ising model. Comments on the quantum phase transitions in the non-hermitian model have been made.

id: 0904.2886
title: Spatial Reflection and Associated String Order in Quantum Spin Chains
authors: Li-Xiang Cen
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 132405 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2886
abstract: We investigate spatial reflection and associated nonlocal order in spin chain quantum systems. The proposed string order parameters, e.g., reflected via operations of the spatial reflection or combinations of it with spin reflection, are able to characterize a variety of physical systems and allow us to gain renewed insights to the statistical mechanism underlying phenomena such as the Haldane gap and quantum phase transitions. Besides revealing further the potential application of the generalized parity symmetry in numerical algorithm, we build an explicit scheme to determine the symmetry and the related string order for matrix product states so that one can construct ansatz models with presumed properties.

id: 0904.2927
title: Thermal effects in light scattering from ultracold bosons in an optical lattice
authors: Kazimierz ?akomy, Zbigniew Idziaszek, Marek Trippenbach
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 043404 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2927
abstract: We study the scattering of a weak and far-detuned light from a system of ultracold bosons in 1D and 3D optical lattices. We show the connection between angular distributions of the scattered light and statistical properties of a Bose gas in a periodic potential. The angular patterns are determined by the Fourier transform of the second-order correlation function, and thus they can be used to retrieve information on particle number fluctuations and correlations. We consider superfluid and Mott insulator phases of the Bose gas in a lattice, and we analyze in detail how the scattering depends on the system dimensionality, temperature and atom-atom interactions.

id: 0904.3055
title: Euclidean Path Integral and Higher-Derivative Theories
authors: Krzysztof Andrzejewski, Joanna Gonera, Pawel Maslanka
comments: 14 pages; no figures;the paper considerably extended; field-theoretical part added
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.125:247-259,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3055
abstract: We consider the Euclidean path integral approach to higher-derivative theories proposed by Hawking and Hertog (Phys. Rev. D65 (2002), 103515). The Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator is studied in some detail. The operator algebra is reconstructed and the structure of the space of states revealed. It is shown that the quantum theory results from quantizing the classical complex dynamics in which the original dynamics is consistently immersed. The field-theoretical counterpart of Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator is also considered.

id: 0904.3158
title: Investigating quantum transport with an initial value representation of the semiclassical propagator
authors: Christoph-Marian Goletz, Frank Grossmann, Steven Tomsovic
comments: 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3158
abstract: Quantized systems whose underlying classical dynamics possess an elaborate mixture of regular and chaotic motion can exhibit rather subtle long-time quantum transport phenomena. In a short wavelength regime where semiclassical theories are most relevant, such transport phenomena, being quintessentially interference based, are difficult to understand with the system's specific long-time classical dynamics. Fortunately, semiclassical methods applied to wave packet propagation can provide a natural approach to understanding the connections, even though they are known to break down progressively as time increases. This is due to the fact that some long-time transport properties can be deduced from intermediate-time behavior. Thus, these methods need only retain validity and be carried out on much shorter time scales than the transport phenomena themselves in order to be valuable. The initial value representation of the semiclassical propagator of Herman and Kluk [M. F. Herman and E. Kluk, Chem. Phys. 91, 27 (1984)] is heavily used in a number of molecular and atomic physics contexts, and is of interest here. It is known to be increasingly challenging to implement as the underlying classical chaos strengthens, and we ask whether it is possible to implement it well enough to extract the kind of intermediate time information that reflects wave packet localization at long times. Using a system of two coupled quartic oscillators, we focus on the localizing effects of transport barriers formed by stable and unstable manifolds in the chaotic sea and show that these effects can be captured with the Herman-Kluk propagator.

id: 0904.3221
title: Exact methods in analysis of nonequilibrium dynamics of integrable models: application to the study of correlation functions in nonequilibrium 1D Bose gas
authors: Vladimir Gritsev, Timofei Rostunov, Eugene Demler
comments: 27 pages, 7 figures, minor corrections, refs added
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2010) P05012
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3221
abstract: In this paper we study nonequilibrium dynamics of one dimensional Bose gas from the general perspective of dynamics of integrable systems. After outlining and critically reviewing methods based on inverse scattering transform, intertwining operators, q-deformed objects, and extended dynamical conformal symmetry, we focus on the form-factor based approach. Motivated by possible applications in nonlinear quantum optics and experiments with ultracold atoms, we concentrate on the regime of strong repulsive interactions. We consider dynamical evolution starting from two initial states: a condensate of particles in a state with zero momentum and a condensate of particles in a gaussian wavepacket in real space. Combining the form-factor approach with the method of intertwining operator we develop a numerical procedure which allows explicit summation over intermediate states and analysis of the time evolution of non-local density-density correlation functions. In both cases we observe a tendency toward formation of crystal-like correlations at intermediate time scales.

id: 0904.3273
title: A Thermodynamic Turing Machine: Artificial Molecular Computing Using Classical Reversible Logic Switching Networks
authors: John S. Hamel
comments: Version 2 eliminates two erroneous figures (4 and 5 in version 1) and adds a new section containing circuit examples of how to implement Hadamard transforms in one step for Deutsch, Bernstein Vazirani and Simon problems
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3273
abstract: This paper discusses how to implement certain classes of quantum computer algorithms using classical discrete switching networks that are amenable to implementation in main stream CMOS transistor IC technology. The methods differ from other classical approaches in that asynchronous feedback is exploited in classical transistor reversible logic circuits to implement the Hadamard transform in one simultaneous step over all qubits as in a true quantum computer. The Simon problem is used as an example. The method is used to provide an order n execution speed method for the Gaussian elimination step in the Simon problem. The approach is referred to as a Thermodynamic Turing Machine in that it behaves like an artificial molecule where solutions to a problem are found by evolving the classical circuits from one thermodynamic equilibrium state to another.

id: 0904.3341
title: Negativity as the Entanglement Measure to Probe the Kondo Regime in the Spin-Chain Kondo Model
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Pasquale Sodano, Sougato Bose
comments: 5 pages and 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 064429 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3341
abstract: We study the entanglement of an impurity at one end of a spin chain with a block of spins using negativity as a true measure of entanglement to characterize the unique features of the gapless Kondo regime in the spin chain Kondo model. For this spin chain in the Kondo regime we determine- with a true entanglement measure- the spatial extent of the Kondo screening cloud, we propose an ansatz for its ground state and demonstrate that the impurity spin is indeed maximally entangled with the cloud. To better evidence the peculiarities of the Kondo regime, we carry a parallel analysis of the entanglement properties of the Kondo spin chain model in the gapped dimerised regime. Our study shows how a genuine entanglement measure stemming from quantum information theory can fully characterize also non perturbative regimes accessible to certain condensed matter systems.

id: 0904.3439
title: Electronic entanglement via quantum Hall interferometry in analogy to an optical method
authors: Diego Frustaglia, Adan Cabello
comments: Published version (new title and introduction; additional remarks). 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 201312(R) (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3439
abstract: We present an interferometric scheme producing orbital entanglement in a quantum Hall system upon electron-hole pair emission via tunneling. The proposed setup is an electronic version of the optical interferometer proposed by Cabello et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 040401 (2009)], and is feasible with present technology. It requires single-channel propagation and a single primary source. We discuss the creation of entanglement and its detection by the violation of a Bell inequality.

id: 0904.3644
title: Algebraic Topology Foundations of Supersymmetry and Symmetry Breaking in Quantum Field Theory and Quantum Gravity: A Review
authors: Ion C. Baianu, James F. Glazebrook, Ronald Brown
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5:051,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3644
abstract: A novel algebraic topology approach to supersymmetry (SUSY) and symmetry breaking in quantum field and quantum gravity theories is presented with a view to developing a wide range of physical applications. These include: controlled nuclear fusion and other nuclear reaction studies in quantum chromodynamics, nonlinear physics at high energy densities, dynamic Jahn-Teller effects, superfluidity, high temperature superconductors, multiple scattering by molecular systems, molecular or atomic paracrystal structures, nanomaterials, ferromagnetism in glassy materials, spin glasses, quantum phase transitions and supergravity. This approach requires a unified conceptual framework that utilizes extended symmetries and quantum groupoid, algebroid and functorial representations of non-Abelian higher dimensional structures pertinent to quantized spacetime topology and state space geometry of quantum operator algebras. Fourier transforms, generalized Fourier-Stieltjes transforms, and duality relations link, respectively, the quantum groups and quantum groupoids with their dual algebraic structures; quantum double constructions are also discussed in this context in relation to quasi-triangular, quasi-Hopf algebras, bialgebroids, Grassmann-Hopf algebras and higher dimensional algebra. On the one hand, this quantum algebraic approach is known to provide solutions to the quantum Yang-Baxter equation. On the other hand, our novel approach to extended quantum symmetries and their associated representations is shown to be relevant to locally covariant general relativity theories that are consistent with either nonlocal quantum field theories or local bosonic (spin) models with the extended quantum symmetry of entangled, 'string-net condensed' (ground) states.

id: 0904.3843
title: Factorized ground state for a general class of ferrimagnets
authors: M. Rezai, A. Langari, J. Abouie
comments: 4 pages and 2 figures, some typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B. 81, 060401 (R) (2010).
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.3843
abstract: We have found the exact (factorized) ground state of a general class of ferrimagnets in the presence of a magnetic field which covers the frustrated, anisotropic and long range interactions for arbitrary dimensional space. In particular cases, our model represents the bond-alternating, ferromagnet-antiferromagnet and also homogeneous spin $s$ model. The factorized ground state is a product of single particle kets on a bipartite lattice composed of two different spins ($\rho, \sigma$). The spin waves analysis around the exact ground state show two branch of excitations which is the origin of two dynamics of the model. The signature of these dynamics is addressed as a peak and a broaden bump in the specific heat.

id: 0904.4203
title: Controlled collisions of two ultracold atoms in separate harmonic traps
authors: Micha? Krych, Zbigniew Idziaszek
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022710 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4203
abstract: We consider controlled collisions between two ultracold atoms guided by external harmonic potentials. We derive analytical solutions of the Schroedinger equation for this system, and investigate the properties of eigenergies and eigenstates for different trap geometries as a function of a trap separation and of the scattering length. When varying the trap separation the energy spectrum exhibits avoided crossings, corresponding to trap-induced shape resonances. Introducing an energy-dependent scattering length we investigate the behavior of the system in the vicinity of a magnetic Feshbach resonance. Finally, we illustrate our analytical results with two examples: the quantum phase gate controlled by the external magnetic field, and a scheme for a coherent transport of atoms in optical lattices into higher Bloch bands.

id: 0904.4205
title: p-Adic Mathematical Physics
authors: B. Dragovich, A. Yu. Khrennikov, S. V. Kozyrev, I. V. Volovich
comments: 36 pages
journal: Anal.Appl.1:1-17,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4205
abstract: A brief review of some selected topics in p-adic mathematical physics is presented.

id: 0904.4220
title: Dequantisation of the Dirac Monopole
authors: Dorje C. Brody
comments: 22 pages. Version to appear in Proc. R. Soc. London A
journal: Proc.Roy.Soc.Lond.A Math.Phys.Eng.Sci.465:3047-3068,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4220
abstract: Using a sheaf-theoretic extension of conventional principal bundle theory, the Dirac monopole is formulated as a spherically symmetric model free of singularities outside the origin such that the charge may assume arbitrary real values. For integral charges, the construction effectively coincides with the usual model. Spin structures and Dirac operators are also generalised by the same technique.

id: 0904.4342
title: Wide cylindrical or spherical optical potentials from laser beam superpositions
authors: Ole Steuernagel
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4342
abstract: Superpositions of paraxial Laguerre-Gauss laser beam modes to generate optical potentials based on the optical dipole force are investigated theoretically. Parabolic and other monomial potentials with even powers, in cylindrical and spherical symmetry, with large diameters, can be synthesized. This superposition approach promises to help with high quality atom cloud manipulation and imaging.

id: 0904.4395
title: Effect of electron exchange on atomic ionization in a strong electric field
authors: M. Ya. Amusia
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4395
abstract: Hartree-Fock atom in a strong electric static field is considered. It is demonstrated that exchange between outer and inner electrons, taken into account by the so-called Fock term affects strongly the long-range behavior of the inner electron wave function. As a result, it dramatically increases its probability to be ionized. A simple model is analyzed demonstrating that the decay probability, compared to the case of a local (Hartree) atomic potential, increases by many orders of magnitude. As a result of such increase, the ratio of inner to outer electrons ionization probability became not too small. It is essential that the effect of exchange upon probability of inner electron ionization by strong electric field is proportional to the square of the number of outer electrons. It signals that in clusters the inner electron ionization by strong field, the very fact of which is manifested by e.g. high energy quanta emission, has to be essentially increased as compared to this process in gaseous atomic objects.

id: 0904.4453
title: Observation of an Efimov spectrum in an atomic system
authors: M. Zaccanti, B. Deissler, C. D'Errico, M. Fattori, M. Jona-Lasinio, S. M¨¹ller, G. Roati, M. Inguscio, G. Modugno
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Nature Physics 5, 586 - 591 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4453
abstract: In 1970 V. Efimov predicted a puzzling quantum-mechanical effect that is still of great interest today. He found that three particles subjected to a resonant pairwise interaction can join into an infinite number of loosely bound states even though each particle pair cannot bind. Interestingly, the properties of these aggregates, such as the peculiar geometric scaling of their energy spectrum, are universal, i.e. independent of the microscopic details of their components. Despite an extensive search in many different physical systems, including atoms, molecules and nuclei, the characteristic spectrum of Efimov trimer states still eludes observation. Here we report on the discovery of two bound trimer states of potassium atoms very close to the Efimov scenario, which we reveal by studying three-particle collisions in an ultracold gas. Our observation provides the first evidence of an Efimov spectrum and allows a direct test of its scaling behaviour, shedding new light onto the physics of few-body systems.

id: 0904.4477
title: Entanglement Entropy in the O(N) model
authors: Max A. Metlitski, Carlos A. Fuertes, Subir Sachdev
comments: 40 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physical Review B 80, 115122 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4477
abstract: It is generally believed that in spatial dimension d > 1 the leading contribution to the entanglement entropy S = - tr rho_A log rho_A scales as the area of the boundary of subsystem A. The coefficient of this "area law" is non-universal. However, in the neighbourhood of a quantum critical point S is believed to possess subleading universal corrections. In the present work, we study the entanglement entropy in the quantum O(N) model in 1 < d < 3. We use an expansion in epsilon = 3-d to evaluate i) the universal geometric correction to S for an infinite cylinder divided along a circular boundary; ii) the universal correction to S due to a finite correlation length. Both corrections are different at the Wilson-Fisher and Gaussian fixed points, and the epsilon -> 0 limit of the Wilson-Fisher fixed point is distinct from the Gaussian fixed point. In addition, we compute the correlation length correction to the Renyi entropy S_n = (log tr rho^n_A)/(1-n) in epsilon and large-N expansions. For N -> infinity, this correction generally scales as N^2 rather than the naively expected N. Moreover, the Renyi entropy has a phase transition as a function of n for d close to 3.

id: 0904.4588
title: Quantum walk on the line with quantum rings
authors: Orsolya K¨¢lm¨¢n, Tam¨¢s Kiss, P¨¦ter F?ldi
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Text slightly modified, Appendix extended, Refs. added. To be published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 035327 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4588
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement the one-dimensional coined quantum walk with electrons transported through a two-dimensional network of spintronic semiconductor quantum rings. The coin degree of freedom is represented by the spin of the electron, while the discrete position of the walker corresponds to the label of the rings in one of the spatial directions in the network. We assume that Rashba-type spin-orbit interaction is present in the rings, the strength of which can be tuned by an external electric field. The geometry of the device, together with the appropriate spin-orbit interaction strengths, ensure the realization of the coin-toss (i.e. spin-flip) and the step operator.

id: 0904.4589
title: Wigner's Theorem and geometry of extreme positive maps
authors: Janusz Grabowski, Marek Kus, Giuseppe Marmo
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures
journal: J.Phys.A42:345301,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4589
abstract: We consider transformation maps on the space of states which are symmetries in the sense of Wigner. Due to the convex nature of the space of states, the set of these maps has a convex structure. We investigate the possibility of a complete characterization of extreme maps of this convex body, to be able to contribute to the classification of positive maps. Our study provides a variant of Wigner's theorem originally proved for ray transformations in Hilbert spaces.

id: 0904.4845
title: Magnetism, entropy, and the first nano-machines
authors: Gargi Mitra-Delmotte, A.N. Mitra
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: Central European Journal of Physics, 2010, Volume 8, Issue 3, pp.259-272
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.4845
abstract: The efficiency of bio-molecular motors stems from reversible interactions $\sim$ $k_B T$; weak bonds stabilizing intermediate states (enabling $direct$ conversion of chemical into mechanical energy). For their (unknown) origins, we suggest that a magnetically structured phase (MSP) formed via accretion of super-paramagnetic particles (S-PPs) by magnetic rocks on the Hadean Ocean floor had hosted motor-like diffusion of ligand-bound S-PPs through its template-layers; its ramifications range from optical activity to quantum coherence. A gentle flux gradient offers both detailed-balance breaking non-equilibrium and $asymmetry$ to a magnetic dipole, undergoing infinitesimal spin-alignment changes. Periodic perturbation of this background by local H-fields of template-partners can lead to periodic high and low-template affinity states, due to the dipole's magnetic degree of freedom. An accompanying magnetocaloric effect allows interchange between system-entropy and bath temperature. We speculate on a magnetic reproducer in a setting close to the mound-scenario of Russell and coworkers that could evolve bio- ratchets.

id: 0904.2553
title: Autler-Townes effect in a superconducting three-level system
authors: Mika A. Sillanp??, Jian Li, Katarina Cicak, Fabio Altomare, Jae I. Park, Raymond W. Simmonds, G. S. Paraoanu, Pertti J. Hakonen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 193601 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.2553
abstract: When a three-level quantum system is irradiated by an intense coupling field resonant with one of the three possible transitions, the absorption peak of an additional probe field involving the remaining level is split. This process is known in quantum optics as the Autler-Townes effect. We observe these phenomena in a superconducting Josephson phase qubit, which can be considered an "artificial atom" with a multilevel quantum structure. The spectroscopy peaks can be explained reasonably well by a simple three-level Hamiltonian model. Simulation of a more complete model (including dissipation, higher levels, and cross-coupling) provides excellent agreement with all the experimental data.

