id: 0905.0009
title: Modelling and optimization of photon pair sources based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Piotr Kolenderski, Wojciech Wasilewski, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013811 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0009
abstract: We address the problem of efficient modelling of photon pairs generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion and coupled into single-mode fibers. It is shown that when the range of relevant transverse wave vectors is restricted by the pump and fiber modes, the computational complexity can be reduced substantially with the help of the paraxial approximation, while retaining the full spectral characteristics of the source. This approach can serve as a basis for efficient numerical calculations, or can be combined with analytically tractable approximations of the phase matching function. We introduce here a cosine-gaussian approximation of the phase matching function which works for a broader range of parameters than the gaussian model used previously. The developed modelling tools are used to evaluate characteristics of the photon pair sources such as the pair production rate and the spectral purity quantifying frequency correlations. Strategies to generate spectrally uncorrelated photons, necessary in multiphoton interference experiments, are analyzed with respect to trade-offs between parameters of the source.

id: 0905.0010
title: The geometric measure of entanglement for a symmetric pure state with positive amplitudes
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Damian Markham, Mio Murao, Masaki Owari, Shashank Virmani
comments: Similar results have been obtained independently and with different methods by T-C. Wei and S. Severini, see arXiv:0905.0012v1
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 122104 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0010
abstract: In this paper for a class of symmetric multiparty pure states we consider a conjecture related to the geometric measure of entanglement: 'for a symmetric pure state, the closest product state in terms of the fidelity can be chosen as a symmetric product state'. We show that this conjecture is true for symmetric pure states whose amplitudes are all non-negative in a computational basis. The more general conjecture is still open.

id: 0905.0012
title: Matrix permanent and quantum entanglement of permutation invariant states
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Simone Severini
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 092203 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0012
abstract: We point out that a geometric measure of quantum entanglement is related to the matrix permanent when restricted to permutation invariant states. This connection allows us to interpret the permanent as an angle between vectors. By employing a recently introduced permanent inequality by Carlen, Loss and Lieb, we can prove explicit formulas of the geometric measure for permutation invariant basis states in a simple way.

id: 0905.0052
title: Optimised control of Stark-shift-chirped rapid-adiabatic-passage in a lambda-type three-level system
authors: Johann-Heinrich Sch?nfeldt, Jason Twamley, Stojan Rebi?
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0052
abstract: Inhomogeneous broadening of energy levels is one of the principal limiting factors for achieving "slow" or "stationary" light in solid state media by means of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT), a quantum version of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP). Stark-shift-chirped rapid-adiabatic-passage (SCRAP) has been shown to be far less sensitive to inhomogeneous broadening than STIRAP, a population transfer technique to which it is closely related. We further optimise the pulses used in SCRAP to be even less sensitive to inhomogeneous broadening in a lambda-type three-level system. The optimised pulses perform at a higher fidelity than the standard gaussian pulses for a wide range of detunings (i.e. large inhomogeneous broadening).

id: 0905.0074
title: An Entanglement Filter
authors: Ryo Okamoto, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Holger F. Hofmann, Tomohisa Nagata, Keiji Sasaki, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Science 323, 483 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0074
abstract: The ability to filter quantum states is a key capability in quantum information science and technology, in which one-qubit filters, or polarizers, have found wide application. Filtering on the basis of entanglement requires extension to multi-qubit filters with qubit-qubit interactions. We demonstrated an optical entanglement filter that passes a pair of photons if they have the desired correlations of their polarization. Such devices have many important applications to quantum technologies.

id: 0905.0114
title: Quantum feedback by discrete quantum non-demolition measurements: towards on-demand generation of photon-number states
authors: I. Dotsenko, M. Mirrahimi, M. Brune, S. Haroche, J.-M. Raimond, P. Rouchon
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013805 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0114
abstract: We propose a quantum feedback scheme for the preparation and protection of photon number states of light trapped in a high-Q microwave cavity. A quantum non-demolition measurement of the cavity field provides information on the photon number distribution. The feedback loop is closed by injecting into the cavity a coherent pulse adjusted to increase the probability of the target photon number. The efficiency and reliability of the closed-loop state stabilization is assessed by quantum Monte-Carlo simulations. We show that, in realistic experimental conditions, Fock states are efficiently produced and protected against decoherence.

id: 0905.0118
title: Quantum Simulations with Cold Trapped Ions
authors: Michael Johanning, Andres Varon, Christof Wunderlich
comments: 50 pages, submitted on 10 March to J. Phys. B, Special issue on Modern Applications of Trapped Ions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0118
abstract: The control of internal and motional quantum degrees of freedom of laser cooled trapped ions has been subject to intense theoretical and experimental research for about three decades. In the realm of quantum information science the ability to deterministically prepare and measure quantum states of trapped ions is unprecedented. This expertise may be employed to investigate physical models conceived to describe systems that are not directly accessible for experimental investigations. Here, we give an overview of current theoretical proposals and experiments for such quantum simulations with trapped ions. This includes various spin models (e.g., the quantum transverse Ising model, or a neural network), the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, the Frenkel-Kontorova model, and quantum fields and relativistic effects.

id: 0905.0140
title: Quantum theory without logical paradoxes?
authors: Milos V. Lokajicek
comments: 20 pages, some small text corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0140
abstract: In contribution published in AIP Conference Proceedings, No. 1018 (p. 40-5) some discrepancies in Copenhagen quantum mechanics have been summarized and the arguments have been gathered why in the description of microscopic reality the hidden-variable theory should be preferred. It has been shown, too, that the earlier gap in physical descriptions of the microscopic and macroscopic worlds may be practically removed. All corresponding statements have been based on proofs that have been published earlier and reproduced in the given contribution only partially. In the present paper the whole approach will be explained more systematically. Some important points newly analyzed will be added.

id: 0905.0148
title: Cavity sideband cooling of a single trapped ion
authors: David R. Leibrandt, Jaroslaw Labaziewicz, Vladan Vuletic, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0148
abstract: We report a demonstration and quantitative characterization of one-dimensional cavity cooling of a single trapped 88Sr+ ion in the resolved sideband regime. We measure the spectrum of cavity transitions, the rates of cavity heating and cooling, and the steady-state cooling limit. The cavity cooling dynamics and cooling limit of 22.5(3) motional quanta, limited by the moderate coupling between the ion and the cavity, are consistent with a simple model [Phys. Rev. A 64, 033405] without any free parameters, validating the rate equation model for cavity cooling.

id: 0905.0151
title: Creating and observing N-partite entanglement with atoms
authors: Mark S. Everitt, Martin L. Jones, Benjamin T. H. Varcoe, Jacob A. Dunningham
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: M S Everitt et al 2011 J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 035504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0151
abstract: The Mermin inequality provides a criterion for experimentally ruling out local-realistic descriptions of multiparticle systems. A violation of this inequality means that the particles must be entangled, but does not, in general, indicate whether N-partite entanglement is present. For this, a stricter bound is required. Here we discuss this bound and use it to propose two different schemes for demonstrating N-partite entanglement with atoms. The first scheme involves Bose-Einstein condensates trapped in an optical lattice and the second uses Rydberg atoms in microwave cavities.

id: 0905.0159
title: Superfluid turbulence from quantum Kelvin wave to classical Kolmogorov cascades
authors: Jeffrey Yepez
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0159
abstract: A novel unitary quantum lattice gas algorithm is used to simulate quantum turbulence of a BEC described by the Gross-Pitaevskii equation on grids up to 5760^3. For the first time, an accurate power law scaling for the quantum Kelvin wave cascade is determined: k^{-3}. The incompressible kinetic energy spectrum exhibits very distinct power law spectra in 3 ranges of k-space: a classical Kolmogorov k^{-5/3} spectrum at scales much greater than the individual quantum vortex cores, and a quantum Kelvin wave cascade spectrum k^{-3} on scales of order the vortex cores. In the semiclassical regime between these two spectra there is a pronounced steeper spectral decay, with non-universal exponent. The Kelvin k^{-3} spectrum is very robust, even on small grids, while the Kolmogorov k^{-5/3} spectrum becomes more and more apparent as the grids increase from 2048^3 grids to 5760^3.

id: 0905.0161
title: Ratios of maximal concurrence-parameterized separability functions, and generalized Peres-Horodecki conditions
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 44 pages, 37 figures. Revised for J. Phys. A
journal: 2009 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 465305 (33pp) doi: 10.1088/1751-8113/42/46/465305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0161
abstract: The probability that a generic real, complex or quaternionic two-qubit state is separable can be considered to be the sum of three contributions. One is from those states that are absolutely separable, that is those (which can not be entangled by unitary transformations) for which the maximal concurrence over spectral orbits (C_{max}) is zero. The other two contributions are from the states for which C_{max} in [0,1/2], and for which C_{max} in [1/2,1]. We have previously (arXiv:0805.0267) found exact formulas for the absolutely separable contributions in terms of the Hilbert-Schmidt metric over the quantum states, and here advance hypotheses as to the exact contributions for C_{max} in [1/2,1]. A crucial element in understanding the other two contributions is the nature of the ratio (R) of the C_{max}-parameterized separability function for the complex states to the square of the comparable function for the real states--both such functions having clearly displayed jump discontinuities at C_{max}=1/2. For C_{max} in [0,1/2], R appears to be of the form 1+ k C_{max}, except near C_{max}=1/2, while for C_{max} in [1/2,1], it seems to be a constant (thus according to the Dyson-index pattern of random matrix theory). Related phenomena also occur for the minimally-degenerate two-qubit states and the qubit-qutrit states. Our results have immediate application to the computation of separability probabilities in terms of other metrics, such as the Bures (minimal monotone) metric. The paper begins with continuous embeddings of the separability probability question in terms of four metrics of interest, using "generalized Peres-Horodecki conditions".

id: 0905.0166
title: Single microwave photon detection in the micromaser
authors: M. L. Jones, G. J. Wilkes, B. T. H. Varcoe
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 145501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0166
abstract: High efficiency single photon detection is an interesting problem for many areas of physics, including low temperature measurement, quantum information science and particle physics. For optical photons, there are many examples of devices capable of detecting single photons with high efficiency. However reliable single photon detection of microwaves is very difficult, principally due to their low energy. In this paper we present the theory of a cascade amplifier operating in the microwave regime that has an optimal quantum efficiency of 93%. The device uses a microwave photon to trigger the stimulated emission of a sequence of atoms where the energy transition is readily detectable. A detailed description of the detector's operation and some discussion of the potential limitations of the detector are presented.

id: 0905.0201
title: Entanglement measure for multipartite pure states and its numerical calculation
authors: A. Yu. Chernyavskiy
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0201
abstract: The quantification and classification of quantum entanglement is a very important and still open question of quantum information theory. In this paper, we describe an entanglement measure for multipartite pure states (the minimum of Shannon's entropy of orthogonal measurements). This measure is additive, monotone under LOCC, and coincides with the reduced von Neumann entropy on bipartite states. A method for numerical calculation of this measure by genetic algorithms is also presented. Moreover, the minimization of entropy technique is extended to fermionic states.

id: 0905.0225
title: Entanglement and Tunable Spin-Spin Couplings Between Trapped Ions Using Multiple Transverse Modes
authors: K. Kim, M.-S. Chang, R. Islam, S. Korenblit, L.-M. Duan, C. Monroe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0225
abstract: We demonstrate tunable spin-spin couplings between trapped atomic ions, mediated by laser forces on multiple transverse collective modes of motion. A $\sigma_x \sigma_x$-type Ising interaction is realized between quantum bits stored in the ground hyperfine clock states of Yb ions. We demonstrate entangling gates and tailor the spin-spin couplings with two and three trapped ions. The use of closely-spaced transverse modes provides a new class of interactions relevant to quantum computing and simulation with large collections of ions in a single crystal.

id: 0905.0245
title: Fisher information and spin squeezing in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Model
authors: Jian Ma, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0245
abstract: Fisher information, lies at the heart of parameter estimation theory, was recently found to have a close relation with multipartite entanglement (Pezz\'{e} and Smerzi, Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 100401). We use Fisher information to distinguish and characterize behaviors of ground state of the Lipkin-Meskhov-Glick model, which displays a second-order quantum phase transition between the broken and symmetric phases. We find that the parameter sensitivity of the system attains the Heisenberg limit in the broken phase, while it is just around the shot-noise limit in the symmetric phase. Based on parameter estimation, Fisher information provides us an approach to the quantum phase transition.

id: 0905.0246
title: Entropy-variation with respect to the resistance in quantized RLC circuit derived by generalized Hellmann-Feynman theorem
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Xue-xiang Xu, Li-yun Hu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0246
abstract: By virtue of the generalized Hellmann-Feynman theorem for ensemble average, we obtain internal energy and average energy consumed by the resistance R in a quantized RLC electric circuit. We also calculate entropy-variation with respect to R. The relation between entropy and R is also derived. By depicting figures we indeed see that the entropy increases with the increment of R.

id: 0905.0286
title: Suppression of collisional decoherence
authors: Yoav Sagi, Ido Almog, Nir Davidson
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, typos corrected and a few minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0286
abstract: We employ a continuous dynamical decoupling scheme to suppress the decoherence induced by elastic collisions of cold atoms. Using a continuous echo pulse we achieve a thirty-fold increase in the coherence time of Rb87 atoms trapped in a dipole trap. Coherence times of more than 100ms are demonstrated for an ensemble with an optical depth of 120.

id: 0905.0312
title: Detection and Quantification of Entanglement in Multipartite Quantum Systems Using Weighted Graph and Bloch Representation of States
authors: Ali Saif M. Hassan
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0312
abstract: This thesis is an attempt to enhance understanding of the following questions A- Given a multipartite quantum state (possibly mixed), how to find out whether it is entangled or separable? (Detection of entanglement.) B- Given an entangled state, how to decide how much entangled it is? (Measure of entanglement.), in the context of multipartite quantum states. We have explored two approaches. In the first approach, we assign a weighted graph with multipartite quantum state and address the question of separability in terms of these graphs and various operations involving them. In the second approach we use the so called Bloch representation of multipartite quantum states to establish new criteria for detection of multipartite entangled states. We further give a new measure for entanglement in $N$-qubit entangled pure state and formally extend it to cover $N$-qubit mixed states.

id: 0905.0321
title: Compressive ghost imaging
authors: Ori Katz, Yaron Bromberg, Yaron Silberberg
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0321
abstract: We describe an advanced image reconstruction algorithm for pseudothermal ghost imaging, reducing the number of measurements required for image recovery by an order of magnitude. The algorithm is based on compressed sensing, a technique that enables the reconstruction of an N-pixel image from much less than N measurements. We demonstrate the algorithm using experimental data from a pseudothermal ghost-imaging setup. The algorithm can be applied to data taken from past pseudothermal ghost-imaging experiments, improving the reconstruction's quality.

id: 0905.0378
title: Invisibility of quantum systems to tunneling of matter waves
authors: Sergio Cordero, Gaston Garcia-Calderon
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0378
abstract: We show that an appropriate choice of the potential parameters in one-dimensional quantum systems allows for unity transmission of the tunneling particle at all incident tunneling energies, except at controllable exceedingly small incident energies. The corresponding dwell time and the transmission amplitude are indistinguishable from those of a free particle in the unity-transmission regime. This implies the possibility of designing quantum systems that are invisible to tunneling by a passing wave packet.

id: 0905.0387
title: One-Qubit and Two-Qubit Codes in Noisy State Transfer
authors: Marcin Markiewicz, Marcin Wie?niak
comments: 5.3 pages, 5figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0387
abstract: Quantum state transfer is a procedure, which allows to exchange quantum information between stationary qubit systems. It is anticipated that the transfer will find applications in solid-state quantum computing. In this contribution, we discuss the effects of various, physically relevant models of decoherence on a toy model of six qubit linearly coupled by the exchange interaction. In many cases we observe the advantage of the two-qubit encoding, which can be associated with the fact that this encoding does not require the state initialization.

id: 0905.0394
title: Experimental polarization encoded quantum key distribution over optical fibres with real-time continuous birefringence compensation
authors: G. B. Xavier, N. Walenta, G. Vilela de Faria, G. P. Temporao, N. Gisin, H. Zbinden, J. P. von der Weid
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 045015, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0394
abstract: In this paper we demonstrate an active polarization drift compensation scheme for optical fibres employed in a quantum key distribution experiment with polarization encoded qubits. The quantum signals are wavelength multiplexed in one fibre along with two classical optical side channels that provide the control information for the polarization compensation scheme. This set-up allows us to continuously track any polarization change without the need to interrupt the key exchange. The results obtained show that fast polarization rotations of the order of 40*pi rad/s are effectively compensated for. We demonstrate that our set-up allows continuous quantum key distribution even in a fibre stressed by random polarization fluctuations. Our results pave the way for Bell-state measurements using only linear optics with parties separated by long-distance optical fibres.

id: 0905.0398
title: On possible violation of the CHSH Bell inequality in a classical context
authors: Bogus?aw Broda, Micha? Szanecki
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 80 (2011) 063001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0398
abstract: It has been shown that there is a small possibility to experimentally violate the CHSH Bell inequality in a 'classical' context. The probability of such a violation has been estimated in the framework of a classical probabilistic model in the language of a random-walk representation.

id: 0905.0426
title: The most generalized analytical approximation to the solution of single-mode spin-boson model without rotating-wave approximation
authors: T. Liu, K. L. Wang, M. Feng
comments: 3 figures; To appear in Europhysics Letters (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0426
abstract: The single-mode spin-boson model (SMSBM) has extensive application in different subfields of physics. In the absence of rotating-wave approximation (RWA), we try to solve SMSBM analytically. We argue that the analytical expression obtained is the most exact approximation to the solution of the system under the assumption of Abel-Ruffini theorem, which works for a wide range of the parameters such as coupling strength and detuning and would be practical for currently available experiments.

id: 0905.0428
title: Generalized Concatenation for Quantum Codes
authors: Markus Grassl, Peter W. Shor, Bei Zeng
comments: 5 pages, to be presented at ISIT 2009
journal: Proceedings 2009 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2009), Seoul, Korea, June/July 2009, pp. 953-957
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0428
abstract: We show how good quantum error-correcting codes can be constructed using generalized concatenation. The inner codes are quantum codes, the outer codes can be linear or nonlinear classical codes. Many new good codes are found, including both stabilizer codes as well as so-called nonadditive codes.

id: 0905.0430
title: Creation and localization of entanglement in a simple configuration of coupled harmonic oscillators
authors: J. F. Leandro, F. L. Semi?o
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures, minor typos fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052334 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0430
abstract: We investigate a simple arrangement of coupled harmonic oscillators which brings out some interesting effects concerning creation of entanglement. It is well known that if each member in a linear chain of coupled harmonic oscillators is prepared in a ``classical state'', such as a pure coherent state or a mixed thermal state, no entanglement is created in the rotating wave approximation. On the other hand, if one of the oscillators is prepared in a nonclassical state (pure squeezed state, for instance), entanglement may be created between members of the chain. In the setup considered here, we found that a great family of nonclassical (squeezed) states can localize entanglement in such a way that distant oscillators never become entangled. We present a detailed study of this particular localization phenomenon. Our results may find application in future solid state implementations of quantum computers, and we suggest an electromechanical system consisting of an array of coupled micromechanical oscillators as a possible implementation.

id: 0905.0446
title: Ultra-Broadband Coherence-Domain Imaging Using Parametric Downconversion and Superconducting Single-Photon Detectors at 1064 nm
authors: Nishant Mohan, Olga Minaeva, Gregory N. Goltsman, Mohammed F. Saleh, Magued B. Nasr, Alexander V. Sergienko, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0446
abstract: Coherence-domain imaging systems can be operated in a single-photon counting mode, offering low detector noise; this in turn leads to increased sensitivity for weak light sources and weakly reflecting samples. We have demonstrated that excellent axial resolution can be obtained in a photon-counting coherence domain imaging (CDI) system that uses light generated via spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) in a chirped periodically poled stoichiometric lithium tantalate (chirped-PPSLT) structure, in conjunction with a niobium nitride superconducting single-photon detector (SSPD). The bandwidth of the light generated via SPDC, as well as the bandwidth over which the SSPD is sensitive, can extend over a wavelength region that stretches from 700 to 1500 nm. This ultra-broad wavelength band offers a near-ideal combination of deep penetration and ultra-high axial resolution for the imaging of biological tissue. The generation of SPDC light of adjustable bandwidth in the vicinity of 1064 nm, via the use of chirped-PPSLT structures, had not been previously achieved. To demonstrate the usefulness of this technique, we have constructed images for a hierarchy of samples of increasing complexity: a mirror, a nitrocellulose membrane, and a biological sample comprising onion-skin cells.

id: 0905.0510
title: How well can you know the edge of a quantum pyramid?
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert, Jaroslav ?eh¨¢?ek
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 57 (2010) 218-226
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0510
abstract: We consider a symmetric quantum communication scenario in which the signal states are edges of a quantum pyramid of arbitrary dimension and arbitrary shape, and all edge states are transmitted with the same probability. The receiver could employ different decoding strategies: he could minimize the error probability, or discriminate without ambiguity, or extract the accessible information. We state the optimal measurement scheme for each strategy. For large parameter ranges, the standard square-root measurement does not extract the information optimally.

id: 0905.0512
title: Describing a Quantum Channel by State Tomography of a Single Probe State
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 3 pages, To be publised in EPL
journal: EPL, 86 (2009) 40007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0512
abstract: A general law is presented for (composite) quantum systems which directly describes the time evolution of quantum states (with one or both components) through an arbitrary noisy quantum channel. It is shown that the time evolution of all quantum states through a quantum channel can be completely captured by the evolution of a single 'probe state'. Thus in order to grasp the information of the final output states subject to a quantum channel, especially an unknown one, it only requires quantum state tomography of a single probe state, which dramatically simplifies the practical operations in experiment.

id: 0905.0531
title: Threshold error rates for the toric and surface codes
authors: D. S. Wang, A. G. Fowler, A. M. Stephens, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: Quant.Inf.Comput. 10:456,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0531
abstract: The surface code scheme for quantum computation features a 2d array of nearest-neighbor coupled qubits yet claims a threshold error rate approaching 1% (NJoP 9:199, 2007). This result was obtained for the toric code, from which the surface code is derived, and surpasses all other known codes restricted to 2d nearest-neighbor architectures by several orders of magnitude. We describe in detail an error correction procedure for the toric and surface codes, which is based on polynomial-time graph matching techniques and is efficiently implementable as the classical feed-forward processing step in a real quantum computer. By direct simulation of this error correction scheme, we determine the threshold error rates for the two codes (differing only in their boundary conditions) for both ideal and non-ideal syndrome extraction scenarios. We verify that the toric code has an asymptotic threshold of p = 15.5% under ideal syndrome extraction, and p = 7.8 10^-3 for the non-ideal case, in agreement with prior work. Simulations of the surface code indicate that the threshold is close to that of the toric code.

id: 0905.0544
title: Markovian and Post-Markovian dynamics of nonequilibrium thermal entanglement
authors: Ilya Sinayskiy, Francesco Petruccione
comments: Proceedings of the International Conference on Mathematical Physics and Its Applications (Russian Federation, Samara, September 8-13, 2008); accepted in the Vestnik of Samara State University, Special Issue, 2009; ref. [14] added and typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0544
abstract: The dynamics of two spins coupled to bosonic baths at different temperatures is studied. The analytical solution for the reduced density matrix of the system in the Markovian and Post-Markovian case with exponential memory kernel is found. The dynamics and temperature dependence of spin-spin entanglement is analyzed.

id: 0905.0560
title: Wigner-function theory and decoherence of the quantum-injected optical parametric amplifier
authors: Nicolo' Spagnolo, Chiara Vitelli, Tiziano De Angelis, Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini
comments: 29 pages, 25 figures
journal: Physical Review A 80, 032318 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0560
abstract: Recent experimental results demonstrated the generation of a quantum superpositon (MQS), involving a number of photons in excess of 5x10^4, which showed a high resilience to losses. In order to perform a complete analysis on the effects of de-coherence on this multiphoton fields, obtained through the Quantum Injected Optical Parametric Amplifier (QIOPA), we invesigate theoretically the evolution of the Wigner functions associated to these states in lossy conditions. Recognizing the presence of negative regions in the W-representation as an evidence of non-classicality, we focus our analysis on this feature. A close comparison with the MQS based on coherent states allows to identify differences and analogies.

id: 0905.0571
title: Precision measurements of quantum defects in the $n$P$_{3/2}$ Rydberg States of ${}^{85}$Rb
authors: B. Sanguinetti, H. O. Majeed, M. L. Jones, B. T. H. Varcoe
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, 3 tables
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 165004 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0571
abstract: Rydberg States are used in our One Atom Maser experiment because they offer a large dipole moment and couple strongly to low numbers of microwave photons in a high Q cavity. Here we report the absolute frequencies of the P$_{3/2}$ states for principal quantum numbers $n=36$ to $n=63$. These measurements were made with a three step laser excitation scheme. A wavemeter was calibrated against a frequency comb to provide accurate absolute frequency measurements over the entire range, reducing the measurement uncertainty to 1MHz. We compare the spectroscopic results with known frequency measurements as a test of measurement accuracy.

id: 0905.0578
title: A simple representation of quantum process tomography
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giuliano Strini
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022318 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0578
abstract: We show that the Fano representation leads to a particularly simple and appealing form of the quantum process tomography matrix $\chi_{_F}$, in that the matrix $\chi_{_F}$ is real, the number of matrix elements is exactly equal to the number of free parameters required for the complete characterization of a quantum operation, and these matrix elements are directly related to evolution of the expectation values of the system's polarization measurements. These facts are illustrated in the examples of one- and two-qubit quantum noise channels.

id: 0905.0601
title: Superradiant and Dark Exciton States in an Optical Lattice within a Cavity
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 4 pages, 11 figures
journal: EPL 87, 23001 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0601
abstract: We study ultracold atoms in a finite size one-dimensional optical lattice prepared in the Mott insulator phase and commonly coupled to a single cavity mode. Due to resonance dipole-dipole interactions among the atoms, electronic excitations delocalize and form {\it excitons}. These exciton modes are divided into two groups: antisymmetric modes which decouple from the cavity mode forming {\it dark states}, and symmetric modes significantly coupled to the cavity mode called {\it bright states}. In typical setups the lowest and most symmetric exciton is coupled to the cavity photons much stronger than the other bright states and dominates the optical properties response of the atoms ({\it superradiant state}). In the strong coupling regime this superradiant state is coherently mixed with the cavity photon to form a doublet of polariton states with the Rabi splitting.

id: 0905.0624
title: One world versus many: the inadequacy of Everettian accounts of evolution, probability, and scientific confirmation
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: Paper unchanged, but fixed error in previous arxiv submission which caused two identical copies to appear
journal: Published in "Many Worlds? Everett, Quantum Theory and Reality", S. Saunders, J. Barrett, A. Kent and D. Wallace (eds), Oxford University Press, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0624
abstract: There is a compelling intellectual case for exploring whether purely unitary quantum theory defines a sensible and scientifically adequate theory, as Everett originally proposed. Many different and incompatible attempts to define a coherent Everettian quantum theory have been made over the past fifty years. However, no known version of the theory (unadorned by extra ad hoc postulates) can account for the appearance of probabilities and explain why the theory it was meant to replace, Copenhagen quantum theory, appears to be confirmed, or more generally why our evolutionary history appears to be Born-rule typical. This article reviews some ingenious and interesting recent attempts in this direction by Wallace, Greaves, Myrvold and others, and explains why they don't work. An account of one-world randomness, which appears scientifically satisfactory, and has no many-worlds analogue, is proposed. A fundamental obstacle to confirming many-worlds theories is illustrated by considering some toy many-worlds models. These models show that branch weights can exist without having any role in either rational decision-making or theory confirmation, and also that the latter two roles are logically separate. Wallace's proposed decision theoretic axioms for rational agents in a multiverse and claimed derivation of the Born rule are examined. It is argued that Wallace's strategy of axiomatizing a mathematically precise decision theory within a fuzzy Everettian quasiclassical ontology is incoherent. Moreover, Wallace's axioms are not constitutive of rationality either in Everettian quantum theory or in theories in which branchings and branch weights are precisely defined. In both cases, there exist coherent rational strategies that violate some of the axioms.

id: 0905.0641
title: Do entanglements need some superluminal hidden connection?
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0641
abstract: Local hidden variables theories didn't succeed to explain the correlations revealed by entanglements. It is obvious that the explanation of the correlations stands in non-local effects, but nobody has ever detected any carriers that travel with superluminal velocity s.t. they could candidate for some superluminal connection between distant particles, in order to adjust the results to the correlations. This text explains that the role of creating the correlations is played by what is called here the "Negative". This is the part that was removed from the wave function of the independent particles, in order to obtain the entanglement. As it is shown here, for du-particle experiments the Negative consists in du-particle wave-packets. They enter both regions where the particles are tested, s.t. the Negative "knows" the response given by one particle, and erases the possibilities of forbidden responses from the other particle.

id: 0905.0644
title: Towards electron-electron entanglement in Penning traps
authors: L. Lamata, D. Porras, J.I. Cirac, J. Goldman, G. Gabrielse
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0644
abstract: Entanglement of isolated elementary particles other than photons has not yet been achieved. We show how building blocks demonstrated with one trapped electron might be used to make a model system and method for entangling two electrons. Applications are then considered, including two-qubit gates and more precise quantum metrology protocols.

id: 0905.0653
title: Information Invariance and Quantum Probabilities
authors: Caslav Brukner, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. This article is dedicated to Pekka Lahti on the occasion of his 60th birthday. Found. Phys. (2009)
journal: Found. Phys. (2009) 39, 677-689
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0653
abstract: We consider probabilistic theories in which the most elementary system, a two-dimensional system, contains one bit of information. The bit is assumed to be contained in any complete set of mutually complementary measurements. The requirement of invariance of the information under a continuous change of the set of mutually complementary measurements uniquely singles out a measure of information, which is quadratic in probabilities. The assumption which gives the same scaling of the number of degrees of freedom with the dimension as in quantum theory follows essentially from the assumption that all physical states of a higher dimensional system are those and only those from which one can post-select physical states of two-dimensional systems. The requirement that no more than one bit of information (as quantified by the quadratic measure) is contained in all possible post-selected two-dimensional systems is equivalent to the positivity of density operator in quantum theory.

id: 0905.0669
title: Unitary circuits for strongly correlated fermions
authors: C. Pineda, T. Barthel, J. Eisert
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, numerical example added, small typographic errors corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 050303(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0669
abstract: We introduce a scheme for efficiently describing pure states of strongly correlated fermions in higher dimensions using unitary circuits featuring a causal cone. A local way of computing local expectation values is presented. We formulate a dynamical reordering scheme, corresponding to time-adaptive Jordan-Wigner transformation, that avoids nonlocal string operators. Primitives of such a reordering scheme are highlighted. Fermionic unitary circuits can be contracted with the same complexity as in the spin case. The scheme gives rise to a variational description of fermionic models not suffering from a sign problem. We present numerical examples on $9\times 9$ and $6\times 6$ fermionic lattice model to show the functioning of the approach.

id: 0905.0703
title: Decoherence without classicality in the resonant quantum kicked rotor
authors: A. Romanelli
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0703
abstract: We study the quantum kicked rotor in resonance subjected to an unitary noise defined through Kraus operators, we show that this type of decoherence does not, in general, lead to the classical diffusive behavior. We find exact analytical expressions for the density matrix and the variance in the primary resonances. The variance does not loose its ballistic behavior, however the coherence decays as a power law. The secondary resonances are treated numerically, obtaining a power-law decay for the variance and an exponential law decay for the coherence.

id: 0905.0742
title: Monogamy of entanglement and teleportation capability
authors: Soojoon Lee, Jungjoon Park
comments: 4 pages, accepted for publication as a Brief Report in Physical Review A
journal: Phy. Rev. A 79, 054309 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0742
abstract: The monogamy inequality in terms of the concurrence, called the Coffman-Kundu-Wootters inequality [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 61}, 052306 (2000)], and its generalization [T.J. Osborne and F. Verstraete, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 96}, 220503 (2006)] hold on general $n$-qubit states including mixed ones. In this paper, we consider the monogamy inequalities in terms of the fully entangled fraction and the teleportation fidelity. We show that the monogamy inequalities do not hold on general mixed states, while the inequalities hold on $n$-qubit pure states.

id: 0905.0778
title: General theory of detection and optimality
authors: Gniewomir Sarbicki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0778
abstract: A general formulation of the problem of detection for a pair of two cones is presented. The special case is the detection of entangled states by entanglement witnesses. Having defined what means "to detect", one can identify the subset of elements, which detect optimally. I will present the properties of this set for a general pair of cones. In particular, I prove the generalization of the theorem of Lewenstein, Krauss, Cirac, Horodecki. The entanglement witness $W$ is optimall if the set of product vectors $\{\phi \otimes \psi: \langle \phi \otimes \psi | W | \phi \otimes \psi \rangle = 0\}$ spans the whole Hilbert space of a system. There exist optimall entangled witness, which do not fullfill this property. It is closely related to some geometrical properties of the boundary of the set of entanglement witnesses and it is possible to say something more about location of such extraordinary states.

id: 0905.0779
title: A bias free true random number generator
authors: Wei Wei, Hong Guo
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0779
abstract: We propose a new approach to nondeterministic random number generation. In theory, the randomness originated from the uncorrelated nature of consecutive laser pulses with Poissonian photon number distribution and that of the consecutive single photon detections is used to generate random bit. In experiment, von Neumann correction method is applied to extract the final random bit. This method is proved to be bias free in randomness generation, provided that the single photon detections are mutually independent, and further, it has the advantage in generation efficiency of random bits since no postprocessing is needed. A true random number generator based on this new method is realized and its randomness is guaranteed using three batteries of statistical tests.

id: 0905.0799
title: Comment on "Single-mode excited entangled coherent states"
authors: Hong-chun Yuan, Li-yun Hu
comments: 4 apges, 2 figures, submitted to JPA 15 April 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0799
abstract: In Xu and Kuang (\textit{J. Phys. A: Math. Gen.} 39 (2006) L191), the authors claim that, for single-mode excited entangled coherent states $| \Psi_{\pm}(\alpha,m)>$, \textquotedblleft the photon excitations lead to the decrease of the concurrence in the strong field regime of $| \alpha | ^{2}$ and the concurrence tends to zero when $| \alpha | ^{2}\to \infty$". This is wrong.

id: 0905.0802
title: Synthesis of linear quantum stochastic systems via quantum feedback networks
authors: H. I. Nurdin
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 55(4), pp. 1008-1013, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0802
abstract: Recent theoretical and experimental investigations of coherent feedback control, the feedback control of a quantum system with another quantum system, has raised the important problem of how to synthesize a class of quantum systems, called the class of linear quantum stochastic systems, from basic quantum optical components and devices in a systematic way. The synthesis theory sought in this case can be naturally viewed as a quantum analogue of linear electrical network synthesis theory and as such has potential for applications beyond the realization of coherent feedback controllers. In earlier work, Nurdin, James and Doherty have established that an arbitrary linear quantum stochastic system can be realized as a cascade connection of simpler one degree of freedom quantum harmonic oscillators, together with a direct interaction Hamiltonian which is bilinear in the canonical operators of the oscillators. However, from an experimental perspective and based on current methods and technologies, direct interaction Hamiltonians are challenging to implement for systems with more than just a few degrees of freedom. In order to facilitate more tractable physical realizations of these systems, this paper develops a new synthesis algorithm for linear quantum stochastic systems that relies solely on field-mediated interactions, including in implementation of the direct interaction Hamiltonian. Explicit synthesis examples are provided to illustrate the realization of two degrees of freedom linear quantum stochastic systems using the new algorithm.

id: 0905.0855
title: Classicalization of Nonclassical Quantum States in Loss and Noise -- Some No-Go Theorems
authors: Horace P. Yuen, Ranjith Nair
comments: Accepted to PRA; revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 023816 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0855
abstract: The general problem of performance advantage obtainable by the use of nonclassical transmitted states over classical ones is considered. Attention is focused on the situation where system loss is significant and additive Gaussian noise may be present at the receiver. Under the assumption that the total received state is classical, rigorous output density operator representations and their trace distance bounds are developed for classical and nonclassical transmitted states. For applications with high loss in all modes, a practical No-Go theorem is enunciated that rules out the possibility of significant advantage of nonclassical over classical states. The recent work on quantum illumination is discussed as an example of our no-go approach.

id: 0905.0862
title: Quantum adaptation of noisy channels
authors: Miroslav Gavenda, Radim Filip
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052322 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0862
abstract: Probabilistic quantum filtering is proposed to properly adapt sequential independent quantum channels in order to stop sudden death of entanglement. In the adaptation, the quantum filtering does not distill or purify more entanglement, it rather properly prepares entangled state to the subsequent quantum channel. For example, the quantum adaptation probabilistically eliminates the sudden death of entanglement of two-qubit entangled state with isotropic noise injected into separate amplitude damping channels. The result has a direct application in quantum key distribution through noisy channels.

id: 0905.0870
title: Why Screening Effects Do Not Influence the Casimir Force
authors: V. M. Mostepanenko, R. S. Decca, E. Fischbach, B. Geyer, G. L. Klimchitskaya, D. E. Krause, D. Lopez, U. Mohideen
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A, Vol. 24, Nos. 8 & 9, p. 1721- 1742 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0870
abstract: The Lifshitz theory of dispersion forces leads to thermodynamic and experimental inconsistencies when the role of drifting charge carriers is included in the model of the dielectric response. Recently modified reflection coefficients were suggested that take into account screening effects and diffusion currents. We demonstrate that this theoretical approach leads to a violation of the third law of thermodynamics (Nernst's heat theorem) for a wide class of materials and is excluded by the data from two recent experiments. The physical reason for its failure is explained by the violation of thermal equilibrium, which is the fundamental applicability condition of the Lifshitz theory, in the presence of drift and diffusion currents.

id: 0905.0872
title: Dark-Sates in Electromagnetically Induced Transparency Controlled by a Microwave Field
authors: Bin Luo, Hua Tang, Hong Guo
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0872
abstract: The rigorous dark-sate conditions, i.e., two-photon resonance, for a Lambda-type electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) are extended with the system controlled by a microwave field. The extended dark-states are found to be extremely sensitive to the phase of the microwave field in a narrow interval. However, the dark-state is no longer the requirement for EIT in this scheme and EIT without dark states is present.

id: 0905.0887
title: Towards Quantum Chemistry on a Quantum Computer
authors: Benjamin P. Lanyon, James D. Whitfield, Geoff G. Gillet, Michael E. Goggin, Marcelo P. Almeida, Ivan Kassal, Jacob D. Biamonte, Masoud Mohseni, Ben J. Powell, Marco Barbieri, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Andrew G. White
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures, corrected author affiliations
journal: Nature Chemistry 2, 106 - 111 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0887
abstract: The fundamental problem faced in quantum chemistry is the calculation of molecular properties, which are of practical importance in fields ranging from materials science to biochemistry. Within chemical precision, the total energy of a molecule as well as most other properties, can be calculated by solving the Schrodinger equation. However, the computational resources required to obtain exact solutions on a conventional computer generally increase exponentially with the number of atoms involved. This renders such calculations intractable for all but the smallest of systems. Recently, an efficient algorithm has been proposed enabling a quantum computer to overcome this problem by achieving only a polynomial resource scaling with system size. Such a tool would therefore provide an extremely powerful tool for new science and technology. Here we present a photonic implementation for the smallest problem: obtaining the energies of H2, the hydrogen molecule in a minimal basis. We perform a key algorithmic step - the iterative phase estimation algorithm - in full, achieving a high level of precision and robustness to error. We implement other algorithmic steps with assistance from a classical computer and explain how this non-scalable approach could be avoided. Finally, we provide new theoretical results which lay the foundations for the next generation of simulation experiments using quantum computers. We have made early experimental progress towards the long-term goal of exploiting quantum information to speed up quantum chemistry calculations.

id: 0905.0901
title: Adiabatic Gate Teleportation
authors: Dave Bacon, Steven T. Flammia
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, with additional 3 pages and 2 figures in an appendix. v2 Refs added. Video abstract available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 120504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0901
abstract: The difficulty in producing precisely timed and controlled quantum gates is a significant source of error in many physical implementations of quantum computers. Here we introduce a simple universal primitive, adiabatic gate teleportation, which is robust to timing errors and many control errors and maintains a constant energy gap throughout the computation above a degenerate ground state space. Notably this construction allows for geometric robustness based upon the control of two independent qubit interactions. Further, our piecewise adiabatic evolution easily relates to the quantum circuit model, enabling the use of standard methods from fault-tolerance theory for establishing thresholds.

id: 0905.0931
title: Amplified Quantum Dynamics and Enhanced Parameter Sensitivity via Coherent Feedback in Collective Atomic Spin Systems
authors: Bradley A. Chase, JM Geremia
comments: 28 Pages with 6 Figures. Please visit this http URL to download C++ class files, mex/Matlab source code, and data files used to generate all simulation data and figures in this paper as well as precompiled mex libraries for the Windows x64 and intel Mac platforms
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0931
abstract: We consider the effective dynamics obtained by double-passing a far-detuned laser probe through a large atomic spin system. The net result of the atom-field interaction is a type of coherent positive feedback that amplifies the values of selected spin observables. An effective equation of motion for the atomic system is presented, and an approximate 2-parameter model of the dynamics is developed that should provide a viable approach to modeling even the extremely large spin systems, with N>>1 atoms, encountered under typical laboratory conditions. Combining the nonlinear dynamics that result from the positive feedback with continuous observation of the atomic spin offers an improvement in quantum parameter estimation. We explore the possibility of reaching the Heisenberg uncertainty scaling in atomic magnetometry without the need for any appreciable spin-squeezing by analyzing our system via the quantum Cramer-Rao inequality. Finally, we develop a realistic quantum parameter estimator for atomic magnetometry that is based on a two-parameter family of Gaussian states and investigate the performance of this estimator through numerical simulations. In doing so, we identify several issues, such as numerical convergence and the reduction of estimator bias, that must be addressed when incorporating our parameter estimation methods into an actual laboratory setting.

id: 0905.0933
title: `Classical' quantum states
authors: Marek Ku?, Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: revtex, 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0933
abstract: We show that several classes of mixed quantum states in finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces which can be characterized as being, in some respect, 'most classical' can be described and analyzed in a unified way. Among the states we consider are separable states of distinguishable particles, uncorrelated states of indistinguishable fermions and bosons, as well as mixed spin states decomposable into probabilistic mixtures of pure coherent states. The latter were the subject of the recent paper by Giraud et. al., who showed that in the lowest-dimensional, nontrivial case of spin 1, each such state can be decomposed into a mixture of eight pure states. Using our method we prove that in fact four pure states always suffice.

id: 0905.0943
title: Quantum-information transfer in a coupled resonator waveguide
authors: Peng-Bo Li, Ying Gu, Qi-Huang Gong, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 042339 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0943
abstract: We propose an efficient scheme for the implementation of quantum information transfer in a onedimensional coupled resonator waveguide. We show that, based on the effective long-range dipole-dipole interactions between the atoms mediated by the cavity modes, Raman transitions between the atoms trapped in different nodes can take place. Quantum information could be transferred directly between the opposite ends of the coupled waveguide without involving the intermediate nodes via either Raman transitions or the stimulated Raman adiabatic passages. Since this scheme, in principle, is a one-step protocol, it may provide useful applications in quantum communications.

id: 0905.0970
title: Multi-Stability of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in Atom-Assisted Optomechanical Cavities
authors: Yue Chang, T. Shi, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 063826 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0970
abstract: We study how an oscillating mirror affects the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) of an atomic ensemble, which is confined in a gas cell placed inside a micro-cavity with an oscillating mirror in one end. The oscillating mirror is modeled as a quantum mechanical harmonic oscillator. The cavity field acts as a probe light of the EIT system and also produces a light pressure on the oscillating mirror. The back-action from the mirror to the cavity field results in several (from one to five) steady-states for this atom-assisted optomechanical cavity, producing a complex structure in its EIT. We calculate the susceptibility with respect to the few (from one to three) stable solutions found here for the equilibrium positions of the oscillating mirror. We find that the EIT of the atomic ensemble can be significantly changed by the oscillating mirror, and also that the various steady states of the mirror have different effects on the EIT.

id: 0905.0980
title: The discrimination problem for two ground states or two thermal states of the quantum Ising model
authors: Carmen Invernizzi, Matteo G A Paris
comments: revised version, title changed, 4 figs
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 57, 198 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0980
abstract: We address the one-dimensional quantum Ising model as an example of system exhibiting criticality and study in some details the discrimination problem for pairs of states corresponding to different values of the coupling constant. We evaluate the error probability for single-copy discrimination, the Chernoff bound for $n$-copy discrimination in the asymptotic limit, and the Chernoff metric for the discrimination of infinitesimally close states. We point out scaling properties of the above quantities, and derive the external field optimizing state discrimination for short chains as well as in the thermodynamical limit, thus assessing criticality as a resource for quantum discrimination in many-body systems.

id: 0905.1012
title: Weak-Coupling Limit. I A Contraction Semigroup for Infinite Subsystems
authors: David Taj
comments: 37 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1012
abstract: We consider the class of quantum mechanical master equations defined on a generic Banach space, arising by projecting weakly perturbed one-parameter groups of isometries. We show that the possible semigroup approximations are far from unique. However, uniqueness can be reestablished through the introduction of a dynamical time averaging map. The generator of the resulting Contraction Semigroup is always well defined, irrespective of the dimensions of the projected subspace, and of the spectral properties of its free dynamics. We show how our approach includes and generalizes the preexisting literature.

id: 0905.1015
title: Strong coupling of a mechanical oscillator and a single atom
authors: K. Hammerer, M. Wallquist, C. Genes, M. Ludwig, F. Marquardt, P. Treutlein, P. Zoller, J. Ye, H. J. Kimble
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, minro changes, accepted by PRL
journal: PRL 103, 063005 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1015
abstract: We propose and analyze a setup to achieve strong coupling between a single trapped atom and a mechanical oscillator. The interaction between the motion of the atom and the mechanical oscillator is mediated by a quantized light field in a laser driven high-finesse cavity. In particular, we show that high fidelity transfer of quantum states between the atom and the mechanical oscillator is in reach for existing or near future experimental parameters. Our setup provides the basic toolbox for coherent manipulation, preparation and measurement of micro- and nanomechanical oscillators via the tools of atomic physics.

id: 0905.1019
title: Weak-Coupling Limit. II On the Quantum Fokker-Planck Equation
authors: David Taj
comments: 20 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1019
abstract: In a recent work we have found a contraction semigroup able to correctly approximate a projected and perturbed one-parameter group of isometries in a generic Banach space, in the limit of weak-coupling. Here we study its generator by specializing to $W^*$-algebras: after defining a Physical Subsystem in terms of a completely positive projecting conditional expectation, we find that it generates a Quantum Dynamical Semigroup. As a consequence of uniqueness and strong generality (well defined dynamics, irrespective of the Physical Subsystem spectral properties or dimensions), its generator deserves to be referred as "the" Quantum Fokker-Planck Equation. We then provide important examples of the limit dynamics, one of which constitutes a new Quantum generalization of the celebrated Fermi Golden Rule.

id: 0905.1020
title: Completely Positive Markovian Quantum Dynamics in the Weak-Coupling Limit
authors: David Taj, Fausto Rossi
comments: 16 pages, 0 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052113 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1020
abstract: We obtain new types of exponential decay laws for solutions of density-matrix master equations in the weak-coupling limit: after comparing with results already present in the literature and developing the necessary techniques, we study the crucial aspect of complete positivity under fairly general conditions. We propose a new type of time average that guarantees complete positivity and approximates, in markovian fashion, the exact dynamics for a plethora of physical applications, no matter which are the spectral properties of the subsystem, or its dimensions. We shall comment on some interesting examples, like a new Quantum version of the celebrated Fermi's Golden Rule and some recently proposed entangling projections.

id: 0905.1026
title: Dissipation and Decoherence in Nanodevices: a Generalized Fermi's Golden Rule
authors: David Taj, Rita Claudia Iotti, Fausto Rossi
comments: 6 pages, 0 figures
journal: Semicond. Sci. Technol. 24, 065004 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1026
abstract: We shall revisit the conventional adiabatic or Markov approximation, which --contrary to the semiclassical case-- does not preserve the positive-definite character of the corresponding density matrix, thus leading to highly non-physical results. To overcome this serious limitation, originally pointed out and partially solved by Davies and co-workers almost three decades ago, we shall propose an alternative more general adiabatic procedure, which (i) is physically justified under the same validity restrictions of the conventional Markov approach, (ii) in the semiclassical limit reduces to the standard Fermi's golden rule, and (iii) describes a genuine Lindblad evolution, thus providing a reliable/robust treatment of energy-dissipation and dephasing processes in electronic quantum devices. Unlike standard master-equation formulations, the dependence of our approximation on the specific choice of the subsystem (that include the common partial trace reduction) does not threaten positivity, and quantum scattering rates are well defined even in case the subsystem is infinitely extended/has continuous spectrum.

id: 0905.1038
title: Variational collocation for systems of coupled anharmonic oscillators
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fernandez
comments: 14 pages, 10 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1038
abstract: We have applied a collocation approach to obtain the numerical solution to the stationary Schr\"odinger equation for systems of coupled oscillators. The dependence of the discretized Hamiltonian on scale and angle parameters is exploited to obtain optimal convergence to the exact results. A careful comparison with results taken from the literature is performed, showing the advantages of the present approach.

id: 0905.1040
title: To what systems does the Bohigas conjecture apply?
authors: Thomas D. Cohen, Garrett Goon
comments: 10 pages; 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1040
abstract: We test the applicability of the Bohigas conjecture to systems whose Hamiltonian is not written as a closed form analytic expression. A class of such Hamiltonians is created and appear to violate the conjecture. Numerical methods are employed to find the spectra of a two-dimensional, classically chaotic "billiard" system whose Hamiltonian is in this class. We find that the spectral fluctuations are not in agreement with the conjecture.

id: 0905.1046
title: Casimir-Lifshitz Interaction between Dielectrics of Arbitrary Geometry: A Dielectric Contrast Perturbation Theory
authors: Ramin Golestanian
comments: 9 pages, 5 (combined) figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1046
abstract: The general theory of electromagnetic--fluctuation--induced interactions in dielectric bodies as formulated by Dzyaloshinskii, Lifshitz, and Pitaevskii is rewritten as a perturbation theory in terms of the spatial contrast in (imaginary) frequency dependent dielectric function. The formulation can be used to calculate the Casimir-Lifshitz forces for dielectric objects of arbitrary geometry, as a perturbative expansion in the dielectric contrast, and could thus complement the existing theories that use perturbation in geometrical features. We find that expansion in dielectric contrast recasts the resulting Lifshitz energy into a sum of the different many-body contributions. The limit of validity and convergence properties of the perturbation theory is discussed using the example of parallel semi-infinite objects for which the exact result is known.

id: 0905.1059
title: New quantum caps in PG(4,4)
authors: Daniele Bartoli, Stefano Marcugini, Fernanda Pambianco
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1059
abstract: Calderbank, Rains, Shor and Sloane (see \cite{Sloane}) showed that error-correction is possible in the context of quantum computations. Quantum stabilizer codes are a class of additive quaternary codes in binary projective spaces, which are self-orthogonal with respect to the symplectic form. A geometric description is given in \cite{Bierbra}, where also the notion of quantum cap is introduced. Quantum caps correspond to the special case of quantum stabilizer codes of distance $d=4$ when the code is linear over GF(4). In the present paper we review the translation from quantum error-correction to symplectic geometry and study quantum codes in PG(4,4) where we construct complete quantum caps with 20, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 36 and 38 points and incomplete quantum caps with 10, 12, 13, 20, 23, 24, 25 and 26 points and we prove the non existence of 11-quantum caps. In particular the quantum caps of sizes 36 and 38 yield positive answers to the existence questions of quantum codes $[[36,26,4]]$ and $[[38,28,4]]$ that remained open in the data base \cite{codetable}.

id: 0905.1081
title: Quantum Mechanical Limits to Inertial Mass Sensing by Nanomechanical Systems
authors: P.-L. Giscard, M. Bhattacharya, P. Meystre
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1081
abstract: We determine the quantum mechanical limits to inertial mass-sensing based on nanomechanical systems. We first consider a harmonically oscillating cantilever whose vibration frequency is changed by mass accretion at its surface. We show that its zero-point fluctuations limit the mass sensitivity, for attainable parameters, to about an electron mass. In contrast to the case of a classical cantilever, we find the mass sensitivity of the quantum mechanical cantilever is independent of its resonant frequency in a certain parameter regime at low temperatures. We then consider an optomechanical setup in which the cantilever is reflective and forms one end of a laser-driven Fabry-P\'erot cavity. For a resonator finesse of 5 the mass sensitivity at T=0 is limited by cavity noise to about a quarter of a Dalton, but this setup has a more favorable temperature dependency at finite temperature, compared to the free cantilever.

id: 0905.1085
title: Resolution and sensitivity of a Fabry-Perot interferometer with a photon-number-resolving detector
authors: Christoph F. Wildfeuer, Aaron J. Pearlman, Jun Chen, Jingyun Fan, Alan Migdall, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 8 pages, 12 figures, 1 table, minor extensions, title changed, new figures added, reference corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1085
abstract: With photon-number resolving detectors, we show compression of interference fringes with increasing photon numbers for a Fabry-Perot interferometer. This feature provides a higher precision in determining the position of the interference maxima compared to a classical detection strategy. We also theoretically show supersensitivity if N-photon states are sent into the interferometer and a photon-number resolving measurement is performed.

id: 0905.1094
title: Coherent control of atomic transport in spinor optical lattices
authors: Brian E. Mischuck, Poul S. Jessen, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1094
abstract: Coherent transport of atoms trapped in an optical lattice can be controlled by microwave-induced spin flips that correlate with site-to-site hopping. We study the controllability of homogeneous one-dimensional systems of noninteracting atoms in the absence of site addressability. Given these restrictions, we construct a deterministic protocol to map an initially localized Wannier state to a wave packet that that is coherently distributed over n sites. This is extended to analytic solutions for arbitrary unitary maps given homogenous systems and in the presence of time-dependent uniform forces. Such control is important for applications in quantum information processing such as quantum computing and quantum simulations of condensed matter phenomena.

id: 0905.1107
title: Temperature effects on a network of dissipative quantum harmonic oscillators: collective damping and diffusion processes
authors: M. A. de Ponte, S. S. Mizrahi, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 33 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1107
abstract: In this article we extend the results presented in Ref. [Phys. Rev. A 76, 032101 (2007)] to treat quantitatively the effects of reservoirs at finite temperature in a bosonic dissipative network: a chain of coupled harmonic oscillators whichever its topology, i.e., whichever the way the oscillators are coupled together, the strength of their couplings and their natural frequencies. Starting with the case where distinct reservoirs are considered, each one coupled to a corresponding oscillator, we also analyze the case where a common reservoir is assigned to the whole network. Master equations are derived for both situations and both regimes of weak and strong coupling strengths between the network oscillators. Solutions of these master equations are presented through the normal ordered characteristic function. We also present a technique to estimate the decoherence time of network states by computing separately the effects of diffusion and the attenuation of the interference terms of the Wigner function. A detailed analysis of the diffusion mechanism is also presented through the evolution of the Wigner function. The interesting collective diffusion effects are discussed and applied to the analysis of decoherence of a class of network states. Finally, the entropy and the entanglement of a pure bipartite system are discussed.

id: 0905.1139
title: Quantum filter reduction for measurement-feedback control via unsupervised manifold learning
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Asa S. Hopkins, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 105043.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1139
abstract: We derive simple models for the dynamics of a single atom coupled to a cavity field mode in the absorptive bistable parameter regime by projecting the time evolution of the state of the system onto a suitably chosen nonlinear low-dimensional manifold, which is found by use of local tangent space alignment. The output field from the cavity is detected with a homodyne detector allowing observation of quantum jumps of the system between states with different average numbers of photons in the cavity. We find that the models, which are significantly faster to integrate numerically than the full stochastic master equation, largely reproduce the dynamics of the system, and we demonstrate that they are sufficiently accurate to facilitate feedback control of the state of the system based on the predictions of the models alone.

id: 0905.1149
title: Optimization search effort over the control landscapes for open quantum systems with Kraus-map evolution
authors: Anand Oza, Alexander Pechen, Jason Dominy Vincent Beltrani, Katharine Moore, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 29 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 205305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1149
abstract: A quantum control landscape is defined as the expectation value of a target observable $\Theta$ as a function of the control variables. In this work control landscapes for open quantum systems governed by Kraus map evolution are analyzed. Kraus maps are used as the controls transforming an initial density matrix $\rho_{\rm i}$ into a final density matrix to maximize the expectation value of the observable $\Theta$. The absence of suboptimal local maxima for the relevant control landscapes is numerically illustrated. The dependence of the optimization search effort is analyzed in terms of the dimension of the system $N$, the initial state $\rho_{\rm i}$, and the target observable $\Theta$. It is found that if the number of nonzero eigenvalues in $\rho_{\rm i}$ remains constant, the search effort does not exhibit any significant dependence on $N$. If $\rho_{\rm i}$ has no zero eigenvalues, then the computational complexity and the required search effort rise with $N$. The dimension of the top manifold (i.e., the set of Kraus operators that maximizes the objective) is found to positively correlate with the optimization search efficiency. Under the assumption of full controllability, incoherent control modelled by Kraus maps is found to be more efficient in reaching the same value of the objective than coherent control modelled by unitary maps. Numerical simulations are also performed for control landscapes with linear constraints on the available Kraus maps, and suboptimal maxima are not revealed for these landscapes.

id: 0905.1197
title: Measurement schemes for the spin quadratures on an ensemble of atoms
authors: Ryo Namiki, Tetsushi Takano, Shin-Ichi-Ro Tanaka, Yoshiro Takahashi
comments: 4pages 2 figures
journal: Applied Physics B: Lasers and Optics, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1197
abstract: We consider how to measure collective spin states of an atomic ensemble based on the recent multi-pass approaches for quantum interface between light and atoms. We find that a scheme with two passages of a light pulse through the atomic ensemble is efficient to implement the homodyne tomography of the spin state. Thereby, we propose to utilize optical pulses as a phase-shifter that rotates the quadrature of the spins. This method substantially simplifies the geometry of experimental schemes.

id: 0905.1227
title: The Standard Model Extension For a Modified Ives-Stillwell Test
authors: J. P. Cotter, B. T. H. Varcoe
comments: Submission to JMO special issue
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1227
abstract: In this paper we present the full theoretical model of a modified Ives-Stillwell experiment where counter propagating lasers are used to form a narrow interference fringe when the lasers form a double resnonance. This narrow resoannce can be as small as 1 Hz wide and therefore provides a connection between the atomic resonance in its rest frame and the laser frequency in the lab frame. The current paper builds on a simplified approach suggested recently and presents a fully developed theory of the interaction within the Lorentz vilating electrodynamics of the Standard Model Extension.

id: 0905.1233
title: Multipartite entangled magnon states as quantum communication channels
authors: Sriram Prasath E., Sreraman Muralidharan, Chiranjib Mitra, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1233
abstract: We explicate conditions under which, the two magnon state becomes highly entangled and is useful for several quantum communication protocols. This state, which is experimentally realizable in quantum dots using Heisenberg exchange interaction, is found to be suitable for carrying out deterministic teleportation of an arbitrary two qubit composite system. Further, conditions for which the channel capacity reaches "Holevo bound", allowing maximal amount of classical information to be encoded, are derived. Later, an explicit protocol for the splitting and sharing of a two qubit entangled state among two parties, using this state as an entangled resource, is demonstrated.

id: 0905.1249
title: Holonomic quantum computation in subsystems
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov
comments: Improved presentation, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 090502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1249
abstract: We introduce a generalized method of holonomic quantum computation (HQC) based on encoding in subsystems. As an application, we propose a scheme for applying holonomic gates to unencoded qubits by the use of a noisy ancillary qubit. This scheme does not require initialization in a subspace since all dynamical effects factor out as a transformation on the ancilla. We use this approach to show how fault-tolerant HQC can be realized via 2-local Hamiltonians with perturbative gadgets.

id: 0905.1261
title: All-Optical Switching Using the Quantum Zeno Effect and Two-Photon Absorption
authors: B.C. Jacobs, J.D. Franson
comments: 21 pages, 11 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 063830 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1261
abstract: We have previously shown that the quantum Zeno effect can be used to implement quantum logic gates for quantum computing applications, where the Zeno effect was produced using a strong two-photon absorbing medium. Here we show that the Zeno effect can also be used to implement classical logic gates whose inputs and outputs are high-intensity fields (coherent states). The operation of the devices can be understood using a quasi-static analysis, and their switching times are calculated using a dynamic approach. The two-photon absorption coefficient of rubidium vapor is shown to allow operation of these devices at relatively low power levels.

id: 0905.1263
title: Equivalence of the Klein-Gordon random field and the complex Klein-Gordon quantum field
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: 4 pages; more explanation of background in response to EPL referee; mathematics unchanged
journal: Europhys.Lett.87:31002,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1263
abstract: The difference between a Klein-Gordon random field and the complex Klein-Gordon quantum field is characterized, explicitly comparing the roles played by negative frequency modes of test functions in creation and annihilation operator presentations of the two theories. The random field and the complex quantum field can both be constructed from the same creation and annihilation operator algebra, making them equivalent in that sense.

id: 0905.1267
title: Quasi-perfect state transfer in a bosonic dissipative network
authors: A. Cacheffo, M. A. de Ponte, M. H. Y. Moussa, A. S. M. de Castro
comments: 31 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1267
abstract: In this paper we propose a scheme for quasi-perfect state transfer in a network of dissipative harmonic oscillators. We consider ideal sender and receiver oscillators connected by a chain of nonideal transmitter oscillators coupled by nearest-neighbor resonances. From the algebraic properties of the dynamical quantities describing the evolution of the network state, we derive a criterion, fixing the coupling strengths between all the oscillators, apart from their natural frequencies, enabling perfect state transfer in the particular case of ideal transmitter oscillators. Our criterion provides an easily manipulated formula enabling perfect state transfer in the special case where the network nonidealities are disregarded. By adjusting the common frequency of the sender and the receiver oscillators to be out of resonance with that of the transmitters, we demonstrate that the sender's state tunnels to the receiver oscillator by virtually exciting the nonideal transmitter chain. This virtual process makes negligible the decay rate associated with the transmitter line on the expenses of delaying the time interval for the state transfer process. Apart from our analytical results, numerical computations are presented to illustrate our protocol.

id: 0905.1279
title: Entangling the free motion of a particle pair: an experimental scenario
authors: Clemens Gneiting, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; corresponds to published version
journal: Opt. Spectroscop. 108, 188 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1279
abstract: The concept of dissociation-time entanglement provides a means of manifesting non-classical correlations in the motional state of two counter-propagating atoms. In this article, we discuss in detail the requirements for a specific experimental implementation, which is based on the Feshbach dissociation of a molecular Bose-Einstein condensate of fermionic lithium. A sequence of two magnetic field pulses serves to delocalize both of the dissociation products into a superposition of consecutive wave packets, which are separated by a macroscopic distance. This allows to address them separately in a switched Mach-Zehnder configuration, permitting to conduct a Bell experiment with simple position measurements. We analyze the expected form of the two-particle wave function in a concrete experimental setup that uses lasers as atom guides. Assuming viable experimental parameters the setup is shown to be capable of violating a Bell inequality.

id: 0905.1324
title: Optimal State Merging Without Decoupling
authors: Jean-Christian Boileau, Joseph M. Renes
comments: 10 pages, accepted contribution to TQC 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1324
abstract: We construct an optimal state merging protocol by adapting a recently-discovered optimal entanglement distillation protcol [Renes and Boileau, Phys. Rev. A . 73, 032335 (2008)]. The proof of optimality relies only on directly establishing sufficient "amplitude" and "phase" correlations between Alice and Bob and not on usual techniques of decoupling Alice from the environment. This strengthens the intuition from quantum error-correction that these two correlations are all that really matter in two-party quantum information processing.

id: 0905.1347
title: Classical Correlation and Quantum Discord in Critical Systems
authors: M. S. Sarandy
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures. v3: minor changes. Published version. v2: conclusion section improved, references updated, and minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022108 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1347
abstract: We discuss the behavior of quantum and classical pairwise correlations in critical systems, with the quantumness of the correlations measured by the quantum discord. We analytically derive these correlations for general real density matrices displaying $Z_2$ symmetry. As an illustration, we analyze both the XXZ and the transverse field Ising models. Finite-size as well as infinite chains are investigated and the quantum criticality is discussed. Moreover, we identify the spin functions that govern the correlations. As a further example, we also consider correlations in the Hartree-Fock ground state of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model. It is then shown that both classical correlation and quantum discord exhibit signatures of the quantum phase transitions.

id: 0905.1349
title: Separability criteria for genuine multiparticle entanglement
authors: Otfried G¨¹hne, Michael Seevinck
comments: five pages, one figure, v4: final version plus a remark on arXiv:0912.1870
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 053002 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1349
abstract: We present a method to derive separability criteria for the different classes of multiparticle entanglement, especially genuine multiparticle entanglement. The resulting criteria are necessary and sufficient for certain families of states. Further, the criteria are superior to all known entanglement criteria for many other families; also they allow the detection of bound entanglement. We next demonstrate that they are easily implementable in experiments and discuss applications to the decoherence of multiparticle entangled states.

id: 0905.1365
title: Extended Feynman Formula for the Harmonic Oscillator by the Discrete Time Method
authors: Kunio Funahashi
comments: 9 pages
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A25:179-188,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1365
abstract: We calculate the Feynman formula for the harmonic oscillator beyond and at caustics by the discrete formulation of path integral. The extension has been made by some authors, however, it is not obtained by the method which we consider the most reliable regularization of path integral. It is shown that this method leads to the result with, especially at caustics, more rigorous derivation than previous.

id: 0905.1428
title: SIC-POVMs and MUBs: Geometrical Relationships in Prime Dimension
authors: D.M.Appleby
comments: Contribution to the Conference "Foundations of Probability and Physics-5", Vaxjo, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1428
abstract: The paper concerns Weyl-Heisenberg covariant SIC-POVMs (symmetric informationally complete positive operator valued measures) and full sets of MUBs (mutually unbiased bases) in prime dimension. When represented as vectors in generalized Bloch space a SIC-POVM forms a d^2-1 dimensional regular simplex (d being the Hilbert space dimension). By contrast, the generalized Bloch vectors representing a full set of MUBs form d+1 mutually orthogonal d-1 dimensional regular simplices. In this paper we show that, in the Weyl-Heisenberg case, there are some simple geometrical relationships between the single SIC-POVM simplex and the d+1 MUB simplices. We go on to give geometrical interpretations of the minimum uncertainty states introduced by Wootters and Sussman, and by Appleby, Dang and Fuchs, and of the fiduciality condition given by Appleby, Dang and Fuchs.

id: 0905.1443
title: Multimode electromagnetically-induced transparency on a single atomic line
authors: Geoff Campbell, Anna Ordog, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 11, 103021 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1443
abstract: We experimentally investigate electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT) created on an inhomogeneously broadened 5S_1/2-5P_1/2 transition in rubidium vapor using a control field of a complex temporal shape. A comb-shaped transparency spectrum enhances the delay-bandwidth product and the light storage capacity for a matched probe pulse by a factor of about 50 compared to a single EIT line [D. D. Yavuz, Phys. Rev. A 75, 031801 (2007)]. If the temporal mode of the control field is slowly changed while the probe is propagating through the EIT medium, the probe will adiabatically follow, providing a means to perform frequency conversion and optical routing.

id: 0905.1454
title: An alternative construction of the positive inner product in non-Hermitian quantum mechanics
authors: Ashok Das, L. Greenwood
comments: 11 pages, some minor typos fixed, to appear in Physics Letters B
journal: Phys.Lett.B678:504-507,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1454
abstract: Within the context of non-Hermitian quantum mechanics, we use the generators of eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian to construct a unitary inner product space. Such models have been of interest in recent years, for instance, in the context of ${\cal PT}$ symmetry, although our construction extends to the larger class of so-called pseudo-Hermitian Operators. We provide a detailed example to illustrate the concept and compare with known results.

id: 0905.1477
title: Size quantization effects in thin film Casimir interaction
authors: A.Benassi, C.Calandra
comments: 
journal: J. Phys.: Conference Series 161 (2009) 012007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1477
abstract: We investigate the role of size quantization in the vacuum force between metallic films of nanometric thickness. The force is calculated by the Lifshitz formula with the film dielectric tensor derived from the one-electron energies and wavefunctions under the assumption of a constant potential inside the film and a uniform distribution of the positive ion charge. The results show that quantization effects tend to reduce the force with respect to the continuum plasma model. The reduction is more significant at low electron densities and for film size of the order of few nanometers and persists for separation distances up to 10 nm. Comparison with previous work indicates that the softening of the boundary potential is important in determining the amount of the reduction. The calculations are extended to treat Drude intraband absorption. It is shown that the inclusion of relaxation time enhances the size quantization effects in the force calculations.

id: 0905.1480
title: Phase transitions and localizable entanglement in cluster-state spin chains with Ising couplings and local fields
authors: Stein Olav Skr?vseth, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, comments welcome; v2 gives some further analytic results for the localizable entanglement, and some additional references; v3 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022316 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1480
abstract: We consider a one-dimensional spin chain for which the ground state is the cluster state, capable of functioning as a quantum computational wire when subjected to local adaptive measurements of individual qubits, and investigate the robustness of this property to local and coupled (Ising-type) perturbations. We investigate the ground state both by identifying suitable correlation functions as order parameters, as well as numerically using a variational method based on matrix product states. We find that the model retains an infinite localizable entanglement length for Ising and local fields up to a quantum phase transition, but that the resulting entangled state is not simply characterized by a Pauli correction based on the measurement results.

id: 0905.1497
title: Does black-hole evaporation imply that physics is non-unitary, and if so, what must the laws of physics look like? An Essay
authors: Steffen Gielen
comments: 31 pages, 6 figures; revised and extended version of an essay originally submitted as part of the requirements for a Certificate of Advanced Study in Mathematics at Cambridge in 2007. Version accepted for publication as a review article in International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI)
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 7 (2009) 847-878
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1497
abstract: Stephen Hawking's discovery of black hole evaporation had the remarkable consequence that information is destroyed by a black hole, which can only be accommodated by modifying the laws of quantum mechanics. Different attempts to evade the information loss paradox were subsequently suggested, apparently without a satisfactory resolution of the paradox. On the other hand, the attempting to include non-unitarity into quantum mechanics might lead to laws predicting observable consequences such as nonlocality or violation of energy-momentum conservation; but it may be possibly to circumvent these obstacles. Recent developments seem to require a different view on quantum gravity and suggest that ideas about locality in physics and Hawking's semi-classical approximation are misleading. An accurate description may show unitary evolution and no information loss after all.

id: 0905.1498
title: Spectra of PT-symmetric Hamiltonians on Tobogganic Contours
authors: Hynek B¨ªla
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1498
abstract: A non-standard generalisation of the Bender potentials $x^2(\ii x^\ve)$ is suggested. The spectra are obtained numerically and some of their particular properties are discussed.

id: 0905.1542
title: Experimental demonstration of topological error correction
authors: Wei-Bo Gao, Austin G. Fowler, Robert Raussendorf, Xing-Can Yao, He Lu, Ping Xu, Chao-Yang Lu, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Youjin Deng, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: This paper has been withdrawn. Please search the title and see the new version implemented with the eight-photon entangled state
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1542
abstract: Topological error correction--a novel method to actively correct errors based on cluster states with topological properties--has the highest order of tolerable error rates known to date (10^{-2}). Moreover, the scheme requires only nearest-neighbour interaction, particularly suitable for most physical systems. Here we report the first experimental demonstration of topological error correction with an 8-qubit optical cluster state. In the experiment, it is shown that a correlation can be protected against a single error on any single qubit. In addition, when all qubits are simultaneously subjected to errors with equal probability, the effective error rate is significantly reduced, clearly verifying the advantage of topological error correction. The quantum gate with the error rate below the threshold is within the current experimental technology. We believe topological error correction should be a critical ingredient for the future large-scale quantum computation.

id: 0905.1544
title: Detect genuine multipartite entanglement in the one-dimensional transverse-field Ising model
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Shi-Jian Gu, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 4pages, any comment is welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1544
abstract: Recently Seevinck and Uffink argued that genuine multipartite entanglement (GME) had not been established in the experiments designed to confirm GME. In this paper, we use the Bell-type inequalities introduced by Seevinck and Svetlichny [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{89}, 060401 (2002)] to investigate the GME problem in the one-dimensional transverse-field Ising model. We show explicitly that the ground states of this model violate the inequality when the external transverse magnetic field is weak, which indicate that the ground states in this model with weak magnetic field are fully entangled. Since this model can be simulated with nuclear magnetic resonance, our results provide a fresh approach to experimental test of GME.

id: 0905.1560
title: Entanglement induced transparency and applications
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032329 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1560
abstract: We point out a symmetry exhibited by pairs of entangled states and discuss its possible applications in quantum information. More specifically, we consider quadripartite systems prepared in bipartite product states of the form $|\Psi> = |\psi>_{12} \otimes |\psi>_{34}$ and let the uncorrelated subsystems 14 and 23 interact by a given unitary $U_{14}\otimes U_{23}$: we show that the entanglement between the noninteracting subsystems 12 and 34 may induce transparency, i.e. makes $|\Psi>$ an eigenstate of the unitary. We investigate the occurrence of this phenomenon both in continuous variable and qubit systems, and discuss its possible applications to bath engineering, double swapping and remote inversion.

id: 0905.1576
title: Pulse shape effects on photon-photon interactions in non-linear optical quantum gates
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Hitoshi Nishitani
comments: 11 pages, including 5 figures and 1 table; improved figures and additional discussion on relation to entangled two photon wavefunctions dynamics. Final version for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013822 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1576
abstract: Ideally, strong non-linearities could be used to implement quantum gates for photonic qubits by well controlled two photon interactions. However, the dependence of the non-linear interaction on frequency and time makes it difficult to preserve a coherent pulse shape that could justify a single mode model for the time-frequency degree of freedom of the photons. In this paper, we analyze the problem of temporal multi-mode effects by considering the pulse shape of the average output field obtained from a coherent input pulse. It is shown that a significant part of the two photon state transformation can be derived from this semi-classical description of the optical non-linearity. The effect of a non-linear system on a two photon state can then be determined from the density matrix dynamics of the coherently driven system using input-output theory. As an example, the resonant non-linearity of a single two level atom is characterized. The results indicate that the most efficient non-linear effect may not be the widely studied single mode phase shift, but the transfer of one of the photons to an orthogonal mode distinguished by its temporal and spectral properties.

id: 0905.1596
title: Post-adiabatic forces and Lagrangians with higher-order derivatives
authors: A.E. Allahverdyan, B. Mehmani
comments: Submitted to Journal of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1596
abstract: We study a slow classical system [particle] coupled to a fast quantum system with discrete energy spectrum. We adiabatically exclude the quantum system and construct an autonomous dynamics for the classical particle in successive orders of the small ratio $\epsilon$ of the characteristic times. It is known that in the order $\epsilon^0$ the particle gets an additional [Born-Oppenheimer] potential, while in the order $\eps^1$ it feels an effective magnetic field related to the Berry phase. In the order $\epsilon^2$ the motion of the classical particle can be reduced to a free [geodesic] motion on a curved Riemannian manifold, with the metric generated by the excluded quantum system. This motion has a number of unusual features, e.g., it combines subspaces of different (Riemannian and pseudo-Riemannian) signature for the metric tensor. In the order $\epsilon^3$ the motion of the classical particle is still described by a Lagrangian, but the latter linearly depends on the particle's acceleration. This implies the existence of a spin tensor [non-orbital angular momentum] for the particle. This spin tensor is related to the momentum via an analogue of the zitterbewegung effect. The Hamiltonian structure of the system is non-trivial and is defined via non-linear Poisson brackets. The linear dependence of the effective classical Lagrangian on higher-order derivatives is seen as well in the higher orders $\epsilon^n$.

id: 0905.1661
title: Sharing classical secrets with CSS codes
authors: Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli, Andreas Klappenecker
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022321 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1661
abstract: In this paper we investigate the use of quantum information to share classical secrets. While every quantum secret sharing scheme is a quantum error correcting code, the converse is not true. Motivated by this we sought to find quantum codes which can be converted to secret sharing schemes. If we are interested in sharing classical secrets using quantum information, then we show that a class of pure $[[n,1,d]]_q$ CSS codes can be converted to perfect secret sharing schemes. These secret sharing schemes are perfect in the sense the unauthorized parties do not learn anything about the secret. Gottesman had given conditions to test whether a given subset is an authorized or unauthorized set; they enable us to determine the access structure of quantum secret sharing schemes. For the secret sharing schemes proposed in this paper the access structure can be characterized in terms of minimal codewords of the classical code underlying the CSS code. This characterization of the access structure for quantum secret sharing schemes is thought to be new.

id: 0905.1723
title: Mutually Unbiased Bases and Complementary Spin 1 Observables
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Wawrzyniec Kaszub, Mikolaj Czechlewski
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, comments welcome
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Teor. J. 43, 265303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1723
abstract: The two observables are complementary if they cannot be measured simultaneously, however they become maximally complementary if their eigenstates are mutually unbiased. Only then the measurement of one observable gives no information about the other observable. The spin projection operators onto three mutually orthogonal directions are maximally complementary only for the spin 1/2. For the higher spin numbers they are no longer unbiased. In this work we examine the properties of spin 1 Mutually Unbiased Bases (MUBs) and look for the physical meaning of the corresponding operators. We show that if the computational basis is chosen to be the eigenbasis of the spin projection operator onto some direction z, the states of the other MUBs have to be squeezed. Then, we introduce the analogs of momentum and position operators and interpret what information about the spin vector the observer gains while measuring them. Finally, we study the generation and the measurement of MUBs states by introducing the Fourier like transform through spin squeezing. The higher spin numbers are also considered.

id: 0905.1750
title: Relativistic Ladder Operators for the Three-Dimensional Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Robert J. Ducharme
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1750
abstract: The quantum constraint equations for a relativistic three-dimensional harmonic oscillator are shown to find concise expression in terms of Lorentz covariant ladder operators. These ladder operators consist of two conjugate 4-vectors that are each constrained to generate three linearly independent combinations of ladder operator components for raising and lowering the eigenstates of the oscillator. Correspondence to the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the harmonic oscillator in the non-relativistic limit is demonstrated.

id: 0905.1754
title: Complex Acquisition of the Fourier Transform Imaging of an Arbitrary Object
authors: Minghui Zhang, Jianfei Xu, Xianfu Wang
comments: Welcome Comments
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 82, 043839 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1754
abstract: A scheme to a complex-valued acquisition of the Fourier transform imaging was proposed. The main idea is to project the real and the imaginary parts of a diffraction field to intensity distributions respectively. The whole procedure was algorithm independent and needs no a priori knowledge of an arbitrary objet. An example was demonstrated with a numerical modeling and its results.

id: 0905.1792
title: Probabilistic model of fault detection in quantum circuits
authors: Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1792
abstract: It is shown that the fault testing for quantum circuits does not follow conventional classical techniques. If probabilistic gate like Hadamard gate is included in a circuit then the classical notion of test vector is shown to fail. We have reported several new and distinguishing features of quantum fault and also presented a general methodology for detection of functional faults in a quantum circuit. The technique can generate test vectors for detection of different kinds of fault. Specific examples are given and time complexity of the proposed quantum fault detection algorithm is reported.

id: 0905.1849
title: A Question: Quantum Critical Phenomena in XY Spin-Chain Systems With Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya Interactions
authors: Chuan-Jia Shan, Wei-Wen Cheng, Ji-Bing Liu, Tang-Kun Liu, Yan-Xia Huang, Hong Li
comments: 3pages, 0 figures, any comment will welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1849
abstract: Jordan-Wigner transformation and Bogolyubov transformation are the main steps of the diagonalization of Hamiltonian and paly an important role in the statistical mechanics calculations for one-dimensional Heisenberg spin chain model. Many methods can be exploited as a tool to detect quantum phase transition, regions of criticality and scaling behavior in the vicinity of a quantum phase transition, such as geometric phase, fidelity susceptibility, order parameter, and entanglement entropy, which have direct relation with Bogolyubov transformation. We diagonalized the Hamiltonian in XY spin-chain systems with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interactions, the results shows that only the energy spectrum but not the coefficients of the Bogolyubov transformation depends on DM interaction. Therefore, the DM interaction may not influence the critical magnetic field of quantum phase transitions and not induce new critical regions in the XY spin model. Moreover, we further prove the ideas by the methods of geometric phases in this model.

id: 0905.1867
title: Quantum measurement with chaotic apparatus
authors: M. J. Everitt, W. J. Munro, T. P. Spiller
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010) 2809-2815
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1867
abstract: We study a dissipative quantum mechanical model of the projective measurement of a qubit. We demonstrate how a correspondence limit, damped quantum oscillator can realise chaotic-like or periodic trajectories that emerge in sympathy with the projection of the qubit state, providing a model of the measurement process.

id: 0905.1900
title: Blind spots between quantum states
authors: Eduardo Zambrano, Alfredo M Ozorio de Almeida
comments: 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 113044 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1900
abstract: The overlap of a large quantum state with its image, under tiny translations, oscillates swiftly. We here show that complete orthogonality occurs generically at isolated points. Decoherence, in the Markovian approximation, lifts the correlation minima from zero much more quickly than the Wigner function is smoothed into a positive phase space distribution. In the case of a superposition of coherent states, blind spots depend strongly on positions and amplitudes of the components, but they are only weakly affected by relative phases and the various degrees and directions of squeezing. The blind spots for coherent state triplets are special in that they lie close to an hexagonal lattice: Further superpositions of translated triplets, specified by nodes of one of the sublattices, are quasi-orthogonal to the original triplet and to any state, likewise constructed on the other sublattice.

id: 0905.2030
title: Performance of Quantum Key Distribution Protocol with Dual-Rail Displaced Photon States
authors: Sergey A. Podoshvedov
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2030
abstract: We propose a scheme for quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol with dual-rail displaced photon states. Displaced single photon states carry bit value of code which may be extracted while coherent states carry nothing and they only provide inconclusive outcome. Developed QKD protocol works with experimental attendant noise to observe presence of malicious Eve. Pulses with large amplitudes unlike conventional QKD relying on faint laser pulses are used that may approximate it to standard telecommunication communication and may show resistance to eavesdropping even in settings with high attenuation. Information leakage to the eavesdropper is determined from comparison of output distribution of the outcomes with ideal one that is defined by two additional inaccessible to nobody, saving for who sends the pulses, parameters. Robustness to some possible eavesdropping attacks is shown.

id: 0905.2037
title: On Entangled Multi-particle Systems in Bohmian Theory
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 7 pages
journal: Advanced Science Letters, vol 2, pages 97-99, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2037
abstract: Arguments are presented to show that in the case of entangled systems there are certain difficulties in implementing the usual Bohmian interpretation of the wave function in a straightforward manner. Specific examples are given.

id: 0905.2094
title: The geometric measure of multipartite entanglement and the singular values of a hypermatrix
authors: Joseph J. Hilling, Anthony Sudbery
comments: 18 pages. Significant correction made; our results now agree with those of Tamaryan et al
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 072102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2094
abstract: It is shown that the geometric measure of entanglement of a pure multipartite state satisfies a polynomial equation, generalising the characteristic equation of the matrix of coefficients of a bipartite state. The equation is solved for a class of three-qubit states.

id: 0905.2101
title: Quantum Teleportation
authors: D.A. Slavnov
comments: 17 pages, 5 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2101
abstract: In the framework of an algebraic approach, we consider a quantum teleportation procedure. It turns out that using the quantum measurement nonlocality hypothesis is unnecessary for describing this procedure. We study the question of what material objects are information carriers for quantum teleportation.

id: 0905.2103
title: Experimental Realization of a Controlled-NOT Gate with Four-Photon Six-Qubit Cluster States
authors: Wei-Bo Gao, Ping Xu, Xing-Can Yao, Otfried G¨¹hne, Ad¨¢n Cabello, Chao-Yang Lu, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, typos corrected, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 020501 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2103
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate an optical controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate with arbitrary single inputs based on a 4-photon 6-qubit cluster state entangled both in polarization and spatial modes. We first generate the 6-qubit state, and then by performing single-qubit measurements the CNOT gate is applied to arbitrary single input qubits. To characterize the performance of the gate, we estimate its quantum process fidelity and prove its entangling capability. The results show that the gate cannot be reproduced by local operations and classical communication. Our experiment shows that cluster states are promising candidates for efficient optical quantum computation.

id: 0905.2123
title: Correlations in local measurements on a quantum state, and complementarity as an explanation of nonclassicality
authors: Shengjun Wu, Uffe V. Poulsen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, references added
journal: Phys Rev A 80, 032319 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2123
abstract: We consider the classical correlations that two observers can extract by measurements on a bipartite quantum state, and we discuss how they are related to the quantum mutual information of the state. We show with several examples how complementarity gives rise to a gap between the quantum and the classical correlations, and we relate our quantitative finding to the so-called classical correlation locked in a quantum state. We derive upper bounds for the sum of classical correlation obtained by measurements in different mutually unbiased bases and we show that the complementarity gap is also present in the deterministic quantum computation with one quantum bit.

id: 0905.2182
title: Many Worlds in Context
authors: Max Tegmark
comments: Replaced to match published version. 16 pages, 2 figs, 1 quantum poll. In "Many Worlds? Everett, Quantum Theory and Reality", S. Saunders, J. Barrett, A. Kent & D. Wallace (eds), Oxford Univ. Press (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2182
abstract: Everett's Many-Worlds Interpretation of quantum mechanics is discussed in the context of other physics disputes and other proposed kinds of parallel universes. We find that only a small fraction of the usual objections to Everett's theory are specific to quantum mechanics, and that all of the most controversial issues crop up also in settings that have nothing to do with quantum mechanics.

id: 0905.2199
title: Sampling from the thermal quantum Gibbs state and evaluating partition functions with a quantum computer
authors: David Poulin, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 220502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2199
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm to prepare the thermal Gibbs state of interacting quantum systems. This algorithm sets a universal upper bound D^alpha on the thermalization time of a quantum system, where D is the system's Hilbert space dimension and alpha < 1/2 is proportional to the Helmholtz free energy density of the system. We also derive an algorithm to evaluate the partition function of a quantum system in a time proportional to the system's thermalization time and inversely proportional to the targeted accuracy squared.

id: 0905.2246
title: Quantum Knitting Computer
authors: Toshiyuki Fujii, Shigemasa Matsuo, Noriyuki Hatakenaka
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2246
abstract: We propose a fluxon-controlled quantum computer incorporated with three-qubit quantum error correction using special gate operations, i.e., joint-phase and SWAP gate operations, inherent in capacitively coupled superconducting flux qubits. The proposed quantum computer acts exactly like a knitting machine at home.

id: 0905.2261
title: Master equation approach to line shape in dissipative systems
authors: Chikako Uchiyama, Masaki Aihara, Mizuhiko Saeki, Seiji Miyashita
comments: 12 Figures, to be appeared in Physical Review E Typos are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2261
abstract: We propose a formulation to obtain the line shape of a magnetic response with dissipative effects that directly reflects the nature of the environment. Making use of the fact that the time evolution of a response function is described by the same equation as the reduced density operator, we formulate a full description of the complex susceptibility. We describe the dynamics using the equation of motion for the reduced density operator, including the term for the initial correlation between the system and a thermal bath. In this formalism, we treat the full description of non-Markovian dynamics, including the initial correlation. We present an explicit and compact formula up to the second order of cumulants, which can be applied in a straightforward way to multiple spin systems. We also take into account the frequency shift by the system-bath interaction. We study the dependence of the line shape on the type of interaction between the system and the thermal bath. We demonstrate that the present formalism is a powerful tool for investigating various kinds of systems, and we show how it is applied to spin systems, including those with up to three spins. We distinguish the contributions of the initial correlation and the frequency shift, and make clear the role of each contribution in the Ohmic coupling spectral function. As examples of applications to multispin systems, we obtain the dependence of the line shape on the spatial orientation in relation to the direction of the static field (Nagata-Tazuke effect), including the effects of the thermal environment, in a two-spin system, along with the dependence on the arrangement of a triangle in a three-spin system.

id: 0905.2270
title: Relative quantum phase, $m$-tangle, and multi-local Lorentz-group invariant
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 6 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing: Volume 9, Issue 2 (2010), Page 233
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2270
abstract: In this paper we establish a relation between quantum relative phase, $m$-tangle, and multi-local Lorentz-group invariant or $SL(2,\mathbb{C})^{\times m}$-invariant $S^{2}_{(m)}$. Our construction is based on the orthogonal complement of a positive operator valued measure on quantum phase. In particular, we propose a quantity based on the quantum relative phase of a multi-qubit operator that coincides with $m$-tangle, and multi-local Lorentz-group invariant.

id: 0905.2275
title: Bohrification of operator algebras and quantum logic
authors: Chris Heunen, Nicolaas P. Landsman, Bas Spitters
comments: 31 pages
journal: Synthese 186(3):719--752, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2275
abstract: Following Birkhoff and von Neumann, quantum logic has traditionally been based on the lattice of closed linear subspaces of some Hilbert space, or, more generally, on the lattice of projections in a von Neumann algebra A. Unfortunately, the logical interpretation of these lattices is impaired by their nondistributivity and by various other problems. We show that a possible resolution of these difficulties, suggested by the ideas of Bohr, emerges if instead of single projections one considers elementary propositions to be families of projections indexed by a partially ordered set C(A) of appropriate commutative subalgebras of A. In fact, to achieve both maximal generality and ease of use within topos theory, we assume that A is a so-called Rickart C*-algebra and that C(A) consists of all unital commutative Rickart C*-subalgebras of A. Such families of projections form a Heyting algebra in a natural way, so that the associated propositional logic is intuitionistic: distributivity is recovered at the expense of the law of the excluded middle. Subsequently, generalizing an earlier computation for n-by-n matrices, we prove that the Heyting algebra thus associated to A arises as a basis for the internal Gelfand spectrum (in the sense of Banaschewski-Mulvey) of the "Bohrification" of A, which is a commutative Rickart C*-algebra in the topos of functors from C(A) to the category of sets. We explain the relationship of this construction to partial Boolean algebras and Bruns-Lakser completions. Finally, we establish a connection between probability measure on the lattice of projections on a Hilbert space H and probability valuations on the internal Gelfand spectrum of A for A = B(H).

id: 0905.2292
title: Information Causality as a Physical Principle
authors: M. Pawlowski, T. Paterek, D. Kaszlikowski, V. Scarani, A. Winter, M. Zukowski
comments: This version of the paper is as close to the published one as legally possible
journal: Nature 461, 1101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2292
abstract: Quantum physics exhibits remarkable distinguishing characteristics. For example, it gives only probabilistic predictions (non-determinism) and does not allow copying of unknown state (no-cloning). Quantum correlations may be stronger than any classical ones, nevertheless information cannot be transmitted faster than light (no-signaling). However, all these features do not single out quantum physics. A broad class of theories exist which share such traits with quantum mechanics, while they allow even stronger than quantum correlations. Here, we introduce the principle of Information Causality. It states that information that Bob can gain about a previously completely unknown to him data set of Alice, by using all his local resources (which may be correlated with her resources) and a classical communication from her, is bounded by the information volume of the communication. In other words, if Alice communicates m bits to Bob, the total information access that Bob gains to her data is not greater than m. For m=0, Information Causality reduces to the standard no-signaling principle. We show that this new principle is respected both in classical and quantum physics, whereas it is violated by all the no-signaling correlations which are stronger that the strongest quantum correlations. Maximally strong no-signalling correlations would allow Bob access to any m bit subset of the whole data set held by Alice. If only one bit is sent by Alice (m=1), this is tantamount to Bob being able to access the value of any single bit of Alice's data (but of course not all of them). We suggest that Information Causality, a generalization of no-signaling, might be one of the foundational properties of Nature.

id: 0905.2313
title: Random quantum channels I: graphical calculus and the Bell state phenomenon
authors: Beno?t Collins, Ion Nechita
comments: Several typos were corrected
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics 297, 2 (2010) 345-370
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2313
abstract: This paper is the first of a series where we study quantum channels from the random matrix point of view. We develop a graphical tool that allows us to compute the expected moments of the output of a random quantum channel. As an application, we study variations of random matrix models introduced by Hayden \cite{hayden}, and show that their eigenvalues converge almost surely. In particular we obtain for some models sharp improvements on the value of the largest eigenvalue, and this is shown in a further work to have new applications to minimal output entropy inequalities.

id: 0905.2320
title: Classical and Quantum Theory with a New Symmetry
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2320
abstract: A formal symmetry between generalized coordinates and momenta is postulated to formulate classical and quantum theories of a particle coupled to an Abelian gauge field. It is shown that the symmetry (a) requires the field to have dynamic degrees of freedom and to be a connection in a non-flat space-time manifold, and (b) leads to a quantum theory free of the measurement problem. It is speculated that gravitomagnetism could be a possible source of the gauge field.

id: 0905.2376
title: Quantum Adiabatic Brachistochrone
authors: A.T. Rezakhani, W.-J. Kuo, A. Hamma, D.A. Lidar, P. Zanardi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 080502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2376
abstract: We formulate a time-optimal approach to adiabatic quantum computation (AQC). A corresponding natural Riemannian metric is also derived, through which AQC can be understood as the problem of finding a geodesic on the manifold of control parameters. This geometrization of AQC is demonstrated through two examples, where we show that it leads to improved performance of AQC, and sheds light on the roles of entanglement and curvature of the control manifold in algorithmic performance.

id: 0905.2405
title: Evolution of the wave function of an atom hit by a photon in a three-grating interferometer
authors: D. Arsenovic, M. Bozic, A. S. Sanz, M. Davidovic
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T135, 14025 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2405
abstract: In 1995, Chapman et al. (1995 Phys. Rev. Lett. 75 2783) showed experimentally that the interference contrast in a three-grating atom interferometer does not vanish under the presence of scattering events with photons, as required by the complementarity principle. In this work we provide an analytical study of this experiment, determining the evolution of the atom wave function along the three-grating Mach-Zehnder interferometer under the assumption that the atom is hit by a photon after passing through the first grating. The consideration of a transverse wave function in momentum representation is essential in this study. As is shown, the number of atoms transmitted through the third grating is given by a simple periodic function of the lateral shift along this grating, both in the absence and in the presence of photon scattering. Moreover, the relative contrast (laser on/laser off) is shown to be a simple analytical function of the ratio d_p/\lambda_i, where d_p is the distance between atomic paths at the scattering locus and \lambda_i the scattered photon wavelength. We argue that this dependence, being in agreement with experimental results, can be regarded to show compatibility of the wave and corpuscle properties of atoms.

id: 0905.2419
title: The Quantum and Classical Complexity of Translationally Invariant Tiling and Hamiltonian Problems
authors: Daniel Gottesman, Sandy Irani
comments: 67 pages, approximately 6 gazillion figures. v2 has new results proving hardness for reflection-invariant quantum and classical systems and a discussion of the infinite quantum chain
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2419
abstract: We study the complexity of a class of problems involving satisfying constraints which remain the same under translations in one or more spatial directions. In this paper, we show hardness of a classical tiling problem on an N x N 2-dimensional grid and a quantum problem involving finding the ground state energy of a 1-dimensional quantum system of N particles. In both cases, the only input is N, provided in binary. We show that the classical problem is NEXP-complete and the quantum problem is QMA_EXP-complete. Thus, an algorithm for these problems which runs in time polynomial in N (exponential in the input size) would imply that EXP = NEXP or BQEXP = QMA_EXP, respectively. Although tiling in general is already known to be NEXP-complete, to our knowledge, all previous reductions require that either the set of tiles and their constraints or some varying boundary conditions be given as part of the input. In the problem considered here, these are fixed, constant-sized parameters of the problem. Instead, the problem instance is encoded solely in the size of the system.

id: 0905.2448
title: Infinite operator-sum representation of density operator for a dissipative cavity with Kerr medium derived by virtue of entangled state representation
authors: Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 6 pages, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2448
abstract: By using the thermo entangled state representation we solve the master equation for a dissipative cavity with Kerr medium to obtain density operators' infinite operator-sum representation}$\rho (t) =\sum_{m,n,l=0}^{\infty}M_{m,n,l}\rho_{0}\mathcal{M}_{m,n,l}^{\dagger}.$ It is noticeable that}$M_{m,n,l}$ is not hermite conjugate to $\mathcal{M}_{m,n,l}^{\dagger}$, nevertheless the normalization}$\sum_{m,n,l=0}^{\infty}\mathcal{M}_{nm,,l}^{\dagger}M_{m,n,l}=1$ still holds}, i.e., they are trace-preserving in a general sense. This example may stimulate further studying if general superoperator theory needs modification.

id: 0905.2462
title: Storage of polarization-encoded cluster states in an atomic system
authors: Chun-Hua Yuan, Li-Qing Chen, Weiping Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052342 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2462
abstract: We present a scheme for entanglement macroscopic atomic ensembles which are four spatially separate regions of an atomic cloud using cluster-correlated beams. We show that the cluster-type polarization-encoded entanglement could be mapped onto the long-lived collective ground state of the atomic ensembles, and the stored entanglement could be retrieved based on the technique of electromagnetically induced transparency. We also discuss the efficiency of, the lifetime of, and some quantitative restrictions to the proposed quantum memory.

id: 0905.2467
title: Quantum entanglement: geometric quantification and applications to multi-partite states and quantum phase transitions
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: PhD Thesis, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (Oct. 2004); although almost outdated, some details not published previously may still be useful
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2467
abstract: The degree to which a pure quantum state is entangled can be characterized by the distance or angle to the nearest unentangled state. This geometric measure of entanglement is explored for bi-partite and multi-partite pure and mixed states. It is determined analytically for arbitrary two-qubit mixed states, generalized Werner, and isotropic states, and is also applied to certain multi-partite mixed states, including two distinct multi-partite bound entangled states. Moreover, the ground-state entanglement of the XY model in a transverse field is calculated and shown to exhibit singular behavior near the quantum critical line. Along the way, connections are pointed out between the geometric measure of entanglement, the Hartree approximation, entanglement witnesses, correlation functions, and the relative entropy of entanglement.

id: 0905.2490
title: Coherent Tunneling Adiabatic Passage with the Alternating Coupling Scheme
authors: Lenneke M. Jong, Andrew D. Greentree, Vincent I. Conrad, Lloyd C.L Hollenberg, David N.Jamieson
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, minor revisions
journal: Nanotechnology 20 (2009) 405402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2490
abstract: The use of adiabatic passage techniques to mediate particle transport through real space, rather than phase space is becoming an interesting possibility. We have investigated the properties of Coherent Tunneling Adiabatic Passage (CTAP) with alternating tunneling matrix elements. This geometry, not previously considered in the donor in silicon paradigm, provides an interesting route to long-range quantum transport. We introduce simplified coupling protocols, and transient eigenspectra as well as a realistic gate design for this transport protocol. Using a pairwise treatment of the tunnel couplings for a 5 donor device with 30nm donor spacings, 120nm total chain length, we estimate the time scale required for adiabatic operation to be ~70ns, a time well within measured electron spin and estimated charge relaxation and times for phosphorus donors in silicon.

id: 0905.2495
title: A Simple "Quantum Interrogation" Method
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure; accepted for publication in Advanced Science Letters; added an Acknowledgement section at the end and corrected typos
journal: Advanced Science Letters vol. 3 pp 93-95, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2495
abstract: A simple non-interferometric "quantum interrogation" method is proposed which uses evanescent wave sensing with frustrated total internal reflection on a surface. The simple method has the advantage over the original interferometric Elitzur-Vaidman method of being able to detect objects that are neither black nor non-diffracting and that are such that they cannot be introduced into an arm of an interferometer for whatever reason (e.g. its size, sensitivity, etc.). The method is intrinsically of high efficiency.

id: 0905.2496
title: Discrimination of Optical Coherent States using a Photon Number Resolving Detector
authors: Christoffer Wittmann, Ulrik L. Andersen, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2496
abstract: The discrimination of non-orthogonal quantum states with reduced or without errors is a fundamental task in quantum measurement theory. In this work, we investigate a quantum measurement strategy capable of discriminating two coherent states probabilistically with significantly smaller error probabilities than can be obtained using non-probabilistic state discrimination. We find that appropriate postselection of the measurement data of a photon number resolving detector can be used to discriminate two coherent states with small error probability. We compare our new receiver to an optimal intermediate measurement between minimum error discrimination and unambiguous state discrimination.

id: 0905.2569
title: Dephasing of qubits by the Schr?dinger cat
authors: J. Dajka, M. Mierzejewski, J. Luczka, P. Hanggi
comments: Physica E (accepted)
journal: Physica E 42, 374-377 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2569
abstract: We study the dephasing of a single qubit coupled to a bosonic bath. In particular, we investigate the case when the bath is initially prepared in a pure state known as the Schr\"odinger cat. In clear contradistinction to the time-evolution of an initial coherent state, the time evolutions of the purity and the coherence factor now depend on the particular choice of the Schr\"odinger cat state. We also demonstrate that the evolution of the entanglement of a two--qubit system depends on the initial conditions in a similar way.

id: 0905.2593
title: Simulation of a quantum phase transition of polaritons with trapped ions
authors: P. A. Ivanov, S. S. Ivanov, N. V. Vitanov, A. Mering, M. Fleischhauer, K. Singer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2593
abstract: We present a novel system for the simulation of quantum phase transitions of collective internal qubit and phononic states with a linear crystal of trapped ions. The laser-ion interaction creates an energy gap in the excitation spectrum, which induces an effective phonon-phonon repulsion and a Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard interaction. This system shows features equivalent to phase transitions of polaritons in coupled cavity arrays. Trapped ions allow for easy tunabilty of the hopping frequency by adjusting the axial trapping frequency, and the phonon-phonon repulsion via the laser detuning and intensity. We propose an experimental protocol to access all observables of the system, which allows one to obtain signatures of the quantum phase transitions even with a small number of ions.

id: 0905.2648
title: Statistical properties and decoherence of two-mode photon-subtracted squeezed vacuum
authors: Li-yun Hu, Xue-xiang, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 17 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2648
abstract: We investigate the statistical properties of the photon-subtractions from the two-mode squeezed vacuum state and its decoherence in a thermal environment. It is found that the state can be considered as a squeezed two-variable Hermite polynomial excitation vacuum and the normalization of this state is the Jacobi polynomial of the squeezing parameter. The compact expression for Wigner function (WF) is also derived analytically by using the Weyl ordered operators' invariance under similar transformations. Especially, the nonclassicality is discussed in terms of the negativity of WF. The effect of decoherence on this state is then discussed by deriving the analytical time evolution results of WF. It is shown that the WF is always positive for any squeezing parameter and photon-subtraction number if the decay time exceeds an upper bound (}$\kappa t>{1/2}\ln \frac{2\bar{n}+2}{2\bar{n}+1}).

id: 0905.2673
title: One-shot rates for entanglement manipulation under non-entangling maps
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Nilanjana Datta
comments: 7 pages; no figures
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theo. 57, 1754 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2673
abstract: We obtain expressions for the optimal rates of one- shot entanglement manipulation under operations which generate a negligible amount of entanglement. As the optimal rates for entanglement distillation and dilution in this paradigm, we obtain the max- and min-relative entropies of entanglement, the two logarithmic robustnesses of entanglement, and smoothed versions thereof. This gives a new operational meaning to these entanglement measures. Moreover, by considering the limit of many identical copies of the shared entangled state, we partially recover the recently found reversibility of entanglement manipu- lation under the class of operations which asymptotically do not generate entanglement.

id: 0905.2723
title: Schr?dinger's cat meets Occam's razor
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2723
abstract: We discuss V.P. Belavkin's approach to the measurement problem encapsulated in his theory of eventum mechanics (as presented in his 2007 survey). In particular, we show its relation to ideas based on superselection and interaction with the environment developed by N.P. Landsman (1995, and more recent papers). Landsman writes "those believing that the classical world exists intrinsically and absolutely [such persons later termed by him B-realists] are advised against reading this [his, 1995] paper". He adopts a milder position, calling it that of an A-realist: we live in a classical world but to give it special status is like insisting that the Earth is the centre of the universe. The B-realists are accused of living under some kind of hallucination. Landsman presents arguments pointing in a particular direction to a resolution of the measurement problem which at least would satisfy the A-realists. We point out in this paper that the theory earlier developed by Belavkin (surveyed in his 2007 paper) seems to complete Landsman's program or at least exhibits a "realisation" satisfying his desiderata. At the same time it seems that this completion of the program ends up giving both A- and B-realists equal licence to accuse the others of living under hallucinations.

id: 0905.2726
title: Splitting the Topological Degeneracy of non-Abelian Anyons
authors: Parsa Bonderson
comments: 5 pages; v2 clarifying changes and corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 110403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2726
abstract: We examine tunneling of topological charge between non-Abelian anyons as a perturbation of the long-range effective theory of a topologically ordered system. We obtain energy corrections in terms of the anyons' universal algebraic structure and non-universal tunneling amplitudes. We find that generic tunneling completely lifts the topological degeneracy of non-Abelian anyons. This degeneracy splitting is exponentially suppressed for long distances between anyons, but leaves no topological protection at shorter distances. We also show that general interactions of anyons can be expressed in terms of the transfer of topological charge, and thus can be treated effectively as tunneling interactions.

id: 0905.2741
title: Born-Oppenheimer approximation in open systems
authors: X. L. Huang, X. X. Yi
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 80, 032108(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2741
abstract: We generalize the standard Born-Oppenheimer approximation to the case of open quantum systems. We define the zeroth order Born-Oppenheimer approximation of an open quantum system as the regime in which its effective Hamiltonian can be diagonalized with fixed slowly changing variables. We then establish validity and invalidity conditions for this approximation for two kinds of dissipations--the spin relaxation and the dissipation of center-of-mass motion. As an example, the Born-Oppenheimer approximation of a two-level open system is analyzed.

id: 0905.2784
title: Nano-manipulation of diamond-based single photon sources
authors: E. Ampem-Lassen, D. A. Simpson, B. C. Gibson, S. Trpkovski, F. M. Hossain, S. T. Huntington, K. Ganesan, L. C. L. Hollenberg, S. Prawer
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, 17, 11287, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2784
abstract: The ability to manipulate nano-particles at the nano-scale is critical for the development of active quantum systems. This paper presents a new technique to manipulate diamond nano-crystals at the nano-scale using a scanning electron microscope, nano-manipulator and custom tapered optical fibre probes. The manipulation of a ~ 300 nm diamond crystal, containing a single nitrogen-vacancy centre, onto the endface of an optical fibre is demonstrated. The emission properties of the single photon source post manipulation are in excellent agreement with those observed on the original substrate.

id: 0905.2794
title: Quantum Error Correction for Beginners
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Kae Nemoto, William J. Munro
comments: 35 pages, 25 Figures, Published version
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 76 (2013) 076001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2794
abstract: Quantum error correction (QEC) and fault-tolerant quantum computation represent one of the most vital theoretical aspect of quantum information processing. It was well known from the early developments of this exciting field that the fragility of coherent quantum systems would be a catastrophic obstacle to the development of large scale quantum computers. The introduction of quantum error correction in 1995 showed that active techniques could be employed to mitigate this fatal problem. However, quantum error correction and fault-tolerant computation is now a much larger field and many new codes, techniques, and methodologies have been developed to implement error correction for large scale quantum algorithms. In response, we have attempted to summarize the basic aspects of quantum error correction and fault-tolerance, not as a detailed guide, but rather as a basic introduction. This development in this area has been so pronounced that many in the field of quantum information, specifically researchers who are new to quantum information or people focused on the many other important issues in quantum computation, have found it difficult to keep up with the general formalisms and methodologies employed in this area. Rather than introducing these concepts from a rigorous mathematical and computer science framework, we instead examine error correction and fault-tolerance largely through detailed examples, which are more relevant to experimentalists today and in the near future.

id: 0905.2816
title: Quantum memory of a squeezed vacuum for arbitrary frequency sidebands
authors: Manabu Arikawa, Kazuhito Honda, Daisuke Akamatsu, Satoshi Nagatsuka, Akira Furusawa, Mikio Kozuma
comments: 4pages, 5figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 021605(R) (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2816
abstract: We have developed a quantum memory technique that is completely compatible with current quantum information processing for continuous variables of light, where arbitrary frequency sidebands of a squeezed vacuum can be stored and retrieved using bichromatic electromagnetic induced transparency. 2MHz sidebands of squeezed vacuum pulses with temporal widths of 470ns and a squeezing level of -1.78 +- 0.02dB were stored for 3us in the laser-cooled 87Rb atoms. -0.44 +- 0.02dB of squeezing was retrieved, which is the highest squeezing ever reported for a retrieved pulse.

id: 0905.2867
title: Rotational and vibrational diatomic molecule in the Klein-Gordon equation with hyperbolic scalar and vector potentials
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 25 pages, 2 Figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 20 (10) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2867
abstract: We present an approximate analytic solution of the Klein-Gordon equation in the presence of equal scalar and vector generalized deformed hyperbolic potential functions by means of parameteric generalization of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. We obtain the approximate bound state rotational-vibrational (ro-vibrational) energy levels and the corresponding normalized wave functions expressed in terms of the Jacobi polynomial for a spin-zero particle in a closed form. Special cases are studied including the non-relativistic solutions obtained by appropriate choice of parameters and also the s-wave solutions.

id: 0905.2879
title: Quantum and Classical Statistical Mechanics of a Class of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: H. F. Jones, E. S. Moreira Jr
comments: Title changed, to more accurately reflect content. Introduction expanded. References added
journal: J.Phys.A43:055307,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2879
abstract: This paper investigates the thermodynamics of a large class of non-Hermitian, $PT$-symmetric oscillators, whose energy spectrum is entirely real. The spectrum is estimated by second-order WKB approximation, which turns out to be very accurate even for small quantum numbers, and used to generate the quantum partition function. Graphs showing the thermal behavior of the entropy and the specific heat, at all regimes of temperature, are given. To obtain the corresponding classical partition function it turns out to be necessary in general to integrate over a complex "phase space". For the wrong-sign quartic, whose equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian is known exactly, it is demonstrated explicitly how this formulation arises, starting from the Hermitian case.

id: 0905.2885
title: Deterministic single-photon source from a single ion
authors: H G Barros, A Stute, T E Northup, C Russo, P O Schmidt, R Blatt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2885
abstract: We realize a deterministic single-photon source from one and the same calcium ion interacting with a high-finesse optical cavity. Photons are created in the cavity with efficiency (88 +- 17)%, a tenfold improvement over previous cavity-ion sources. Results of the second-order correlation function are presented, demonstrating a high suppression of two-photon events limited only by background counts. The cavity photon pulse shape is obtained, with good agreement between experiment and simulation. Moreover, theoretical analysis of the temporal evolution of the atomic populations provides relevant information about the dynamics of the process and opens the way to future investigations of a coherent atom-photon interface.

id: 0905.2910
title: Lossless anomalous dispersion and an inversionless gain doublet via dressed interacting ground states (DIGS)
authors: James Owen Weatherall, Christopher P. Search
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2910
abstract: Transparent media exhibiting anomalous dispersion have been of considerable interest since Wang, Kuzmich, and Dogariu [Nature {\bf 406}, 277 (2000)] first observed light propagate with superluminal and negative group velocities without absorption. Here, we propose an atomic model exhibiting these properties, based on a generalization of amplification without inversion in a five-level DIGS system. The system consists of a $\Lambda$ atom prepared as in standard electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT), with two additional metastable ground states coupled to the $\Lambda$ atom ground states by two RF/microwave fields. We consider two configurations by which population is incoherently pumped into the ground states of the atom. Under appropriate circumstances, we predict a pair of new gain lines with tunable width, separation, and height. Between these lines, absorption vanishes but dispersion is large and anomalous. The system described here is a significant improvement over other proposals in the anomalous dispersion literature in that it permits additional coherent control over the spectral properties of the anomalous region, including a possible $10^4$-fold increase over the group delay observed by Wang, Kuzmich, and Dogariu.

id: 0905.2915
title: Concavity of the quantum body for any given dimension
authors: K.F. P¨¢l, T. V¨¦rtesi
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042114 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2915
abstract: Let us consider the set of all joint probabilities generated by local binary measurements on two separated quantum systems of a given local dimension d. We address the question of whether the shape of this quantum body is convex or not. We construct a point in the space of joint probabilities, which is on the convex hull of the local polytope, but still cannot be attained by measuring d-dimensional quantum systems, if the number of measurement settings is large enough. From this it follows that this body is not convex. We also show that for finite d the quantum body with POVM allowed may contain points that can not be achieved with only projective measurements.

id: 0905.2931
title: Ultrashort dead time of photon-counting InGaAs avalanche photodiodes
authors: A. R. Dixon, J. F. Dynes, Z. L. Yuan, A. W. Sharpe, A. J. Bennett, A. J. Shields
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Updated to published version
journal: Appl.Phys.Lett.94:231113,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2931
abstract: We report a 1.036 GHz gated Geiger mode InGaAs avalanche photodiode with a detection dead time of just 1.93 ns. This is demonstrated by full recovery of the detection efficiency two gate cycles after a detection event, as well as a measured maximum detection rate of 497 MHz. As an application, we measure the second order correlation function $g^{(2)}$ of the emission from a diode laser with a single detector which works reliably at high speed owing to the extremely short dead time of the detector. The device is ideal for high bit rate fiber wavelength quantum key distribution and photonic quantum computing.

id: 0905.2933
title: Phase-controlled integrated photonic quantum circuits
authors: Brian J. Smith, Dmytro Kundys, Nicholas Thomas-Peter, P. G. R. Smith, I. A. Walmsley
comments: Published version with minor changes
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17 Issue 16, pp.13516-13525 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2933
abstract: Scalable photonic quantum technologies are based on multiple nested interferometers. To realize this architecture, integrated optical structures are needed to ensure stable, controllable, and repeatable operation. Here we show a key proof-of-principle demonstration of an externally-controlled photonic quantum circuit based upon UV-written waveguide technology. In particular, we present non-classical interference of photon pairs in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer constructed with X couplers in an integrated optical circuit with a thermo-optic phase shifter in one of the interferometer arms.

id: 0905.2942
title: Quantum stochastic walks: A generalization of classical random walks and quantum walks
authors: C¨¦sar A. Rodr¨ªguez-Rosario, James D. Whitfield, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. Video Abstract: this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022323 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2942
abstract: We introduce the quantum stochastic walk (QSW), which determines the evolution of generalized quantum mechanical walk on a graph that obeys a quantum stochastic equation of motion. Using an axiomatic approach, we specify the rules for all possible quantum, classical and quantum-stochastic transitions from a vertex as defined by its connectivity. We show how the family of possible QSWs encompasses both the classical random walk (CRW) and the quantum walk (QW) as special cases, but also includes more general probability distributions. As an example, we study the QSW on a line, the QW to CRW transition and transitions to genearlized QSWs that go beyond the CRW and QW. QSWs provide a new framework to the study of quantum algorithms as well as of quantum walks with environmental effects.

id: 0905.2948
title: Quantum-classical interactions and measurement: a consistent description using statistical ensembles on configuration space
authors: M Reginatto, M J W Hall
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. To appear in the proceedings of the DICE2008 conference, Castiglioncello, Tuscany, Italy, 22-26 Sep. 2008
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 174 (2009) 012038 (8pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2948
abstract: We provide an overview of a canonical formalism that describes mixed quantum-classical systems in terms of statistical ensembles on configuration space, and discuss applications to measurement theory. It is shown that the formalism allows a general description of the measurement of a quantum system by a classical apparatus without running into inconsistencies. An example of classical and quantum particles interacting gravitationally is also given.

id: 0905.2950
title: A linear program for testing local realism
authors: Matthew B. Elliott
comments: 9 pages, single column
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2950
abstract: We present a linear program that is capable of determining whether a set of correlations can be captured by a local realistic model. If the correlations can be described by such a model, the linear program outputs a joint probability distribution that produces the given correlations. If the correlations cannot be described under the assumption of local realism, the program outputs a Bell inequality violated by the correlations.

id: 0905.2961
title: Microwave whispering gallery resonator for efficient optical up-conversion
authors: D. V. Strekalov, H. G. L. Schwefel, A. A. Savchenkov, A. B. Matsko, L. J. Wang, N. Yu
comments: See also arXiv:0807.5098v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2961
abstract: Conversion of microwave radiation into the optical range has been predicted to reach unity quantum efficiency in whispering gallery resonators made from an optically nonlinear crystal and supporting microwave and optical modes simultaneously. In this work we theoretically explore and experimentally demonstrate a resonator geometry that can provide the required phase matching for such a conversion at any desired frequency in the sub-THz range. We show that such a ring-shaped resonator not only allows for the phase matching, but also maximizes the overlap of the interacting fields. As a result, unity-efficient conversion is expected in a resonator with feasible parameters.

id: 0905.2994
title: Fiber-coupled semiconductor waveguides as an efficient optical interface to a single quantum dipole
authors: Marcelo Davanco, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 34 Issue 16, pp.2542-2544 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2994
abstract: We theoretically investigate the interaction of a single quantum dipole with the modes of a fiber-coupled semiconductor waveguide. Through a combination of tight modal confinement and phase-matched evanescent coupling, we predict that approximately 70 % of the dipole's emission can be collected into a single mode optical fiber. Calculations further show that the dipole strongly modifies resonant light transmission through the system, with over an order of magnitude change possible for an appropriate choice of fiber-waveguide coupler geometry.

id: 0905.2998
title: Measurements incompatible in Quantum Theory cannot be measured jointly in any other local theory
authors: Michael M. Wolf, David Perez-Garcia, Carlos Fernandez
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 230402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2998
abstract: It is well known that jointly measurable observables cannot lead to a violation of any Bell inequality - independent of the state and the measurements chosen at the other site. In this letter we prove the converse: every pair of incompatible quantum observables enables the violation of a Bell inequality and therefore must remain incompatible within any other no-signaling theory. While in the case of von Neumann measurements it is sufficient to use the same pair of observables at both sites, general measurements can require different choices. The main result is obtained by showing that for arbitrary dimension the CHSH inequality provides the Lagrangian dual of the characterization of joint measurability. This leads to a simple criterion for joint measurability beyond the known qubit case.

id: 0905.3010
title: Categories for the practising physicist
authors: Bob Coecke, Eric Oliver Paquette
comments: 105 pages, plenty of pictures, extended version of arXiv:0808.1032
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3010
abstract: In this chapter we survey some particular topics in category theory in a somewhat unconventional manner. Our main focus will be on monoidal categories, mostly symmetric ones, for which we propose a physical interpretation. These are particularly relevant for quantum foundations and for quantum informatics. Special attention is given to the category which has finite dimensional Hilbert spaces as objects, linear maps as morphisms, and the tensor product as its monoidal structure (FdHilb). We also provide a detailed discussion of the category which has sets as objects, relations as morphisms, and the cartesian product as its monoidal structure (Rel), and thirdly, categories with manifolds as objects and cobordisms between these as morphisms (2Cob). While sets, Hilbert spaces and manifolds do not share any non-trivial common structure, these three categories are in fact structurally very similar. Shared features are diagrammatic calculus, compact closed structure and particular kinds of internal comonoids which play an important role in each of them. The categories FdHilb and Rel moreover admit a categorical matrix calculus. Together these features guide us towards topological quantum field theories. We also discuss posetal categories, how group representations are in fact categorical constructs, and what strictification and coherence of monoidal categories is all about. In our attempt to complement the existing literature we omitted some very basic topics. For these we refer the reader to other available sources.

id: 0905.3057
title: A simple thermodynamical witness showing universality of macroscopic entanglement
authors: Vlatko Vedral
comments: 3 pages, Torun conference, June 25-28, 2008
journal: OSID 2-3 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3057
abstract: We show that if the ground state entanglement exceeds the total entropy of a given system, then this system is in an entangled state. This is a universal entanglement witness that applies to any physical system and yields a temperature below which we are certain to find some entanglement. Our witness is then applied to generic bosonic and fermionic many body systems to derive the corresponding "critical" temperatures that have a very broad validity.

id: 0905.3065
title: On the quantum criticality in the ground and the thermal states of XX model
authors: Wonmin Son, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures, Tourn conference, June 25-28, 2008
journal: OSID volume 2-3:16 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3065
abstract: We compare the critical behavior of the ground state and the thermal state of the XX model. We analyze the full energy spectrum and the eigenstates to reconstruct the ground state and the thermally excited state. With the solutions, we discuss about several physical properties of the states, which are related to quantum phase transition, in various limits, at zero temperature as well as at a thermal equilibrium.

id: 0905.3102
title: Plasmon-induced photonic switching in a metamaterial
authors: H. Xu, B. S. Ham
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3102
abstract: Using light-induced localized surface plasmon interactions in a metamaterial, we present a plasmonic control of light absorption for photonic switching. We discuss that the present surface plasmon-induced photonic switching is comparable with coherence swapping in a tripod optical system based on electromagnetically induced transparency. This outcome opens a door to active controls of the surface plasmons in a metamaterial for potential applications of nano photonics.

id: 0905.3106
title: Numerical evaluation of convex-roof entanglement measures with applications to spin rings
authors: Beat R?thlisberger, J?rg Lehmann, Daniel Loss
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3106
abstract: We present two ready-to-use numerical algorithms to evaluate convex-roof extensions of arbitrary pure-state entanglement monotones. Their implementation leaves the user merely with the task of calculating derivatives of the respective pure-state measure. We provide numerical tests of the algorithms and demonstrate their good convergence properties. We further employ them in order to investigate the entanglement in particular few-spins systems at finite temperature. Namely, we consider ferromagnetic Heisenberg exchange-coupled spin-1/2 rings subject to an inhomogeneous in-plane field geometry obeying full rotational symmetry around the axis perpendicular to the ring through its center. We demonstrate that highly entangled states can be obtained in these systems at sufficiently low temperatures and by tuning the strength of a magnetic field configuration to an optimal value which is identified numerically.

id: 0905.3147
title: Positioning of the rf potential minimum line of a linear Paul trap with micrometer precision
authors: P. F. Herskind, A. Dantan, M. Albert, J. P. Marler, M. Drewsen
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 154008 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3147
abstract: We demonstrate a general technique to achieve a precise radial displacement of the nodal line of the radiofrequency (rf) field in a linear Paul trap. The technique relies on selective adjustment of the load capacitance of the trap electrodes, achieved through the addition of capacitors to the basic resonant rf-circuit used to drive the trap. Displacements of up to 100 micrometer with micrometer precision are measured using a combination of fluorescence images of ion Coulomb crystals and coherent coupling of such crystals to a mode of an optical cavity. The displacements are made without measurable distortion of the shape or structure of the Coulomb crystals, as well as without introducing excess heating commonly associated with the radial displacement of crystals by adjustment through static potentials. We expect this technique to be of importance for future developments of microtrap architectures and ion-based cavity QED.

id: 0905.3200
title: Gate induced g-factor control and dimensional transition for donors in multi-valley semiconductors
authors: Rajib Rahman, Seung H. Park, Timothy B. Boykin, Gerhard Klimeck, Sven Rogge, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.B80:155301,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3200
abstract: The dependence of the g-factors of semiconductor donors on applied electric and magnetic fields is of immense importance in spin based quantum computation and in semiconductor spintronics. The donor g-factor Stark shift is sensitive to the orientation of the electric and magnetic fields and strongly influenced by the band-structure and spin-orbit interactions of the host. Using a multimillion atom tight-binding framework the spin-orbit Stark parameters are computed for donors in multi-valley semiconductors, silicon and germanium. Comparison with limited experimental data shows good agreement for a donor in silicon. Results for gate induced transition from 3D to 2D wave function confinement show that the corresponding g-factor shift in Si is experimentally observable.

id: 0905.3209
title: Narrow basis angle doubles secret key in the BB84 protocol
authors: Ryutaroh Matsumoto, Shun Watanabe
comments: LaTeX2e, 10 pages, no figure. Ver. 3 corrected typographical errors in indices of Eq. (1) and its previous equation and added citation to Tamaki et al. (2003) in Sec. 2.2. The claims in version 1 were correct but their proofs were wrong. Ver. 2 should have correct proofs. The second author joined because he pointed out the error
journal: J. Phys. A Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 145302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3209
abstract: We consider a modified version of the BB84 quantum key distribution protocol in which the angle between two different bases are less than $\pi/4$. We show that the channel parameter estimate becomes the same as the original protocol with sufficiently many transmitted qubits. On the other hand, the statistical correlation between bits transmitted in one basis and those received in the other basis becomes stronger as the angle between two bases becomes narrower. If the angle is very small, the statistical correlation between bits transmitted in one basis and those received in the other basis is as strong as those received in the same basis as transmitting basis, which means that the modified protocol can generate almost twice as long secret key as the original protocol, provided that Alice and Bob choose two different bases with almost the same probability. We also point out that the reverse reconciliation often gives different amount of secret key to the direct reconciliation over Pauli channels with our modified protocol.

id: 0905.3214
title: Bi-directional mapping between polarization and spatially encoded photonic qutrits
authors: Qing Lin, Bing He
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062312 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3214
abstract: Qutrits, the triple level quantum systems in various forms, have been proposed for quantum information processing recently. By the methods presented in this paper a bi-photonic qutrit, which is encoded with the polarizations of two photons in the same spatial-temporal mode, can be mapped to a single photon qutrit in spatial modes. It will make arbitrary unitary operation on such bi-photonic qutrit possible if we can also realize the inverse map to polarization space. Among the two schemes proposed in this paper, the one based only on linear optics realizes an arbitrary U(3) operation with a very small success probability. However, if added with weak nonlinearity, the success probability can be greatly improved. These schemes are feasible with the current experimental technology.

id: 0905.3222
title: On the notion of coexistence in quantum mechanics
authors: P.Busch, J.Kiukas, P.Lahti
comments: 
journal: Math. Slovaca 60 (2010), No. 5, 665-680
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3222
abstract: The notion coexistence of quantum observables was introduced to describe the possibility of measuring two or more observables together. Here we survey the various different formalisations of this notion and their connections. We review examples illustrating the necessary degrees of unsharpness for two noncommuting observables to be jointly measurable (in one sense of the phrase). We demonstrate the possibility of measuring together (in another sense of the phrase) noncoexistent observables. This leads us to a reconsideration of the connection between joint measurability and noncommutativity of observables and of the statistical and individual aspects of quantum measurements.

id: 0905.3233
title: Collisional Quantum Brownian Motion
authors: I. Kamleitner, J. Cresser
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012107 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3233
abstract: We derive a quantum master equation from first principles to describe friction in one dimensional, collisional Brownian motion. We are the first to avoid an ill-defined square of the Dirac delta function by using localized wave packets rather than plane waves. Solving the Schr\"odinger equation for two colliding particles, we discover that the previously found position diffusion is not a physical process, but an artifact of the approximation of a coarse grained time scale, which in turn is needed to find Markkovian dynamics.

id: 0905.3251
title: Pump-probe spectroscopy of two-body correlations in ultracold gases
authors: Christiane P. Koch, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 260401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3251
abstract: We suggest pump-probe spectroscopy to study pair correlations that determine the many-body dynamics in weakly interacting, dilute ultracold gases. A suitably chosen, short laser pulse depletes the pair density locally, creating a 'hole' in the electronic ground state. The dynamics of this non-stationary pair density is monitored by a time-delayed probe pulse. The resulting transient signal allows to spectrally decompose the 'hole' and to map out the pair correlation functions.

id: 0905.3254
title: Universal protection of unitary evolution from slow noise: dynamical control pushed to the extreme
authors: G. Bensky, E. Brion, F. Carlier, V.M. Akulin, G. Kurizki
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3254
abstract: We propose a technique that allows to simultaneously perform universal control of the evolution operator and compensate for the first order contribution of an arbitrary Hermitian constant noise. We show that, at least, a three-valued Hamiltonian is needed in order to protect the system against any such noise. This technique is illystrated by an explicit algorithm for a control sequence that is applied to numerically design a safe two-qubit gate.

id: 0905.3269
title: Complementarity in generic open quantum systems
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, R. Srikanth
comments: 18 pages, 15 figures; accepted for publication in Modern Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3269
abstract: We develop a unified, information theoretic interpretation of the number-phase complementarity that is applicable both to finite-dimensional (atomic) and infinite-dimensional (oscillator) systems, with number treated as a discrete Hermitian observable and phase as a continuous positive operator valued measure (POVM). The relevant uncertainty principle is obtained as a lower bound on {\it entropy excess}, $X$, the difference between the entropy of one variable, typically the number, and the knowledge of its complementary variable, typically the phase, where knowledge of a variable is defined as its relative entropy with respect to the uniform distribution. In the case of finite dimensional systems, a weighting of phase knowledge by a factor $\mu$ ($> 1$) is necessary in order to make the bound tight, essentially on account of the POVM nature of phase as defined here. Numerical and analytical evidence suggests that $\mu$ tends to 1 as system dimension becomes infinite. We study the effect of non-dissipative and dissipative noise on these complementary variables for oscillator as well as atomic systems.

id: 0905.3273
title: Discerning Elementary Particles
authors: F.A. Muller, M.P. Seevinck
comments: Final Version. To appear in Philosophy of Science, July 2009
journal: Philosophy of Science, 76 (April 2009) pp. 179 - 200
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3273
abstract: We extend the quantum-mechanical results of Muller & Saunders (2008) establishing the weak discernibility of an arbitrary number of similar fermions in finite-dimensional Hilbert-spaces in two ways: (a) from fermions to bosons for all finite-dimensional Hilbert-spaces; and (b) from finite-dimensional to infinite-dimensional Hilbert-spaces for all elementary particles. In both cases this is performed using operators whose physical significance is beyond doubt.This confutes the currently dominant view that (A) the quantum-mechanical description of similar particles conflicts with Leibniz's Principle of the Identity of Indiscernibles (PII); and that (B) the only way to save PII is by adopting some pre-Kantian metaphysical notion such as Scotusian haecceittas or Adamsian primitive thisness. We take sides with Muller & Saunders (2008) against this currently dominant view, which has been expounded and defended by, among others, Schr\"odinger, Margenau, Cortes, Dalla Chiara, Di Francia, Redhead, French, Teller, Butterfield, Mittelstaedt, Giuntini, Castellani, Krause and Huggett.

id: 0905.3280
title: Dynamic correlation in high-harmonic generation for helium atoms in intense visible lasers
authors: G. A. McKenna, R. Nepstad, J. F. McCann, D. Dundas
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3280
abstract: We investigate the effect of dynamic electron correlation on high-harmonic generation in helium atoms using intense visible light (\lambda=390nm). Two complementary approaches are used which account for correlation in an approximate manner: time-dependent density-functional theory and a single-active-electron model. For intensities I~10^{14} W/cm^2, the theories are in remarkably good agreement for the dynamic polarization and harmonic spectrum. This is attributed to a low-frequency collective mode together with a high-frequency single-electron response due to the nuclear singularity, both of which dominate electron correlation effects. A time-frequency analysis is used to study the timing and emission spectrum of attosecond bursts of light. For short pulses, we find a secondary maximum below the classical cut-off. The imprint of the carrier-envelope-phase, for the time-integrated spectral density appears at frequencies above the high-frequency drop-off, consistent with previous studies in the infrared \lambda~800nm.

id: 0905.3301
title: Quantum discord between relatively accelerated observers
authors: Animesh Datta
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3301
abstract: We calculate the quantum discord between two free modes of a scalar field which start in a maximally entangled state and then undergo a relative, constant acceleration. In a regime where there is no distillable entanglement due to the Unruh effect, we show that there is a finite amount of quantum discord, which is a measure of purely quantum correlations in a state, over and above quantum entanglement. Even in the limit of infinite acceleration of the observer detecting one of the modes, we provide evidence for a non-zero amount of purely quantum correlations, which might be exploited to gain non-trivial quantum advantages.

id: 0905.3354
title: Twisted graph states for ancilla-driven quantum computation
authors: Elham Kashefi, Daniel K. L. Oi, Daniel E. Browne, Janet Anders, Erika Andersson
comments: This version contains a new chapter on the complete characterisation of two-qubit interactions that allow for stepwise universal ancilla-driven quantum computation
journal: In Proceeding of the 25th Conference on the Mathematical Foundations of Programming Semantics (MFPS 25), ENTCS, Volume 249, Pages 307-331, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3354
abstract: We introduce a new paradigm for quantum computing called Ancilla-Driven Quantum Computation (ADQC) combines aspects of the quantum circuit and the one-way model to overcome challenging issues in building large-scale quantum computers. Instead of directly manipulating each qubit to perform universal quantum logic gates or measurements, ADQC uses a fixed two-qubit interaction to couple the memory register of a quantum computer to an ancilla qubit. By measuring the ancilla, the measurement-induced back-action on the system performs the desired logical operations. By demanding that the ancilla-system qubit interaction should lead to unitary and stepwise deterministic evolution, and that it should be possible to standardise the computation, that is, applying all global operations at the beginning, we are able to place conditions on the interactions that can be used for ADQC. We prove there are only two such classes of interactions characterised in terms of the non-local part of the interaction operator. This leads to the definition of a new entanglement resource called twisted graph states generated from non-commuting operators. The ADQC model is formalised in an algebraic framework similar to the Measurement Calculus. Furthermore, we present the notion of causal flow for twisted graph states, based on the stabiliser formalism, to characterise the determinism. Finally we demonstrate compositional embedding between ADQC and both the one-way and circuit models which will allow us to transfer recently developed theory and toolkits of measurement-based quantum computing directly into ADQC.

id: 0905.3360
title: A Generalized Statistical Complexity Measure: Applications to Quantum Systems
authors: R. Lopez-Ruiz, A. Nagy, E. Romera, J. Sanudo
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3360
abstract: A two-parameter family of complexity measures $\tilde{C}^{(\alpha,\beta)}$ based on the R\'enyi entropies is introduced and characterized by a detailed study of its mathematical properties. This family is the generalization of a continuous version of the LMC complexity, which is recovered for $\alpha=1$ and $\beta=2$. These complexity measures are obtained by multiplying two quantities bringing global information on the probability distribution defining the system. When one of the parameters, $\alpha$ or $\beta$, goes to infinity, one of the global factors becomes a local factor. For this special case, the complexity is calculated on different quantum systems: H-atom, harmonic oscillator and square well.

id: 0905.3363
title: In the Kreisgang between classical and quantum physics
authors: Caslav Brukner
comments: 5 pages, to be published in the philosophy journal "UnoMolti" in Italian
journal: UniMolti modi della filosofia 2008/2
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3363
abstract: All our statements about the physical world are expressed in terms of everyday notions and thus in terms of classical physics. This necessity is behind each of our attempt to extract meaning out of empirical data and to communicate this knowledge to others. As such, it must apply also to the account of measurement arrangements and to the outcome in quantum experiments. On the other hand, however, if quantum mechanics is universally valid it should be possible to give a purely quantum mechanical description of objects of increasingly large sizes, eventually of the measurement devices themselves. It is suggested to resolve this dilemma by using the method of von Weizsaecker's circular and consistent movement in a reconstruction (Kreisgang) in which it is legitimate to recover the elements with which one started the reconstruction. The parameters entering the complex amplitudes of a quantum state have an operational meaning as parameters that specify the configuration of macroscopic instruments by which the state is prepared and measured. This classical aspect in each quantum description is at the "beginning" of the Kreisgang. The Kreisgang is "closed" by showing that under the every-day conditions of coarse-grained measurements a description of macroscopic instruments emerges in terminology of classical physics and the three-dimensional ordinary space from within quantum theory.

id: 0905.3373
title: Scalable quantum computation via local control of only two qubits
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Koji Maruyama, Michael Murphy, Simone Montangero, Tommaso Calarco, Franco Nori, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 040303(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3373
abstract: We apply quantum control techniques to control a large spin chain by only acting on two qubits at one of its ends, thereby implementing universal quantum computation by a combination of quantum gates on the latter and swap operations across the chain. It is shown that the control sequences can be computed and implemented efficiently. We discuss the application of these ideas to physical systems such as superconducting qubits in which full control of long chains is challenging.

id: 0905.3376
title: Robustness of quantum discord to sudden death
authors: T. Werlang, S. Souza, F. F. Fanchini, C. J. Villas-Boas
comments: 4 figures, 4 pages
journal: Physical Review A 80, 024103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3376
abstract: We calculate the dissipative dynamics of two-qubit quantum discord under Markovian environments. We analyze various dissipative channels such as dephasing, depolarizing, and generalized amplitude damping, assuming independent perturbation, in which each qubit is coupled to its own channel. Choosing initial conditions that manifest the so-called sudden death of entanglement, we compare the dynamics of entanglement with that of quantum discord. We show that in all cases where entanglement suddenly disappears, quantum discord vanishes only in the asymptotic limit, behaving similarly to individual decoherence of the qubits, even at finite temperatures. Hence, quantum discord is more robust than the entanglement against to decoherence so that quantum algorithms based only on quantum discord correlations may be more robust than those based on entanglement.

id: 0905.3396
title: Classical and quantum correlations under decoherence
authors: J. Maziero, L. C. Celeri, R. M. Serra, V. Vedral
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 044102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3396
abstract: Recently some authors have pointed out that there exist nonclassical correlations which are more general, and possibly more fundamental, than entanglement. For these general quantum correlations and their classical counterparts, under the action of decoherence, we identify three general types of dynamics that include a peculiar sudden change in their decay rates. We show that, under suitable conditions, the classical correlation is unaffected by decoherence. Such dynamic behavior suggests an operational measure of both classical and quantum correlations that can be computed without any extremization procedure.

id: 0905.3399
title: Decoherence effects in interacting qubits under the influence of various environments
authors: Sumanta Das, G S Agarwal
comments: New published version, new figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42, 205502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3399
abstract: We study competition between the dissipative and coherent effects in the entanglement dynamics of two qubits. The coherent interactions are needed for designing logic gate operations with systems like ion traps, semicondutor quantum dots and atoms. We show that the interactions lead to a phenomenon of periodic disentanglement and entanglement between the qubits. The disentanglement is primarily caused by environmental perturbations. The qubits are seen to remain disentangled for a finite time before getting entangled again. We find that the phenomenon is generic and occurs for wide variety of models of the environment. We present analytical results for the time dependence of concurrence for all the models. The periodic disentanglement and entanglement behavior is seen to be precursor to the sudden death of entanglement (ESD) and can happen, for environments which do not show ESD for noninteracting qubits. Further we also find that this phenomenon can even lead to delayed death of entanglement for correlated environments.

id: 0905.3413
title: Interacting boson problems are QMA-hard
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Michele Mosca, Ashwin Nayak
comments: 4 pages, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 040501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3413
abstract: Computing the ground-state energy of interacting electron (fermion) problems has recently been shown to be hard for QMA, a quantum analogue of the complexity class NP. Fermionic problems are usually hard, a phenomenon widely attributed to the so-called sign problem occurring in Quantum Monte Carlo simulations. The corresponding bosonic problems are, according to conventional wisdom, tractable. Here, we discuss the complexity of interacting boson problems and show that they are also QMA-hard. In addition, we show that the bosonic version of the so-called N-representability problem is QMA-complete, as hard as its fermionic version. As a consequence, these problems are unlikely to have efficient quantum algorithms.

id: 0905.3417
title: The fundamental limit on the rate of quantum dynamics: the unified bound is tight
authors: Lev B. Levitin, Tommaso Toffoli
comments: 4 pages 1 PS figure Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3417
abstract: The question of how fast a quantum state can evolve has attracted a considerable attention in connection with quantum measurement, metrology, and information processing. Since only orthogonal states can be unambiguously distinguished, a transition from a state to an orthogonal one can be taken as the elementary step of a computational process. Therefore, such a transition can be interpreted as the operation of "flipping a qubit", and the number of orthogonal states visited by the system per unit time can be viewed as the maximum rate of operation. A lower bound on the orthogonalization time, based on the energy spread DeltaE, was found by Mandelstam and Tamm. Another bound, based on the average energy E, was established by Margolus and Levitin. The bounds coincide, and can be exactly attained by certain initial states if DeltaE=E; however, the problem remained open of what the situation is otherwise. Here we consider the unified bound that takes into account both DeltaE and E. We prove that there exist no initial states that saturate the bound if DeltaE is not equal to E. However, the bound remains tight: for any given values of DeltaE and E, there exists a one-parameter family of initial states that can approach the bound arbitrarily close when the parameter approaches its limit value. The relation between the largest energy level, the average energy, and the orthogonalization time is also discussed. These results establish the fundamental quantum limit on the rate of operation of any information-processing system.

id: 0905.3419
title: Strong no-go theorem for Gaussian quantum bit commitment
authors: Lo?ck Magnin, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Magniez, Anthony Leverrier, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 4 pages. v2: We discuss the implications of this theorem on the Brassard-Fuchs conjecture and the CBH theorem
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 010302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3419
abstract: Unconditionally secure bit commitment is forbidden by quantum mechanics. We extend this no-go theorem to continuous-variable protocols where both players are restricted to use Gaussian states and operations, which is a reasonable assumption in current-state optical implementations. Our Gaussian no-go theorem also provides a natural counter-example to a conjecture that quantum mechanics can be rederived from the assumption that key distribution is allowed while bit commitment is forbidden in Nature.

id: 0905.3420
title: Photon wave function and zitterbewegung
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Qi Qiu
comments: 26 pages, no figure, to be published in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 80, 032118 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3420
abstract: In terms of a photon wave function corresponding to the (1, 0)+(0, 1) representation of the Lorentz group, the radiation and Coulomb fields within a source-free region can be described unitedly by a Lorentz-covariant Dirac-like equation. In our formalism, the relation between the positive- and negative-energy solutions of the Dirac-like equation corresponds to the duality between the electric and magnetic fields, rather than to the usual particle-antiparticle symmetry. The zitterbewegung (ZB) of photons is studied via the momentum vector of the electromagnetic field, which shows that only in the presence of virtual longitudinal and scalar photons, the ZB motion of photons can occur, and its vector property is described by the polarization vectors of the electromagnetic field.

id: 0905.3421
title: Surface Contact Potential Patches and Casimir Force Measurements
authors: Woo-Joong Kim, A.O. Sushkov, Diego A.R.Dalvit, S.K. Lamoreaux
comments: Final version, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3421
abstract: We present calculations of contact potential surface patch effects that simplify previous treatments. It is shown that, because of the linearity of Laplace's equation, the presence of patch potentials does not affect an electrostatic calibration (of force and/or distance) of a two-plate Casimir measurement apparatus. Using models that include long-range variations in the contact potential across the plate surfaces, a number of experimental observations can be reproduced and explained. For these models, numerical calculations show that if a voltage is applied between the plates which minimizes the force, a residual electrostatic force persists, and that the minimizing potential varies with distance. The residual force can be described by a fit to a simple two-parameter function involving the minimizing potential and its variation with distance. We show the origin of this residual force by use of a simple parallel capacitor model. Finally, the implications of a residual force that varies in a manner different from 1/d on the accuracy of previous Casimir measurements is discussed.

id: 0905.3441
title: Gobal entanglement and double occupancy in many-electron states
authors: V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A374, 3151 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3441
abstract: The entanglement in many-electron states is investigated using a global entanglement measure, viz. average site mixedness. We have examined metallic states of noninteracting electrons, Nagaoka and Gutzwiller states of strongly-correlated electrons, and superconducting states. Uncorrelated metallic states at half filling seem to maximize entanglement, as these states optimize the number of holes, the number of doubly-occupied sites. Entanglement is calculated explicitly for Gutzwiller-projected many-electron states in one dimension, which have less entanglement as double occupancy is inhibited in these states. Entanglement in superconducting states, which tend to promote double occupancy, is calculated as a function of the energy gap, and found to be lower than the metallic state entanglement. There is a possibility of a regime with a nonzero single-site concurrence depending on the energy gap.

id: 0905.3442
title: Experimental characterization of entanglement dynamics in noisy channels
authors: Jin-Shi Xu, Chuan-Feng Li, Xiao-Ye Xu, Cheng-Hao Shi, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 240502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3442
abstract: The dynamics of entanglement between two photons with one of them passing through noisy quantum channels is characterized. It is described by a simple factorization law which was first theoretically proposed by Konrad {\it et al.} [Nature Phys., 4, 99 (2008)]. Quantum state tomography process is employed to reconstruct the reduced density matrixes of the final states and the corresponding concurrences are calculated. Good fittings between experimental results and theoretical predictions are found, which imply the validity of the general factorization law in the characterization of entanglement dynamics.

id: 0905.3498
title: Bright and Dark Helices of Light
authors: Ole Steuernagel
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 13, pp. 14371-14379 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3498
abstract: Laser beams can be made to form bright and dark intensity helices of light. Such helices have a pitch length on the order of a wavelength and may have applications in lithography and the manipulation of particles through optical forces. The formation of bright helices is more strongly constrained by optical resolution limits than that of dark helices, corresponding scaling laws are derived and their relevance for photo-lithography pointed out. It is shown how to arrange dark helices on a grid in massively parallel fashion in order to create handed materials using photo-lithographic techniques.

id: 0905.3530
title: Moyal phase-space analysis of nonlinear optical Kerr media
authors: T. A. Osborn, Karl-Peter Marzlin
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3530
abstract: Nonlinear optical media of Kerr type are described by a particular version of an anharmonic quantum harmonic oscillator. The dynamics of this system can be described using the Moyal equations of motion, which correspond to a quantum phase space representation of the Heisenberg equations of motion. For the Kerr system we derive exact solutions of the Moyal equations for a complete set of observables formed from the photon creation and annihilation operators. These Moyal solutions incorporate the asymptotics of the classical limit in a simple explicit form. An unusual feature of these solutions is that they exhibit periodic singularities in the time variable. These singularities are removed by the phase space averaging required to construct the expectation value for an arbitrary initial state. Nevertheless, for strongly number-squeezed initial states the effects of the singularity remain observable.

id: 0905.3539
title: Fisher Information and Kinetic-energy Functionals: A Dequantization Approach
authors: I. P. Hamilton, Ricardo A. Mosna
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. To appear in J. Comput. Appl. Math
journal: J. Comput. Appl. Math. 233, 1542-1547 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3539
abstract: We strengthen the connection between Information Theory and quantum-mechanical systems using a recently developed dequantization procedure whereby quantum fluctuations latent in the quantum momentum are suppressed. The dequantization procedure results in a decomposition of the quantum kinetic energy as the sum of a classical term and a purely quantum term. The purely quantum term, which results from the quantum fluctuations, is essentially identical to the Fisher information. The classical term is complementary to the Fisher information and, in this sense, it plays a role analogous to that of the Shannon entropy. We demonstrate the kinetic energy decomposition for both stationary and nonstationary states and employ it to shed light on the nature of kinetic-energy functionals.

id: 0905.3608
title: Quantum dissipative Brownian motion and the Casimir effect
authors: Gert-Ludwig Ingold, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.E80:041113,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3608
abstract: We explore an analogy between the thermodynamics of a free dissipative quantum particle and that of an electromagnetic field between two mirrors of finite conductivity. While a free particle isolated from its environment will effectively be in the high-temperature limit for any nonvanishing temperature, a finite coupling to the environment leads to quantum effects ensuring the correct low-temperature behavior. Even then, it is found that under appropriate circumstances the entropy can be a nonmonotonic function of the temperature. Such a scenario with its specific dependence on the ratio of temperature and damping constant also appears for the transverse electric mode in the Casimir effect. The limits of vanishing dissipation for the quantum particle and of infinite conductivity of the mirrors in the Casimir effect both turn out to be noncontinuous.

id: 0905.3621
title: Robust creation of atomic W state in a cavity by adiabatic passage
authors: M. Amniat-Talab, M. Saadati, S. Guerin
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures. Submitted to Optics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3621
abstract: We propose two robust schemes to generate controllable (deterministic) atomic W-states of three three-level atoms interacting with an optical cavity and a laser beam. Losses due to atomic spontaneous emissions and to cavity decay are efficiently suppressed by employing adiabatic passage technique and appropriately designed atom-field couplings. In these schemes the three atoms traverse the cavity-mode and the laser beam and become entangled in the free space outside the cavity.

id: 0905.3646
title: Restricted numerical range: a versatile tool in the theory of quantum information
authors: Piotr Gawron, Zbigniew Pucha?a, Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak, ?ukasz Skowronek, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 39 pages, 7 figures, Original preprint "Local numerical range: a versatile tool in the theory of quantum information" was broadened and split into two papers: "Restricted numerical range: a versatile tool in the theory of quantum information", and "Product numerical range in a space with tensor product structure"
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 102204 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3646
abstract: Numerical range of a Hermitian operator X is defined as the set of all possible expectation values of this observable among a normalized quantum state. We analyze a modification of this definition in which the expectation value is taken among a certain subset of the set of all quantum states. One considers for instance the set of real states, the set of product states, separable states, or the set of maximally entangled states. We show exemplary applications of these algebraic tools in the theory of quantum information: analysis of k-positive maps and entanglement witnesses, as well as study of the minimal output entropy of a quantum channel. Product numerical range of a unitary operator is used to solve the problem of local distinguishability of a family of two unitary gates.

id: 0905.3674
title: Dressed Relaxation and Dephasing in a Strongly Driven Two-Level system
authors: C.M. Wilson, G. Johansson, T. Duty, F. Persson, M. Sandberg, P. Delsing
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW B 81, 024520 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3674
abstract: We study relaxation and dephasing in a strongly driven two-level system interacting with its environment. We develop a theory which gives a straightforward physical picture of the complex dynamics of the system in terms of dressed states. In addition to the dressing of the energy diagram, we describe the dressing of relaxation and dephasing. We find a good quantitative agreement between the theoretical calculations and measurements of a superconducting qubit driven by an intense microwave field. The competition of various processes leads to a rich structure in the observed behavior, including signatures of population inversion.

id: 0905.3697
title: Comments on Hastings' Additivity Counterexamples
authors: Motohisa Fukuda, Christopher King, David Moser
comments: 38 pages
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 296, 111-143 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3697
abstract: Hastings recently provided a proof of the existence of channels which violate the additivity conjecture for minimal output entropy. In this paper we present an expanded version of Hastings' proof. In addition to a careful elucidation of the details of the proof, we also present bounds for the minimal dimensions needed to obtain a counterexample.

id: 0905.3722
title: Trapping and manipulation of isolated atoms using nanoscale plasmonic structures
authors: D.E. Chang, J.D. Thompson, H. Park, V. Vuletic, A.S. Zibrov, P. Zoller, M.D. Lukin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3722
abstract: We propose and analyze a scheme to interface individual neutral atoms with nanoscale solid-state systems. The interface is enabled by optically trapping the atom via the strong near-field generated by a sharp metallic nanotip. We show that under realistic conditions, a neutral atom can be trapped with position uncertainties of just a few nanometers, and within tens of nanometers of other surfaces. Simultaneously, the guided surface plasmon modes of the nanotip allow the atom to be optically manipulated, or for fluorescence photons to be collected, with very high efficiency. Finally, we analyze the surface forces and heating and decoherence rates acting on the trapped atom.

id: 0905.3725
title: Bandwidth-tunable single photon source in an ion trap quantum network
authors: M. Almendros, J. Huwer, N. Piro, F. Rohde, C. Schuck, M. Hennrich, F. Dubin, J. Eschner
comments: Revised version with new Figure 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3725
abstract: We report a tunable single-photon source based on a single trapped ion. Employing spontaneous Raman scattering and in-vacuum optics with large numerical aperture, single photons are efficiently created with controlled temporal shape and coherence time. These can be varied between 70 ns and 1.6 $\mu$s, as characterized by operating two sources simultaneously in two remote ion traps which reveals mutual and individual coherence through two-photon interference.

id: 0905.3729
title: Probing macroscopic quantum states with a sub-Heisenberg accuracy
authors: Haixing Miao, Stefan Danilishin, Helge Muller-Ebhardt, Henning Rehbein, Kentaro Somiya, Yanbei Chen
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012114 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3729
abstract: Significant achievements in the reduction of classical-noise floor will allow macroscopic systems to prepare nearly Heisenberg-Limited quantum states through a continuous measurement, i.e. conditioning. In order to probe the conditional quantum state and confirm quantum dynamics, we propose use of an optimal time-domain variational measurement, in which the homodyne detection phase varies in time. This protocol allows us to characterize the macroscopic quantum state below the Heisenberg Uncertainty -- i.e. Quantum Tomography -- and the only limitation comes from readout loss which enters in a similar manner as the frequency-domain variational scheme proposed by Kimble et al.. In the case of no readout loss, it is identical to the back-action-evading scheme invented by Vyatchanin et al. for detecting gravitational-wave (GW) signal with known arrival time. As a special example and to motivate Macroscopic Quantum Mechanics (MQM) experiments with future GW detectors, we mostly focus on the free-mass limit -- the characteristic measurement frequency is much higher than the oscillator frequency -- and further assume the classical noises are Markovian, which captures the main feature of a broadband GW detector. Besides, we consider verifications of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) type entanglements between macroscopic test masses in GW detectors, which enables to test one particular version of Gravity Decoherence conjectured by Diosi and Penrose.

id: 0905.3734
title: Phase shift of a weak coherent beam induced by a single atom
authors: Syed Abdullah Aljunid, Meng Khoon Tey, Brenda Chng, Timothy Liew, Gleb Maslennikov, Valerio Scarani, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 153601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3734
abstract: We report on a direct measurement of a phase shift on a weak coherent beam by a single Rb-87 atom in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. A maximum phase shift of about 1 degree is observed experimentally.

id: 0905.3778
title: Spin and Orbital Rotation of Electrons and Photons via Spin-Orbit Interaction
authors: C.C. Leary, M.G. Raymer, S.J. van Enk
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 061804 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3778
abstract: We show that when an electron or photon propagates in a cylindrically symmetric waveguide, its spin angular momentum (SAM) and its orbital angular momentum (OAM) interact. Remarkably, we find that the dynamics resulting from this spin-orbit interaction are quantitatively described by a single expression applying to both electrons and photons. This leads to the prediction of several novel rotational effects: the spatial or time evolution of either particle's spin/polarization vector is controlled by the sign of its OAM quantum number, or conversely, its spatial wavefunction is controlled by its SAM. We show that the common origin of these effects in electrons and photons is a universal geometric phase. We demonstrate how these phenomena can be used to reversibly transfer entanglement between the SAM and OAM degrees of freedom of two-particle states.

id: 0905.3787
title: Quantum entanglement in photosynthetic light harvesting complexes
authors: Mohan Sarovar, Akihito Ishizaki, Graham R. Fleming, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures. Improved presentation, published version
journal: Nature Physics, 6, 462 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3787
abstract: Light harvesting components of photosynthetic organisms are complex, coupled, many-body quantum systems, in which electronic coherence has recently been shown to survive for relatively long time scales despite the decohering effects of their environments. Within this context, we analyze entanglement in multi-chromophoric light harvesting complexes, and establish methods for quantification of entanglement by presenting necessary and sufficient conditions for entanglement and by deriving a measure of global entanglement. These methods are then applied to the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) protein to extract the initial state and temperature dependencies of entanglement. We show that while FMO in natural conditions largely contains bipartite entanglement between dimerized chromophores, a small amount of long-range and multipartite entanglement exists even at physiological temperatures. This constitutes the first rigorous quantification of entanglement in a biological system. Finally, we discuss the practical utilization of entanglement in densely packed molecular aggregates such as light harvesting complexes.

id: 0905.3791
title: Maximally entangled three-qubit states via geometric measure of entanglement
authors: Sayatnova Tamaryan, Tzu-Chieh Wei, DaeKil Park
comments: final version, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052315 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3791
abstract: Bipartite maximally entangled states have the property that the largest Schmidt coefficient reaches its lower bound. However, for multipartite states the standard Schmidt decomposition generally does not exist. We use a generalized Schmidt decomposition and the geometric measure of entanglement to characterize three-qubit pure states and derive a single-parameter family of maximally entangled three-qubit states. The paradigmatic Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) and W states emerge as extreme members in this family of maximally entangled states. This family of states possess different trends of entanglement behavior: in going from GHZ to W states the geometric measure and the relative entropy of entanglement and the bipartite entanglement all increase monotonically whereas the three-tangle and bi-partition negativity both decrease monotonically.

id: 0905.3797
title: Quantum entanglement and generalized information processing using entangled states with odd number of particles
authors: Atul Kumar, Mangala Sunder Krishnan
comments: 27 pages, 5 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3797
abstract: We discuss and generalize multi-particle entanglement based on statistical correlations using Ursell-Mayer type of cluster coefficients. Cluster coefficients are used to distinguish different, independent entangled systems as well as those which are connected through local unitary transformations. We propose a genuinely and maximally entangled five-particle state for efficient information processing. The physical realization of entangled states and information processing protocols are analyzed using quantum gates and circuit diagrams. We show that the direct as well as controlled communication can be achieved using the state proposed here with certainty in the case of teleportation and with a high degree of optimity in the case of dense coding. In the case of dense coding the amount of information transferred from the sender to the receiver is always a maximum irrespective of the measurement basis used by the controller.

id: 0905.3801
title: A short impossibility proof of Quantum Bit Commitment
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti, D. M. Schlingemann, R. F. Werner
comments: 15 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377, Pages 1076-1087 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3801
abstract: Bit commitment protocols, whose security is based on the laws of quantum mechanics alone, are generally held to be impossible on the basis of a concealment-bindingness tradeoff. A strengthened and explicit impossibility proof has been given in: G. M. D'Ariano, D. Kretschmann, D. Schlingemann, and R. F. Werner, Phys. Rev. A 76, 032328 (2007), in the Heisenberg picture and in a C*-algebraic framework, considering all conceivable protocols in which both classical and quantum information are exchanged. In the present paper we provide a new impossibility proof in the Schrodinger picture, greatly simplifying the classification of protocols and strategies using the mathematical formulation in terms of quantum combs, with each single-party strategy represented by a conditional comb. We prove that assuming a stronger notion of concealment--worst-case over the classical information histories--allows Alice's cheat to pass also the worst-case Bob's test. The present approach allows us to restate the concealment-bindingness tradeoff in terms of the continuity of dilations of probabilistic quantum combs with respect to the comb-discriminability distance.

id: 0905.3810
title: Weak values, 'negative probability' and the uncertainty principle
authors: D.Sokolovski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3810
abstract: A quantum transition can be seen as a result of interference between various pathways(e.g. Feynman paths) which can be labelled by a variable $f$. An attempt to determine the value of f without destroying the coherence between the pathways produces a weak value of $\bar{f}$. We show $\bar{f}$ to be an average obtained with amplitude distribution which can, in general, take negative values which, in accordance with the uncertainty principle, need not contain information about the actual range of the values $f$ which contribute to the transition. It is also demonstrated that the moments of such alternating distributions have a number of unusual properties which may lead to misinterpretation of the weak measurement results.We provide a detailed analysis of weak measurements with and without post-selection. Examples include the double slit diffraction experiment,weak von Neumann and von Neumann-like measurements, traversal time for an elastic collision, the phase time, the local angular momentum(LAM) and the 'three-box case' of {\it Aharonov et al}

id: 0905.3811
title: Existence and nonexistence of an intrinsic tunneling time
authors: Gonzalo Ordonez, Naomichi Hatano
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3811
abstract: Using a time operator, we define a tunneling time for a particle going through a barrier. This tunneling time is the average of the phase time introduced by other authors. In addition to the delay time caused by the resonances over the barrier, the present tunneling time is also affected by the branch point at the edge of the energy continuum. We find that when the particle energy is near the branch point, the tunneling time becomes strongly dependent on the width of the incoming wave packet, which implies that there is no intrinsic tunneling time. This effect is related to the quantum uncertainty in the particle's momentum.

id: 0905.3826
title: Multiple Quantum Coherence and Entanglement Dynamics in Spin Clusters
authors: G. B. Furman, V. M. Meerovich, V. L. Sokolovsky
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3826
abstract: With the purpose to reveal consistency between multiple quantum (MQ) coherences and entanglement, we investigate numerically the dynamics of these phenomena in one-dimensional linear chains and ring of nuclear spins 1/2 coupled by dipole dipole interactions. As opposed to the calculation of the MQ coherence intensity based on the density matrix describing the spin system as a whole, we consider the "differentiated" intensity related only to the chosen spin pair based on the reduced density matrix. It is shown that the entanglement and the MQ coherence have similar dynamics only for nearest neighbors while we did not obtained any consistency for remote spins.

id: 0905.3838
title: Robustness of channel-adapted quantum error correction
authors: G¨¢bor Ball¨®, P¨¦ter Gurin
comments: minor changes on figures (size and number format)
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 80(1), 012326 (Jul 2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3838
abstract: A quantum channel models the interaction between the system we are interested in and its environment. Such a model can capture the main features of the interaction but because of the complexity of the environment we can not assume that it is fully accurate. We study the robustness of quantum error correction operations against completely unexpected and subsequently undetermined type of channel uncertainties. We find that a channel-adapted optimal error correction operation does not only give the best possible channel fidelity but it is more robust against channel alterations than any other error correction operation. Our results are valid for Pauli channels and stabilizer codes but based on some numerical results we believe that very similar conclusions can be drawn also in the general case.

id: 0905.3849
title: Eliminating Spectral Distinguishability in Ultrafast Spontaneous Parametric Down-conversion
authors: Hou Shun Poh, Jiaqing Lim, Ivan Marcikic, Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 043815 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3849
abstract: Generation of polarization-entangled photon pairs with a precise timing through down-conversion of femtosecond pulses is often faced with a degraded polarization entanglement quality. In a previous experiment we have shown that this degradation is induced by spectral distinguishability between the two decay paths, in accordance with theoretical predictions. Here, we present an experimental study of the spectral compensation scheme proposed and first implemented by Kim et al. in 2002. By measuring the joint spectral properties of the polarization correlations of the photon pairs, we show that the spectral distinguishability between the down-converted components is eliminated. This scheme results in a visibility of 97.9+/-0.5% in the polarization basis without any spectral filtering.

id: 0905.3859
title: Causation, Measurement Relevance and No-conspiracy in EPR
authors: I?aki San Pedro
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: European Journal for Philosophy of Science (2012) 2:137-156
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3859
abstract: In this paper I assess the adequacy of no-conspiracy conditions employed in the usual derivations of the Bell inequality in the context of EPR correlations. First, I look at the EPR correlations from a purely phenomenological point of view and claim that common cause explanations of these cannot be ruled out. I argue that an appropriate common cause explanation requires that no-conspiracy conditions are re-interpreted as mere common cause-measurement independence conditions. In the right circumstances then, violations of measurement independence need not entail any kind of conspiracy (nor backwards in time causation). To the contrary, if measurement operations in the EPR context are taken to be causally relevant in a specific way to the experiment outcomes, their explicit causal role provides the grounds for a common cause explanation of the corresponding correlations.

id: 0905.3881
title: Two mesoscopic models of two interacting electrons
authors: Dibyendu Roy
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, revised version, to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 245304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3881
abstract: We study two simple mesoscopic models of interacting two electrons; first one consists of two quantum coherent parallel conductors with long-range Coulomb interaction in some localized region and the other is of an interacting quantum dot (QD) side-coupled to a noninteracting quantum wire. We evaluate exact two-particle scattering matrix as well as two-particle current which are relevant in a two-particle scattering experiment in these models. Finally we show that the on-site repulsive interaction in the QD filters out the spin-singlet two-electron state from the mixed two-electron input states in the side-coupled QD model.

id: 0905.3908
title: Quantum linear Boltzmann equation with finite intercollision time
authors: Lajos Diosi
comments: 5pp
journal: Phys.Rev. A80 (2009) 064104-(4)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3908
abstract: Inconsistencies are pointed out in the usual quantum versions of the classical linear Boltzmann equation constructed for a quantized test particle in a gas. These are related to the incorrect formal treatment of momentum decoherence. We prove that ideal collisions would result in complete momentum decoherence, the persistence of coherence is only due to the finite intercollision time. A corresponding novel quantum linear Boltzmann equation is proposed.

id: 0905.3970
title: Memory effects induced by initial switching conditions
authors: J. Martorell, D.W.L. Sprung, W. van Dijk, J.G. Muga
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3970
abstract: Initial-switching refers to the way in which the decay of an initially confined state begins, as the barrier isolating it from the exterior is relaxed. We study these effects in the context of Longhi's version of the Fano-Anderson model. Most authors assume the sudden approximation where the coupling is turned on instantaneously. We consider a finite rise time T, both numerically and analytically. When the coupling is ramped up linearly over a switching time T, we show that the asymptotic survival amplitude acquires a phase T and is modulated by a factor (sin T)/T. Several other results relating to the solution of the model are obtained. All site amplitudes have the same decay constant during the exponential decay regime. In the asymptotic regime, the amplitude and phase of decay oscillations depend on the initial-switching profile, but the period does not.

id: 0905.3974
title: Efimov states in atom-molecular collisions
authors: M.A. Efremov, L. Plimak, B. Berg, M.Yu. Ivanov, W.P. Schleich
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3974
abstract: We analyse scattering of a heavy atom off a weakly bound molecule comprising an identical heavy and a light atom in the Born-Oppenheimer approximation. We focus on the situation where the heavy atoms are bosons, which was realized in several experiments. The elastic and inelastic cross sections for the atom-molecular scattering exhibit a series of resonances corresponding to three-body Efimov states. Resonances in elastic collisions are accessible experimentally through thermalization rates, and thus constitute an alternative way of observing Efimov states.

id: 0905.3978
title: The one-dimensional Coulomb Problem
authors: G. Abramovici, Y. Avishai
comments: 29 pages, accepted in J. Phys. A
journal: G Abramovici et al 2009 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 285302 (29pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3978
abstract: One-dimensional scattering by a Coulomb potential V(x)=lambda/|x| is studied for both repulsive (c>0) and attractive (c<0) cases. Two methods of regularizing the singularity at x=0 are used, yielding the same conclusion, namely, that the transmission vanishes. For an attractive potential (c<0), two groups of bound states are found. The first one consists of "regular" (Rydberg) bound states, respecting standard orthogonality relations. The second set consists of "anomalous"} bound states (in a sense to be clarified), which always relax as coherent states.

id: 0905.3990
title: Adiabatic theorems for linear and nonlinear Hamiltonians
authors: V.I. Yukalov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79 (2009) 052117-7
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3990
abstract: Conditions for the validity of the quantum adiabatic approximation are analyzed. For the case of linear Hamiltonians, a simple and general sufficient condition is derived, which is valid for arbitrary spectra and any kind of time variation. It is shown that in some cases the found condition is necessary and sufficient. The adiabatic theorem is generalized for the case of nonlinear Hamiltonians.

id: 0905.4008
title: A silicon-based cluster state quantum computer
authors: John J. L. Morton
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4008
abstract: It has been over ten years since Kane's influential proposal for a silicon-based nuclear spin quantum computer using phosphorous donors. Since then, silicon-based architectures have been refined as the experimental challenges associated with the original proposal have become better understood, while simultaneously a number of powerful and generic models for quantum computation have emerged. Here, I discuss how the cluster state or "one-way" model for quantum computing might be advantageously applied to donors in silicon, with the potential to substantially reduce the practical requirements of a successful implementation. The essence of the scheme is to use the electron spin associated with a donor to weave an entangled network between 31P donor nuclear spins. This resource has been shown to have exceptional coherence times and supports universal quantum computation through local measurements on the nuclear spins. Some of the key ingredients, such as global spin manipulation, have been robustly established, while others, such as single spin measurement, have seen much progress in recent years. A key challenge will be the demonstration of electron transfer between donors that preserves spin coherence.

id: 0905.4014
title: Single-photon single-ion interaction in free space configuration in front of a parabolic mirror
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Robert Alicki
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures; Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 19 (2012)
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 19, 1250023 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4014
abstract: The efficient interaction between single photons and single matter objects in free space is of key importance for quantum technologies. An experimental setup for testing this possibility involves single two-level ion trapped at the focus of a parabolic metallic mirror. We study the conditions for the setup, under which the assumption about the free-space mode structure of the radiation field in the vicinity of the atom is justified. In our analysis we apply vectorial properties of light by including polarization degree of freedom. We look for possible changes in the spontaneous emission rate of the atom resulting from the presence of the parabolic boundary conditions.

id: 0905.4036
title: Entanglement Exchange and Bohmian Mechanics
authors: Nick Huggett, Tiziana Vistarini
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, submitted for a forthcoming edition of Manuscrito
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4036
abstract: This paper analyses the phenomenon of entanglement exchange in Bohm's pilot wave interpretation of quantum mechanics. The interesting feature of the phenomenon is that systems become entangled without causal interaction; hence it is a useful situation for investigating the unique nature of interaction in Bohmian mechanics. The first two sections introduce, respectively, entanglement exchange in the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics, and the basic principles of Bohmian mechanics. The next section shows that the Bohmian interpretation makes the same experimental predictions about entanglement exchange as the standard one. The final section draws some conclusions about interactions and entanglement in Bohmian mechanics.

id: 0905.4050
title: Experimental demonstration of teleportation-based programmable quantum gate
authors: Lukas Slodicka, Miroslav Jezek, Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 79, 050304(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4050
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a programmable quantum gate that applies a sign flip operation to data qubit in an arbitrary basis fully specified by the quantum state of a two-qubit program register. Our linear-optical implementation is inspired by teleportation-based schemes for quantum computing and relies on multiphoton interference and coincidence detection. We confirm the programmability of the gate and its high-fidelity performance by carrying out full quantum process tomography of the resulting operation on data qubit for several different programs.

id: 0905.4070
title: Computation on Spin Chains with Limited Access
authors: Alastair Kay, Peter J. Pemberton-Ross
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure v2: added error analysis and supporting numerics; v3: corrected minor errors
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 010301(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4070
abstract: We show how to implement quantum computation on a system with an intrinsic Hamiltonian by controlling a limited subset of spins. Our primary result is an efficient control sequence on a nearest-neighbor XY spin chain through control of a single site and its interaction with its neighbor. Control of an array of sites yields sufficient parallelism for the implementation of fault-tolerant circuits. The framework exposes contradictions between the control theoretic concept of controllability with the ability of a system to perform quantum computation.

id: 0905.4078
title: Dissipation and quantization for composite systems
authors: M.Blasone, P.Jizba, F.Scardigli, G.Vitiello
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:4106-4112,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4078
abstract: In the framework of 't Hooft's quantization proposal, we show how to obtain from the composite system of two classical Bateman's oscillators a quantum isotonic oscillator. In a specific range of parameters, such a system can be interpreted as a particle in an effective magnetic field, interacting through a spin-orbit interaction term. In the limit of a large separation from the interaction region one can describe the system in terms of two irreducible elementary subsystems which correspond to two independent quantum harmonic oscillators.

id: 0905.4222
title: Undecidability and the problem of outcomes in quantum measurements
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Luis Pedro Garcia Pintos, Jorge Pullin
comments: 14 pages, Latex, one figure, version to appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: Found.Phys.40:93-115,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4222
abstract: We argue that it is fundamentally impossible to recover information about quantum superpositions when a system has interacted with a sufficiently large number of degrees of freedom of the environment. This is due to the fact that gravity imposes fundamental limitations on how accurate measurements can be. This leads to the notion of undecidability: there is no way to tell, due to fundamental limitations, if a quantum system evolved unitarily or suffered wavefunction collapse. This in turn provides a solution to the problem of outcomes in quantum measurement by providing a sharp criterion for defining when an event has taken place. We analyze in detail in examples two situations in which in principle one could recover information about quantum coherence: a) "revivals" of coherence in the interaction of a system with the environment and b) the measurement of global observables of the system plus apparatus plus environment. We show in the examples that the fundamental limitations due to gravity and quantum mechanics in measurement prevent both revivals from occurring and the measurement of global observables. It can therefore be argued that the emerging picture provides a complete resolution to the measurement problem in quantum mechanics.

id: 0905.4225
title: Security Analysis of an Untrusted Source for Quantum Key Distribution: Passive Approach
authors: Yi Zhao, Bing Qi, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Li Qian
comments: 35 pages, 19 figures. Published Version
journal: New Journal of Physics, 12: 023024 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4225
abstract: We present a passive approach to the security analysis of quantum key distribution (QKD) with an untrusted source. A complete proof of its unconditional security is also presented. This scheme has significant advantages in real-life implementations as it does not require fast optical switching or a quantum random number generator. The essential idea is to use a beam splitter to split each input pulse. We show that we can characterize the source using a cross-estimate technique without active routing of each pulse. We have derived analytical expressions for the passive estimation scheme. Moreover, using simulations, we have considered four real-life imperfections: Additional loss introduced by the "plug & play" structure, inefficiency of the intensity monitor, noise of the intensity monitor, and statistical fluctuation introduced by finite data size. Our simulation results show that the passive estimate of an untrusted source remains useful in practice, despite these four imperfections. Also, we have performed preliminary experiments, confirming the utility of our proposal in real-life applications. Our proposal makes it possible to implement the "plug & play" QKD with the security guaranteed, while keeping the implementation practical.

id: 0905.4234
title: Squeezing of a nanomechanical oscillator
authors: Sumei Huang, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 6 pages,5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4234
abstract: We show that squeezing of a nanomechanical mirror can be generated by injecting broad band squeezed vacuum light and laser light into the cavity. We work in the resolved sideband regime. We find that in order to obtain the maximum momentum squeezing of the movable mirror, the squeezing parameter of the input light should be about 1. We can obtain more than 70% squeezing. Besides, for a fixed squeezing parameter, decreasing the temperature of the environment or increasing the laser power increases the momentum squeezing. We find very large squeezing with respect to thermal fluctuations, for instance at 1 mK, the momentum fluctuations go down by a factor more than one hundred.

id: 0905.4261
title: Van der Waals enhancement of optical atom potentials via resonant coupling to surface polaritons
authors: Joseph Kerckhoff, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures
journal: Optics Express Vol. 17, Iss. 17, pp. 14744-14760 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4261
abstract: Contemporary experiments in cavity quantum electrodynamics (cavity QED) with gas-phase neutral atoms rely increasingly on laser cooling and optical, magneto-optical or magnetostatic trapping methods to provide atomic localization with sub-micron uncertainty. Difficult to achieve in free space, this goal is further frustrated by atom-surface interactions if the desired atomic placement approaches within several hundred nanometers of a solid surface, as can be the case in setups incorporating monolithic dielectric optical resonators such as microspheres, microtoroids, microdisks or photonic crystal defect cavities. Typically in such scenarios, the smallest atom-surface separation at which the van der Waals interaction can be neglected is taken to be the optimal localization point for associated trapping schemes, but this sort of conservative strategy generally compromises the achievable cavity QED coupling strength. Here we suggest a new approach to the design of optical dipole traps for atom confinement near surfaces that exploits strong surface interactions, rather than avoiding them, and present the results of a numerical study based on $^{39}$K atoms and indium tin oxide (ITO). Our theoretical framework points to the possibility of utilizing nanopatterning methods to engineer novel modifications of atom-surface interactions.

id: 0905.4280
title: The Quantum Wave Packet of the Schrodinger Equation for Continuous Quantum Measurements
authors: J.M.F. Bassalo, P.T.S. Alencar, D.G. da Silva, A. Nassar, M. Cattani
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4280
abstract: In this paper we study the quantum wave packet of the Schrodinger equation for continuous quantum measurements.

id: 0905.4321
title: On the inversion of the Radon transform: standard vs $M^2$ approach
authors: Paolo Facchi, Marilena Ligab¨°, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 8 pages
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 57, 239 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4321
abstract: We compare the Radon transform in its standard and symplectic formulations and argue that the inversion of the latter can be performed more efficiently.

id: 0905.4325
title: Updating Quantum Cryptography Report ver. 1
authors: Donna Dodson, Mikio Fujiwara, Philippe Grangier, Masahito Hayashi, Kentaro Imafuku, Ken-ichi Kitayama, Prem Kumar, Christian Kurtsiefer, Gaby Lenhart, Norbert Luetkenhaus, Tsutomu Matsumoto, William J. Munro, Tsuyoshi Nishioka, Momtchil Peev, Masahide Sasaki, Yutaka Sata, Atsushi Takada, Masahiro Takeoka, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Hidema Tanaka, Yasuhiro Tokura, Akihisa Tomita, Morio Toyoshima, Rodney van Meter, Atsuhiro Yamagishi, Yoshihisa Yamamoto, Akihiro Yamamura
comments: 74 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4325
abstract: Quantum cryptographic technology (QCT) is expected to be a fundamental technology for realizing long-term information security even against as-yet-unknown future technologies. More advanced security could be achieved using QCT together with contemporary cryptographic technologies. To develop and spread the use of QCT, it is necessary to standardize devices, protocols, and security requirements and thus enable interoperability in a multi-vendor, multi-network, and multi-service environment. This report is a technical summary of QCT and related topics from the viewpoints of 1) consensual establishment of specifications and requirements of QCT for standardization and commercialization and 2) the promotion of research and design to realize New-Generation Quantum Cryptography.

id: 0905.4362
title: Teleporting bipartite entanglement using maximally entangled mixed channels
authors: S. Campbell, M. Paternostro
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX4, Accepted for publication in the IJQI special issue on Distributed Quantum Information Processing
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 8, No. 1&2 (2010) 105-119
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4362
abstract: The ability to teleport entanglement through maximally entangled mixed states as defined by concurrence and linear entropy is studied. We show how the teleported entanglement depends on the quality of the quantum channel used, as defined through its entanglement and mixedness, as well as the form of the target state to be teleported. We present new results based on the fidelity of the teleported state as well as an experimental set-up that is immediately implementable with currently available technology.

id: 0905.4398
title: Von Neumann and Luders postulates and quantum information theory
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Quantum Information 7, 1303-1311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4398
abstract: This note is devoted to some foundational aspects of quantum mechanics (QM) related to quantum information (QI) theory, especially quantum teleportation and ``one way quantum computing.'' We emphasize the role of the projection postulate (determining post-measurement states) in QI and the difference between its L\"uders and von Neumann versions. These projection postulates differ crucially in the case of observables with degenerate spectra. Such observables play the fundamental role in operations with entangled states: any measurement on one subsystem is represented by an observable with degenerate spectrum in the Hilbert space of a composite system. If von Neumann was right and L\"uders was wrong the canonical schemes of quantum teleportation and ``one way quantum computing'' would not work. Surprisingly, we found that, in fact, von Neumann's description of measurements via refinement implies (under natural assumptions) L\"uders projection postulate. It seems that this important observation was missed during last 70 years. This result closed the problem of the proper use of the projection postulate in quantum information theory. One can proceed with L\"uders postulate (as people in quantum information really do).

id: 0905.4402
title: The Montevideo interpretation of quantum mechanics: frequently asked questions
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Jorge Pullin
comments: 11 pages, no figures, to appear in J. Phys. Conf. Series, proceedings of the DICE 2008 Castiglioncello meeting
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.174:012003,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4402
abstract: In a series of recent papers we have introduced a new interpretation of quantum mechanics, which for brevity we will call the Montevideo interpretation. In it, the quantum to classical transition is achieved via a phenomenon called "undecidability" which stems from environmental decoherence supplemented with a fundamental mechanism of loss of coherence due to gravity. Due to the fact that the interpretation grew from several results that are dispersed in the literature, we put together this straightforward-to-read article addressing some of the main points that may confuse readers.

id: 0905.4445
title: Unambiguous comparison of quantum measurements
authors: Mario Ziman, Teiko Heinosaari, Michal Sedlak
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4445
abstract: The goal of comparison is to reveal the difference of compared objects as fast and reliably as possible. In this paper we formulate and investigate the unambiguous comparison of unknown quantum measurements represented by non-degenerate sharp POVMs. We distinguish between measurement devices with apriori labeled and unlabeled outcomes. In both cases we can unambiguously conclude only that the measurements are different. For the labeled case it is sufficient to use each unknown measurement only once and the average conditional success probability decreases with the Hilbert space dimension as 1/d. If the outcomes of the apparatuses are not labeled, then the problem is more complicated. We analyze the case of two-dimensional Hilbert space. In this case single shot comparison is impossible and each measurement device must be used (at least) twice. The optimal test state in the two-shots scenario gives the average conditional success probability 3/4. Interestingly, the optimal experiment detects unambiguously the difference with nonvanishing probability for any pair of observables.

id: 0905.4556
title: Controlling nuclear spin exchange via optical Feshbach resonances in ${}^{171}$Yb
authors: Iris Reichenbach, Paul S. Julienne, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4556
abstract: Nuclear spin exchange occurs in ultracold collisions of fermionic alkaline-earth-like atoms due to a difference between s- and p-wave phase shifts. We study the use of an optical Feshbach resonance, excited on the ${}^1S_0 \to {}^3P_1$ intercombination line of ${}^{171}$Yb, to affect a large modification of the s-wave scattering phase shift, and thereby optically mediate nuclear exchange forces. We perform a full multichannel calculation of the photoassociation resonances and wave functions and from these calculate the real and imaginary parts of the scattering length. As a figure of merit of this interaction, we estimate the fidelity to implement a $\sqrt{SWAP}$ entangling quantum logic gate for two atoms trapped in the same well of an optical lattice. For moderate parameters one can achieve a gate fidelity of $\sim95% $ in a time of $\sim 50 \mu$s.

id: 0905.4583
title: Shaping the Phase of a Single Photon
authors: H. P. Specht, J. Bochmann, M. Muecke, B. Weber, E. Figueroa, D. L. Moehring, G. Rempe
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 3, 469 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4583
abstract: While the phase of a coherent light field can be precisely known, the phase of the individual photons that create this field, considered individually, cannot. Phase changes within single-photon wave packets, however, have observable effects. In fact, actively controlling the phase of individual photons has been identified as a powerful resource for quantum communication protocols. Here we demonstrate the arbitrary phase control of a single photon. The phase modulation is applied without affecting the photon's amplitude profile and is verified via a two-photon quantum interference measurement, which can result in the fermionic spatial behaviour of photon pairs. Combined with previously demonstrated control of a single photon's amplitude, frequency, and polarisation, the fully deterministic phase shaping presented here allows for the complete control of single-photon wave packets.

id: 0905.4609
title: Emergence of pointer states in a non-perturbative environment
authors: Marc Busse, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure; corresponds to published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 362001 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4609
abstract: We show that the pointer basis distinguished by collisional decoherence consists of exponentially localized, solitonic wave packets. Based on the orthogonal unraveling of the quantum master equation, we characterize their formation and dynamics, and we demonstrate that the statistical weights arising from an initial superposition state are given by the required projection. Since the spatial width of the pointer states can be obtained by accounting for the gas environment in a microscopically realistic fashion, one may thus calculate the coherence length of a strongly interacting gas.

id: 0905.4638
title: Wigner function non-classicality as indicator of quantum chaos
authors: A. Kowalewska-Kud?aszyk, J.K. Kalaga, W. Leo¨½ski
comments: 19 pages including 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78, 066219 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4638
abstract: We propose a Wigner function based parameter that can be used as an indicator of quantum chaos. This parameter is defined as "entropy" from the time-dependence of "non-classicallity" proposed in \cite{KZ04}. We perform our considerations for the system of damped nonlinear (Kerr-like) oscillator excited by a series of ultra-short external pulses.

id: 0905.4641
title: What Does the Free Will Theorem Actually Prove?
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Daniel V. Tausk, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Notices of the American Mathematical Society 57(11): 1451-1453 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4641
abstract: Conway and Kochen have presented a "free will theorem" (Notices of the AMS 56, pgs. 226-232 (2009)) which they claim shows that "if indeed we humans have free will, then [so do] elementary particles." In a more precise fashion, they claim it shows that for certain quantum experiments in which the experimenters can choose between several options, no deterministic or stochastic model can account for the observed outcomes without violating a condition "MIN" motivated by relativistic symmetry. We point out that for stochastic models this conclusion is not correct, while for deterministic models it is not new.

id: 0905.4646
title: Long-time fidelity and chaos for a kicked nonlinear oscillator system
authors: A. Kowalewska-Kud?aszyk, J. K. Kalaga, W. Leo¨½ski
comments: 20 pages including 8 figures
journal: Physics Letters A373 (2009) 1334
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4646
abstract: We deal with a system comprising a nonlinear (Kerr-like) oscillator excited by a series of ultra-short external pulses. We introduce the fidelity-based entropic parameter that can be used as an indicator of quantum chaos. Moreover, we propose to use the fidelity-like parameter comprising the information about the mean number of photons in the system. We shall concentrate on the long-time behaviour of the parameters discussed, showing that for deep chaos cases the quantum fidelities behave chaotically in the classical sense despite their strictly quantum character.

id: 0905.4648
title: Moebius Pairs of Simplices and Commuting Pauli Operators
authors: Hans Havlicek, Boris Odehnal, Metod Saniga
comments: 13 pages, 1 example; Version 2 - slightly polished and updated
journal: Mathematica Pannonica 21 (2010) 115-128
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4648
abstract: There exists a large class of groups of operators acting on Hilbert spaces, where commutativity of group elements can be expressed in the geometric language of symplectic polar spaces embedded in the projective spaces PG($n, p$), $n$ being odd and $p$ a prime. Here, we present a result about commuting and non-commuting group elements based on the existence of so-called Moebius pairs of $n$-simplices, i. e., pairs of $n$-simplices which are \emph{mutually inscribed and circumscribed} to each other. For group elements representing an $n$-simplex there is no element outside the centre which commutes with all of them. This allows to express the dimension $n$ of the associated polar space in group theoretic terms. Any Moebius pair of $n$-simplices according to our construction corresponds to two disjoint families of group elements (operators) with the following properties: (i) Any two distinct elements of the same family do not commute. (ii) Each element of one family commutes with all but one of the elements from the other family. A three-qubit generalised Pauli group serves as a non-trivial example to illustrate the theory for $p=2$ and $n=5$.

id: 0905.4652
title: Sudden Death and Birth of Entanglement Effects for Kerr-Nonlinear Coupler
authors: A. Kowalewska-Kud?aszyk, W. Leo¨½ski
comments: 18 pages including 7 figures. Journal of the Optical Society of America B - in press
journal: Journal of the Optical Society of America B 26 (2009) 1289
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4652
abstract: We analyse the entanglement dynamics in a nonlinear Kerr-like coupler interacting with external environment. Whenever the reservoir is in a thermal vacuum state the entanglement (measured by concurrence for a two-qubit system) exhibits regular oscillations of decreasing amplitude. In contrast, for thermal reservoirs we can observe dark periods in concurrence oscillations (which can be called a "sudden death" of the entanglement) and the entanglement rebuild (which can be named the "sudden birth" of entanglement). We show that these features can be observed when we deal with 2-qubit system as well as $2\otimes 3$ system.

id: 0905.4677
title: Quantum router based on ac control of qubit chains
authors: David Zueco, Fernando Galve, Sigmund Kohler, Peter H?nggi
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4677
abstract: We study the routing of quantum information in qubit chains. This task is achieved by suitably chosen time-dependent local fields acting on the qubits. Employing the physics of coherent destruction of tunneling, we demonstrate that a driving-induced renormalization of the coupling between neighboring qubits provides the key for controlling the transduction of quantum information between permanently coupled qubits. We employ this idea for building a quantum router. Moreover, we discuss the experimental implementation with Penning traps, and study the robustness of our protocol under realistic experimental conditions, such as fabrication uncertainties and decoherence.

id: 0905.4692
title: Teleportation protocol with non-ideal conditional local operations
authors: C. Di Franco, D. Ballester
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 3164 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4692
abstract: In the standard protocol for quantum teleportation, one assumes that Bob is able to perform ideal operations on his qubit. Here, we analyze the case in which some of these operations are more reliable than others. Moreover, we consider the channel shared by Alice and Bob as non-maximally entangled. In this context, the average fidelity of teleportation can be maximized by properly choosing the basis in which Alice performs her two-qubit measurement.

id: 0905.4741
title: Quantum-classical correspondence of the Dirac matrices: The Dirac Lagrangian as a Total Derivative
authors: S. Savasta, O. Di Stefano, O.M. Marago
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4741
abstract: The Dirac equation provides a description of spin 1/2 particles, consistent with both the principles of quantum mechanics and of special relativity. Often its presentation to students is based on mathematical propositions that may hide the physical meaning of its contents. Here we show that Dirac spinors provide the quantum description of two unit classical vectors: one whose components are the speed of an elementary particle and the rate of change of its proper time and a second vector which fixes the velocity direction. In this context both the spin degree of freedom and antiparticles can be understood from the rotation symmetry of these unit vectors. Within this approach the Dirac Lagrangian acquires a direct physical meaning as the quantum operator describing the total time-derivative.

id: 0905.4755
title: QMA-complete problems for stoquastic Hamiltonians and Markov matrices
authors: Stephen P. Jordan, David Gosset, Peter J. Love
comments: 11 pages. Contains several new results not present in version 1.
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81(3), 032331 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4755
abstract: We show that finding the lowest eigenvalue of a 3-local symmetric stochastic matrix is QMA-complete. We also show that finding the highest energy of a stoquastic Hamiltonian is QMA-complete and that adiabatic quantum computation using certain excited states of a stoquastic Hamiltonian is universal. We also show that adiabatic evolution in the ground state of a stochastic frustration free Hamiltonian is universal. Our results give a new QMA-complete problem arising in the classical setting of Markov chains, and new adiabatically universal Hamiltonians that arise in many physical systems.

id: 0905.4760
title: A category theoretic approach to asymptotic quantum channel approximation and Birkhoff's Theorem
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: 13 pages. Comments and suggestions very much appreciated. Extensively revised for submission to QIP 2010. Most recent version contains clarification of isomorphisms used in final theorem
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4760
abstract: Birkhoff's Theorem states that doubly stochastic matrices are convex combinations of permutation matrices. Quantum mechanically these matrices are doubly stochastic channels, i.e. they are completely positive maps preserving both the trace and the identity. We expect these channels to be convex combinations of unitary channels and yet it is known that some channels cannot be written that way. Recent work has suggested that $n$ copies of a single channel might approximate a mixture (convex combination) of unitaries. In this paper we show that $n(n+1)/2$ copies of a symmetric unital quantum channel may be arbitrarily-well approximated by a mixture (convex combination) of unitarily implemented channels. In addition, we prove that any extremal properties of a channel are preserved over $n$ (and thus $n(n+1)/2$) copies. The result has the potential to be completely generalized to include non-symmetric channels.

id: 0905.4791
title: Demystification of quantum entanglement
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: This version, v3, contains the rigorous mathematical presentation of the model, PCSFT, prequantum classical statistical field theory; v2 is better for physics.
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4791
abstract: One of the crucial differences between mathematical models of classical and quantum mechanics is the use of the tensor product of the state spaces of subsystems as the state space of the corresponding composite system. (To describe an ensemble of classical composite systems one uses random variables taking values in the Cartesian product of the state spaces of subsystems.) We show that, nevertheless, it is possible to establish a natural correspondence between the classical and quantum probabilistic descriptions of composite systems. Quantum averages for composite systems (including entangled) can be represented as averages with respect to classical random fields. It is essentially what Albert Einstein was dreamed of. Quantum mechanics is represented as classical statistical mechanics with infinite-dimensional phase space. While the mathematical construction is completely rigorous, its physical interpretation is a complicated problem (which will not be discussed in this paper).

id: 0905.4794
title: Quantum chaos and critical behavior on a chip
authors: Neill Lambert, Yueh-nan Chen, Robert Johannsson, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 165308 (2009) [7 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4794
abstract: The Dicke model describes N qubits (or two-level atoms) homogenously coupled to a bosonic mode. Here we examine an open-system realization of the Dicke model, which contains critical and chaotic behaviour. In particular, we extend this model to include an additional open transport qubit (TQ) (coupled to the bosonic mode) for passive and active measurements. We illustrate how the scaling (in the number of qubits N) of the superradiant phase transition can be observed in both current and current-noise measurements through the transport qubit. Using a master equation, we also investigate how the phase transition is affected by the back-action from the transport qubit and losses in the cavity. In addition, we show that the non-integrable quantum chaotic character of the Dicke model is retained in an open-system environment. We propose how all of these effects could been seen in a circuit QED system formed from an array of superconducting qubits, or an atom chip, coupled to a quantized resonant cavity (e.g., a microwave transmission line).

id: 0905.4822
title: The geometric measure of entanglement for symmetric states
authors: R. H¨¹bener, M. Kleinmann, T.-C. Wei, C. Gonz¨¢lez-Guill¨¦n, O. G¨¹hne
comments: V2: significantly extended, 6 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032324 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4822
abstract: Is the closest product state to a symmetric entangled multiparticle state also symmetric? This question has appeared in the recent literature concerning the geometric measure of entanglement. First, we show that a positive answer can be derived from results concerning symmetric multilinear forms and homogeneous polynomials, implying that the closest product state can be chosen to be symmetric. We then prove the stronger result that the closest product state to any symmetric multiparticle quantum state is necessarily symmetric. Moreover, we discuss generalizations of our result and the case of translationally invariant states, which can occur in spin models.

id: 0905.4830
title: Two dimensional characterization of space-momentum entangled photon pairs
authors: Martin Ostermeyer, Dietmar Korn, Dirk Puhlmann
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4830
abstract: Space momentum entangled photon pairs are generated from type II parametric down conversion in a beta barium borate crystal. The correlations in the positions of photons in the near field and far field planes with regard to the generating crystal are observed in both transverse dimensions using scanning fiber probes. The space-momentum correlation is characterized using a covariance description for a bivariate normal distribution and tested for non-separability with Mancini's criterion. The role of higher order spatial modes to observe spatial entanglement between the two photons is discussed.

id: 0905.4839
title: Fault tolerant architectures for superconducting qubits
authors: David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 28 pages, 10 figures. For the Nobel Symposium on Qubits for Quantum Information, submitted to Physica Scripta. v. 2 Corrections and small changes to references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4839
abstract: In this short review, I draw attention to new developments in the theory of fault tolerance in quantum computation that may give concrete direction to future work in the development of superconducting qubit systems. The basics of quantum error correction codes, which I will briefly review, have not significantly changed since their introduction fifteen years ago. But an interesting picture has emerged of an efficient use of these codes that may put fault tolerant operation within reach. It is now understood that two dimensional surface codes, close relatives of the original toric code of Kitaev, can be adapted to effectively perform logical gate operations in a very simple planar architecture, with error thresholds for fault tolerant operation simulated to be 0.75%. This architecture uses topological ideas in its functioning, but it is not 'topological quantum computation' -- there are no non-abelian anyons in sight. I offer some speculations on the crucial pieces of superconducting hardware that could be demonstrated in the next couple of years that would be clear stepping stones towards this surface-code architecture.

id: 0905.4867
title: Monotonically convergent optimal control theory of quantum systems under a nonlinear interaction with the control field
authors: M. Lapert, R. Tehini, G. Turinici, D. Sugny
comments: 24 pages, 11 figures
journal: Physical Review A 78, 023408 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4867
abstract: We consider the optimal control of quantum systems interacting non-linearly with an electromagnetic field. We propose new monotonically convergent algorithms to solve the optimal equations. The monotonic behavior of the algorithm is ensured by a non-standard choice of the cost which is not quadratic in the field. These algorithms can be constructed for pure and mixed-state quantum systems. The efficiency of the method is shown numerically on molecular orientation with a non-linearity of order 3 in the field. Discretizing the amplitude and the phase of the Fourier transform of the optimal field, we show that the optimal solution can be well-approximated by pulses that could be implemented experimentally.

id: 0905.4873
title: An efficient prescription to find the eigenfunctions of point interactions Hamiltonians
authors: F. A. B. Coutinho, M. Amaku
comments: 6 pages
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 30 (2009) L51-L54. http://www.iop.org/EJ/abstract/0143-0807/30/4/L02
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4873
abstract: A prescription invented a long time ago by Case and Danilov is used to get the wave function of point interactions in two and three dimensions.

id: 0905.4910
title: Instant single-photon Fock state tomography
authors: S. R. Huisman, Nitin Jain, S. A. Babichev, Frank Vewinger, A. N. Zhang, S. H. Youn, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 34, 2739 - 2741 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4910
abstract: Heralded single photons are prepared at a rate of ~100 kHz via conditional measurements on polarization-nondegenerate biphotons produced in a periodically poled KTP crystal. The single-photon Fock state is characterized using high frequency pulsed optical homodyne tomography with a fidelity of (57.6 +- 0.1)%. The state preparation and detection rates allowed us to perform on-the-fly alignment of the apparatus based on real-time analysis of the quadrature measurement statistics.

id: 0905.4934
title: Quantum decay into a non-flat continuum
authors: James Aisenberg, Itamar Sela, Tsampikos Kottos, Doron Cohen, Alex Elgart
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 43, 095301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4934
abstract: We study the decay of a prepared state into non-flat continuum. We find that the survival probability $P(t)$ might exhibit either stretched-exponential or power-law decay, depending on non-universal features of the model. Still there is a universal characteristic time $t_0$ that does not depend on the functional form. It is only for a flat continuum that we get a robust exponential decay that is insensitive to the nature of the intra-continuum couplings. The analysis highlights the co-existence of perturbative and non-perturbative features in the local density of states, and the non-linear dependence of $1/t_0$ on the strength of the coupling.

id: 0905.4944
title: Chebyshev polynomials and Fourier transform of SU(2) irreducible representation character as spin-tomographic star-product kernel
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures, LaTeX file, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 30 (2009) 224-241
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4944
abstract: Spin-tomographic symbols of qudit states and spin observables are studied. Spin observables are associated with the functions on a manifold whose points are labelled by spin projections and 2-sphere coordinates. The star-product kernel for such functions is obtained in explicit form and connected with Fourier transform of characters of SU(2) irreducible representation. The kernels are shown to be in close relation to the Chebyshev polynomials. Using specific properties of these polynomials, we establish the recurrence relation between kernels for different spins. Employing the explicit form of the star-product kernel, a sum rule for Clebsch-Gordan and Racah coefficients is derived. Explicit formulas are obtained for the dual tomographic star-product kernel as well as for intertwining kernels which relate spin-tomographic symbols and dual tomographic symbols.

id: 0905.4945
title: Enhanced Two-Photon Processes in Quantum Dots inside Photonic Crystal Nanocavities and Quantum Information Processing Applications
authors: Ziliang Lin, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4945
abstract: We show that the two-photon transition rates of quantum dots coupled to nanocavities are enhanced by up to 8 orders of magnitude relative to quantum dots in bulk host. We then propose how to take advantage of this enhancement to implement coherent quantum dot excitation by two-photon absorption, entangled photon pair generation by two-photon spontaneous emission, and single-photon generation at telecommunication wavelengths by two-photon stimulated and spontaneous emission.

id: 0905.4953
title: Coexistence of quantum operations
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Daniel Reitzner, Peter Stano, Mario Ziman
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, minor changes and corrections in v2
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 365302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4953
abstract: Quantum operations are used to describe the observed probability distributions and conditional states of the measured system. In this paper, we address the problem of their joint measurability (coexistence). We derive two equivalent coexistence criteria. The two most common classes of operations - Luders operations and conditional state preparators - are analyzed. It is shown that Luders operations are coexistent only under very restrictive conditions, when the associated effects are either proportional to each other, or disjoint.

id: 0905.0111
title: On the Burgers vector of a wave dislocation
authors: Mark R. Dennis
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, IoP style
journal: Journal of Optics A 11 (2009) 094002
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0111
abstract: Following Nye and Berry's analogy with crystal dislocations, an approach to the Burgers vector of a wave dislocation (phase singularity, optical vortex) is proposed. It is defined to be a regularized phase gradient evaluated at the phase singularity, and is computed explicitly. The screw component of this vector is naturally related to the helicoidal twisting of wavefronts along a vortex line, and is related to the helicity of the phase gradient. The edge component is related to the nearby current flow (defined by the phase gradient) perpendicular to the vortex, and the distribution of this component is found numerically for random two-dimensional monochromatic waves.

id: 0905.0139
title: Atomism versus Holism in Science and Philosophy
authors: Vassilios Karakostas
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0139
abstract: The pros and cons of various forms of atomism and holism that are applicable both in physical science and today's philosophy of nature are evaluated. To this end, Lewis' thesis of Humean supervenience is presented as an important case study of an atomistic doctrine in philosophical thought. According to the thesis of Humean supervenience, the world is fragmented into local matters of particular fact and everything else supervenes upon them in conjunction with the spatiotemporal relations among them. It is explicitly shown that Lewis' ontological doctrine of Humean supervenience incorporates at its foundation the so-called separability principle of classical physics. In view of the systematic violation of the latter within quantum mechanics, it is argued that contemporary physical science posits non-supervenient relations over and above the spatiotemporal ones. It is demonstrated that the relation of quantum entanglement constitutes the prototypical example of a holistic, irreducible physical relation that does not supervene upon a spatiotemporal arrangement of Humean qualities, undermining, thereby, the thesis of Humean supervenience. It is concluded, in this respect, that the assumption of ontological reductionism, as expressed in Lewis' Humean doctrine, cannot be regarded as a reliable code of the nature of the physical world and its contents. It is proposed instead that - due to the undeniable existence of generic non-supervenient relations - a metaphysic of relations of a moderate kind ought to be acknowledged as an indispensable part of our understanding of the natural world at a fundamental level.

id: 0905.0343
title: Role of spatial inhomogeneity in dissociation of trapped molecular condensates
authors: Magnus Ogren, K. V. Kheruntsyan
comments: Final published version; 23 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:013641,2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0343
abstract: We theoretically analyze dissociation of a harmonically trapped Bose-Einstein condensate of molecular dimers and examine how the spatial inhomogeneity of the molecular condensate affects the conversion dynamics and the atom-atom pair correlations in the short-time limit. Both fermionic and bosonic statistics of the constituent atoms are considered. Using the undepleted molecular-field approximation, we obtain explicit analytic results for the asymptotic behavior of the second-order correlation functions and for the relative number squeezing between the dissociated atoms in one, two and three spatial dimensions. Comparison with the numerical results shows that the analytic approach employed here captures the main underlying physics and provides useful insights into the dynamics of dissociation for conversion efficiencies up to 10%. The results show explicitly how the strength of atom-atom correlations and relative number squeezing degrade with the reduction of the size of the molecular condensate.

id: 0905.0408
title: Copenhagen Interpretation of Quantum Theory and the Measurement Problem
authors: Martin Kober
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0408
abstract: The Copenhagen interpretation of quantum theory is investigated from a philosophical point of view. It is justified the opinion that the philosophical attitude the Copenhagen interpretation is based on is in principle inevitable for a real comprehension of quantum theory. This attitude is mainly related to epistemological arguments. However, the measurement problem often seems not to be treated clearly enough within the interpretation. By referring to the property of the necessity to use macroscopic measurement instruments obeying classical concepts it is made the attempt to solve the measurement problem. According to this consideration the indeterministic character of quantum theory seems to have its origin in a lack of knowledge and thus it appears in a similar but more principle way than in statistical mechanics. It is emphasized the ontological character of the uncertainty relation and the related non locality of quantum theory suggesting that the existence of a position space is not as fundamental as the assumptions of general quantum theory.

id: 0905.0427
title: Absence of Klein's paradox for massive bosons coupled by nonminimal vector interactions
authors: T.R. Cardoso, L.B. Castro, A.S. de Castro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0427
abstract: A few properties of the nonminimal vector interactions in the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory are revised. In particular, it is shown that the space component of the nonminimal vector interaction plays a peremptory role for confining bosons whereas its time component contributes to the leakage. Scattering in a square step potential with proper boundary conditions is used to show that Klein's paradox does not manifest in the case of a nonminimal vector coupling.

id: 0905.0589
title: An Alternative Canonical Approach to the Ghost Problem in a Complexified Extension of the Pais-Uhlenbeck Oscillator
authors: A. D¨¦ctor, H.A. Morales-T¨¦cotl, L.F. Urrutia, J.D. Vergara
comments: 
journal: SIGMA.5:053,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0589
abstract: Our purpose in this paper is to analyze the Pais-Uhlenbeck (PU) oscillator using complex canonical transformations. We show that starting from a Lagrangian approach we obtain a transformation that makes the extended PU oscillator, with unequal frequencies, to be equivalent to two standard second order oscillators which have the original number of degrees of freedom. Such extension is provided by adding a total time derivative to the PU Lagrangian together with a complexification of the original variables further subjected to reality conditions in order to maintain the required number of degrees of freedom. The analysis is accomplished at both the classical and quantum levels. Remarkably, at the quantum level the negative norm states are eliminated, as well as the problems of unbounded below energy and non-unitary time evolution. We illustrate the idea of our approach by eliminating the negative norm states in a complex oscillator. Next, we extend the procedure to the Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator. The corresponding quantum propagators are calculated using Schwinger's quantum action principle. We also discuss the equal frequency case at the classical level.

id: 0905.0681
title: Misleading signposts along the de Broglie-Bohm road to quantum mechanics
authors: Michael K.-H. Kiessling
comments: Dedicated to Jeffrey Bub on occasion of his 65th birthday. Accepted for publication in Foundations of Physics. A "slip of pen" in the bibliography has been corrected -- thanks go to Oliver Passon for catching it!
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0681
abstract: Eighty years after de Broglie's, and a little more than half a century after Bohm's seminal papers, the de Broglie--Bohm theory (a.k.a. Bohmian mechanics), which is presumably the simplest theory which explains the orthodox quantum mechanics formalism, has reached an exemplary state of conceptual clarity and mathematical integrity. No other theory of quantum mechanics comes even close. Yet anyone curious enough to walk this road to quantum mechanics is soon being confused by many misleading signposts that have been put up, and not just by its detractors, but unfortunately enough also by some of its proponents. This paper outlines a road map to help navigate ones way.

id: 0905.0688
title: On String Theory Duals of Lifshitz-like Fixed Points
authors: Tatsuo Azeyanagi, Wei Li, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 47 pages, 4 figures
journal: JHEP 0906:084,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0688
abstract: We present type IIB supergravity solutions which are expected to be dual to certain Lifshitz-like fixed points with anisotropic scale invariance. They are expected to describe a class of D3-D7 systems and their finite temperature generalizations are straightforward. We show that there exist solutions that interpolate between these anisotropic solutions in the IR and the standard AdS5 solutions in the UV. This predicts anisotropic RG flows from familiar isotropic fixed points to anisotropic ones. In our case, these RG flows are triggered by a non-zero theta-angle in Yang-Mills theories that linearly depends on one of the spatial coordinates. We study the perturbations around these backgrounds and discuss the possibility of instability. We also holographically compute their thermal entropies, viscosities, and entanglement entropies.

id: 0905.0765
title: Rotation in relativity and the propagation of light
authors: E. Kajari, M. Buser, C. Feiler, W. P. Schleich
comments: 102 pages, 35 figures, The original publication is available at this http URL, to appear in "Atom Optics and Space Physics", Proceedings of the International School of Physics "Enrico Fermi", Course CLXVIII, edited by E. Arimondo, W. Ertmer, E. M. Rasel and W. P. Schleich, (IOS Press, Amsterdam) 2009
journal: Proceedings of the International School of Physics "Enrico Fermi", Course CLXVIII, pp. 45-148 (2009)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0765
abstract: We compare and contrast the different points of view of rotation in general relativity, put forward by Mach, Thirring and Lense, and Goedel. Our analysis relies on two tools: (i) the Sagnac effect which allows us to measure rotations of a coordinate system or induced by the curvature of spacetime, and (ii) computer visualizations which bring out the alien features of the Goedel Universe. In order to keep the paper self-contained, we summarize in several appendices crucial ingredients of the mathematical tools used in general relativity. In this way, our lecture notes should be accessible to researchers familiar with the basic elements of tensor calculus and general relativity.

id: 0905.0806
title: Indeterminism and Randomness Through Physics
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 6 pages
journal: in "Randomness Through Computation. Some Answers, More Questions," ed. by Hector Zenil (World Scientific, Singapore, 2011), pp. 109-120
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0806
abstract: Despite provable unknowables in recursion theory, indeterminism and randomness in physics is confined to conventions, subjective beliefs and preliminary evidence. The history of the issue is very briefly reviewed, and answers to five questions raised by Hector Zenil are presented.

id: 0905.0817
title: Probing superfluidity of periodically trapped ultracold atoms in a cavity by transmission spectroscopy
authors: Aranya B.Bhattacherjee, Tarun Kumar, ManMohan
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0817
abstract: We study a system of periodic Bose condensed atoms coupled to cavity photons using the input-output formalism. We show that the cavity will either act as a through pass Lorentzian filter when the superfluid fraction of the condensate is minimum or completely reflect the input field when the superfluid fraction is maximum. We show that by monitoring the ratio between the transmitted field and the reflected field, one can estimate the superfluid fraction.

id: 0905.0877
title: O(N) symmetry-breaking quantum quench: Topological defects versus quasiparticles
authors: Michael Uhlmann, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 6 pages of RevTex4-1, 1 figure; to be published in Physical Review D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 81, 025017 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0877
abstract: We present an analytical derivation of the winding number counting topological defects created by an O(N) symmetry-breaking quantum quench in N spatial dimensions. Our approach is universal in the sense that we do not employ any approximations apart from the large-$N$ limit. The final result is nonperturbative in N, i.e., it cannot be obtained by %the usual an expansion in 1/N, and we obtain far less topological defects than quasiparticle excitations, in sharp distinction to previous, low-dimensional investigations.

id: 0905.0886
title: Quantum algorithm for Bose-Einstein condensate quantum fluid dynamics
authors: Jeffrey Yepez, George Vahala, Linda Vahala
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: SPIE Quantum Information and Computation VII, Vol. 7342-21, 73420M (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0886
abstract: The dynamics of vortex solitons in a BEC superfluid is studied. A quantum lattice-gas algorithm (localization-based quantum computation) is employed to examine the dynamical behavior of vortex soliton solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation (phi^4 interaction nonlinear Schroedinger equation). Quantum turbulence is studied in large grid numerical simulations: Kolmogorov spectrum associated with a Richardson energy cascade occurs on large flow scales. At intermediate scales a k^{-6} power law emerges, in a classical-quantum transition from vortex filament reconnections to Kelvin wave-acoustic wave coupling. The spontaneous exchange of intermediate vortex rings is observed. Finally, at very small spatial scales a k^{-3} power law emerges, characterizing fluid dynamics occurring within the scale size of the vortex cores themselves, a characteristic Kelvin wave cascade region. Poincare recurrence is studied: in the free non-interacting system, a fast Poincare recurrence occurs for regular arrays of line vortices. The recurrence period is used to demarcate dynamics driving the nonlinear quantum fluid towards turbulence, since fast recurrence is an approximate symmetry of the nonlinear quantum fluid at early times. This class of quantum algorithms is useful for studying BEC superfluid dynamics over a broad range of wave numbers, from quantum flow to a pseudo-classical inviscid flow regime to a Kolmogorov inertial subrange.

id: 0905.0902
title: Exact quantum dynamics of a bosonic Josephson junction
authors: Kaspar Sakmann, Alexej I. Streltsov, Ofir E. Alon, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 220601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0902
abstract: The quantum dynamics of a one-dimensional bosonic Josephson junction is studied by solving the time-dependent many-boson Schr\"odinger equation numerically exactly. Already for weak interparticle interactions and on short time scales, the commonly-employed mean-field and many-body methods are found to deviate substantially from the exact dynamics. The system exhibits rich many-body dynamics like enhanced tunneling and a novel equilibration phenomenon of the junction depending on the interaction, attributed to a quick loss of coherence.

id: 0905.0932
title: Holographic Entanglement Entropy: An Overview
authors: Tatsuma Nishioka, Shinsei Ryu, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 52 pages, Invited review article for a special issue "Entanglement entropy in extended quantum systems" in Journal of Physics A, edited by P.Calabrese, J. Cardy and B. Doyon; (v2) references added
journal: J.Phys.A42:504008,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0932
abstract: In this article, we review recent progresses on the holographic understandings of the entanglement entropy in the AdS/CFT correspondence. After reviewing the general idea of holographic entanglement entropy, we will explain its applications to confinement/deconfinement phase transitions, black hole entropy and covariant formulation of holography.

id: 0905.0975
title: Universal Constants, Standard Models and Fundamental Metrology
authors: G. Cohen-Tannoudji
comments: 
journal: Eur.Phys.J.ST.172:5-24,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0975
abstract: Taking into account four universal constants, namely the Planck's constant $h$, the velocity of light $c$, the constant of gravitation $G$ and the Boltzmann's constant $k$ leads to structuring theoretical physics in terms of three theories each taking into account a pair of constants: the quantum theory of fields ($h$ and $c$), the general theory of relativity ($c$ and $G$) and quantum statistics ($h$ and $k$). These three theories are not yet unified but, together, they underlie the standard models that allow a satisfactory phenomenological description of all experimental or observational data, in particle physics and in cosmology and they provide, through the modern interpretation of quantum physics, fundamental metrology with a reliable theoretical basis.

id: 0905.1247
title: Pfaffian State Generation by Strong 3-Body Dissipation
authors: M. Roncaglia, M. Rizzi, J.I. Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 096803 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1247
abstract: We propose a scheme for preparing and stabilizing the Pfaffian state with high fidelity in rapidly rotating 2D traps containing a small number of bosons. The goal is achieved by strongly increasing 3-body loss processes, which suppress superpositions of three particles while permitting pairing. This filtering mechanism gives rise to reasonably small losses if the system is initialized with the right angular momentum. We discuss some methods for tuning 3-body interactions independently of 2-body collisions.

id: 0905.1291
title: Increasing the sensitivity of future gravitational-wave detectors with double squeezed-input
authors: Farid Ya. Khalili, Haixing Miao, Yanbei Chen
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, Accepted by Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:042006,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1291
abstract: We consider improving the sensitivity of future interferometric gravitational-wave detectors by simultaneously injecting two squeezed vacuums (light), filtered through a resonant Fabry-Perot cavity, into the dark port of the interferometer.The same scheme with single squeezed vacuum was first proposed and analyzed by Corbitt et al. Here we show that the extra squeezed vacuum, together with an additional homodyne detection suggested previously by one of the authors, allows reduction of quantum noise over the entire detection band. To motivate future implementations, we take into account a realistic technical noise budget for Advanced LIGO (AdvLIGO) and numerically optimize the parameters of both the filter and the interferometer for detecting gravitational-wave signals from two important astrophysics sources, namely Neutron-Star--Neutron-Star (NSNS) binaries and Bursts. Assuming the optical loss of the 30m filter cavity to be 10ppm per bounce and 10dB squeezing injection, the corresponding quantum noise with optimal parameters lowers by a factor of 10 at high frequencies and goes below the technical noise at low and intermediate frequencies.

id: 0905.1300
title: Two-message quantum interactive proofs are in PSPACE
authors: Rahul Jain, Sarvagya Upadhyay, John Watrous
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1300
abstract: We prove that QIP(2), the class of problems having two-message quantum interactive proof systems, is a subset of PSPACE. This relationship is obtained by means of an efficient parallel algorithm, based on the multiplicative weights update method, for approximately solving a certain class of semidefinite programs.

id: 0905.1363
title: Beyond Gaussian : A Comment
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 8 pages ; no figure. The discriminant for n=5 added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1363
abstract: In this paper we treat a non-Gaussian integral and give a fundamental formula in terms of discriminant. We also present some related problems. This is a comment paper to arXiv:0903.2595 [math-ph] by Morozov and Shakirov.

id: 0905.1371
title: Geometric aspects of phonon polarization transport
authors: Mohammad Mehrafarin, Reza Torabi
comments: 
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:2114-2116,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1371
abstract: We study the polarization transport of transverse phonons by adopting a new approach based on the quantum mechanics of spin-orbit interactions. This approach has the advantage of being apt for incorporating fluctuations in the system. The formalism gives rise to Berry effect terms manifested as the Rytov polarization rotation law and the polarization-dependent Hall effect. We derive the distribution of the Rytov rotation angle in the presence of thermal noise and show that the rotation angle is robust against fluctuations.

id: 0905.1467
title: Classical behavior in quantum systems: the case of straight tracks in a cloud chamber
authors: Alessandro Teta
comments: review paper, 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1467
abstract: The aim of this review is to discuss in a pedagogical way the problem of the emergence of a classical behavior in certain physical systems which, in principle, are correctly described by quantum mechanics. It is stressed that the limit $\hbar \to 0$ is not sufficient and the crucial role played by the environment must be taken into account. In particular it is recalled the old problem raised by Mott in 1929 (\cite{m}) concerning the straight tracks observed in a cloud chamber, produced by an $\alpha$-particle emitted by a source in the form of a spherical wave. The conceptual relevance of the problem for a clearer understanding of the classical limit is discussed in a historical perspective. Moreover a simple mathematical model is proposed, where the result of Mott is obtained in a rigorous mathematical way.

id: 0905.1515
title: Exact solutions and stability of rotating dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates in the Thomas-Fermi limit
authors: R. M. W. van Bijnen, A. J. Dow, D. H. J. O'Dell, N. G. Parker, A. M. Martin
comments: 12 pages with 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033617 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1515
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of dilute gas Bose-Einstein condensates with dipolar atomic interactions under rotation in elliptical traps. Working in the Thomas-Fermi limit, we employ the classical hydrodynamic equations to first derive the rotating condensate solutions and then consider their response to perturbations. We thereby map out the regimes of stability and instability for rotating dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates and in the latter case, discuss the possibility of vortex lattice formation. We employ our results to propose several novel routes to induce vortex lattice formation in a dipolar condensate.

id: 0905.1719
title: Classification of U_q(sl_2)-module algebra structures on the quantum plane
authors: Steven Duplij, Sergey Sinel'shchikov
comments: 21 pages, amsart. The assumption 0<q<1 on deformation parameter is replaced by the less restrictive assumption that q is not a root of 1. References added
journal: J. Math. Physics, Analysis, Geometry, 2010, vol. 6, issue 4, pp. 406-430
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1719
abstract: A complete list of Uq(sl2)-module algebra structures on the quantum plane is produced and the (uncountable family of) isomorphism classes of these structures are described. The composition series of representations in question are computed. The classical limits of the Uq(sl2)-module algebra structures are discussed.

id: 0905.1743
title: Nuclear Spins in Nanostructures
authors: W. A. Coish, J. Baugh
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, submitted as an invited feature article in Physica Status Solidi (b); v2: added references, corrected In hf coupling in Table 1, final version to appear in pss (b)
journal: Physica Status Solidi B 246, 2203 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1743
abstract: We review recent theoretical and experimental advances toward understanding the effects of nuclear spins in confined nanostructures. These systems, which include quantum dots, defect centers, and molecular magnets, are particularly interesting for their importance in quantum information processing devices, which aim to coherently manipulate single electron spins with high precision. On one hand, interactions between confined electron spins and a nuclear-spin environment provide a decoherence source for the electron, and on the other, a strong effective magnetic field that can be used to execute local coherent rotations. A great deal of effort has been directed toward understanding the details of the relevant decoherence processes and to find new methods to manipulate the coupled electron-nuclear system. A sequence of spectacular new results have provided understanding of spin-bath decoherence, nuclear spin diffusion, and preparation of the nuclear state through dynamic polarization and more general manipulation of the nuclear-spin density matrix through "state narrowing". These results demonstrate the richness of this physical system and promise many new mysteries for the future.

id: 0905.1771
title: Recovering Unitarity of Lee Model in Bi-Orthogonal Basis
authors: T. Shi, C. P. Sun
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1771
abstract: We study how to recover the unitarity of Lee model with the help of bi-orthogonal basis approach, when the physical coupling constant in renormalization exceeds its critical value, so that the Lee's Hamiltonian is non-Hermitian with respect to the conventional inner product. In a very natural fashion, our systematic approach based on bi-orthogonal basis leads to an elegant definition of inner product with a non-trivial metric, which can overcome all the previous problems in Lee model, such as non-Hermiticity of the Hamiltonian, the negative norm, the negative probability and the non-unitarity of the scattering matrix.

id: 0905.1884
title: Diffusion and localization for the Chirikov typical map
authors: Klaus M. Frahm, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures A small paragraph of explanations added below Eq. (13)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 016210 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1884
abstract: We consider the classical and quantum properties of the "Chirikov typical map", proposed by Boris Chirikov in 1969. This map is obtained from the well known Chirikov standard map by introducing a finite number $T$ of random phase shift angles. These angles induce a random behavior for small time scales ($t<T$) and a $T$-periodic iterated map which is relevant for larger time scales ($t>T$). We identify the classical chaos border $k_c\sim T^{-3/2} \ll 1$ for the kick parameter $k$ and two regimes with diffusive behavior on short and long time scales. The quantum dynamics is characterized by the effect of Chirikov localization (or dynamical localization). We find that the localization length depends in a subtle way on the two classical diffusion constants in the two time-scale regime.

id: 0905.2069
title: Entanglement entropy of two disjoint intervals in conformal field theory
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy, Erik Tonni
comments: 34 pages, 7 figures. V2: Results for small x behavior added, typos corrected and refs added
journal: J. Stat. Mech P11001, 2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2069
abstract: We study the entanglement of two disjoint intervals in the conformal field theory of the Luttinger liquid (free compactified boson). Tr\rho_A^n for any integer n is calculated as the four-point function of a particular type of twist fields and the final result is expressed in a compact form in terms of the Riemann-Siegel theta functions. In the decompactification limit we provide the analytic continuation valid for all model parameters and from this we extract the entanglement entropy. These predictions are checked against existing numerical data.

id: 0905.2088
title: Electrodynamic Casimir Effect in a Medium-Filled Wedge II
authors: Simen Adnoy Ellingsen, Iver Brevik, Kimball A. Milton
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review E. Changes made in this version were made in response to comments from a referee. Other corrections, including to citations, have been made
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 021125 (2009)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2088
abstract: We consider the Casimir energy in a geometry of an infinite magnetodielectric wedge closed by a circularly cylindrical, perfectly conducting arc embedded in another magnetodielectric medium, under the condition that the speed of light be the same in both media. An expression for the Casimir energy corresponding to the arc is obtained and it is found that in the limit where the reflectivity of the wedge boundaries tends to unity the finite part of the Casimir energy of a perfectly conducting wedge-shaped sheet closed by a circular cylinder is regained. The energy of the latter geometry possesses divergences due to the presence of sharp corners. We argue how this is a pathology of the assumption of ideal conductor boundaries, and that no analogous term enters in the present geometry.

id: 0905.2389
title: On the nonminimal vector coupling in the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory and the confinement of massive bosons by a linear potential
authors: T.R. Cardoso, L.B. Castro, A.S. de Castro
comments: 6 figures
journal: J.Phys.A43:055306,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2389
abstract: Vector couplings in the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory are revised. It is shown that minimal and nonminimal vector potentials behave differently under charge-conjugation and time-reversal transformations. In particular, it is shown that nonminimal vector potentials have been erroneously applied to the description of elastic meson-nucleus scatterings and that the space component of the nonminimal vector potential plays a crucial role for the confinement of bosons. The DKP equation with nonminimal vector linear potentials is mapped into the nonrelativistic harmonic oscillator problem and the behavior of the solutions for this sort of DKP oscillator is discussed in detail. Furthermore, the absence of Klein's paradox and the localization of bosons in the presence of nonminimal vector interactions are discussed.

id: 0905.2466
title: A Simple Bound on the Error of Perturbation Theory in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Daniel Harlow
comments: 10 pages, Included a discussion of energy levels and S-matrix elements
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2466
abstract: I provide a straightforward proof that a simple harmonic oscillator perturbed by an (almost) arbitrary positive interaction has a perturbative expansion for any finite-time Euclidian transition amplitude which obeys the following result: the difference of the sum of the first N terms of the series and the exact result is bounded in absolute value by the next term in the series. The proof makes no assumptions about either the strength of the interactions or the convergence of the perturbation series. I then argue that the result generalizes immediately to a much broader class of quantum mechanical systems, including bare perturbation theory in quantum field theory. The case of renormalized perturbation theory is more subtle and remains open, as does the generalization to energy levels and connected S-matrix elements.

id: 0905.2610
title: Two-orbital SU(N) magnetism with ultracold alkaline-earth atoms
authors: A. V. Gorshkov, M. Hermele, V. Gurarie, C. Xu, P. S. Julienne, J. Ye, P. Zoller, E. Demler, M. D. Lukin, A. M. Rey
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures. V2: extended experimental accessibility and Kondo sections in the main text (including new Fig. 5b) and in the Methods; reorganized other parts; added references
journal: Nature Phys. 6, 289 - 295 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2610
abstract: Fermionic alkaline-earth atoms have unique properties that make them attractive candidates for the realization of novel atomic clocks and degenerate quantum gases. At the same time, they are attracting considerable theoretical attention in the context of quantum information processing. Here we demonstrate that when such atoms are loaded in optical lattices, they can be used as quantum simulators of unique many-body phenomena. In particular, we show that the decoupling of the nuclear spin from the electronic angular momentum can be used to implement many-body systems with an unprecedented degree of symmetry, characterized by the SU(N) group with N as large as 10. Moreover, the interplay of the nuclear spin with the electronic degree of freedom provided by a stable optically excited state allows for the study of spin-orbital physics. Such systems may provide valuable insights into strongly correlated physics of transition metal oxides, heavy fermion materials, and spin liquid phases.

id: 0905.2792
title: The Split-Algebras and Non-compact Hopf Maps
authors: Kazuki Hasebe
comments: 40 pages, no figures, + 8 pages, discussions and references added, published version
journal: J. Math. Phys.51:053524, 2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2792
abstract: We develop a noncompact version of the Hopf maps based on the split algebras. The split algebras consist of three species: split-complex numbers, split quaternions, and split octonions. They correspond to three noncompact Hopf maps that represent topological maps between hyperboloids in different dimensions with hyperboloid bundle. We realize such noncompact Hopf maps in two ways: one is to utilize the split-imaginary unit, and the other is to utilize the ordinary imaginary unit. Topological structures of the hyperboloid bundles are explored, and the canonical connections are naturally regarded as noncompact gauge field of monopoles.

id: 0905.2829
title: Analog of the spin-orbit induced anomalous Hall effect with quantized radiation
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 4 + epsilon pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 051803(R) (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2829
abstract: We demonstrate how the term describing interaction between a single two-level atom and two cavity field modes may attain a Rashba form. As an outcome, cavity QED provides a testbed for studies of phenomena reminiscent of the spin-orbit induced anomalous Hall effect. The effective magnetic field, deriving from the non-Abelian gauge potentials rendered by the Rashba coupling, induces a transverse force acting on the phase space distributions. Thereby, the phase space distributions build up a transverse motion manifesting itself in spiral trajectories, rather than circular ones obtained for a zero magnetic field as one would acquire for the corresponding Abelian gauge potentials. Utilizing realistic experimental parameters, the phenomenon is numerically verified, ascertain that it should be realizable with current techniques.

id: 0905.2977
title: Cryptography for Multi-Located Parties
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 7 pages; 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.2977
abstract: This note describes some cryptographic issues related to multi-located parties. In general, multi-located parties make it difficult for the eavesdropper to mount the man-in-the-middle attack. Conversely, they make it easier to address problems such as joint encryption and error correction coding. It is easier to implement the three-stage quantum cryptography protocol.

id: 0905.3068
title: Generation of nonground-state condensates and adiabatic paradox
authors: V.I. Yukalov, V.S. Bagnato
comments: Latex file, 10 pages
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 6 (2009) 399-403
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3068
abstract: The problem of resonant generation of nonground-state condensates is addressed aiming at resolving the seeming paradox that arises when one resorts to the adiabatic representation. In this picture, the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of a time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii Hamiltonian are also functions of time. Since the level energies vary in time, no definite transition frequency can be introduced. Hence no external modulation with a fixed frequency can be made resonant. Thus, the resonant generation of adiabatic coherent modes is impossible. However, this paradox occurs only in the frame of the adiabatic picture. It is shown that no paradox exists in the properly formulated diabatic representation. The resonant generation of diabatic coherent modes is a well defined phenomenon. As an example, the equations are derived, describing the generation of diabatic coherent modes by the combined resonant modulation of the trapping potential and atomic scattering length.

id: 0905.3226
title: Entanglement of coupled massive scalar field in background of dilaton black hole
authors: Jieci Wang, Qiyuan Pan, Songbai Chen, Jiliang Jing
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, Accepted by PLB
journal: Phys.Lett.B677:186-189,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3226
abstract: The entanglement of the coupled massive scalar field in the spacetime of a Garfinkle-Horowitz-Strominger(GHS) dilaton black hole has been investigated. It is found that the entanglement does not depend on the mass of the particle and the coupling between the scalar field and the gravitational field, but it decreases as the dilaton parameter $D$ increases. It is interesting to note that in the limit of $D\to M$, corresponding to the case of an extreme black hole, the state has no longer distillable entanglement for any state parameter $\alpha$, but the mutual information equals to a nonvanishing minimum value, which indicates that the total correlations consist of classical correlations plus bound entanglement in this limit.

id: 0905.3334
title: Equilibrium long-ranged charge correlations at the interface between media coupled to the electromagnetic radiation
authors: Bernard Jancovici, Ladislav Samaj
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80 (2009) 031139
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3334
abstract: We continue studying long-ranged quantum correlations of surface charge densities on the interface between two media of distinct dielectric functions which are in thermal equilibrium with the radiated electromagnetic field. Two regimes are considered: the non-retarded one with the speed of light $c$ taken to be infinitely large and the retarded one with finite value of $c$. The analysis is based on results obtained by using fluctuational electrodynamics in [L. \v{S}amaj and B. Jancovici, Phys. Rev. E {\bf 78}, 051119 (2008)]. Using an integration method in the complex plane and the general analytic properties of dielectric functions in the frequency upper half-plane, we derive explicit forms of prefactors to the long-range decay of the surface charge correlation functions for all possible media (conductor, dielectric, vacuum) configurations. The main result is that the time-dependent quantum prefactor in the retarded regime takes its static classical form, for any temperature.

id: 0905.3384
title: Phase space representation of quantum dynamics
authors: Anatoli Polkovnikov
comments: 92 pages, typos corrected, published version
journal: Annals of Phys. 325, 1790 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3384
abstract: We discuss a phase space representation of quantum dynamics of systems with many degrees of freedom. This representation is based on a perturbative expansion in quantum fluctuations around one of the classical limits. We explicitly analyze expansions around three such limits: (i) corpuscular or Newtonian limit in the coordinate-momentum representation, (ii) wave or Gross-Pitaevskii limit for interacting bosons in the coherent state representation, and (iii) Bloch limit for the spin systems. We discuss both the semiclassical (truncated Wigner) approximation and further quantum corrections appearing in the form of either stochastic quantum jumps along the classical trajectories or the nonlinear response to such jumps. We also discuss how quantum jumps naturally emerge in the analysis of non-equal time correlation functions. This representation of quantum dynamics is closely related to the phase space methods based on the Wigner-Weyl quantization and to the Keldysh technique. We show how such concepts as the Wigner function, Weyl symbol, Moyal product, Bopp operators, and others automatically emerge from the Feynmann's path integral representation of the evolution in the Heisenberg representation. We illustrate the applicability of this expansion with various examples mostly in the context of cold atom systems including sine-Gordon model, one- and two-dimensional Bose Hubbard model, Dicke model and others.

id: 0905.3445
title: Entanglement generation through an open quantum dot: an exact approach
authors: Takashi Imamura, Akinori Nishino, Naomichi Hatano
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3445
abstract: We analytically study entanglement generation through an open quantum dot system described by the two-lead Anderson model. We exactly obtain the transition rate between the non-entangled incident state in one lead and the outgoing spin-singlet state in the other lead. In the cotunneling process, only the spin-singlet state can transmit. To discuss such an entanglement property in the open quantum system, we construct the exact two-electron scattering state of the Anderson model. It is striking that the scattering state contains spin-singlet bound states induced by the Coulomb interaction. The bound state describes the scattering process in which the set of momenta is not conserved and hence it is not in the form of a Bethe eigenstate.

id: 0905.3527
title: Quantum Annealing for Clustering
authors: Kenichi Kurihara, Shu Tanaka, Seiji Miyashita
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, Proceedings of the 25th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI 2009) accepted
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Learning (cs.LG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3527
abstract: This paper studies quantum annealing (QA) for clustering, which can be seen as an extension of simulated annealing (SA). We derive a QA algorithm for clustering and propose an annealing schedule, which is crucial in practice. Experiments show the proposed QA algorithm finds better clustering assignments than SA. Furthermore, QA is as easy as SA to implement.

id: 0905.3528
title: Quantum Annealing for Variational Bayes Inference
authors: Issei Sato, Kenichi Kurihara, Shu Tanaka, Hiroshi Nakagawa, Seiji Miyashita
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, Proceedings of the 25th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI 2009) accepted
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Learning (cs.LG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3528
abstract: This paper presents studies on a deterministic annealing algorithm based on quantum annealing for variational Bayes (QAVB) inference, which can be seen as an extension of the simulated annealing for variational Bayes (SAVB) inference. QAVB is as easy as SAVB to implement. Experiments revealed QAVB finds a better local optimum than SAVB in terms of the variational free energy in latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA).

id: 0905.3533
title: Horizon in Random Matrix Theory, Hawking Radiation and Flow of Cold Atoms
authors: Fabio Franchini, Vladimir E. Kravtsov
comments: 4 pages, no figures. PRL accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103: 166401,2009
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3533
abstract: We propose a Gaussian scalar field theory in a curved 2D metric with an event horizon as the low-energy effective theory for a weakly confined, invariant Random Matrix ensemble (RME). The presence of an event horizon naturally generates a bath of Hawking radiation, which introduces a finite temperature in the model in a non-trivial way. A similar mapping with a gravitational analogue model has been constructed for a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) pushed to flow at a velocity higher than its speed of sound, with Hawking radiation as sound waves propagating over the cold atoms. Our work suggests a three-fold connection between a moving BEC system, black-hole physics and unconventional RMEs with possible experimental applications.

id: 0905.3541
title: Dispersion Management of Ultraslow Light in a Bose-Einstein Condensate via Trap Curvature
authors: Devrim Tarhan, Seckin Sefi, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, some comments are added and the title of the article is changed
journal: Acta Physica Polonica A 120, 992-997 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3541
abstract: One dimensional propagation of ultraslow optical pulses in an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate taking into account the dispersion and the spatial inhomogeneity is investigated. Analytical and semi-analytical solutions of the dispersive inhomogeneous wave equation modeling the ultraslow pulse propagation are developed and compared against the standard wave equation solvers based upon Cranck-Nicholson and pseudo-spectral methods. The role of curvature of the trapping potential of the condensate on the amount of dispersion of the ultraslow pulse is pointed out.

id: 0905.3612
title: Quantum-gravitational running/reduction of space-time dimension
authors: Michael Maziashvili
comments: 4 pages; This essay received Honorable Mention in the 2009 Awards for Essays in Gravitation by the Gravity Research Foundation
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D18:2209-2213,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3612
abstract: Quantum-gravity renders the space-time dimension to depend on the size of region; it monotonically increases with the size of region and asymptotically approaches four for large distances. This effect was discovered in numerical simulations of lattice quantum gravity in the framework of causal dynamical triangulation [hep-th/0505113] as well as in renormalization group approach to quantum gravity [hep-th/0508202]. However, along these approaches the interpretation and the physical meaning of the effective change of dimension at shorter scales is not clear. Without invoking particular models in this essay we show that, box-counting dimension in face of finite resolution of space-time (generally implied by quantum gravity) shows a simple way how both the qualitative and the quantitative features of this effect can be understood. In this way we derive a simple analytic expression of space-time dimension running, which implies the modification of Newton's inverse square law in a perfect agreement with the modification coming from one-loop gravitational radiative corrections.

id: 0905.3807
title: Revisiting the gauge principle: enforcing constants of motion as constraints
authors: Petr Jizba, Josep Maria Pons
comments: 24 pages, LaTeX, small corrections added
journal: J.Phys.A43:205202,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3807
abstract: In this paper we examine an alternative formulation of the gauge principle in which the emphasis is shifted from the symmetry transformations to their generators. We show that the gauge principle can be entirely reformulated in terms of promoting constants of motion - which generate rigid symmetries - to constraints - which generate gauge symmetries. In our exposition we first explain the basic philosophy on mechanical systems, and then with the help of De Donder--Weyl formalism we extend our scenario also to a field-theoretical setting. To put some flesh on bare bones we demonstrate our method in numerous examples, including the massive relativistic particle, the Nambu--Goto string and relativistic field theory.

id: 0905.3953
title: Resonant Spectrum Analysis of the Conductance of Open Quantum System and Three Types of Fano Parameter
authors: Keita Sasada, Naomichi Hatano, Gonzalo Ordonez
comments: 29 pages, 22 figures, considerably expanded from the first version, this time with corrections of references. To be published in J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. No. 10 (2011)
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 80 (2011) 104707 (27 pages)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.3953
abstract: We explain the Fano peak (an asymmetric resonance peak) as an interference effect involving resonant states. We reveal that there are three types of Fano asymmetry according to their origins: the interference between a resonant state and an anti-resonant state, that between a resonant state and a bound state, and that between two resonant states. We show that the last two show the asymmetric energy dependence given by Fano, but the first one shows a slightly different form. In order to show the above, we analytically and microscopically derive a formula where we express the conductance purely in terms of the summation over all discrete eigenstates including resonant states and anti-resonant states, without any background integrals. We thereby obtain microscopic expressions of the Fano parameters that describe the three types of the Fano asymmetry. One of the expressions indicate that the corresponding Fano parameter becomes complex under an external magnetic field.

id: 0905.4000
title: Exact entanglement entropy of the XYZ model and its sine-Gordon limit
authors: Elisa Ercolessi, Stefano Evangelisti, Francesco Ravanini
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure - v2: typos corrected - v3: some references and comments of sine-Gordon result added - v4: typos corrected
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:2101-2105,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4000
abstract: We obtain the exact expression for the Von Neumann entropy for an infinite bipartition of the XYZ model, by connecting its reduced density matrix to the corner transfer matrix of the eight vertex model. Then we consider the anisotropic scaling limit of the XYZ chain that yields the 1+1 dimensional sine-Gordon model. We present the formula for the entanglement entropy of the latter, which has the structure of a dominant logarithmic term plus a constant, in agreement with what is generally expected for a massive quantum field theory.

id: 0905.4013
title: Entanglement entropy and conformal field theory
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy
comments: 39 Pages, 10 figures. Review article for the special issue "Entanglement entropy in extended systems" in J. Phys. A. V2 Refs added, typos corrected
journal: J.Phys.A42:504005,2009
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4013
abstract: We review the conformal field theory approach to entanglement entropy. We show how to apply these methods to the calculation of the entanglement entropy of a single interval, and the generalization to different situations such as finite size, systems with boundaries, and the case of several disjoint intervals. We discuss the behaviour away from the critical point and the spectrum of the reduced density matrix. Quantum quenches, as paradigms of non-equilibrium situations, are also considered.

id: 0905.4106
title: Quantum mechanical observers: a phase space approach
authors: M. Dance
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4106
abstract: A quantum mechanical observer might be describable as having a reference system that is a superposition of classical inertial reference frames. The present paper suggests a possible weighting function in such superpositions, determined by the product of the observer's wavefunction and the Fourier transform of the wavefunction at each point in phase space. This suggestion is made because each of these factors has a simple interpretation as a probability density amplitude. Other forms for the weighting function may well be possible.

id: 0905.4142
title: Semi-classical Universe Near Initial Singularity
authors: V. E. Kuzmichev, V. V. Kuzmichev
comments: 14 pages, 1 EPS figure
journal: Acta Phys.Polon.B40:2877-2891,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4142
abstract: The properties of the quantum universe on extremely small spacetime scales are studied in the semi-classical approach to the well-defined quantum model. It is shown that near the initial cosmological singularity point quantum gravity effects ~ h exhibit themselves in the form of additional matter source with the negative pressure and the equation of state as for ultrastiff matter. The analytical solution of the equations of theory of gravity, in which matter is represented by the radiation and additional matter source of quantum nature, is found. It is shown that in the stage of the evolution of the universe, when quantum corrections ~ h dominate over the radiation, the geometry of the universe is described by the metric which is conformal to a metric of a unit four-sphere in a five-dimensional Euclidean flat space. In the radiation dominated era the metric is found to be conformal to a unit hyperboloid embedded in a five-dimensional Lorentz-signatured flat space. The origin of the universe can be interpreted as a quantum transition of the system from the region in a phase space with a trajectory in imaginary time into the region, where the equations of motion have the solution in real time. Near the boundary between two regions the universe undergoes almost an exponential expansion which passes smoothly into the expansion under the action of radiation dominating over matter. As a result of such a quantum transition the geometry of the universe changes. This agrees with the hypothesis about the possible change of geometry after the nucleation of expanding universe from `nothing'.

id: 0905.4240
title: Uniform Semiclassical Approximation for the Wigner $6j$ Symbol in Terms of Rotation Matrices
authors: Robert G. Littlejohn, Liang Yu
comments: 44 pages plus 20 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4240
abstract: A new uniform asymptotic approximation for the Wigner $6j$ symbol is given in terms of Wigner rotation matrices ($d$-matrices). The approximation is uniform in the sense that it applies for all values of the quantum numbers, even those near caustics. The derivation of the new approximation is not given, but the geometrical ideas supporting it are discussed and numerical tests are presented, including comparisons with the exact $6j$-symbol and with the Ponzano-Regge approximation.

id: 0905.4286
title: Valence Bond and von Neumann Entanglement Entropy in Heisenberg Ladders
authors: Ann B. Kallin, Ivan Gonzalez, Matthew B. Hastings, Roger G. Melko
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. New data in figure 3
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 103, 117203 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4286
abstract: We present a direct comparison of the recently-proposed valence bond entanglement entropy and the von Neumann entanglement entropy on spin 1/2 Heisenberg systems using quantum Monte Carlo and density-matrix renormalization group simulations. For one-dimensional chains we show that the valence bond entropy can be either less or greater than the von Neumann entropy, hence it cannot provide a bound on the latter. On ladder geometries, simulations with up to seven legs are sufficient to indicate that the von Neumann entropy in two dimensions obeys an area law, even though the valence bond entanglement entropy has a multiplicative logarithmic correction.

id: 0905.4330
title: Existence of Different Intermediate Hamiltonians in Type A N-fold Supersymmetry
authors: Bijan Bagchi, Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 17 pages, no figures; minor corrections, to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals Phys.324:2438-2451,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4330
abstract: Type A N-fold supercharge admits a one-parameter family of factorizations into product of N first-order linear differential operators due to an underlying GL(2,C) symmetry. As a consequence, a type A N-fold supersymmetric system can have different intermediate Hamiltonians corresponding to different factorizations. We derive the necessary and sufficient conditions for the latter system to possess intermediate Hamiltonians for the N=2 case. We then show that whenever it has (at least) one intermediate Hamiltonian, it can admit second-order parasupersymmetry and a generalized 2-fold superalgebra. As an illustration, we construct a set of generalized Poeschl--Teller potentials of this kind.

id: 0905.4364
title: Complexity and neutron stars structure
authors: K.Ch. Chatzisavvas, V.P. Psonis, C.P. Panos, Ch.C. Moustakidis
comments: Preprint, 23 pages, 28 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:3901-3909,2009
subjects: Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4364
abstract: We apply the statistical measure of complexity introduced by Lopez-Ruiz, Mancini and Calbet to neutron stars structure. Neutron stars is a classical example where the gravitational field and quantum behavior are combined and produce a macroscopic dense object. Actually, we continue the recent application of Sanudo and Pacheco to white dwarfs structure. We concentrate our study on the connection between complexity and neutron star properties, like maximum mass and the corresponding radius, applying a specific set of realistic equation of states. Moreover, the effect of the strength of the gravitational field on the neutron star structure and consequently on the complexity measure is also investigated. It is seen that neutron stars, consistent with astronomical observations so far, are ordered systems (low complexity), which cannot grow in complexity as their mass increases. This is a result of the interplay of gravity, the short-range nuclear force and the very short-range weak interaction.

id: 0905.4645
title: Exact and LDA entanglement of tailored densities in an interacting one-dimensional electron system
authors: J. P. Coe, I. D'Amico
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 200, 062003 (2010)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4645
abstract: We calculate the `exact' potential corresponding to a one-dimensional interacting system of two electrons with a specific, tailored density. We use one-dimensional density-functional theory with a local-density approximation (LDA) on the same system and calculate densities and energies, which are compared with the `exact' ones. The `interacting-LDA system' corresponding to the LDA density is then found and its potential compared with the original one. Finally we calculate and compare the spatial entanglement of the electronic systems corresponding to the interacting-LDA and original interacting system.

id: 0905.4939
title: Physical realization for Riemann zeros from black hole physics
authors: Pulak Ranjan Giri
comments: 4 pages, no figure, revtex4, single author
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4939
abstract: According to a conjecture attributed to Polya and Hilbert, there is a self-adjoint operator whose eigenvalues are the the nontrivial zeros of the Riemann zeta function. We show that the near-horizon dynamics of a massive scalar field in the Schwarzscild black hole spacetime, under a reasonable boundary condition, gives rise to normal mode frequencies that coincide with the nontrivial Riemann zeros. In achieving this result, we exploit the Bekenstein conjecture of black hole area quantization, and argue that it is responsible for the breaking of the continuous scale symmetry of the near horizon dynamics into a discrete one.

id: 0905.4435
title: Bondi-Metzner-Sachs symmetry, holography on null-surfaces and area proportionality of "light-slice" entropy
authors: Bert Schroer
comments: 42 pages, changes, addition of new results and new references, in this form the paper will appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: Found.Phys.41:204-241,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4435
abstract: It is shown that certain kinds of behavior, which hitherto were expected to be characteristic for classical gravity and quantum field theory in curved spacetime, as the infinite dimensional Bondi-Metzner-Sachs symmetry, holography on event horizons and an area proportionality of entropy, have in fact an unnoticed presence in Minkowski QFT. This casts new light on the fundamental question whether the volume propotionality of heat bath entropy and the (logarithmically corrected) dimensionless area law obeyed by localization-induced thermal behavior are different geometric parametrizations which share a common primordeal algebraic origin. Strong arguments are presented that these two different thermal manifestations can be directly related, this is in fact the main aim of this paper. It will be demonstrated that QFT beyond the Lagrangian quantization setting receives crucial new impulses from holography onto horizons. The present paper is part of a project aimed at elucidating the enormous physical range of "modular localization". The latter does not only extend from standard Hamitonian heat bath thermal states to thermal aspects of causal- or event- horizons addressed in this paper. It also includes the recent understanding of the crossing property of formfactors whose intriguing similarity with thermal properties was, although sometimes noticed, only sufficiently understood in the modular llocalization setting.

id: 0905.4327
title: Geometrical framework of quantization problem
authors: M. Grigorescu
comments: 29 pages - replaced for minor corrections and extension
journal: J. Geom. Symm. Phys. 23 (2011) 1-27
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.4327
abstract: The basic elements of the geometric approach to a consistent quantization formalism are summarized, with reference to the methods of the old quantum mechanics and the induced representations theory of Lie groups. A possible relationship between quantization and discretization of the configuration space is briefly discussed.

id: 0905.0632
title: Beyond Boundary Conditions: General Cosmological Theories
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: Published in Particle Physics and the Early Universe, Proceedings of COSMO-97, L. Roszkowski (ed.), World Scientific, New Jersey (1998) 562-564.}
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.0632
abstract: Time-symmetric cosmological theories, in which the initial and final states are arranged to have similar features or are independently fixed, have been quite extensively discussed in the literature. However, a more general and perhaps more useful possibility seems, surprisingly, never to have been considered. Quantum cosmology, like any inherently probabilistic dynamical theory, can be modified by conditioning on the occurrence of a sequence of cosmological events fixed a priori and independently of the hamiltonian and initial state. These more general theories provide a natural class of alternatives which should eventually be useful in quantifying how well the hypothesis that initial conditions suffice is supported by the data.

