id: 0906.0016
title: Entanglement Entropy and Mutual Information in Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Wenxin Ding, Kun Yang
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012329 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0016
abstract: In this paper we study the entanglement properties of free {\em non-relativistic} Bose gases. At zero temperature, we calculate the bipartite block entanglement entropy of the system, and find it diverges logarithmically with the particle number in the subsystem. For finite temperatures, we study the mutual information between the two blocks. We first analytically study an infinite-range hopping model, then numerically study a set of long-range hopping models in one-deimension that exhibit Bose-Einstein condensation. In both cases we find that a Bose-Einstein condensate, if present, makes a divergent contribution to the mutual information which is proportional to the logarithm of the number of particles in the condensate in the subsystem. The prefactor of the logarithmic divergent term is model dependent.

id: 0906.0034
title: Entanglement and Bell's inequality violation above room temperature in metal carboxylates
authors: A. M. Souza, D. O. Soares-Pinto, R. S. Sarthour, I. S. Oliveira, M. S. Reis, P. Brandao, A. M. dos Santos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79 054408 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0034
abstract: In the present work we show that a special family of materials, the metal carboxylates, may have entangled states up to very high temperatures. From magnetic susceptibility measurements, we have estimated the critical temperature below which entanglement exists in the cooper carboxylate \{Cu$_2$(O$_2$CH)$_4$\}\{Cu(O$_2$CH)$_2$(2-methylpyridine)$_2$\}, and we have found this to be above room temperature ($T_e \sim 630$ K). Furthermore, the results show that the system remains maximally entangled until close to $\sim 100$ K and the Bell's inequality is violated up to nearly room temperature ($\sim 290$ K).

id: 0906.0051
title: Optimal teleportation via thermal entangled states of a two-qubit Heisenberg Chain
authors: Yue Zhou, Guo-Feng Zhang, Shu-Shen Li, Ahmad Abliz
comments: Accepted by EPL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0051
abstract: We study the optimal teleportation based on Bell measurements via the thermal states of a two-qubit Heisenberg XXX chain in the presence of Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya (DM) anisotropic antisymmetric interaction and obtain the optimal unitary transformation. The explicit expressions of the output state and the teleportation fidelity are presented and compared with those of the standard protocol. It is shown that in this protocol the teleportation fidelity is always larger and unit fidelity is achieved at zero temperature. The DM interaction can enhance the teleportation fidelity at finite temperatures, as opposed to the effect of the interaction in the standard protocol. Cases with other types of anisotropies are also discussed.

id: 0906.0053
title: Entanglement for a Bimodal Cavity Field Interacting with a Two-Level Atom
authors: Liu Jia, Chen Zi-Yu, Bu Shen-Ping, Zhang Guo-Feng
comments: Accepted by Commun. Theor. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0053
abstract: Negativity has been adopted to investigate the entanglement in a system composed of a two-level atom and a two-mode cavity field. Effects of Kerr-like medium and the number of photon inside the cavity on the entanglement are studied. Our results show that atomic initial state must be superposed, so that the two cavity field modes can be entangled. Moreover, we also conclude that the number of photon in the two cavity mode should be equal. The interaction between modes, namely, the Kerr effect, has a significant negative contribution. Note that the atom frequency and the cavity frequency have an indistinguishable effect, so a corresponding approximation has been made in this article. These results may be useful for quantum information in optics systems.

id: 0906.0063
title: Some properties of partial fidelities
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 13 pages, no figures. Some corrections are made. The bibliography is extended. This version contains the proof that partial fidelities are not monotone generally. To appear in QIC
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. Vol. 9, 1069-1080 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0063
abstract: Basic properties of Uhlmann's partial fidelities are discussed. Statistical interpretation in terms of POVM measurements is established. Multiplicativity properties are considered. The relationship between partial fidelities and partitioned trace distances is derived. As it is shown, the partial fidelities cannot decrease under unistochastic quantum operations. Thus, the partial fidelities have good properties in the sense of their use as distinguishability measures.

id: 0906.0073
title: Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory from a Bohmian Perspective
authors: A. S. Sanz, X. Gimenez, J. M. Bofill, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0073
abstract: This article has been published as a chapter in "Chemical Reactivity Theory: A Density Functional View", ed. P. K. Chattaraj (CRC Press, New York, 2009), ch. 8, p. 105. In it, an overview of the relationship between time-dependent DFT and quantum hydrodynamics is presented, showing the role that Bohmian mechanics can play within the ab-initio methodology as both a numerical and an interpretative tool.

id: 0906.0074
title: Understanding chemical reactions within a generalized Hamilton-Jacobi framework
authors: A. S. Sanz, X. Gimenez, J. M. Bofill, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 478, 89 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0074
abstract: Reaction paths and classical and quantum trajectories are studied within a generalized Hamilton-Jacobi framework, which allows to put on equal footing topology and dynamics in chemical reactivity problems. In doing so, we show how high-dimensional problems could be dealt with by means of Caratheodory plots or how trajectory-based quantum-classical analyses reveal unexpected discrepancies. As a working model, we consider the reaction dynamics associated with a Mueller-Brown potential energy surface, where we focus on the relationship between reaction paths and trajectories as well as on reaction probability calculations from classical and quantum trajectories.

id: 0906.0083
title: Suppression of Phase Decoherence in a Single Atomic Qubit
authors: Chih-Sung Chuu, Chuanwei Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032307 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0083
abstract: We study the suppression of noise-induced phase decoherence in a single atomic qubit by employing pulse sequences. The atomic qubit is composed of a single neutral atom in a far-detuned optical dipole trap and the phase decoherence may originate from the laser intensity and beam pointing fluctuations as well as magnetic field fluctuations. We show that suitable pulse sequences may prolongate the qubit coherence time substantially as comparing to the conventional spin echo pulse.

id: 0906.0098
title: Effective Quantum Dynamics of two Brownian particles
authors: O. S. Duarte, A. O. Caldeira
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0098
abstract: We use the system-plus-reservoir approach to study the quantum dynamics of a bipartite continuous variable system (two generic particles). We present an extension of the traditional model of a bath of oscillators which is capable of inducing an effective coupling between the two parts of the system depending on the choice made for the spectral density of the bath. The coupling is nonlinear in the system variables and an exponential dependence on these variables is imposed in order to guarantee the translational invariance of the model if the two particles are not subject to any external potential. The reduced density operator is obtained by the functional integral method. The dynamical susceptibility of the reservoir is modelled in order to introduce, besides a characteristic frequency, a characteristic length that determines if the effective interaction potential is strong enough to induce entanglement between the particles. Our model provides a criterion of distance for identifying in which cases a common environment can induce entanglement. Three regimes are found: the short distance regime, equivalent to a bilinear system-reservoir coupling, the long distance regime in which the particles act like coupled to independent reservoirs and the intermediate regime suitable for the competition between decoherence and induced-entanglement.

id: 0906.0122
title: An exact solution to the Dirac equation for a time dependent Hamiltonian in 1-1D space-time
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Five pages
journal: Can. J. Phys. Vol. 88, 137-138 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0122
abstract: We find an exact solution to the Dirac equation in 1-1 dimensional space-time in the presence of a time-dependent potential which consists of a combination of electric, scalar, and pseudoscalar terms.

id: 0906.0163
title: Symmetric extendibility for qudits and tolerable error rates in quantum cryptography
authors: Kedar S. Ranade
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 (No. 2, August 2009), 022301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0163
abstract: Symmetric extendibility of quantum states has recently drawn attention in the context of quantum cryptography to judge whether quantum states shared between two distant parties can be purified by means of one-way error correction protocols. In this letter we study the symmetric extendibility in a specific class of two-qudit states, i. e. states composed of two d-level systems, in order to find upper bounds on tolerable error rates for a wide class of qudit-based quantum cryptographic protocols using two-way error correction. In important cases these bounds coincide with previously known lower bounds, thereby proving sharpness of these bounds in arbitrary finite-dimensional systems.

id: 0906.0164
title: Spreading for the generalized nonlinear Schroedinger equation with disorder
authors: Hagar Veksler, Yevgeny Krivolapov, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0164
abstract: The dynamics of an initially localized wavepacket is studied for the generalized nonlinear Schroedinger Equation with a random potential, where the nonlinearity term is |\psi|^p*\psi and "p" is arbitrary. Mainly short times for which the numerical calculations can be performed accurately are considered. Long time calculations are presented as well. In particular the subdiffusive behavior where the average second moment of the wavepacket is of the form <m_{2}>~t^a is computed. Contrary to former heuristic arguments, no evidence for any critical behavior as function of "p" is found. The properties of \alpha(t) are explored.

id: 0906.0182
title: Optimal mirror phase-covariant cloning
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Adam Miranowicz, ?ahin Kaya ?zdemir
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032306 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0182
abstract: We propose a quantum cloning machine, which clones a qubit into two clones assuming known modulus of expectation value of Pauli Z-matrix. The process is referred to as the mirror phase-covariant cloning, for which the input state is a priori less known than that for the standard phase-covariant cloning. Analytical expressions describing the cloning transformation and fidelity of the clones are found. Extremal equations for the optimal cloning are derived and analytically solved by generalizing a method of Fiurasek [Phys. Rev. A 64, 062310 (2001)]. Quantum circuits implementing the optimal cloning transformation and their physical realization in a quantum-dot system are described.

id: 0906.0212
title: Geometrical aspects of weak measurements and quantum erasers
authors: Shuhei Tamate, Hirokazu Kobayashi, Toshihiro Nakanishi, Kazuhiko Sugiyama, Masao Kitano
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 093025 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0212
abstract: We investigate the mechanism of weak measurement by using an interferometric framework. In order to appropriately elucidate the interference effect that occurs in weak measurement, we introduce an interferometer for particles with internal degrees of freedom. It serves as a framework common to quantum eraser and weak measurement. We demonstrate that the geometric phase, particularly the Pancharatnam phase, results from the post-selection of the internal state, and thereby the interference pattern is changed. It is revealed that the extraordinary displacement of the probe wavepackets in weak measurement is achieved owing to the Pancharatnam phase associated with post-selection.

id: 0906.0213
title: Full Quantum Analysis of Two-Photon Absorption Using Two-Photon Wavefunction: Comparison with One-Photon Absorption
authors: Toshihiro Nakanishi, Hirokazu Kobayashi, Kazuhiko Sugiyama, Masao Kitano
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 78 (2009) 104401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0213
abstract: For dissipation-free photon-photon interaction at the single photon level, we analyze one-photon transition and two-photon transition induced by photon pairs in three-level atoms using two-photon wavefunctions. We show that the two-photon absorption can be substantially enhanced by adjusting the time correlation of photon pairs. We study two typical cases: Gaussian wavefunction and rectangular wavefunction. In the latter, we find that under special conditions one-photon transition is completely suppressed while the high probability of two-photon transition is maintained.

id: 0906.0233
title: Effect of Decoherence in Ekert-Protocol
authors: DaeKil Park, Jin-Woo Son, Seong-Keuck Cha, Eun Deock Seo
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0233
abstract: We have examined the effect of the decoherence in the Ekert91 quantum cryptographic protocol. In order to explore this issue we have introduced two major decoherences, the depolarizing channel and the generalized amplitude damping, between the singlet source and one of the legitimate users. It is shown that the depolarizing channel disentangles the quantum channel more easily than the generalized amplitude damping. This fact indicates that the Ekert protocol is more robust to the generalized amplitude damping. We also have computed the Bell inequality to check the robustness or weakness of the Ekert91 protocol. Computation of the Bell inequality also confirms the robustness of the Ekert91 protocol to the generalized amplitude damping compared to the depolarizing channel.

id: 0906.0238
title: Two distinct classes of bound entanglement: PPT-bound and `multi-particle'-bound
authors: B.C. Hiesmayr, M. Huber
comments: 4 figures, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0238
abstract: We introduce systematically with the help of Weyl operators novel classes of multipartite and multidimensional states which are all bound entangled for arbitrary dimension. We find that the entanglement is bound due to different reasons: unlockable due to the multi--particle nature and some states are in addition bound due the fact being positive under partial transposition (PPT). By a general construction (W simplices) we obtain classes of states which have the same geometry concerning separability and entanglement independent of the number of involved particle pairs. Moreover, we introduce a distillation protocol and demonstrate for d=3 that for a certain set of states the entanglement can be increased only up to a certain amount.

id: 0906.0270
title: Superdense coding using the quantum superposition principle
authors: Dipankar Home, A. K. Pan, S. Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar, M. A. B. Whitaker
comments: 5 pages, 1 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0270
abstract: By sending a classical two-level system, one can transfer information about only \emph{two} distinguishable outcomes. Here we show that in quantum mechanics, using both the spin and path degrees of freedom of a spin-1/2 particle, and a Mach-Zehnder type interferometric arrangement with two suitable Stern-Gerlach detectors, it is possible to transfer information about \emph{four} distinguishable outcomes. This procedure does \emph{not} require using quantum entanglement as a resource as in the well-known protocol of dense coding, but instead hinges entirely on the quantum superposition principle. We also study probabilistic dense coding using our set-up and show that the dense coding scheme using quantum superposition cannot be optimized any further by extending the interferometric arrangement with more beam splitters.

id: 0906.0275
title: Quantum phase properties associated to solvable quantum systems using the nonlinear coherent states approach
authors: G.R. Honarasa, M. K. Tavassoly, M. Hatami
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: Opt.Commun.282:2192-2198,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0275
abstract: In this paper we study the quantum phase properties of {\it "nonlinear coherent states"} and {\it "solvable quantum systems with discrete spectra"} using the Pegg-Barnett formalism in a unified approach. The presented procedure will then be applied to few special solvable quantum systems with known discrete spectrum as well as to some new classes of nonlinear oscillators with particular nonlinearity functions. Finally the associated phase distributions and their nonclasscial properties such as the squeezing in number and phase operators have been investigated, numerically.

id: 0906.0294
title: Quantum Measure Theory: A New Interpretation
authors: Yousef Ghazi-Tabatabai
comments: Thesis, 155 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0294
abstract: Quantum measure theory can be introduced as a histories based reformulation (and generalisation) of Copenhagen quantum mechanics in the image of classical stochastic theories. These classical models lend themselves to a simple interpretation in which a single history (a single element of the sample space) is deemed to be 'real'; we require only that this real history should not be ruled out by the dynamics, the axioms of which ensure that not all histories are precluded. However, applying this interpretation naively to quantum measure theory we can find experimentally realisable systems (notably the Peres-Kochen-Specker system) in which every history is ruled out by the dynamics, challenging us to formulate a deeper realist framework. Our first response is to hold on to our existing interpretative framework and attempt a revision of the dynamics that would reduce quantum measure theory to a classical dynamics. We explore this approach by examining the histories formulation of a stochastic-collapse model on a simple (discrete) null-lattice, concluding that the drawbacks of this approach outweigh the benefits. Our second response is to abandon our classically inspired interpretation in favour of Sorkin's 'co-events', a more general ontology that still allows for strict realism. In this case the 'potentially real' objects of the theory (the 'beables' in Bell's language) are not individual histories but truth valuation maps, or co-events. We develop & evaluate various co-event schemes that have been suggested to date, finally adopting the multiplicative scheme; the current working model of co-event theory and a promising interpretation of quantum measure theory, though still a work in progress. We conclude by exploring the expression of the dynamics & predictions in this new framework.

id: 0906.0332
title: Strong superadditivity and monogamy of the Renyi measure of entanglement
authors: Marcio F. Cornelio, Marcos C. de Oliveira
comments: replaced with final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032332 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0332
abstract: Employing the quantum R\'enyi $\alpha$-entropies as a measure of entanglement, we numerically find the violation of the strong superadditivity inequality for a system composed of four qubits and $\alpha>1$. This violation gets smaller as $\alpha\rightarrow 1$ and vanishes for $\alpha=1$ when the measure corresponds to the Entanglement of Formation (EoF). We show that the R\'enyi measure aways satisfies the standard monogamy of entanglement for $\alpha = 2$, and only violates a high order monogamy inequality, in the rare cases in which the strong superadditivity is also violated. The sates numerically found where the violation occurs have special symmetries where both inequalities are equivalent. We also show that every measure satisfing monogamy for high dimensional systems also satisfies the strong superadditivity inequality. For the case of R\'enyi measure, we provide strong numerical evidences that these two properties are equivalent.

id: 0906.0384
title: Overcoming a limitation of deterministic dense coding with a non-maximally entangled initial state
authors: P. S. Bourdon, E. Gerjuoy
comments: 18 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 81, 022314 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0384
abstract: Under two-party deterministic dense-coding, Alice communicates (perfectly distinguishable) messages to Bob via a qudit from a pair of entangled qudits in pure state |Psi>. If |Psi> represents a maximally entangled state (i.e., each of its Schmidt coefficients is sqrt(1/d)), then Alice can convey to Bob one of d^2 distinct messages. If |Psi> is not maximally entangled, then Ji et al. [Phys. Rev. A 73, 034307 (2006)] have shown that under the original deterministic dense-coding protocol, in which messages are encoded by unitary operations performed on Alice's qudit, it is impossible to encode d^2-1 messages. Encoding d^2-2 is possible; see, e.g., the numerical studies by Mozes et al. [Phys. Rev. A 71, 012311 (2005)]. Answering a question raised by Wu et al. [Phys. Rev. A 73, 042311 (2006)], we show that when |Psi> is not maximally entangled, the communications limit of d^2-2 messages persists even when the requirement that Alice encode by unitary operations on her qudit is weakened to allow encoding by more general quantum operators. We then describe a dense-coding protocol that can overcome this limitation with high probability, assuming the largest Schmidt coefficient of |Psi> is sufficiently close to sqrt(1/d). In this protocol, d^2-2 of the messages are encoded via unitary operations on Alice's qudit, and the final (d^2-1)-th message is encoded via a (non-trace-preserving) quantum operation.

id: 0906.0388
title: Semiclassical and quantum description of motion on noncommutative plane
authors: M.C. Baldiotti, J.P. Gazeau, D.M. Gitman
comments: 20 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:3937-3943,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0388
abstract: We study the canonical and the coherent state quantization of a particle moving in a magnetic field on a non-commutative plane. Starting from the so called \theta-modified action, we perform the canonical quantization and analyze the gauge dependence of the obtained quantum theory. We construct the Malkin-Man'ko coherent states of the system in question, and the corresponding quantization. On this base, we study the relation between the coherent states and the "classical" trajectories predicted by the \theta-modified action. In addition, we construct different semiclassical states, making use of special properties of circular squeezed states. With the help of these states, we perform the Berezin-Klauder-Toeplitz quantization and present a numerical exploration of the semiclassical behavior of physical quantities in these states.

id: 0906.0398
title: High-fidelity quantum control using ion crystals in a Penning trap
authors: Michael J. Biercuk, Hermann Uys, Aaron P. VanDevender, Nobuyasu Shiga, Wayne M. Itano, John J. Bollinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0398
abstract: We discuss the use of two-dimensional $^{9}$Be$^{+}$ ion crystals for experimental tests of quantum control techniques. Our primary qubit is the 124 GHz ground-state electron spin flip transition, which we drive using microwaves. An ion crystal represents a spatial ensemble of qubits, but the effects of inhomogeneities across a typical crystal are small, and as such we treat the ensemble as a single effective spin. We are able to initialize the qubits in a simple state and perform a projective measurement on the system. We demonstrate full control of the qubit Bloch vector, performing arbitrary high-fidelity rotations ($\tau_{\pi}\sim$200 $\mu$s). Randomized Benchmarking demonstrates an error per gate (a Pauli-randomized $\pi/2$ and $\pi$ pulse pair) of $8\pm1\times10^{-4}$. Ramsey interferometry and spin-locking measurements are used to elucidate the limits of qubit coherence in the system, yielding a typical free-induction decay coherence time of $T_{2}\sim$2 ms, and a limiting $T_{1\rho}\sim$688 ms. These experimental specifications make ion crystals in a Penning trap ideal candidates for novel experiments in quantum control. As such, we briefly describe recent efforts aimed at studying the error-suppressing capabilities of dynamical decoupling pulse sequences, demonstrating an ability to extend qubit coherence and suppress phase errors. We conclude with a discussion of future avenues for experimental exploration, including the use of additional nuclear-spin-flip transitions for effective multiqubit protocols, and the potential for Coulomb crystals to form a useful testbed for studies of large-scale entanglement.

id: 0906.0415
title: Classical Processing Requirements for a Topological Quantum Computing System
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Austin G. Fowler, Todd Tilma, W. J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 14 Pages, 14 Figures (Revised version in response to referee comments)
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 8:1-27 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0415
abstract: Dedicated research into the design and construction of a large scale Quantum Information Processing (QIP) system is a complicated task. The design of an experimentally feasible quantum processor must draw upon results in multiple fields; from experimental efforts in system control and fabrication through to far more abstract areas such as quantum algorithms and error correction. Recently, the adaptation of topological coding models to physical systems in optics has illustrated a possible long term pathway to truly large scale QIP. As the topological model has well defined protocols for Quantum Error Correction (QEC) built in as part of its construction, a more grounded analysis of the {\em classical} processing requirements is possible. In this paper we analyze the requirements for a classical processing system, designed specifically for the topological cluster state model. We demonstrate that via extensive parallelization, the construction of a classical "front-end" system capable of processing error correction data for a large topological computer is possible today.

id: 0906.0430
title: Entanglement monogamy and entanglement evolution in multipartite systems
authors: Yan-Kui Bai, Ming-Yong Ye, Z. D. Wang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, version 2
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 044301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0430
abstract: We analyze the entanglement distribution and the two-qubit residual entanglement in multipartite systems. For a composite system consisting of two cavities interacting with independent reservoirs, it is revealed that the entanglement evolution is restricted by an entanglement monogamy relation derived here. Moreover, it is found that the initial cavity-cavity entanglement evolves completely to the genuine four-partite cavities-reservoirs entanglement in the time interval between the sudden death of cavity-cavity entanglement and the birth of reservoir-reservoir entanglement. In addition, we also address the relationship between the genuine block-block entanglement form and qubit-block form in the interval.

id: 0906.0467
title: Continuous variable tomographic measurements
authors: Pekka Lahti, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 3435-3438
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0467
abstract: Using a recent result of Albini et al. to represent quantum homodyne tomography in terms of a single observable (as a normalized positive operator measure) we construct a generalized Markov kernel which transforms (the measurement outcome statistics of) this observable into (the measurement outcome statistics of) a covariant phase space observable. We also consider the inverse question. Finally, we add some remarks on the quantum theoretical justification of the experimental implementations of these observables in terms of balanced homodyne and 8-port detection techniques, respectively.

id: 0906.0474
title: Geometric quantum gates in liquid-state NMR based on a cancellation of dynamical phases
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Yoshito Goto, Yasusi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0474
abstract: A proposal for applying non-adiabatic geometric phases to quantum computing, called the double-loop method [S.-L. Zhu and Z. D. Wang, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 67}, 022319 (2003)], is demonstrated in a liquid state NMR quantum computer. Using a spin echo technique, the original method is modified so that quantum gates are implemented in a standard high-precision NMR system for chemical analysis. We show that the dynamical phase is successfully eliminated and a one-qubit quantum gate is realized, although the fidelity is not so high.

id: 0906.0506
title: Teleportation-Induced Correlated Quantum Channels
authors: Filippo Caruso, Vittorio Giovannetti, G. Massimo Palma
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 020503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0506
abstract: Quantum teleportation of a n-qubit state performed using as entangled resource a general bipartite state of 2n qubits instead of n Bell states is equivalent to a correlated Pauli channel. This provides a new characterization of such channels in terms of many-body correlation functions of the teleporting media. Our model is then generalized to the Continuous Variable case. We show that this new representation provides a relatively simple method for determining whether a correlated quantum channel is able to reliably convey quantum messages by studying the entanglement properties of the teleportation mediating system.

id: 0906.0522
title: Production of bright entangled photons from moving optical boundaries
authors: A. Guerreiro, A. Ferreira, J. T. Mendon?a
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0522
abstract: We discuss a mechanism of generating two separable beams of light with high degree of entanglement in momentum using a fast and sharp optical boundary. Three regimes of light generation are identified depending on the number of resonant interactions between the optical perturbation and the electromagnetic field. The intensity of the process is discussed in terms of the relevant physical parameters: variation of refractive index and apparent velocity of the optical boundary. Our results suggest a different class of generation entangled light robust against thermal degradation by exciting zero point fluctuations using parametric resonant optical modulations.

id: 0906.0524
title: Entanglement assisted random access codes
authors: Marcin Pawlowski, Marek Zukowski
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042326 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0524
abstract: An (n,m,p) Random Access Code (RAC) allows to encode n bits in an m bit message, in such a way that a receiver of the message can guess any of the original $n$ bits with probability p, greater than 1/2. In Quantum RAC's (QRACs) one transmits n qubits. The full set of primitive Entanglement Assisted Random Access Codes (EARACs) is introduced, in which parties are allowed to share a two-qubit singlet. It is shown that via a concatenation of these, one can build for any n an (n,1,p) EARAC. QRAC's for n>3 exist only if parties additionally share classical randomness (SR). We show that EARACs outperform the best of known QRACs not only in the success probabilities but also in the amount of communication needed in the preparatory stage of the protocol. Upper bounds on the performance of EARACs are given, and shown to limit also QRACs.

id: 0906.0525
title: Dynamical Quantum Error Correction of Unitary Operations with Bounded Controls
authors: Kaveh Khodjasteh, Lorenza Viola
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures (errors fixed, figures added, text updated)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032314 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0525
abstract: Dynamically corrected gates were recently introduced [Khodjasteh and Viola, Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 080501 (2009)] as a tool to achieve decoherence-protected quantum gates based on open-loop Hamiltonian engineering. Here, we further expand the framework of dynamical quantum error correction, with emphasis on elucidating under what conditions decoherence suppression can be ensured while performing a generic target quantum gate, using only available bounded-strength control resources. Explicit constructions for physically relevant error models are detailed, including arbitrary linear decoherence and pure dephasing on qubits. The effectiveness of dynamically corrected gates in an illustrative non-Markovian spin-bath setting is investigated numerically, confirming the expected fidelity performance in a wide parameter range. Robutness against a class of systematic control errors is automatically incorporated in the perturbative error regime.

id: 0906.0529
title: Entanglement accumulation, retrieval, and concentration in cavity QED
authors: Daniel Ballester
comments: 8 pages, 5 figs, 2 tables. To appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0529
abstract: The ability to accumulate and retrieve entanglement in the fields of two remote cavities with pairs of two-level atoms is discussed. It is shown that this transfer and retrieval can be indeed ideal with a resonant interaction. The case of initial non-maximally entangled atomic pairs is also considered. This leads to the possibility of concentrating entanglement into a single pair at the retrieval stage. A teleportation protocol based on the same setup is presented. This makes possible teleportation with built-in entanglement concentration.

id: 0906.0536
title: Quantum entanglement of particles on a ring with fractional statistics
authors: Hongli Guo, Yajiang Hao, Shu Chen
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:052332,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0536
abstract: In this paper we investigate the von Neumann entropy in the ground state of one-dimensional anyonic systems with the repulsive interaction. Based on the Bethe-ansatz method, the entanglement properties for the arbitrary statistical parameter ($0\leq\kappa\leq1$) are obtained from the one-particle reduced density matrix in the full interacting regime. It is shown that the entanglement entropy increases with the increase in the interaction strength and statistical parameter. The statistic parameter affects the entanglement properties from two aspects: renormalizing of the effective interaction strength and introducing an additional anyonic phase. We also evaluate the entanglement entropy of hard-core anyons for different statistical parameters in order to clarify solely the effect induced by the anyonic phase.

id: 0906.0598
title: A Soliton Model of the Electron with an internal Nonlinearity cancelling the de Broglie-Bohm Quantum Potential
authors: Roald Ekholdt
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0598
abstract: The paper proposes an envelope soliton model of the electron that propagates as a protuberance on a fictitious waveguide, which acts as trajectory. The model is based on de Broglie's original electron wave-particle relativistic theory, and on the observation that the Klein-Gordon equation governs the propagation mode of a common microwave waveguide - with the Schroedinger equation as a low group velocity approximation. This analogy opened for practical physical models, including solitons. In the linear case a conceived corpuscle zigzags within the fictitious waveguide - a zigzagging that resembles Penrose's picture of Dirac's electron theory. The soliton envelope is defined by a special nonlinear version of the Schroedinger equation. The nonlinearity cancels the de Broglie/Bohm Quantum Potential of the envelope. The wavefunction is confined by the envelope, and thus the concept of the collapse of the wavefunction is eliminated. Since the electron model is based directly on the Special theory of relativity it also illustrates that theory. The corpuscle, incorporating spin and charge, which moves at the speed of light, needs further study relating it to the photon. A model of the photon based on the mutual coupling of two modes of an optical fiber at the Planck scale, is suggested. One of these modes is thought to carry two orthogonal polarized electromagnetic external fields, while the other, internal, mode carries a corpuscle that moves helically and thus represents the spin. A single electron is considered to have one polarization only, without any superposition possibility; hence, the concept of collapse in a polarization measurement is eliminated.

id: 0906.0599
title: The Ultimate Solution to the Quantum Battle of the Sexes game
authors: Piotr Frackiewicz
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0599
abstract: We present the unique solution to the Quantum Battle of the Sexes game. We show the best result which can be reached when the game is played according to Marinatto and Weber's scheme. The result which we put forward does not surrender the criticism of previous works on the same topic.

id: 0906.0637
title: Minimum error discrimination problem for pure qubit states
authors: Boris F Samsonov
comments: English is corrected thanks to PRA editor
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 80, 052305 (2009) (11pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0637
abstract: The necessary and sufficient conditions for minimization of the generalized rate error for discriminating among $N$ pure qubit states are reformulated in terms of Bloch vectors representing the states. For the direct optimization problem an algorithmic solution to these conditions is indicated. A solution to the inverse optimization problem is given. General results are widely illustrated by particular cases of equiprobable states and $N=2,3,4$ pure qubit states given with different prior probabilities.

id: 0906.0645
title: Quantum Multiplexers, Parrondo Games, and Proper Quantization
authors: Faisal Shah Khan
comments: Doctoral dissertation, Portland State University, 138 pages, 22 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0645
abstract: A quantum logic gate of particular interest to both electrical engineers and game theorists is the quantum multiplexer. This shared interest is due to the facts that an arbitrary quantum logic gate may be expressed, up to arbitrary accuracy, via a circuit consisting entirely of variations of the quantum multiplexer, and that certain one player games, the history dependent Parrondo games, can be quantized as games via a particular variation of the quantum multiplexer. However, to date all such quantizations have lacked a certain fundamental game theoretic property. The main result in this dissertation is the development of quantizations of history dependent quantum Parrondo games that satisfy this fundamental game theoretic property. Our approach also yields fresh insight as to what should be considered as the proper quantum analogue of a classical Markov process and gives the first game theoretic measures of multiplexer behavior.

id: 0906.0673
title: Effect of entanglement on geometric phase for multi-qubit states
authors: Mark S. Williamson, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures. Contribution to the Proceedings of the 40th Symposium on Mathematical Physics, Torun, Poland, 25-28 June 2008
journal: Open Syst.Info.Dyn.16: 305-323,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0673
abstract: When a multi-qubit state evolves under local unitaries it may obtain a geometric phase, a feature dependent on the geometry of the state's projective Hilbert space. A correction term to this geometric phase in addition to the local subsystem phases may appear from correlations between the subsystems. We find this correction term can be characterized completely either by the entanglement or completely by the classical correlations for several classes of entangled state. States belonging to the former set are W states and their mixtures, while members of the latter set are cluster states, GHZ states and two classes of bound entangled state. We probe the structures of these states more finely using local invariants and suggest the cause of the entanglement correction is a gauge field like $SL(2,\mathbb{C})$ invariant recently introduced named twist.

id: 0906.0703
title: Towards a loophole-free test of Bell's inequality with entangled pairs of neutral atoms
authors: Wenjamin Rosenfeld, Markus Weber, Juergen Volz, Florian Henkel, Michael Krug, Adan Cabello, Marek Zukowski, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Advanced Science Letters
journal: Adv. Sci. Lett. 2, 469 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0703
abstract: Experimental tests of Bell's inequality allow to distinguish quantum mechanics from local hidden variable theories. Such tests are performed by measuring correlations of two entangled particles (e.g. polarization of photons or spins of atoms). In order to constitute conclusive evidence, two conditions have to be satisfied. First, strict separation of the measurement events in the sense of special relativity is required ("locality loophole"). Second, almost all entangled pairs have to be detected (for particles in a maximally entangled state the required detector efficiency is 82.8%), which is hard to achieve experimentally ("detection loophole"). By using the recently demonstrated entanglement between single trapped atoms and single photons it becomes possible to entangle two atoms at a large distance via entanglement swapping. Combining the high detection efficiency achieved with atoms with the space-like separation of the atomic state detection events, both loopholes can be closed within the same experiment. In this paper we present estimations based on current experimental achievements which show that such an experiment is feasible in future.

id: 0906.0704
title: Decay of entanglement in coupled, driven systems with bipartite decoherence
authors: J. Li, G.S. Paraoanu
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 56, 255 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0704
abstract: We analyze a system of two qubits embedded in two different environments. The qubits are coupled to each other and driven on-resonance by two external classical sources. In the secular limit, we obtain exact analytical results for the evolution of the system for several classes of two-qubit mixed initial states. For Werner states we show that the decay of entanglement does not depend on coupling. For other initial states with ``{\sf X}\rq\rq -type density matrices we find that the sudden death time displays a rich dependence on the coupling energy and state parameters due to the existence of processes of delayed sudden birth of entanglement.

id: 0906.0710
title: Enhancement of parameter estimation by Kerr interaction
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Carmen Invernizzi, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: revised version, 6 pages, 3 figures. To appear on PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033842 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0710
abstract: We address quantum estimation of displacement and squeezing parameters by the class of probes made of Gaussian states undergoing Kerr interaction. If we fix the overall energy available to the probe, without posing any constraint on the available Gaussian squeezing, then Gaussian squeezing represents the optimal resource for parameter estimation. On the other hand, in the more realistic case where the amount of Gaussian squeezing is fixed, or even absent, then Kerr interaction turns out to be useful to improve estimation, especially for probe states with large amplitude. Our results indicate that precision achievable with current technology Gaussian squeezing may be attained and surpassed for realistic values of the Kerr coupling.

id: 0906.0751
title: Fast Electrical Control of a Quantum Dot Strongly Coupled to a Nano-resonator
authors: Andrei Faraon, Arka Majumdar, Hyochul Kim, Pierre Petroff, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0751
abstract: The resonance frequency of an InAs quantum dot strongly coupled to a GaAs photonic crystal cavity was electrically controlled via quantum confined Stark effect. Stark shifts up to 0.3meV were achieved using a lateral Schottky electrode that created a local depletion region at the location of the quantum dot. We report switching of a probe laser coherently coupled to the cavity up to speeds as high as 150MHz, limited by the RC constant of the transmission line. The coupling rate and the magnitude of the Stark shift with electric field were investigated while coherently probing the system.

id: 0906.0801
title: Entanglement between distant qubits in cyclic XX chains
authors: N. Canosa, R. Rossignoli
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 75, 032350 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0801
abstract: We evaluate the exact concurrence between any two spins in a cyclic XX chain of n spins placed in a uniform transverse magnetic field, both at zero and finite temperature, by means of the Jordan-Wigner transformation plus a number parity projected statistics. It is shown that while at T=0 there is always entanglement between any two spins in a narrow field interval before the transition to the aligned state, at low but non-zero temperatures the entanglement remains non-zero for arbitrarily high fields, for any pair separation L, although its magnitude decreases exponentially with the field. It is also demonstrated that all associated limit temperatures approach a constant non-zero value in this limit, which decreases as 1/L^2 for L<<n but exhibit special finite size effects for distant qubits (L approx. n/2). Related aspects such as the different behavior of even and odd antiferromagnetic chains, the existence of n ground state transitions and the thermodynamic limit are also discussed.

id: 0906.0806
title: Theory of Optically-Driven Sideband Cooling for Atomic Collective Excitations and Its Generalization
authors: Yong Li, Z. D. Wang, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0806
abstract: We explore how to cool atomic collective excitations in an optically-driven three-level atomic ensemble, which may be described by a model of coupled two harmonic oscillators (HOs) with a time-dependent coupling. Moreover, the coupled two-HO model is further generalized to address other cooling issues, where the lower-frequency HO can be cooled whenever the cooling process dominates over the heating one during the sideband transitions. Unusually, due to the absence of the heating process, the optimal cooling of our first cooling protocol for collective excitations in an atomic ensemble could break a usual sideband cooling limit for general coupled two-HO models.

id: 0906.0826
title: Hierarchical quantum information splitting
authors: Xin-Wen Wang, Li-Xin Xia, Zhi-Yong Wang
comments: Introduction and Conclusion parts are improved
journal: Optics Communications 283 (2010) 1196-1199
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0826
abstract: We present a scheme for asymmetric quantum information splitting, where a sender distributes asymmetrically a qubit to distant agents in a network. The asymmetric distribution leads to that the agents have different powers to reconstruct the sender's qubit. In other words, the authorities of the agents for getting the quantum secret are hierarchized. The scheme does not need the agents to get together and make nonlocal operations. Our scheme can also be modified to implement controlled teleportation against uncooperation of part of supervisors.

id: 0906.0860
title: Entanglement and communication-reducing properties of noisy N-qubit states
authors: Wieslaw Laskowski, Tomasz Paterek, Caslav Brukner, Marek Zukowski
comments: new version, more results added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0860
abstract: We consider properties of states of many qubits, which arise after sending certain entangled states via various noisy channels (white noise, coloured noise, local depolarization, dephasing and amplitude damping). Entanglement of these states is studied and their ability to violate certain classes of Bell inequalities. States which violate them allow for higher than classical efficiency of solving related distributed computational tasks with constrained communication. This is a direct property of such states -- not requiring their further modification via stochastic local operations and classical communication such as entanglement purification or distillation procedures. We identify novel families of multi-particle states which are entangled but nevertheless allow local realistic description of specific Bell experiments. For some of them, the "gap" between the critical values for entanglement and violation of Bell inequality remains finite even in the limit of infinitely many qubits.

id: 0906.0898
title: The Central Mystery of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 24 pages, two figures
journal: Neuroquantology vol. 7, pp 623-634, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0898
abstract: A critical re-examination of the double-slit experiment and its variants is presented to clarify the nature of what Feynmann called the ``central mystery'' and the ``only mystery'' of quantum mechanics, leading to an interpretation of complementarity in which a `wave {\em and} particle' description rather than a `wave {\em or} particle' description is valid for the {\em same} experimental set up, with the wave culminating in the particle sequentially in time. This interpretation is different from Bohr's but is consistent with the von Neumann formulation as well as some more recent interpretations of quantum mechanics.

id: 0906.0923
title: Entanglement and Fidelity for Holonomic Quantum Gates
authors: Paolo Solinas, Maura Sassetti, Piero Truini, Nino Zangh
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0923
abstract: We study entanglement and fidelity of a two-qubit system when a noisy holonomic, non-Abelian, transformation is applied to one of them. The source of noise we investigate is of two types: one due to a stochastic error representing an imprecise control of the fields driving the evolution; the other due to an interaction between the two near qubits. The peculiar level structure underlying the holonomic operator leads us to introduce the reduced logical entanglement which is the fraction of entanglement in the logical space. The comparison between entanglement and fidelity shows how they are differently affected by the noise and that, in general, the first is more robust than the latter. We find a range of physical parameters for which both fidelity and reduced logical entanglement are well preserved.

id: 0906.0925
title: Quantum mechanics in phase space: First order comparison between the Wigner and the Fermi function
authors: G. Benenti, G. Strini
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, added new data and discussion
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 57, 117 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0925
abstract: The Fermi g_F(x,p) function provides a phase space description of quantum mechanics conceptually different from that based on the the Wigner function W(x,p). In this paper, we show that for a peaked wave packet the g_F(x,p)=0 curve approximately corresponds to a phase space contour level of the Wigner function and provides a satisfactory description of the wave packet's size and shape. Our results show that the Fermi function is an interesting tool to investigate quantum fluctuations in the semiclassical regime.

id: 0906.0938
title: A simple approach to the calculation of retarded dispersion forces
authors: B. Carazza, R. Tedeschi
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0938
abstract: We propose a phenomenological Hamiltonian for the interaction of neutral macroscopic bodies with the electromagnetic field. Subsequently we revisit the assumption according to which the retarded interactions between neutral macroscopic bodies can be obtained through an additive principle i.e. summing the volume elements defined by the macroscopic bodies.

id: 0906.0962
title: Quantum-limited metrology and Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Sergio Boixo, Animesh Datta, Matthew J. Davis, Anil Shaji, Alexandre B. Tacla, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 32 pages, 1 figure, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0962
abstract: We discuss a quantum-metrology protocol designed to estimate a physical parameter in a Bose-Einstein condensate of N atoms, and we show that the measurement uncertainty can decrease faster than 1/N. The 1/N scaling is usually thought to be the best possible in any measurement scheme. From the perspective of quantum information theory, we outline the main idea that leads to a measurement uncertainty that scales better than 1/N. We examine in detail some potential problems and challenges that arise in implementing such a measurement protocol using a Bose-Einstein condensate. We discuss how some of these issues can be dealt with by using lower-dimensional condensates trapped in nonharmonic potentials.

id: 0906.0986
title: Optimal Performance of Quantum Refrigerators
authors: Tova Feldmann, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 28 pages 10 figures paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0986
abstract: A reciprocating quantum refrigerator is studied with the purpose of determining the limitations of cooling to absolute zero. We find that if the energy spectrum of the working medium possesses an uncontrollable gap, then there is a minimum achievable temperature above zero. Such a gap, combined with a negligible amount of noise, prevents adiabatic following during the demagnetization stage which is the necessary condition for reaching $T_c \to 0$. The refrigerator is based on an Otto cycle where the working medium is an interacting spin system with an energy gap. For this system the external control Hamiltonian does not commute with the internal interaction. As a result during the demagnetization and magnetization segments of the operating cycle the system cannot follow adiabatically the temporal change in the energy levels. We connect the nonadiabatic dynamics to quantum friction. An adiabatic measure is defined characterizing the rate of change of the Hamiltonian. Closed form solutions are found for a constant adiabatic measure for all the cycle segments. We have identified a family of quantized frictionless cycles with increasing cycle times. These cycles minimize the entropy production. Such frictionless cycles are able to cool to $T_c=0$. External noise on the controls eliminates these frictionless cycles. The influence of phase and amplitude noise on the demagnetization and magnetization segments is explicitly derived. An extensive numerical study of optimal cooling cycles was carried out which showed that at sufficiently low temperature the noise always dominates restricting the minimum temperature.

id: 0906.1027
title: Entanglement is not a critical resource for quantum metrology
authors: Todd Tilma, Shinichiro Hamaji, W. J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 6 pages, no figures. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022108 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1027
abstract: We have investigated high-precision measurements, beyond the standard quantum limit, utilizing non-classical states. Although entanglement has been considered a resource for achieving the Heisenberg limit in measurements, we show that any advantage expected from using entanglement is dependent on the measurement in question. We investigate several measurement scenarios and illustrate the role of entanglement as a resource for quantum high-precision measurement. In particular, we demonstrate that there is a regime wherein entanglement not only does not help, but prevents the achievement of the fundamental limit.

id: 0906.1030
title: Unconditional security from noisy quantum storage
authors: Robert Koenig, Stephanie Wehner, Juerg Wullschleger
comments: 25 pages (IEEE two column), 13 figures, v4: published version (to appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory), including bit wise min-entropy sampling. however, for experimental purposes block sampling can be much more convenient, please see v3 arxiv version if needed. See arXiv:0911.2302 for a companion paper addressing aspects of a practical implementation using block sampling
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th., vol. 58, no. 3, p. 1962-1984 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1030
abstract: We consider the implementation of two-party cryptographic primitives based on the sole assumption that no large-scale reliable quantum storage is available to the cheating party. We construct novel protocols for oblivious transfer and bit commitment, and prove that realistic noise levels provide security even against the most general attack. Such unconditional results were previously only known in the so-called bounded-storage model which is a special case of our setting. Our protocols can be implemented with present-day hardware used for quantum key distribution. In particular, no quantum storage is required for the honest parties.

id: 0906.1031
title: Continuous measurement feedback control of a Bose-Einstein condensate using phase contrast imaging
authors: S. S. Szigeti, M. R. Hush, A. R. R. Carvalho, J. J. Hope
comments: 4 figures, 11 pages
journal: S. S. Szigeti, M. R. Hush, A. R. R. Carvalho and J. J. Hope, Phys. Rev. A 80, 013614 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1031
abstract: We consider the theory of feedback control of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) confined in a harmonic trap under a continuous measurement constructed via non-destructive imaging. A filtering theory approach is used to derive a stochastic master equation (SME) for the system from a general Hamiltonian based upon system-bath coupling. Numerical solutions for this SME in the limit of a single atom show that the final steady state energy is dependent upon the measurement strength, the ratio of photon kinetic energy to atomic kinetic energy, and the feedback strength. Simulations indicate that for a weak measurement strength, feedback can be used to overcome heating introduced by the scattering of light, thereby allowing the atom to be driven towards the ground state.

id: 0906.1032
title: Protocols and Techniques for a Scalable Atom--Photon Quantum Network
authors: L. Luo, D. Hayes, T.A. Manning, D.N. Matsukevich, P. Maunz, S. Olmschenk, J.D. Sterk, C. Monroe
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1032
abstract: Quantum networks based on atomic qubits and scattered photons provide a promising way to build a large-scale quantum information processor. We review quantum protocols for generating entanglement and operating gates between two distant atomic qubits, which can be used for constructing scalable atom--photon quantum networks. We emphasize the crucial role of collecting light from atomic qubits for large-scale networking and describe two techniques to enhance light collection using reflective optics or optical cavities. A brief survey of some applications for scalable and efficient atom--photon networks is also provided.

id: 0906.1033
title: Quantum Pseudo-fractional Fourier Transform and its application to quantum phase estimation
authors: Srinivas V. Parasa, K. Eswaran
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1033
abstract: - In this paper we present a method to compute the coefficients of the fractional Fourier transform (FrFT) on a quantum computer using quantum gates of polynomial complexity of the order O(n^3). The FrFt, a generalization of the DFT, has wide applications in signal processing and is particularly useful to implement the Pseudopolar and Radon transforms. Even though the FrFT is a non-unitary operation, to develop its quantum counterpart, we develop a unitary operator called the quantum Pseudo-fraction Fourier Transform (QPFrFT) in a higher-dimensional Hilbert space, in order to computer the coefficients of the FrFT. In this process we develop a unitary operator denoted U by which is an essential step to implement the QPFrFT. We then show the application of the operator U in the problem of quantum phase estimation.

id: 0906.1041
title: Quantitative probing of quantum-classical transition for the arrival time distribution
authors: Dipankar Home, Alok Kumar Pan, Arka Banerjee
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 165302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1041
abstract: The classical limit problem of quantum mechanics is revisited on the basis of a scheme that enables a quantitative study of the way the quantum-classical agreement emerges while going through the intermediate mass range between the microscopic and the macroscopic domains. As a specific application of such a scheme, we investigate the classical limit of a quantum time distribution - an area of study that has remained largely unexplored. For this purpose, we focus on the arrival time distribution in order to examine the way the observable results pertaining to the quantum arrival time distribution which is defined in terms of the probability current density gradually approach the relevant classical statistical results for an ensemble that corresponds to a Gaussian wave packet evolving in a linear potential.

id: 0906.1051
title: Monotonically convergent optimal control theory of quantum systems with spectral constraints on the control field
authors: M. Lapert, R. Tehini, G. Turinici, D. Sugny
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1051
abstract: We propose a new monotonically convergent algorithm which can enforce spectral constraints on the control field (and extends to arbitrary filters). The procedure differs from standard algorithms in that at each iteration the control field is taken as a linear combination of the control field (computed by the standard algorithm) and the filtered field. The parameter of the linear combination is chosen to respect the monotonic behavior of the algorithm and to be as close to the filtered field as possible. We test the efficiency of this method on molecular alignment. Using band-pass filters, we show how to select particular rotational transitions to reach high alignment efficiency. We also consider spectral constraints corresponding to experimental conditions using pulse shaping techniques. We determine an optimal solution that could be implemented experimentally with this technique.

id: 0906.1063
title: Three-qubit entangled embeddings of CPT and Dirac groups within E8 Weyl group
authors: Michel Planat
comments: 12 pages
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.49:1044-1054,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1063
abstract: In quantum information context, the groups generated by Pauli spin matrices, and Dirac gamma matrices, are known as the single qubit Pauli group P, and two-qubit Pauli group P2, respectively. It has been found [M. Socolovsky, Int. J. Theor. Phys. 43, 1941 (2004)] that the CPT group of the Dirac equation is isomorphic to P. One introduces a two-qubit entangling orthogonal matrix S basically related to the CPT symmetry. With the aid of the two-qubit swap gate, the S matrix allows the generation of the three-qubit real Clifford group and, with the aid of the Toffoli gate, the Weyl group W(E8) is generated (M. Planat, Preprint 0904.3691). In this paper, one derives three-qubit entangling groups ? P and ? P2, isomorphic to the CPT group P and to the Dirac group P2, that are embedded into W(E8). One discovers a new class of pure theequbit quantum states with no-vanishing concurrence and three-tangle that we name CPT states. States of the GHZ and CPT families, and also chain-type states, encode the new representation of the Dirac group and its CPT subgroup.

id: 0906.1085
title: Nonlinear effect on quantum control for two-level systems
authors: W. Wang, J. Shen, X. X. Yi
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 42 (2009) 215504.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1085
abstract: The traditional quantum control theory focuses on linear quantum system. Here we show the effect of nonlinearity on quantum control of a two-level system, we find that the nonlinearity can change the controllability of quantum system. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the Lyapunov control can be used to overcome this uncontrollability induced by the nonlinear effect.

id: 0906.1101
title: Does quantum mechanics tell an atomistic spacetime?
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: Based on invited talks at Fourth International Workshop DICE2008, held at Castello Pasquini / Castiglioncello, Italy, 22-26 September 2008 and at DISCRETE'08 - Symposium on Prospects in the Physics of Discrete Symmetries, held at IFIC, Valencia, Spain, 11-16 December 2008 - to appear in respective volumes of Journal of Physics: Conference Series
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.174:012009,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1101
abstract: The canonical answer to the question posed is "Yes." -- tacitly assuming that quantum theory and the concept of spacetime are to be unified by `quantizing' a theory of gravitation. Yet, instead, one may ponder: Could quantum mechanics arise as a coarse-grained reflection of the atomistic nature of spacetime? -- We speculate that this may indeed be the case. We recall the similarity between evolution of classical and quantum mechanical ensembles, according to Liouville and von Neumann equation, respectively. The classical and quantum mechanical equations are indistinguishable for objects which are free or subject to spatially constant but possibly time dependent, or harmonic forces, if represented appropriately. This result suggests a way to incorporate anharmonic interactions, including fluctuations which are tentatively related to the underlying discreteness of spacetime. Being linear and local at the quantum mechanical level, the model offers a decoherence and natural localization mechanism. However, the relation to primordial deterministic degrees of freedom is nonlocal.

id: 0906.1129
title: Multi-normal-mode splitting of a cavity in the presence of atoms -- towards the superstrong coupling regime
authors: Xudong Yu, Dezhi Xiong, Haixia Chen, Pengjun Wang, Min Xiao, Jing Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 061803 (R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1129
abstract: Multi-normal-mode splitting peaks are experimentally observed in a system with Doppler-broadened two-level atoms inside a relatively long optical cavity. In this system, the atoms-cavity interaction can reach the ``superstrong coupling" condition with atoms-cavity coupling strength $g\sqrt{N}$ to be near or larger than the cavity free-spectral range $\Delta_{FSR}$. In such case, normal-mode splitting can occur in many cavity longitudinal modes to generate the multi-normal-mode splitting peaks, which can be well explained by the linear dispersion enhancement due to the largely increased atomic density in the cavity. Many new interesting phenomena might come out of this superstrong atoms-cavity coupling regime.

id: 0906.1163
title: Triplet-like correlation symmetry of continuous variable entangled states
authors: Gerd Leuchs, Ruifang Dong, Denis Sych
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1163
abstract: We report on a continuous variable analogue of the triplet two-qubit Bell states. We theoretically and experimentally demonstrate a remarkable similarity of two-mode continuous variable entangled states with triplet Bell states with respect to their correlation patterns. Borrowing from the two qubit language, we call these correlations triplet-like.

id: 0906.1180
title: Generalized Jaynes-Cummings model as a quantum search algorithm
authors: Alejandro Romanelli
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1180
abstract: We propose a continuous time quantum search algorithm using a generalization of the Jaynes-Cummings model. In this model the states of the atom are the elements among which the algorithm realizes the search, exciting resonances between the initial and the searched states. This algorithm behaves like Grover's algorithm; the optimal search time is proportional to the square root of the size of the search set and the probability to find the searched state oscillates periodically in time. In this frame, it is possible to reinterpret the usual Jaynes-Cummings model as a trivial case of the quantum search algorithm.

id: 0906.1209
title: Quantum anticentrifugal force for wormhole geometry
authors: Rossen Dandoloff
comments: to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett. A, vol.373, (2009), p.2667
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1209
abstract: We show the existence of an anticentrifugal force in a wormhole geometry in $R^3$. This counterintuitive force was shown to exist in a flat $R^2$ space. The role the geometry plays in the appearance of this force is discussed.

id: 0906.1259
title: Bloch sphere like construction of SU(3) Hamiltonians using unitary integration
authors: Sai Vinjanampathy, A.R.P. Rau
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 425303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1259
abstract: The Bloch sphere is a familiar and useful geometrical picture of the dynamics of a single spin or two-level system's quantum evolution. The analogous geometrical picture for three-level systems is presented, with several applications. The relevant SU(3) group and su(3) algebra are eight-dimensional objects and are realized in our picture as two four-dimensional manifolds describing the time evolution operator. The first, called the base manifold, is the counterpart of the S^2 Bloch sphere, whereas the second, called the fiber, generalizes the single U(1) phase of a single spin. Now four-dimensional, it breaks down further into smaller objects depending on alternative representations that we discuss. Geometrical phases are also developed and presented for specific applications. Arbitrary time-dependent couplings between three levels or between two spins (qubits) with SU(3) Hamiltonians can be conveniently handled through these geometrical objects.

id: 0906.1297
title: Families of bipartite states classifiable by the positive partial transposition criterion
authors: F. E. S. Steinhoff, M. C. de Oliveira
comments: 7 pages, no figures, references and an appendix added
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 10, No. 5&6, 525 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1297
abstract: We construct a family of bipartite states of arbitrary dimension whose eigenvalues of the partially transposed matrix can be inferred directly from the block structure of the global density matrix. We identify from this several subfamilies in which the PPT criterion is both necessary and sufficient. A sufficient criterion of separability is obtained, which is fundamental for the discussion. We show how several examples of states known to be classifiable by the PPT criterion indeed belong to this general set. Possible uses of these states in numerical analysis of entanglement and in the search of PPT bound entangled states are briefly discussed.

id: 0906.1305
title: Nonadditivity of quantum and classical capacities for entanglement breaking multiple-access channels and butterfly network
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Pawel Horodecki
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A as a Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 060305(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1305
abstract: We analyze quantum network primitives which are entanglement-breaking. We show superadditivity of quantum and classical capacity regions for quantum multiple-access channel and quantum butterfly network. Since the effects are especially visible at high noise they suggest that quantum information effects may be particularly helpful in the case of the networks with occasional high noise rates. To our knowledge the present effects provide the first qualitative borderline between superadditivities of bipartite and multipartite systems.

id: 0906.1333
title: Control of the entanglement of a two-level atom in a dissipative cavity via a classical field
authors: Jian-Song Zhang, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Communications 282 (2009) 2543-2546
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1333
abstract: We investigate the entanglement dynamics and purity of a two-level atom, which is additionally driven by a classical field, interacting with a coherent field in a dissipative environment. It is shown that the amount of entanglement and the purity of the system can be improved by controlling the classical field.

id: 0906.1336
title: Controlling entanglement sudden death and birth in cavity QED
authors: Jian-Song Zhang
comments: Optics Communications(Accepted)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1336
abstract: We present a scheme to control the entanglement sudden birth and death in cavity quantum electrodynamics system, which consists of two noninteracting atoms each locally interacting with its own vacuum field, by applying and adjusting classical driving fields.

id: 0906.1338
title: Use of Lambert's Theorem for the n-Dimensional Coulomb Problem
authors: Vassiliki Kanellopoulos, Manfred Kleber, Tobias Kramer
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures. Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A vol. 80 p. 012101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1338
abstract: We present the analytical solution in closed form for the semiclassical limit of the quantum mechanical Coulomb Green function in position space in n dimensions. We utilize a projection method which has its roots in Lambert's theorem and which allows us to treat the system as an essentially one dimensional problem. The semiclassical result assumes a simple analytical form and is well suited for a numerical evaluation. The method can also be extended to classically forbidden space regions. Already for moderately large principal quantum numbers nu >= 5, the semiclassical Green function is found to be an excellent approximation to the quantum mechanical Green function.

id: 0906.1362
title: The Quantum Reduced Action In Higher Dimensions
authors: A.Bouda
comments: 12 pages, no figure
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48 (2009) 913-923
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1362
abstract: The solution with respect to the reduced action of the one-dimensional stationary quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation is well known in the literature. The extension to higher dimensions in the separated variable case was proposed in contradictory formulations. In this paper we provide new insights into the construction of the reduced action. In particular, contrary to the classical mechanics case, we analytically show that the reduced action constructed as a sum of one variable functions does not contain a complete information about the quantum motion. In the same context, we also make some observations about recent results concerning quantum trajectories. Finally, we will examine the conditions in which microstates appear even in the case where the wave function is complex.

id: 0906.1379
title: Phase noise and laser-cooling limits of optomechanical oscillators
authors: Zhang-qi Yin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, comments are welcome; reference is updated. A note is added on a similar paper recently published; revised and accepted for PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033821 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1379
abstract: The noise from laser phase fluctuation sets a major technical obstacle to cool the nano-mechanical oscillators to the quantum region. We propose a cooling configuration based on the opto-mechanical coupling with two cavity modes to significantly reduce this phase noise by $(2\omega_m/\gamma)^2$ times, where $\omega_m$ is the frequency of the mechanical mode and $\gamma$ is the decay rate of the cavity mode. We also discuss the detection of the phonon number when the mechanical oscillator is cooled near the quantum region and specify the required conditions for this detection.

id: 0906.1413
title: Multiple quantum NMR dynamics of spin-1/2 carrying molecules of a gas in nanopores
authors: S.I.Doronin, A.V.Fedorova, E.B.Fel'dman, A.I.Zenchuk
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: J.Chem.Phys., V.131 104109 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1413
abstract: We consider the multiple quantum (MQ) NMR dynamics of a gas of spin carrying molecules in nanocavities. MQ NMR dynamics is determined by the residual dipole-dipole interactions which are not averaged completely due to the molecular diffusion in nanopores. Since the averaged non-secular Hamiltonian describing MQ NMR dynamics depends on only one coupling constant, this Hamiltonian commutes with the square of the total spin angular momentum $\hat I^2$. We use the basis of common eigenstates of $\hat I^2$ and the projection of $I$ on the external magnetic field for investigation of MQ NMR dynamics. This approach allows us to study MQ NMR dynamics in systems consisting of several hundreds of spins. The analytical approximation of the stationary profile of MQ coherences is obtained. The analytical expressions for MQ NMR coherence intensities of the five-spin system in a nanopore are found. Numerical investigations allow us to find the dependencies of intensities of MQ coherences on their orders (the profiles of MQ coherences) in systems consisting of 600 spins and even more. It is shown that the stationary MQ coherence profile in the considered system is an exponential one.

id: 0906.1438
title: Atomic Solc filter: multi-resonant photoemission via periodic poling of atom-cavity coupling constant
authors: Hyun-Gue Hong, Wontaek Seo, Moonjoo Lee, Younghoon Song, Young-Tak Chough, Jai-Hyung Lee, Kyungwon An
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1438
abstract: This paper describes a novel atom-cavity interaction induced by periodically poled atom-cavity coupling constant which leads to multiple narrow photoemission bands for an initially inverted two-level atom under the strong coupling condition. The emission bandpass narrowing has a close analogy with the folded Solc filter in the context of quasi-phase matching by periodic poling. We present a closed form solution of the emission probability at the end of interaction and deduce the multiple phase matching condition for this system which is programmable by the interaction time. The Bloch sphere analysis provides a clear understanding of the underlying atomic dynamics associated with the multiple resonances in the semiclassical limit. Furthermore, we show that this interaction can be applied to generation of the nonclassical field with sub-Poisson photon statistics.

id: 0906.1453
title: High-fidelity copies from a symmetric 1 to 2 quantum cloning machine
authors: Michael Siomau, Stephan Fritzsche
comments: 2 figures, 20 references
journal: M.Siomau, S.Fritzsche, Eur. Phys. J. D 57, 293 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1453
abstract: A symmetric 1 to 2 quantum cloning machine (QCM) is presented that provides high-fidelity copies with $0.90 \le F \le 0.95$ for all pure (single-qubit) input states from a given meridian of the Bloch sphere. \cor{Emphasize is placed especially on the states of the (so-called) Eastern meridian, that includes the computational basis states $\ketm{0}, \ketm{1}$ together with the diagonal state $\ketm{+} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ketm{0} + \ketm{1})$, for which suggested cloning transformation is shown to be optimal.} In addition, we also show how this QCM can be utilized for eavesdropping in Bennett's B92 protocol for quantum key distribution with a substantial higher success rate than obtained for universal or equatorial quantum copying.

id: 0906.1456
title: Schrodinger-Newton equation with complex Newton constant and induced gravity
authors: Lajos Disi, Tibor Norbert Papp
comments: 11pp, 3 figs
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:3244-3247,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1456
abstract: In the reversible Schrodinger-Newton equation a complex Newton coupling G*exp(-i*alpha) is proposed in place of G. The equation becomes irreversible and all initial one-body states are expected to converge to solitonic stationary states. This feature is verified numerically. For two-body solutions we point out that an effective Newtonian interaction is induced by the imaginary mean-fields as if they were real. The effective strength of such induced gravity depends on the local wave functions of the participating distant bodies.

id: 0906.1469
title: Quiet Lasers
authors: Jacques Arnaud, Laurent Chusseau, Fabrice Philippe
comments: 186 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1469
abstract: We call "quiet laser" a stationary laser that generates in detectors regular photo-electrons (sub-Poisson statistics). It follows from the law of conservation of energy that this is so when the laser power supply does not fluctuate. Various configurations are analyzed on the basis of the Planck (1907) semi-classical concept: "I am not seeking the meaning of light quanta in the vacuum but rather in places where emission and absorption occur, and I assume that what happens in the vacuum is rigorously described by Maxwell's equations". Exact agreement with Quantum Optics results is noted. Comments welcome!

id: 0906.1502
title: Using the no-signaling condition for constraining the nonidealness of a Stern-Gerlach setup
authors: Dipankar Home, Alok Kumar Pan
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 085301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1502
abstract: On the basis of a variant of the EPR-Bohm example, we show that the no-signaling condition can be employed as a useful tool for deriving a constraint on a suitably defined measure of the `nonidealness' of a Stern-Gerlach(SG) setup. In this demonstration, a key ingredient is provided by the characteristics of the exact solution of the time-dependent Schroedinger equation as applied to a most general SG setup.

id: 0906.1507
title: Multiqubits Entanglement Based on Optimal Witness
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Zhi-Xi Wang, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 8 pages
journal: Reports on Mathematical Physics 63, 409-416(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1507
abstract: We study the optimal entanglement witness with respect to multiqubits W-states. We show such entanglement witnesses can be used to distinguish genuine entangled states, different biseparable states and fully separable states.

id: 0906.1527
title: How to exploit local information when distilling entanglement
authors: Earl T. Campbell
comments: Revised contains added calculations and improved clarity, and reformatted into IJQI format. Submitted to Distributed Quantum Computing special issue of the International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information. Volume 8, Number 1-2 (2010) page 161-180
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1527
abstract: Distillation protocols enable generation of high quality entanglement even in the presence of noise. Existing protocols ignore the presence of local information in mixed states produced from some noise sources such as photon loss, amplitude damping or thermalization. We propose new protocols that exploit local information in mixed states. Our protocols converge to higher fidelities in fewer rounds, and when local information is significant one of our protocols consistently improves yields by 10 fold or more. We demonstrate that our protocols can be compacted into an entanglement-pumping scheme, allowing quantum computation in distributed systems with a few qubits per location.

id: 0906.1528
title: A quantum volume hologram
authors: Denis V. Vasilyev, Ivan V. Sokolov, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 020302(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1528
abstract: We propose a new scheme for parallel spatially multimode quantum memory for light. The scheme is based on counter-propagating quantum signal wave and strong classical reference wave, like in a classical volume hologram, and therefore can be called a quantum volume hologram. The medium for the hologram consists of a spatially extended ensemble of atoms placed in a magnetic field. The write-in and read-out of this quantum hologram is as simple as that of its classical counterpart and consists of a single pass illumination. In addition we show that the present scheme for a quantum hologram is less sensitive to diffraction and therefore is capable of achieving higher density of storage of spatial modes as compared to previous proposals. A quantum hologram capable of storing entangled images can become an important ingredient in quantum information processing and quantum imaging.

id: 0906.1530
title: Experimental high fidelity six-photon entangled state for telecloning protocols
authors: Magnus Radmark, Marek Zukowski, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 103016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1530
abstract: We experimentally generate and characterize a six-photon polarization entangled state, which is usually called "Psi 6 +". This is realized with a filtering procedure of triple emissions of entangled photon pairs from a single source, which does not use any interferometric overlaps. The setup is very stable and we observe the six-photon state with high fidelity. The observed state can be used for demonstrations of telecloning and secret sharing protocols.

id: 0906.1539
title: Violation of Bell Inequalities as a Violation of Fair Sampling in Threshold Detectors
authors: Guillaume Adenier
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures, FPP5 conference, Vaxjo (Sweden) August 2008
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 1101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1539
abstract: Photomultiplier tubes and avalanche photodiodes, which are commonly used in quantum optic experiments, are sometimes referred to as threshold detectors because, in photon counting mode, they cannot discriminate the number of photoelectrons initially extracted from the absorber in the detector. We argue that they can be called threshold detectors on more account than that. We point out that their their functioning principle relies on two thresholds that are usually thought unimportant individually in the context of EPR-Bell discussion. We show how the combined effect of these threshold can lead to a significant sampling selection bias in the detection of pairs of pulses, resulting in an apparent violation of Bell inequalities.

id: 0906.1605
title: A Quantum Past
authors: Jeremy Bernstein
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1605
abstract: This paper discusses the formulations of the past in quantum mechanics.

id: 0906.1622
title: Entanglement Percolation with Bipartite Mixed States
authors: S. Broadfoot, U. Dorner, D. Jaksch
comments: 6+ pages, 5 figures; Published version
journal: EuroPhys. Lett. 88, 50002 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1622
abstract: We develop a concept of entanglement percolation for long-distance singlet generation in quantum networks with neighboring nodes connected by partially entangled bipartite mixed states. We give a necessary and sufficient condition on the class of mixed network states for the generation of singlets. States beyond this class are insufficient for entanglement percolation. We find that neighboring nodes are required to be connected by multiple partially entangled states and devise a rich variety of distillation protocols for the conversion of these states into singlets. These distillation protocols are suitable for a variety of network geometries and have a sufficiently high success probability even for significantly impure states. In addition to this, we discuss possible further improvements achievable by using quantum strategies including generalized forms of entanglement swapping.

id: 0906.1625
title: Control of Tripod-Scheme Cold-Atom Wavepackets by Manipulating a non-Abelian Vector Potential
authors: Qi Zhang, Jiangbin Gong, C.H. Oh
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, significantly revised, to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics, Vol 325, 1219-1234 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1625
abstract: Tripod-scheme cold atoms interacting with laser beams have attracted considerable interest for their role in synthesizing effective non-Abelian vector potentials. Such effective vector potentials can be exploited to realize an all-optical imprinting of geometric phases onto matter waves. By working on carefully designed extensions of our previous work, we show that coherent lattice structure of cold-atom sub-wavepackets can be formed and that the non-Abelian Aharonov-Bohm effect can be easily manifested via the translational motion of cold atoms. We also show that by changing the frame of reference, effects due to a non-Abelian vector potential may be connected with a simple dynamical phase effect, and that under certain conditions it can be understood as an Abelian geometric phase in a different frame of reference. Results should help design better schemes for the control of cold-atom matter waves.

id: 0906.1626
title: The Quantum Liar Experiment in Cramer's Transactional Interpretation
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: Minor editing error corrected
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics (Volume 41, Issue 2, May 2010, 86-92 )
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1626
abstract: Cramer's Transactional Interpretation (TI) is applied to the "Quantum Liar Experiment" (QLE). It is shown how some apparently paradoxical features can be explained naturally, albeit nonlocally (since TI is an explicitly nonlocal interpretation, at least from the vantage point of ordinary spacetime). At the same time, it is proposed that in order to preserve the elegance and economy of the interpretation, it may be necessary to consider offer and confirmation waves as propagating in a "higher space" of possibilities.

id: 0906.1659
title: Non-Gaussian Entangled States
authors: Ryo Namiki
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 79 (2010) 013001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1659
abstract: We provide a family of Non-Gaussian pure entangled states in a bipartite system as the eigen states of a quadratic Hamiltonian composed of the Einstein-Podolsky-and-Rosen-like operators. The ground state of the Hamiltonian corresponds to the two-mode-squeezed vacuum state, and belongs to the Gaussian states. In contrast, all of the excited states are Non-Gaussian states. A separable inequality maximally violated by the eigen states is derived.

id: 0906.1671
title: Two-Party Quantum Protocols Do Not Compose Securely Against Honest-But-Curious Adversaries
authors: Louis Salvail, Miroslava Sotakova
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1671
abstract: In this paper, we build upon the model of two-party quantum computation introduced by Salvail et al. [SSS09] and show that in this model, only trivial correct two-party quantum protocols are weakly self-composable. We do so by defining a protocol \Pi, calling any non-trivial sub-protocol \pi N times and showing that there is a quantum honest-but-curious strategy that cannot be modeled by acting locally in every single copy of \pi. In order to achieve this, we assign a real value called "payoff" to any strategy for \Pi and show that that there is a gap between the highest payoff achievable by coherent and local strategies.

id: 0906.1711
title: Quantum phase transition of the one-dimensional compass model in a transverse magnetic field
authors: Ke-Wei Sun, Qing-Hu Chen
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 174417(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1711
abstract: The quantum phase transition (QPT) of the one-dimensional (1D) quantum compass model in a transverse magnetic field is studied in this paper. An exact solution is obtained by using an extended Jordan and Wigner transformation to the pseudo-spin operators. The fidelity susceptibility, the concurrence, the block-block entanglement entropy, and the pseudo-spin correlation functions are calculated with antiperiodic boundary conditions. The QPT driven by the transverse field only emerges at zero field and is of the second-order. Several critical exponents obtained by finite size scaling analysis are the same as those in the 1D transverse field Ising model, suggesting the same universality class. A logarithmic divergence of the entanglement entropy of a block at the quantum critical point is also observed. From the calculated coefficient connected to the central charge of the conformal field theory, it is suggested that the block entanglement depends crucially on the detailed topological structure of a system.

id: 0906.1714
title: Priors in quantum Bayesian inference
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, Ruediger Schack
comments: 7 pages; published in AIP Conference Proceedings 1101: Foundations of Probability and Physics 5, edited by L. Accardi et al, p. 255 (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1714
abstract: In quantum Bayesian inference problems, any conclusions drawn from a finite number of measurements depend not only on the outcomes of the measurements but also on a prior. Here we show that, in general, the prior remains important even in the limit of an infinite number of measurements. We illustrate this point with several examples where two priors lead to very different conclusions given the same measurement data.

id: 0906.1719
title: Resonant interaction of a single atom with single photons from a down-conversion source
authors: C. Schuck, F. Rohde, N. Piro, M. Almendros, J. Huwer, M. W. Mitchell, M. Hennrich, A. Haase, F. Dubin, J. Eschner
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1719
abstract: We observe the interaction of a single trapped calcium ion with single photons produced by a narrow-band, resonant down-conversion source [A. Haase et al., Opt. Lett. 34, 55 (2009)], employing a quantum jump scheme. Using the temperature dependence of the down-conversion spectrum and the tunability of the narrow source, absorption of the down-conversion photons is quantitatively characterized.

id: 0906.1723
title: Quantization in classical mechanics and reality of Bohm's psi-field
authors: V.D. Rusov, D.S. Vlasenko, S.Cht. Mavrodiev
comments: 16 pages, significant improvement after 0806.4050 and 0804.1427. (v2) revised and reconsidered conclusions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1723
abstract: Based on the Chetaev theorem on stable dynamical trajectories in the presence of dissipative forces, we obtain the generalized condition for stability of Hamilton systems in the form of the Schrodinger equation. It is shown that the energy of dissipative forces, which generate the Chetaev generalized condition of stability, coincides exactly with the Bohm "quantum" potential. Within the framework of Bohmian quantum mechanics supplemented by the generalized Chetaev theorem and on the basis of the principle of least action for dissipative forces, we show that the squared amplitude of a wave function in the Schrodinger equation is equivalent semantically and syntactically to the probability density function for the number of particle trajectories, relative to which the velocity and the position of the particle are not hidden parameters. The conditions for the correctness of the Bohm-Chetaev interpretation of quantum mechanics are discussed.

id: 0906.1727
title: Constructing 2D and 3D cluster states with photonic modules
authors: Radu Ionicioiu, William J. Munro
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Quantum Information 8, 149 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1727
abstract: Large scale quantum information processing (QIP) and distributed quantum computation require the ability to perform entangling operations on a large number of qubits. We describe a new photonic module which prepares, deterministically, photonic cluster states using an atom in a cavity as an ancilla. Based on this module we design a network for constructing 2D cluster states and then we extend the architecture to 3D topological cluster states. Advantages of our design include a passive switching mechanism and the possibility of using global control pulses for the atoms in the cavity. The architecture described here is well suited for integrated photonic circuits on a chip and could be used as a basis of a future quantum optical processor or in a quantum repeater node.

id: 0906.1796
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of interacting qubit pair coupled to two independent bosonic baths
authors: I. Sinayskiy, E. Ferraro, A. Napoli, A. Messina, F. Petruccione
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 485301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1796
abstract: The dynamics of two interacting spins coupled to separate bosonic baths is studied. An analytical solution in Born approximation for arbitrary spectral density functions of the bosonic environments is found. It is shown that in the non-Markovian cases concurrence "lives" longer or reaches greater values.

id: 0906.1811
title: Quantum algorithms know in advance 50% of the solution they will find in the future
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli
comments: The example of new quantum speed up that was just outlined in the previous version (finding the character of a permutation) is fully deployed in the present version. There are minor distributed changes to the writing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1811
abstract: Quantum algorithms require less operations than classical algorithms. The exact reason of this has not been pinpointed until now. Our explanation is that quantum algorithms know in advance 50% of the solution of the problem they will find in the future. In fact they can be represented as the sum of all the possible histories of a respective "advanced information classical algorithm". This algorithm, given the advanced information (50% of the bits encoding the problem solution), performs the operations (oracle's queries) still required to identify the solution. Each history corresponds to a possible way of getting the advanced information and a possible result of computing the missing information. This explanation of the quantum speed up has an immediate practical consequence: the speed up comes from comparing two classical algorithms, with and without advanced information, with no physics involved. This simplification could open the way to a systematic exploration of the possibilities of speed up.

id: 0906.1830
title: Entanglement generation between distant atoms by Lyapunov control
authors: Xiaoting Wang, S. G. Schirmer
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1830
abstract: We show how to apply Lyapunov control design to the problem of entanglement creation between two atoms in distant cavities connected by optical fibers. The Lyapunov control design is optimal in the sense that the distance from the target state decreases monotonically and exponentially, and the concurrence increases accordingly. This method is far more robust than simple geometric schemes.

id: 0906.1841
title: Nonlinear effect on the transmission of light in a cavity array
authors: H. D. Liu, W. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1841
abstract: Taking nonlinear effect into account, we study theoretically the transmission properties of photons in a one-dimensional coupled cavities, the cavity located at the center of the cavity array is coupled to a two-level system. By the traditional scattering theory, we calculate the transmission rate of photons along the cavities, and discuss the effect of nonlinearity on the photon transport. The results show that the controllable two-level system can act as a quantum switch in the coherent transport of photons. The dynamics of such a system is also studied by numerical simulations, the effect of the atom-field detuning and nonlinearity on the dynamics is shown and discussed.

id: 0906.1866
title: Semi-quantum secret sharing using entangled states
authors: Qin Li, W. H. Chan, Dong-Yang Long
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, some changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1866
abstract: Secret sharing is a procedure for sharing a secret among a number of participants such that only the qualified subsets of participants have the ability to reconstruct the secret. Even in the presence of eavesdropping, secret sharing can be achieved when all the members are quantum. So what happens if not all the members are quantum? In this paper we propose two semi-quantum secret sharing protocols using maximally entangled GHZ-type states in which quantum Alice shares a secret with two classical parties, Bob and Charlie, in a way that both parties are sufficient to obtain the secret, but one of them cannot. The presented protocols are also showed to be secure against eavesdropping.

id: 0906.1885
title: Conditions for Factorizable Output From a Beam splitter
authors: S. C. Springer, Jinhyoung Lee, M. Bellini, M. S. Kim
comments: 6 pages, published in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1885
abstract: A beam splitter is one of the most important devices in an optics laboratory because of its handiness and versatility; equivalent devices are found in various quantum systems to couple two subsystems or to interfere them. While it is normal that two independent input fields are superposed at the beam splitter to give correlated outputs, identical Gaussian states interfere there to produce totally independent output fields. We prove that Gaussian states with same the variance are the only states which bring about factorizable output fields.

id: 0906.1906
title: Entanglement detection: Linear entropy versus Bell-CHSH inequality
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1906
abstract: The relation between the violation of the Bell-CHSH inequalities and entanglement properties of quantum states is not clear so one may consider the mixedness of the system to understand the entanglement properties better than the Bell-CHSH inequality. In this respect, we prove that if the mixedness of the state measured by the linear entropy is less than 2/3 but strictly greater than zero then the two qubit states are entangled. But if the linear entropy is greater or equal to 2/3 then the state may or may not be entangled. Further we show that our entanglement criterion detects larger set of entangled state than Bell-CHSH inequality and Santos's entropic criterion [Phys. Rev. A 69, 022305 (2004)]. Lastly we illustrate our result by citing few examples.

id: 0906.1909
title: Cooling a micro-mechanical resonator to its ground state by measurement back-action
authors: Christian Bergenfeldt, Klaus Molmer
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1909
abstract: We present an analysis of the cooling of a micro-mechanical resonator by means of measurements and back action. The measurements are performed via the coupling to a Cooper-pair box, and although the coupling does not lead to net cooling, the extraction of information and hence entropy from the system leads to a pure quantum state. Under suitable circumstances, the states become very close to coherent states, conditioned on the measurement record, and can hence be displaced to the oscillator ground state.

id: 0906.1918
title: Cold molecules formation by shaping with light the short-range interaction between cold atoms: photoassociation with strong laser pulses
authors: M. Vatasescu
comments: 25 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 (2009) 165303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1918
abstract: The paper investigates cold molecules formation in the photoassociation of two cold atoms by a strong laser pulse applied at short interatomic distances, which lead to a molecular dynamics taking place in the light-induced (adiabatic) potentials. A two electronic states model in the cesium dimer is used to analyse the effects of this strong coupling regime and to show specific results: i) acceleration of the ground state population to the inner zone due to a non-impulsive regime of coupling at short and intermediate interatomic distances; ii) formation of cold molecules in strongly bound levels of the ground state, where the population at the end of the pulse is much bigger than the population photoassociated in bound levels of the excited state; iii) the final momentum distribution of the ground state wavepacket keeping the signatures of the maxima in the initial wavefunction continuum. It is shown that the topology of the light-induced potentials plays an important role in dynamics.

id: 0906.1933
title: Enhancement of Field Squeezing Using Coherent Feedback
authors: J.E. Gough, S. Wildfeuer
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042107 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1933
abstract: The theory of quantum feedback networks has recently been developed with the aim of showing how quantum input-output components may be connected together so as to control, stabilize or enhance the performance of one of the subcomponents. In this paper we show how the degree to which an idealized component (a degenerate parametric amplifier in the strong-coupling regime) can squeeze input fields may be enhanced by placing the component in-loop in a simple feedback mechanism involving a beam splitter. We study the spectral properties of output fields, placing particular emphasis on the elastic and inelastic components of the power density.

id: 0906.1968
title: Delirium Quantum
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs
comments: Stuffed away in a conference proceedings for years, I finally worked up the nerve to post this because I needed to cite it in a paper with some proper equations. Stay posted
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 889, Foundations of Probability and Physics -- 4, G. Adenier et al eds., (American Institute of Physics, Melville, NY, 2007), pp. 438-462
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1968
abstract: This pseudo-paper consists of excerpts drawn from two of my quantum-email samizdats. Section 1 draws a picture of a physical world whose essence is ``Darwinism all the way down.'' Section 2 outlines how quantum theory should be viewed in light of this, i.e., as being an expression of probabilism (in Bruno de Finetti or Richard Jeffrey's sense) all the way back up. Section 3 describes how the idea of ``identical'' quantum measurement outcomes, though sounding atomistic in character, nonetheless meshes well with a Jamesian style ``radical pluralism.'' Sections 4 and 5 further detail how quantum theory should not be viewed so much as a ``theory of the world,'' but rather as a theory of decision-making for agents immersed within a world of a particular character--the quantum world. Finally, Sections 6 and 7 attempt to sketch the very positive sense in which quantum theory is incomplete, but still just as complete is it can be. In total, I hope these heady speculations convey some of the excitement and potential I see for the malleable world quantum mechanics hints of.

id: 0906.1989
title: Optimum pulse shapes for stimulated Raman adiabatic passage
authors: G. S. Vasilev, A. Kuhn, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1989
abstract: Stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP), driven with pulses of optimum shape and delay has the potential of reaching fidelities high enough to make it suitable for fault-tolerant quantum information processing. The optimum pulse shapes are obtained upon reduction of STIRAP to effective two-state systems. We use the Dykhne-Davis-Pechukas (DDP) method to minimize nonadiabatic transitions and to maximize the fidelity of STIRAP. This results in a particular relation between the pulse shapes of the two fields driving the Raman process. The DDP-optimized version of STIRAP maintains its robustness against variations in the pulse intensities and durations, the single-photon detuning and possible losses from the intermediate state.

id: 0906.2000
title: Local and global statistical distances are equivalent on pure states
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: 5 pages, comments welcome
journal: Physical Review A 80, 032323 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2000
abstract: The statistical distance between pure quantum states is obtained by finding a measurement that is optimal in a sense defined by Wootters. As such, one may expect that the statistical distance will turn out to be different if the set of possible measurements is restricted in some way. It nonetheless turns out that if the restriction is to local operations and classical communication (LOCC) on any multipartite system, then the statistical distance is the same as it is without restriction, being equal to the angle between the states in Hilbert space.

id: 0906.2070
title: Optimized pulses for the perturbative decoupling of spin and decoherence bath
authors: S. Pasini, P. Karbach, C. Raas, G. S. Uhrig
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures. Published version
journal: Physical Review A 80, 022328 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2070
abstract: In the framework of nuclear magnetic resonance, we consider the general problem of the coherent control of a spin coupled to a bath by means of composite or continuous pulses of duration $\tau_\mathrm{p}$. We show explicity that it is possible to design the pulse in order to achieve a decoupling of the spin from the bath up to the third order in $\tau_\mathrm{p}$. The evolution of the system is separated in the evolution of the spin under the action of the pulse and of the bath times correction terms. We derive the correction terms for a general time dependent axis of rotation and for a general coupling between the spin and the environment. The resulting corrections can be made vanish by an appropriate design of the pulse. For $\pi$ and $\pi/2$ pulses, we demonstrate explicitly that pulses exist which annihilate the first and the second order corrections even if the bath is fully quantum mechanical, i.e., it displays internal dynamics. Such pulses will also be useful for quantum information processing.

id: 0906.2092
title: Scattering in the PT-symmetric Coulomb potential
authors: Geza Levai, Petr Siegl, Miloslav Znojil
comments: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 42 (2009) to appear
journal: 2009 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 295201 (9pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2092
abstract: Scattering on the ${\cal PT}$-symmetric Coulomb potential is studied along a U-shaped trajectory circumventing the origin in the complex $x$ plane from below. This trajectory reflects ${\cal PT}$ symmetry, sets the appropriate boundary conditions for bound states and also allows the restoration of the correct sign of the energy eigenvalues. Scattering states are composed from the two linearly independent solutions valid for non-integer values of the 2L parameter, which would correspond to the angular momentum in the usual Hermitian setting. Transmission and reflection coefficients are written in closed analytic form and it is shown that similarly to other ${\cal PT}$-symmetric scattering systems the latter exhibit handedness effect. Bound-state energies are recovered from the poles of the transmission coefficients.

id: 0906.2101
title: Quantum tomography, phase space observables, and generalized Markov kernels
authors: Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 465303 (18pp) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2101
abstract: We construct a generalized Markov kernel which transforms the observable associated with the homodyne tomography into a covariant phase space observable with a regular kernel state. Illustrative examples are given in the cases of a 'Schrodinger cat' kernel state and the Cahill-Glauber s-parametrized distributions. Also we consider an example of a kernel state when the generalized Markov kernel cannot be constructed.

id: 0906.2114
title: Ultra-high fidelity qubits for quantum computing
authors: Mark G. Raizen, Shou-Pu Wan, Chuanwei Zhang, Qian Niu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2114
abstract: We analyze a system of fermionic $^{6}$Li atoms in an optical trap, and show that an atom "on demand" can be prepared with ultra-high fidelity, exceeding 0.99998. This process can be scaled to many sites in parallel, providing a realistic method to initialize N qubits at ultra-high fidelity for quantum computing. We also show how efficient quantum gate operation can be implemented in this system, and how spatially resolved single-atom detection can be performed.

id: 0906.2123
title: Calculation of Atomic Number States: a Bethe Ansatz Approach
authors: Shou-Pu Wan, Mark G. Raizen, Qian Niu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2123
abstract: We analyze the conditions for producing atomic number states in a one-dimensional optical box using the Bethe ansatz method. This approach provides a general framework, enabling the study of number state production over a wide range of realistic experimental parameters.

id: 0906.2147
title: Non-destructive discrimination of multiparticle cluster states for quantum computation
authors: Sreraman Muralidharan, Sakshi Jain, Sriram Prasath E., Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2147
abstract: Discriminating between orthogonal quantum systems without destroying their entanglement is of interest to quantum computation and communication. In this paper, we explicate the schemes for the non-destructive discrimination (NDD) of 16 orthogonal four qubit cluster states and 32 orthogonal five qubit cluster states respectively. This technique will find its applications in various branches of quantum information theory.

id: 0906.2168
title: Coherent control of long-distance steady state entanglement in lossy resonator arrays
authors: Dimitris G. Angelakis, Li Dai, Leong-Chuan Kwek
comments: Similar to published version. We welcome comments and suggestions
journal: Europhysics Letters, 91 (2010) 10003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2168
abstract: We show that coherent control of the steady-state long-distance entanglement between pairs of cavity-atom systems in an array of lossy and driven coupled resonators is possible. The cavities are doped with atoms and are connected through wave guides, other cavities or fibers depending on the implementation. We find that the steady-state entanglement can be coherently controlled through the tuning of the phase difference between the driving fields. It can also be surprisingly high in spite of the pumps being classical fields. For some implementations where the connecting element can be a fiber, long-distance steady state quantum correlations can be established. Furthermore, the maximal of entanglement for any pair is achieved when their corresponding direct coupling is much smaller than their individual couplings to the third party. This effect is reminiscent of the establishment of coherence between otherwise uncoupled atomic levels using classical coherent fields. We suggest a method to measure this entanglement by analyzing the correlations of the emitted photons from the array and also analyze the above results for a range of values of the system parameters, different network geometries and possible implementation technologies.

id: 0906.2172
title: High Field Phenomena of Qubits
authors: J. van Tol, G.W. Morley, S. Takahashi, D.R. McCamey, C. Boehme, M.E. Zvanut
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. Confererence Proceedings of the 6th Asia-Pacific ESR/EPR Society Conference in Cairns, Australia (2008)
journal: Applied Magnetic Resonance 36, 259-268 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2172
abstract: Electron and nuclear spins are very promising candidates to serve as quantum bits (qubits) for proposed quantum computers, as the spin degrees of freedom are relatively isolated from their surroundings, and can be coherently manipulated e.g. through pulsed EPR and NMR. For solid state spin systems, impurities in crystals based on carbon and silicon in various forms have been suggested as qubits, and very long relaxation rates have been observed in such systems. We have investigated a variety of these systems at high magnetic fields in our multi-frequency pulsed EPR/ENDOR spectrometer. A high magnetic field leads to large electron spin polarizations at helium temperatures giving rise to various phenomena that are of interest with respect to quantum computing. For example, it allows the initialization of the both the electron spin as well as hyperfine-coupled nuclear spins in a well defined state by combining millimeter and RF radiation; it can increase the T2 relaxation times by eliminating decoherence due to dipolar interaction; and it can lead to new mechanisms for the coherent electrical readout of electron spins. We will show some examples of these and other effects in Si:P, SiC:N, and nitrogen-related centers in diamond.

id: 0906.2182
title: Absolute efficiency estimation of photon-number-resolving detectors using twin beams
authors: A. P. Worsley, H. B. Coldenstrodt-Ronge, J. S. Lundeen, P. J. Mosley, B. J. Smith, G. Puentes, N. Thomas-Peter, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, 17, 4397 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2182
abstract: A nonclassical light source is used to demonstrate experimentally the absolute efficiency calibration of a photon-number-resolving detector. The photon-pair detector calibration method developed by Klyshko for single-photon detectors is generalized to take advantage of the higher dynamic range and additional information provided by photon-number-resolving detectors. This enables the use of brighter twin-beam sources including amplified pulse pumped sources, which increases the relevant signal and provides measurement redundancy, making the calibration more robust.

id: 0906.2187
title: Quantum-Bayesian Coherence
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, Ruediger Schack
comments: 62 pages, 3 figures, one special equation with a box around it
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2187
abstract: In a quantum-Bayesian take on quantum mechanics, the Born Rule cannot be interpreted as a rule for setting measurement-outcome probabilities from an objective quantum state. But if not, what is the role of the rule? In this paper, we argue that it should be seen as an empirical addition to Bayesian reasoning itself. Particularly, we show how to view the Born Rule as a normative rule in addition to usual Dutch-book coherence. It is a rule that takes into account how one should assign probabilities to the consequences of various intended measurements on a physical system, but explicitly in terms of prior probabilities for and conditional probabilities consequent upon the imagined outcomes of a special counterfactual reference measurement. This interpretation is seen particularly clearly by representing quantum states in terms of probabilities for the outcomes of a fixed, fiducial symmetric informationally complete (SIC) measurement. We further explore the extent to which the general form of the new normative rule implies the full state-space structure of quantum mechanics. It seems to get quite far.

id: 0906.2233
title: Experimental Entanglement and Nonlocality of a Two-Photon Six-Qubit Cluster State
authors: Raino Ceccarelli, Giuseppe Vallone, Francesco De Martini, Paolo Mataloni, Adan Cabello
comments: 4 pages, revtex, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 160401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2233
abstract: We create a six-qubit linear cluster state by transforming a two-photon hyperentangled state in which three qubits are encoded in each particle, one in the polarization and two in the linear momentum degrees of freedom. For this state, we demonstrate genuine six-qubit entanglement, persistency of entanglement against the loss of qubits, and higher violation than in previous experiments on Bell inequalities of the Mermin type.

id: 0906.2257
title: Generating a Fractal Butterfly Floquet Spectrum in a Class of Driven SU(2) Systems
authors: Jiao Wang, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, relatively large size, a full-length report of the findings in arXiv 0906.2259
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 026204 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2257
abstract: A scheme for generating a fractal butterfly Floquet spectrum, first proposed by Wang and Gong [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 77}, 031405(R) (2008)], is extended to driven SU(2) systems such as a driven two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate. A new class of driven systems without a link with the Harper model context is shown to have an intriguing butterfly Floquet spectrum. The found butterfly spectrum shows remarkable deviations from the known Hosftadter's butterfly. In addition, the level crossings between Floquet states of the same parity and between Floquet states of different parities are studied and highlighted. The results are relevant to studies of fractal statistics, quantum chaos, coherent destruction of tunneling, as well as the validity of mean-field descriptions of Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 0906.2259
title: Butterfly Floquet Spectrum in Driven SU(2) Systems
authors: Jiao Wang, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett., for a full-length report see arXiv 0906.2257
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. Vol. 102, 244102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2259
abstract: The Floquet spectrum of a class of driven SU(2) systems is shown to display a butterfly pattern with multi-fractal properties. The level crossing between Floquet states of the same parity or different parities is studied. The results are relevant to studies of fractal statistics, quantum chaos, coherent destruction of tunneling, and the validity of mean-field descriptions of Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 0906.2265
title: Witness for edge states and its characteristics
authors: Nirman Ganguly, Satyabrata Adhikari
comments: 17 pages, To be published in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 80, 032331 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2265
abstract: Edge states lying at the edge of PPT entangled states have a very intriguing existence and their detection is equally interesting. We present here a new witness for detection of edge states. We then compare between our proposed witness operator and the witness operator proposed in [Physical Review A, 62, 052310 (2000)] in terms of the efficiency in the detection of PPT entangled states. In this regard we show that this operator is finer than the Lewenstein et.al. operator in some restriction. We also discuss about its experimental realization via Gell-Mann matrices.

id: 0906.2272
title: Enhancement of thermal Casimir-Polder potentials of ground-state polar molecules in a planar cavity
authors: Simen A. Ellingsen, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, minor corrections
journal: Physical Review A 80 (2), 022901 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2272
abstract: We analyze the thermal Casimir-Polder potential experienced by a ground-state molecule in a planar cavity and investigate the prospects for using such a set-up for molecular guiding. The resonant atom-field interaction associated with this non-equilibrium situation manifests itself in oscillating, standing-wave components of the potential. While the respective potential wells are normally too shallow to be useful, they may be amplified by a highly reflecting cavity whose width equals a half-integer multiple of a particular molecular transition frequency. We find that with an ideal choice of molecule and the use of ultra-high reflectivity Bragg mirror cavity, it may be possible to boost the potential by up to two orders of magnitude. We analytically derive the scaling of the potential depth as a function of reflectivity and analyze how it varies with temperature and molecular properties. It is also shown how the potential depth decreases for standing waves with a larger number of nodes. Finally, we investigate the lifetime of the molecular ground state in a thermal environment and find that it is not greatly influenced by the cavity and remains in the order of several seconds.

id: 0906.2297
title: Secure Multi-Party Computation with a Dishonest Majority via Quantum Means
authors: Klearchos Loukopoulos, Daniel E. Browne
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, Revised to address referee comments, includes a clearer definition of security model, more secure protocols and improved analysis
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062336 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2297
abstract: We introduce a scheme for secure multi-party computation utilising the quantum correlations of entangled states. First we present a scheme for two-party computation, exploiting the correlations of a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state to provide, with the help of a third party, a near-private computation scheme. We then present a variation of this scheme which is passively secure with threshold t=2, in other words, remaining secure when pairs of players conspire together provided they faithfully follow the protocol. We show that this can be generalised to computations of n-party polynomials of degree 2 with a threshold of n-1. The threshold achieved is significantly higher than the best known classical threshold, which satisfies the bound t<n/2.

id: 0906.2306
title: Three consequences of decompositional consistency
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2306
abstract: Decompositions of the world into systems have typically been regarded as arbitrary extra-theoretical assumptions in discussions of quantum measurement. One can instead regard decompositions as part of the theory, and ask what conditions they must satisfy for self-consistency. It is shown that self-consistent decompositions that specify a measurement context (i.e. von Neumann decompositions) must represent apparatus as containing internal decohering environments and as having known pointer components and ready states. Under these circumstances a von Neumann decomposition can function as a component of the ready state of the observer. Minimal no-collapse quantum mechanics supplemented by these consistency requirements on von Neumann decompositions avoids the measurement problem.

id: 0906.2375
title: Simulated Quantum Computation of Global Minima
authors: Jing Zhu, Zhen Huang, Sabre Kais
comments: 6 figures. Molecular Physics, in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2375
abstract: Finding the optimal solution to a complex optimization problem is of great importance in practically all fields of science, technology, technical design and econometrics. We demonstrate that a modified Grover's quantum algorithm can be applied to real problems of finding a global minimum using modest numbers of quantum bits. Calculations of the global minimum of simple test functions and Lennard-Jones clusters have been carried out on a quantum computer simulator using a modified Grover's algorithm. The number of function evaluations $N$ reduced from O(N) in classical simulation to $O(\sqrt{N})$ in quantum simulation. We also show how the Grover's quantum algorithm can be combined with the classical Pivot method for global optimization to treat larger systems.

id: 0906.2382
title: Testing for a pure state with local operations and classical communication
authors: Michael Nathanson
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. Published version with small revisions and expanded title.
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics vol 51 (2010) 042102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2382
abstract: We examine the problem of using local operations and classical communication (LOCC) to distinguish a known pure state from an unknown (possibly mixed) state, bounding the error probability from above and below. We study the asymptotic rate of detecting multiple copies of the pure state and show that, if the overlap of the two states is great enough, then they can be distinguished asymptotically as well with LOCC as with global measurements; otherwise, the maximal Schmidt coefficient of the pure state is sufficient to determine the asymptotic error rate.

id: 0906.2383
title: Quantum control and entanglement in a chemical compass
authors: Jianming Cai, Gian Giacomo Guerreschi, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures and supplementary material. Accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 104, 220502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2383
abstract: The radical pair mechanism is one of the two main hypotheses to explain the navigability of animals in weak magnetic fields, enabling e.g. birds to see the Earth's magnetic field. It also plays an essential role in the field of spin chemistry. Here, we show how quantum control can be used to either enhance or reduce the performance of such a chemical compass, providing a new route to further study the radical pair mechanism and its applications. We study the role of quantum entanglement in this mechanism, and demonstrate intriguing connections between radical-pair entanglement and the magnetic field sensitivity of the compass. Beyond their immediate application to the radical pair mechanism, these results also demonstrate how state-of-the-art quantum technologies could potentially be used to probe and control biological functions.

id: 0906.2434
title: NMR multiple quantum coherences in quasi-one-dimensional spin systems: Comparison with ideal spin-chain dynamics
authors: Wenxian Zhang, Paola Cappellaro, Natania Antler, Brian Pepper, David G. Cory, Viatcheslav V. Dobrovitski, Chandrasekhar Ramanathan, Lorenza Viola
comments: 14 pages, 11 eps color figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2434
abstract: The 19F spins in a crystal of fluorapatite have often been used to experimentally approximate a one-dimensional spin system. Under suitable multi-pulse control, the nuclear spin dynamics may be modeled to first approximation by a double-quantum one-dimensional Hamiltonian, which is analytically solvable for nearest-neighbor couplings. Here, we use solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance techniques to investigate the multiple quantum coherence dynamics of fluorapatite, with an emphasis on understanding the region of validity for such a simplified picture. Using experimental, numerical, and analytical methods, we explore the effects of long-range intra-chain couplings, cross-chain couplings, as well as couplings to a spin environment, all of which tend to damp the oscillations of the multiple quantum coherence signal at sufficiently long times. Our analysis characterizes the extent to which fluorapatite can faithfully simulate a one-dimensional quantum wire.

id: 0906.2454
title: Classical signal-flow in cluster-state quantum computation
authors: Kazuto Oshima
comments: 4pages, 5figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2454
abstract: We study concretely how classical signals should be processed in quantum cluster-state computation. Deforming corresponding quantum teleportation circuit, we find a simple rule of a classical signal-flow to obtain correct quantum computation results.

id: 0906.2467
title: Non-quantum entanglement resolves a fundamental issue in Polarization optics
authors: B. Neethi Simon, Sudhavathani Simon, F. Gori, Massimo Santarsiero, Riccardo Borghi, N. Mukunda, R. Simon
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2467
abstract: The issue raised in this paper is classical in the sense of being ancient: which subset of 4X4 matrices should be accepted as physical Mueller matrices in polarization optics? Non-quantum entanglement between the polarization and spatial degrees of freedom of an electromagnetic beam is shown to provide the physical basis to resolve this issue in a definitive manner.

id: 0906.2488
title: Weight of quadratic forms and graph states
authors: Alessandro Cosentino, Simone Severini
comments: 8 pages, 3 eps figure, REVTeX; v2: We have extended the introduction, included extra references and added two figures; v3: small typos fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052309 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2488
abstract: We prove a connection between Schmidt-rank and weight of quadratic forms. This provides a new tool for the classification of graph states based on entanglement. Our main tool arises from a reformulation of previously known results concerning the weight of quadratic forms in terms of graph states properties. As a byproduct, we obtain a straightforward characterization of the weight of functions associated with pivot-minor of bipartite graphs.

id: 0906.2508
title: Permutational Quantum Computing
authors: Stephen P. Jordan
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation Vol. 10 pg. 470 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2508
abstract: In topological quantum computation the geometric details of a particle trajectory are irrelevant; only the topology matters. Taking this one step further, we consider a model of computation that disregards even the topology of the particle trajectory, and computes by permuting particles. Whereas topological quantum computation requires anyons, permutational quantum computation can be performed with ordinary spin-1/2 particles, using a variant of the spin-network scheme of Marzuoli and Rasetti. We do not know whether permutational computation is universal. It may represent a new complexity class within BQP. Nevertheless, permutational quantum computers can in polynomial time approximate matrix elements of certain irreducible representations of the symmetric group and simulate certain processes in the Ponzano-Regge spin foam model of quantum gravity. No polynomial time classical algorithms for these problems are known.

id: 0906.2518
title: On Ping-Pong protocol and its variant
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Masakazu Yoshida, Hideki Imai
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2518
abstract: We discuss the Ping-Pong protocol which was proposed by Bostroem and Felbinger. We derive a simple trade-off inequality between distinguishability of messages for Eve and detectability of Eve for legitimate users. Our inequality holds for arbitrary initial states. That is, even if Eve prepares an initial state, she cannot distinguish messages without being detected. We show that the same inequality holds also on another protocol in which Alice and Bob use one-way quantum communication channel twice.

id: 0906.2527
title: Super-Activation of Zero-Error Capacity of Noisy Quantum Channels
authors: Runyao Duan
comments: 11 pages, 2 eps figures. Results in Sec. IV partially overlap with an indepdent work arXiv:0906.2547. See the "Noted Added" para. in Sec. VIII for details
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2527
abstract: We study various super-activation effects in the following zero-error communication scenario: One sender wants to send classical or quantum information through a noisy quantum channel to one receiver with zero probability of error. First we show that there are quantum channels of which a single use is not able to transmit classical information perfectly yet two uses can. This is achieved by employing entangled input states between different uses of the given channel and thus cannot happen for classical channels. Second we exhibit a class of quantum channel with vanishing zero-error classical capacity such that when a noiseless qubit channel or one ebit shared entanglement are available, it can be used to transmit $\log_2 d$ noiseless qubits, where 2d is the dimension of input state space. Third we further construct quantum channels with vanishing zero-error classical capacity when assisted with classical feedback can be used to transmit both classical and quantum information perfectly. These striking findings not only indicate both the zero-error quantum and classical capacities of quantum channels satisfy a strong super-additivity beyond any classical channels, but also highlight the activation power of auxiliary physical resources in zero-error communication.

id: 0906.2534
title: Non-Equilibrium Thermal Entanglement Dynamics of Heisenberg Systems
authors: Fardin Kheirandish, S. Javad Akhtarshenas, Hamidreza Mohammadi
comments: 24 pages, 7 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2534
abstract: The effects of initial conditions and system parameters on entanglement dynamics and asymptotic entanglement for a two-qubit anisotropic XY Heisenberg system in the presence of an inhomogeneous magnetic field and spin-orbit interaction are investigated. We suppose that each qubit interacts with a separate thermal reservoir which is held in its own temperature. The effects of the parameters of the system and environment like spin-orbit interaction and temperature difference of reservoirs are also discussed.

id: 0906.2538
title: Measurement-based quantum phase estimation algorithm for finding eigenvalues of non-unitary matrices
authors: Hefeng Wang, Lian-Ao Wu, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 82, 062303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2538
abstract: We propose a quantum algorithm for finding eigenvalues of non-unitary matrices. We show how to construct, through interactions in a quantum system and projective measurements, a non-Hermitian or non-unitary matrix and obtain its eigenvalues and eigenvectors. This proposal combines ideas of frequent measurement, measured quantum Fourier transform, and quantum state tomography. It provides a generalization of the conventional phase estimation algorithm, which is limited to Hermitian or unitary matrices.

id: 0906.2547
title: Superactivation of the Asymptotic Zero-Error Classical Capacity of a Quantum Channel
authors: Toby S. Cubitt, Jianxin Chen, Aram W. Harrow
comments: 24 pages. Despite the similar title, contains different results from arXiv:0906.2527. See "Note Added" at end of paper for details. V2: Includes significantly revised proof of Theorem 27. V3: Includes expanded explanation of some of the technical details
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th., vol. 57, no. 12, pp. 8114-8126, Dec 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2547
abstract: The zero-error classical capacity of a quantum channel is the asymptotic rate at which it can be used to send classical bits perfectly, so that they can be decoded with zero probability of error. We show that there exist pairs of quantum channels, neither of which individually have any zero-error capacity whatsoever (even if arbitrarily many uses of the channels are available), but such that access to even a single copy of both channels allows classical information to be sent perfectly reliably. In other words, we prove that the zero-error classical capacity can be superactivated. This result is the first example of superactivation of a classical capacity of a quantum channel.

id: 0906.2550
title: Dynamical Casimir effect for TE and TM modes in a resonant cavity bisected by a plasma sheet
authors: Wade Naylor, S. Matsuki, Tomoaki Nishimura, Yoshiaki Kido
comments: 9 pages, 8 figure files; version 2, minor grammatical changes and two references added; version 4 agrees with version in Phys. Rev. A; DOI no. added
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:043835,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2550
abstract: Parametric photon creation via the dynamical Casimir effect (DCE) is evaluated numerically, in a three-dimensional rectangular resonant cavity bisected by a semiconductor diaphragm (SD), which is irradiated by a pulsed laser with frequency of GHz order. The aim of this paper is to determine some of the optimum conditions required to detect DCE photons relevant to a novel experimental detection system. We expand upon the thin plasma sheet model [Crocce et al., Phys. Rev. A 70 033811 (2004)] to estimate the number of photons for both TE and TM modes at any given SD position. Numerical calculations are performed considering up to 51 inter-mode couplings by varying the SD location, driving period and laser power without any perturbations. It is found that the number of photons created for TE modes strongly depends on SD position, where the strongest enhancement occurs at the midpoint (not near the cavity wall); while TM modes have weak dependence on SD position. Another important finding is the fact that significant photon production for TM$_{111}$ modes still takes place at the midpoint even for a low laser power of 0.01 micro J/pulse, although the number of TE$_{111}$ photons decreases almost proportionately with laser power. We also find a relatively wide tuning range for both TE and TM modes that is correlated with the frequency variation of the instantaneous mode functions caused by the interaction between the cavity photons and conduction electrons in the SD excited by a pulsed laser.

id: 0906.2555
title: Two-qubit state sharing between N parties using only Bell pairs and Bell-measurement
authors: Razieh Annabestani, Vahid Karimipour
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2555
abstract: A quantum protocol for sharing an arbitrary two-qubit state between N parties is introduced. Any of the members, can retrieve the state, only with collaboration of the other parties. We will show that in terms of resources, i.e. the number of classical bits, the number of Bell pairs shared, and also the type of measurements, our protocol is more efficient. For achieving this, we introduce the basic technique of secure passing of an unknown two qubit state among a sequence of parties, none of which can retrieve the state without authorization of the sender and the other members of the group.

id: 0906.2572
title: Squeezing of Atomic Quantum Projection Noise
authors: Patrick J. Windpassinger, Daniel Oblak, Ulrich B. Hoff, Anne Louchet, Jurgen Appel, Niels Kjaergaard, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: Submitted to Journal of Modern Optics
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 56, 1993 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2572
abstract: We provide a framework for understanding recent experiments on squeezing of a collective atomic pseudo-spin, induced by a homodyne measurement on off-resonant probe light interrogating the atoms. The detection of light decimates the atomic state distribution and we discuss the conditions under which the resulting reduced quantum fluctuations are metrologically relevant. In particular, we consider a dual probe scheme which benefits from a cancelation of classical common mode noise sources such that quantum fluctuations from light and atoms are the main contributions to the detected signal.

id: 0906.2626
title: Quantum Force Induced on a Partition Wall in a Harmonic Potential
authors: T. Fulop, I. Tsutsui
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures, typos corrected, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2626
abstract: Boundary effects in quantum mechanics are examined by considering a partition wall inserted at the centre of a harmonic oscillator system. We put an equal number of particles on both sides of the impenetrable wall keeping the system under finite temperatures. When the wall admits distinct boundary conditions on the two sides, then a net force is induced on the wall. We study the temperature behaviour of the induced force both analytically and numerically under the combination of the Dirichlet and the Neumann conditions, and determine its scaling property for two statistical cases of the particles: fermions and bosons. We find that the force has a nonvanishing limit at zero temperature T = 0 and exhibits scalings characteristic to the statistics of the particles. We also see that for higher temperatures the force decreases according to 1/sqrt{T}, in sharp contrast to the case of the infinite potential well where it diverges according to sqrt{T}. The results suggest that, if such a nontrivial partition wall can be realized, it may be used as a probe to examine the profile of the potentials and the statistics of the particles involved.

id: 0906.2642
title: Polarization entanglement with GRaded-INdex lenses
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Gaia Donati, Francesco De Martini, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, version 2
journal: Applied Physics Letters 95, 181110 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2642
abstract: By using an optical device based on the integration of a GRaded-INdex (GRIN) rod lens and a single-mode optical fiber we efficiently collected photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion. We show that this system preserves the polarization entanglement of the 2-photon states. Hence this device, characterized by a remarkable easiness of alignment and allowing for high coupling efficiency of single-mode radiation, can be used with photons entangled in various degrees of freedom, such as polarization and spatial momentum, and to interconnect different sides of complex optical circuits.

id: 0906.2662
title: Photon statistics in the macroscopic realm measured without photon-counters
authors: Alessandra Andreoni, Maria Bondani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2662
abstract: In a macroscopic realm, in which photons are too many for being counted by any photon counting detector, photon statistics can be measured by using detectors simply endowed with linear response. We insert one of such detectors in a conventional photon-counting apparatus, which returns a voltage every time the detector responds to light by generating a number of elementary charges via its primary photo-detection process. We only assume that, when a single charge is photo-generated, the probability density of the voltages is a distribution that is narrow with respect to its mean value. Under this hypothesis the output voltages can be suitably binned so that their probability distribution is the same as that of the photo-generated charges, that is, of the detected photons.

id: 0906.2684
title: T-odd correlations in neutron reflectometry experiments
authors: V.K.Ignatovich, Yu.V.Nikitenko
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, presented at the conference ISINN17 Added acknowledgements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2684
abstract: It is shown that transmission amplitudes of magnetic systems with noncollinear magnetization contain T-odd correlations. Relation of these T-odd correlations to T-invariance and detailed balance is discussed.

id: 0906.2686
title: Distributed Quantum Computation Architecture Using Semiconductor Nanophotonics
authors: Rodney Van Meter, Thaddeus D. Ladd, Austin G. Fowler, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 29 pages, 7 figures; v2: heavily revised figures improve architecture presentation, additional detail on physical parameters, a few new references
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 8 (2010) 295-323
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2686
abstract: In a large-scale quantum computer, the cost of communications will dominate the performance and resource requirements, place many severe demands on the technology, and constrain the architecture. Unfortunately, fault-tolerant computers based entirely on photons with probabilistic gates, though equipped with "built-in" communication, have very large resource overheads; likewise, computers with reliable probabilistic gates between photons or quantum memories may lack sufficient communication resources in the presence of realistic optical losses. Here, we consider a compromise architecture, in which semiconductor spin qubits are coupled by bright laser pulses through nanophotonic waveguides and cavities using a combination of frequent probabilistic and sparse determinstic entanglement mechanisms. The large photonic resource requirements incurred by the use of probabilistic gates for quantum communication are mitigated in part by the potential high-speed operation of the semiconductor nanophotonic hardware. The system employs topological cluster-state quantum error correction for achieving fault-tolerance. Our results suggest that such an architecture/technology combination has the potential to scale to a system capable of attacking classically intractable computational problems.

id: 0906.2687
title: New Families of Finite Coherent Orthoalgebras without Bivaluations
authors: Artur Ruuge, Fred Van Oystaeyen
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47 (2006), no. 2, 022108, 32 pp
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2687
abstract: In the present paper we study the following problem: how to construct a coherent orthoalgebra which has only a finite number of elements, but at the same time does not admit a bivaluation (i.e. a morphism with a codomain being an orthoalgebra with just two elements). This problem is important in the perspective of Bell-Kochen-Specker theory, since one can associate such an orthoalgebra to every saturated non-colorable finite configuration of projective lines. The first result obtained in this paper provides a general method for constructing finite orthoalgebras. This method is then applied to obtain a new infinite family of finite coherent orthoalgebras that do not admit bivaluations. The corresponding proof is combinatorial and yields a description of the groups of symmetries for these orthoalgebras.

id: 0906.2690
title: Pulse shaping by coupled-cavities: Single photons and qudits
authors: Chun-Hsu Su, Andrew D. Greentree, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures, minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033811 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2690
abstract: Dynamic coupling of cavities to a quantum network is of major interest to distributed quantum information processing schemes based on cavity quantum electrodynamics. This can be achieved by active tuning a mediating atom-cavity system. In particular, we consider the dynamic coupling between two coupled cavities, each interacting with a two-level atom, realized by tuning one of the atoms. One atom-field system can be controlled to become maximally and minimally coupled with its counterpart, allowing high fidelity excitation confinement, Q-switching and reversible state transport. As an application, we first show that simple tuning can lead to emission of near-Gaussian single-photon pulses that is significantly different from the usual exponential decay in a passive cavity-based system. The influences of cavity loss and atomic spontaneous emission are studied in detailed numerical simulations, showing the practicality of these schemes within the reach of current experimental technology in solid-state environment. We then show that when the technique is employed to an extended coupled-cavity scheme involving a multi-level atom, arbitrary temporal superposition of single photons can be engineered in a deterministic way.

id: 0906.2693
title: Non-bicolourable Finite Configurations of Rays and Their Deformations
authors: Artur Ruuge
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A 39 (2006), no. 10, 2457--2476
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2693
abstract: A new infinite family of examples of finite non-bicolorable configurations of rays in Hilbert space is described. Such configurations appear in the analysis of quantum mechanics in terms of Bell's inequalities and Kochen-Specker theorem and illustrate that there is no measurable space in the background of the probability model of a quantum system. The mentioned examples are naturally parametrized by a positive integer divisible by four and by several complex-valued parameters, whose number depends on this integer. In order to compare two configurations with the same number of rays, a notion of deformation of a configuration is introduced. The constructed examples are then interpreted as obtained by way of deformations.

id: 0906.2696
title: Exceptional and Non-crystallographic Root Systems and the Kochen-Specker Theorem
authors: Artur Ruuge
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A 40 (2007), no. 11, 2849--2859
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2696
abstract: The Kochen-Specker theorem states that a 3-dimensional complex Euclidean space admits a finite configuration of projective lines such that the corresponding quantum observables (the orthogonal projectors) cannot be assigned with 0 and 1 values in a classically consistent way. This paper shows that the irreducible root systems of exceptional and of non-crystallographic types are useful in constructing such configurations in other dimensions. The cases $E_6$ and $E_7$ lead to new examples, while $F_4$, $E_8$, and $H_4$, yield a new interpretation of the known ones. The described configurations have an additional property: they are saturated, i.e. the tuples of mutually orthogonal lines, being partially ordered by inclusion, yield a poset with all maximal elements having the same cardinality (the dimension of space).

id: 0906.2699
title: Quantum repeaters based on atomic ensembles and linear optics
authors: Nicolas Sangouard, Christoph Simon, Hugues de Riedmatten, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 52 pages, 34 figures, comments welcome (references added)
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys; 83, 33 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2699
abstract: The distribution of quantum states over long distances is limited by photon loss. Straightforward amplification as in classical telecommunications is not an option in quantum communication because of the no-cloning theorem. This problem could be overcome by implementing quantum repeater protocols, which create long-distance entanglement from shorter-distance entanglement via entanglement swapping. Such protocols require the capacity to create entanglement in a heralded fashion, to store it in quantum memories, and to swap it. One attractive general strategy for realizing quantum repeaters is based on the use of atomic ensembles as quantum memories, in combination with linear optical techniques and photon counting to perform all required operations. Here we review the theoretical and experimental status quo of this very active field. We compare the potential of different approaches quantitatively, with a focus on the most immediate goal of outperforming the direct transmission of photons.

id: 0906.2700
title: Anthropomorphic Quantum Darwinism as an explanation for Classicality
authors: Thomas Durt
comments: 23 pages; 2 figures, accepted for publication in Foundations of Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2700
abstract: According to the so-called ``Quantum Darwinist'' approach, the emergence of ``classical islands'' from a quantum background is assumed to obey a (selection) principle of maximal information. We illustrate this idea by considering the coupling of two particles that interact through a position-dependent potential. This approach sheds a new light on the emergence of classical logics and of our classical preconceptions about the world. The distinction between internal and external world, the Cartesian prejudice according to which the whole can be reduced to the sum of its parts and the appearance of preferred representation bases such as the position is seen here as the result of a very long evolution and would correspond to the most useful way of extracting stable and useful information from the quantum correlations.

id: 0906.2706
title: Extracavity quantum vacuum radiation from a single qubit
authors: Simone De Liberato, Dario Gerace, Iacopo Carusotto, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 80 (2009) 053810
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2706
abstract: We present a theory of the quantum vacuum radiation that is generated by a fast modulation of the vacuum Rabi frequency of a single two-level system strongly coupled to a single cavity mode. The dissipative dynamics of the Jaynes-Cummings model in the presence of anti-rotating wave terms is described by a generalized master equation including non-Markovian terms. Peculiar spectral properties and significant extracavity quantum vacuum radiation output are predicted for state-of-the-art circuit cavity quantum electrodynamics systems with superconducting qubits.

id: 0906.2718
title: A formal proof of the Born rule from decision-theoretic assumptions
authors: David Wallace
comments: 36 pages. To appear (under the title "How to prove the Born rule") in Saunders, Barrett, Kent and Wallace, "Many Worlds? Everett, Quantum Theory, and Reality" (Oxford University Press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2718
abstract: I develop the decision-theoretic approach to quantum probability, originally proposed by David Deutsch, into a mathematically rigorous proof of the Born rule in (Everett-interpreted) quantum mechanics. I sketch the argument informally, then prove it formally, and lastly consider a number of proposed ``counter-examples'' to show exactly which premises of the argument they violate.

id: 0906.2725
title: An introduction to one-way quantum computing in distributed architectures
authors: Earl T. Campbell, Joseph Fitzsimons
comments: Revised in light of review comments made on quantalk
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information. Volume 8, Number 1-2 (2010) page 219-258
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2725
abstract: This review provides a gentle introduction to one-way quantum computing in distributed architectures. One-way quantum computation shows significant promise as a computational model for distributed systems, particularly those architectures which rely on probabilistic entangling operations. We review the theoretical underpinnings of one-way quantum computation and discuss the practical issues related to exploiting the one-way model in distributed architectures.

id: 0906.2731
title: The power of symmetric extensions for entanglement detection
authors: Miguel Navascues, Masaki Owari, Martin B. Plenio
comments: see Video Abstract at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052306 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2731
abstract: In this paper, we present new progress on the study of the symmetric extension criterion for separability. First, we show that a perturbation of order O(1/N) is sufficient and, in general, necessary to destroy the entanglement of any state admitting an N Bose symmetric extension. On the other hand, the minimum amount of local noise necessary to induce separability on states arising from N Bose symmetric extensions with Positive Partial Transpose (PPT) decreases at least as fast as O(1/N^2). From these results, we derive upper bounds on the time and space complexity of the weak membership problem of separability when attacked via algorithms that search for PPT symmetric extensions. Finally, we show how to estimate the error we incur when we approximate the set of separable states by the set of (PPT) N -extendable quantum states in order to compute the maximum average fidelity in pure state estimation problems, the maximal output purity of quantum channels, and the geometric measure of entanglement.

id: 0906.2735
title: A complete criterion for separability detection
authors: Miguel Navascues, Masaki Owari, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 160404 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2735
abstract: Using new results on the separability properties of bosonic systems, we provide a new complete criterion for separability. This criterion aims at characterizing the set of separable states from the inside by means of a sequence of efficiently solvable semidefinite programs. We apply this method to derive arbitrarily good approximations to the optimal measure-and-prepare strategy in generic state estimation problems. Finally, we report its performance in combination with the criterion developed by Doherty et al. [1] for the calculation of the entanglement robustness of a relevant family of quantum states whose separability properties were unknown.

id: 0906.2743
title: How much quantum noise of amplifiers is detrimental to entanglement
authors: G.S. Agarwal, S. Chaturvedi
comments: Latex, 9 pages, 4 figures,
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2743
abstract: We analyze the effect of the quantum noise of an amplifier on the entanglement properties of an input state. We consider both phase insensitive and phase sensitive amplification and specialize to Gaussian states for which entanglement measures are well developed. In the case of phase insensitive amplification in which both the modes are symmetrically amplified, we find that the entanglement in the output state vanishes if the intensity gain exceeds a limiting value $2/(1+\exp[-E_N])$ where $E_N$ is the logarithmic negativity of the input state which quantifies the initial entanglement between the two modes. The entanglement between the two modes at the output is found to be more robust if only one mode is amplified.

id: 0906.2748
title: Universal quantum computation with a non-Abelian topological memory
authors: James R. Wootton, Ville Lahtinen, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, presented at the 4th workshop on Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography, 2009
journal: LNCS 5906, 56-65 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2748
abstract: An explicit lattice realization of a non-Abelian topological memory is presented. The correspondence between logical and physical states is seen directly by use of the stabilizer formalism. The resilience of the encoded states against errors is studied and compared to that of other memories. A set of non-topological operations are proposed to manipulate the encoded states, resulting in universal quantum computation. This work provides insight into the non-local encoding non-Abelian anyons provide at the microscopical level, with an operational characterization of the memories they provide.

id: 0906.2758
title: The bosonic minimum output entropy conjecture and Lagrangian minimization
authors: S. Lloyd, V. Giovannetti, L. Maccone, N.J. Cerf, S. Guha, R. Garcia-Patron, S. Mitter, S. Pirandola, M.B. Ruskai, J.H. Shapiro, H. Yuan
comments: Here we detail the progress in attacking the minimum output entropy conjecture with an infinitesimal thermalizing map approach. In particular, we give the details on why we could not complete the proof of the conjecture with this strategy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2758
abstract: We introduce a new form for the bosonic channel minimal output entropy conjecture, namely that among states with equal input entropy, the thermal states are the ones that have slightest increase in entropy when sent through a infinitesimal thermalizing channel. We then detail a strategy to prove the conjecture through variational techniques. This would lead to the calculation of the classical capacity of a communication channel subject to thermal noise. Our strategy detects input thermal ensembles as possible solutions for the optimal encoding of the channel, lending support to the conjecture. However, it does not seem to be able to exclude the possibility that other input ensembles can attain the channel capacity.

id: 0906.2762
title: Minimum output entropy of Gaussian channels
authors: S. Lloyd, V. Giovannetti, L. Maccone, S. Pirandola, R. Garcia-Patron
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to incompleteness of proof. The argument is accurate up to in the second minimization (equations (4-5)). At this point, a subtlety of minimization theory arises: the gradients of the constraints in the Lagrange minimization are not linearly independent. Accordingly, although we do indeed find that thermal states minimize the output entropy, the Lagrange theorem no longer guarantees the uniqueness of the solution
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2762
abstract: We show that the minimum output entropy for all single-mode Gaussian channels is additive and is attained for Gaussian inputs. This allows the derivation of the channel capacity for a number of Gaussian channels, including that of the channel with linear loss, thermal noise, and linear amplification.

id: 0906.2801
title: Long-distance entanglement and quantum teleportation in coupled cavity arrays
authors: Salvatore M. Giampaolo, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Communication)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 050301(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2801
abstract: We introduce quantum spin models whose ground states allow for sizeable entanglement between distant spins. We discuss how spin models with global end-to-end entanglement realize quantum teleportation channels with optimal compromise between scalability and resilience to thermal decoherence, and can be implemented straightforwardly in suitably engineered arrays of coupled optical cavities.

id: 0906.2825
title: Quantum scattering theory on graphs with tails
authors: Martin Varbanov, Todd A. Brun
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052330 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2825
abstract: We consider quantum walks on a finite graphs to which infinite tails are attached. We explore how the propagating and bound states depend on the structure of the finite graph. The S-matrix for such graphs is defined. Its unitarity is proved as well as some other of its properties such as its transformation under time reversal. A spectral decomposition of the identity for the Hamiltonian of the graph is derived using its eigenvectors. We derive formulas for the S-matrix of a graph under certain operation such as cutting a tail, attaching a tail or connecting two tails to form an edge.

id: 0906.2843
title: Quasi-Hamiltonian Method for Computation of Decoherence Rates
authors: Robert Joynt, Dong Zhou, Qiang-Hua Wang
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. B 25, 2115 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2843
abstract: For many implementations of quantum computing, 1/f and other types of broad-spectrum noise are an important source of decoherence. An important step forward would be the ability to back out the characteristics of this noise from qubit measurements and to see if it leads to new physical effects. For certain types of qubits, the working point of the qubit can be varied. Using a new mathematical method that is suited to treat all working points, we present theoretical results that show how this degree of freedom can be used to extract noise parameters and to predict a new effect: noise-induced looping on the Bloch sphere. We analyze data on superconducting qubits to show that they are very near the parameter regime where this looping should be observed.

id: 0906.2859
title: Demonstration of Coherent State Discrimination Using a Displacement Controlled Photon Number Resolving Detector
authors: Christoffer Wittmann, Ulrik L. Andersen, Masahiro Takeoka, Denis Sych, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2859
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a new measurement scheme for the discrimination of two coherent states. The measurement scheme is based on a displacement operation followed by a photon number resolving detector, and we show that it outperforms the standard homodyne detector which we, in addition, proof to be optimal within all Gaussian operations including conditional dynamics. We also show that the non-Gaussian detector is superior to the homodyne detector in a continuous variable quantum key distribution scheme.

id: 0906.2927
title: Randomized Dynamical Decoupling Strategies and Improved One-Way Key Rates for Quantum Cryptography
authors: Oliver Kern
comments: PhD thesis, 223 pages, TU Darmstadt; this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2927
abstract: The present thesis deals with various methods of quantum error correction. It is divided into two parts. In the first part, dynamical decoupling methods are considered which have the task of suppressing the influence of residual imperfections in a quantum memory. The suppression is achieved by altering the dynamics of an imperfect quantum memory with the help of a sequence of local unitary operations applied to the qudits. Whereas up to now the operations of such decoupling sequences have been constructed in a deterministic fashion, strategies are developed in this thesis which construct the operations by random selection from a suitable set. Furthermore, it is investigated if and how the discussed decoupling strategies can be employed to protect a quantum computation running on the quantum memory. The second part of the thesis deals with quantum error-correcting codes and protocols for quantum key distribution. The focus is on the BB84 and the 6-state protocol making use of only one-way communication during the error correction and privacy amplification steps. It is shown that by adding additional errors to the preliminary key (a process called noisy preprocessing) followed by the use of a structured block code, higher secure key rates may be obtained. For the BB84 protocol it is shown that iterating the combined preprocessing leads to an even higher gain.

id: 0906.2959
title: Non-quantum entanglement and a complete characterization of pre-Mueller and Mueller matrices in polarization optics
authors: B. Neethi Simon, Sudhavathani Simon, N. Mukunda, F. Gori, Massimo Santarsiero, Riccardo Borghi, R. Simon
comments: 16 pages. Talk presented at the Koli Workhsop on `Partial Electromagnetic Coherence and 3D Polarization'
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2959
abstract: The Mueller-Stokes formalism which governs conventional polarization optics is formulated for plane waves, and thus the only qualification one could demand of a $4\times 4$ real matrix $M$ in order that it qualifies to be the Mueller matrix of some physical system is that $M$ should map $\Omega^{({\rm pol})}$, the positive cone of Stokes vectors, into itself. In view of growing current interest in the characterization of partially coherent partially polarized electromagnetic beams, there is need to extend this formalism to such beams wherein the polarization and spatial dependence are generically inseparably intertwined. This inseparability or non-quantum entanglement brings in additional constraints that a pre-Mueller matrix $M$ mapping $\Omega^{({\rm pol})}$ into itself needs to meet in order that it is an acceptable physical Mueller matrix. These additional constraints are motivated and fully characterized.

id: 0906.2977
title: Entanglement percolation in quantum complex networks
authors: M. Cuquet, J. Calsamiglia
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 240503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2977
abstract: Quantum networks are essential to quantum information distributed applications, and communicating over them is a key challenge. Complex networks have rich and intriguing properties, which are as yet unexplored in the quantum setting. Here, we study the effect of entanglement percolation as a means to establish long-distance entanglement between arbitrary nodes of quantum complex networks. We develop a theory to analytically study random graphs with arbitrary degree distribution and give exact results for some models. Our findings are in good agreement with numerical simulations and show that the proposed quantum strategies enhance the percolation threshold substantially. Simulations also show a clear enhancement in small-world and other real-world networks.

id: 0906.2986
title: Entanglement enhancement for two spins assisted by two phase kicks
authors: Gennadiy Burlak, Isabel Sainz, Andrei B. Klimov
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 024301 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2986
abstract: We study the entanglement dynamics in a two-spin system governed by a bilinear Hamiltonian and assisted by phase kicks. It is found that the application of instant kicks to both spins at some specific moments leads to enhancement of entanglement. This procedure also improves the transient character of entanglement leading, for large spins, to a formation of a plateau for the I-concurrence. We have numerically investigated the spin-spin dynamics for several values of spins and observed a substantial enhancement of entanglement in comparison to the evolution without kicks.

id: 0906.2990
title: Optimum Unambiguous Discrimination of Linearly Independent Pure States
authors: Shengshi Pang, Shengjun Wu
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures and 1 table
journal: Physical Review A 80, 052320 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2990
abstract: Given $n$ linearly independent pure states and their prior probabilities, we study the problem of optimum unambiguous discrimination of these states. We derive the properties of the optimum solution and the equations that must be satisfied by the optimum measurement strategy which achieves the maximum average success probability, and also give the detailed steps to obtain the optimum solution and the optimum measurement strategy. The general method and results we obtain are also illustrated both numerically and geometrically. We derive a simple analytical formula of the maximum average success probability of unambiguous discrimination for a given set of pure states, and it can be used to simplify the calculation of the optimum solution in some situations. We also obtain the analytical solution of a generalized equal-probability measurement problem using the equations we introduce. Finally, as another application of our result, we study the optimum unambiguous discrimination problem of three linearly independent pure states in details and obtain analytical solutions for some special cases.

id: 0906.3002
title: Selective and Efficient Quantum Process Tomography
authors: Ariel Bendersky, Fernando Pastawski, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3002
abstract: In this paper we describe in detail and generalize a method for quantum process tomography that was presented in [A. Bendersky, F. Pastawski, J. P. Paz, Physical Review Letters 100, 190403 (2008)]. The method enables the efficient estimation of any element of the $\chi$--matrix of a quantum process. Such elements are estimated as averages over experimental outcomes with a precision that is fixed by the number of repetitions of the experiment. Resources required to implement it scale polynomically with the number of qubits of the system. The estimation of all diagonal elements of the $\chi$--matrix can be efficiently done without any ancillary qubits. In turn, the estimation of all the off-diagonal elements requires an extra clean qubit. The key ideas of the method, that is based on efficient estimation by random sampling over a set of states forming a 2--design, are described in detail. Efficient methods for preparing and detecting such states are explicitly shown.

id: 0906.3064
title: Quantum Process Estimation via Generic Two-Body Correlations
authors: M. Mohseni, A. T. Rezakhani, J. T. Barreiro, P. G. Kwiat, A. Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3064
abstract: Performance of quantum process estimation is naturally limited to fundamental, random, and systematic imperfections in preparations and measurements. These imperfections may lead to considerable errors in the process reconstruction due to the fact that standard data analysis techniques presume ideal devices. Here, by utilizing generic auxiliary quantum or classical correlations, we provide a framework for estimation of quantum dynamics via a single measurement apparatus. By construction, this approach can be applied to quantum tomography schemes with calibrated faulty state generators and analyzers. Specifically, we present a generalization of "Direct Characterization of Quantum Dynamics" [M. Mohseni and D. A. Lidar, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 170501 (2006)] with an imperfect Bell-state analyzer. We demonstrate that, for several physically relevant noisy preparations and measurements, only classical correlations and small data processing overhead are sufficient to accomplish the full system identification. Furthermore, we provide the optimal input states for which the error amplification due to inversion on the measurement data is minimal.

id: 0906.3094
title: Quantum search algorithms on the hypercube
authors: Birgit Hein, Gregor Tanner
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 085303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3094
abstract: We investigate a set of discrete-time quantum search algorithms on the n-dimensional hypercube following a proposal by Shenvi, Kempe and Whaley. We show that there exists a whole class of quantum search algorithms in the symmetry reduced space which perform a search of a marked vertex in time of order $\sqrt{N}$ where $N = 2^n$, the number of vertices. In analogy to Grover's algorithm, the spatial search is effectively facilitated through a rotation in a two-level sub-space of the full Hilbert space. In the hypercube, these two-level systems are introduced through avoided crossings. We give estimates on the quantum states forming the 2-level sub-spaces at the avoided crossings and derive improved estimates on the search times.

id: 0906.3141
title: Demonstration of a universal one-way quantum quadratic phase gate
authors: Yoshichika Miwa, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 050303(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3141
abstract: We demonstrate a quadratic phase gate for one-way quantum computation in the continuous-variable regime. This canonical gate, together with phase-space displacements and Fourier rotations, completes the set of universal gates for realizing any single-mode Gaussian transformation such as arbitrary squeezing. As opposed to previous implementations of measurement-based squeezers, the current gate is fully controlled by the local oscillator phase of the homodyne detector. Verifying this controllability, we give an experimental demonstration of the principles of one-way quantum computation over continuous variables. Moreover, we can observe sub-shot-noise quadrature variances in the output states, confirming that nonclassical states are created through cluster computation.

id: 0906.3190
title: Tunable ultranarrow linewidth of cavity induced by interacting dark resonances
authors: Y. D. Peng, L. L. Jin, Y. P. Niu, S. Q. Gong
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3190
abstract: A scheme for getting a tunable ultranarrow linewidth of a cavity due to an embedded four-level atomic medium with double-dark resonances is proposed. It is shown that the steep dispersion induced by double-dark resonances in the transparency window leads to the ultranarrow transmission peak. Compared with the case of a single-dark-resonance system, the linewidth can be narrowed even by one order under proper conditions. Furthermore, the position of the ultranarrow peak can be engineered by varying the intensity and detuning of the control field.

id: 0906.3195
title: Time Asymptotics and Entanglement Generation of Clifford Quantum Cellular Automata
authors: Johannes Gtschow, Sonja Uphoff, Reinhard F. Werner, Zoltn Zimbors
comments: published version; edited some proofs (esp. for Lemma 4.9) and corrected typos
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 015203 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3195
abstract: We consider Clifford Quantum Cellular Automata (CQCAs) and their time evolution. CQCAs are an especially simple type of Quantum Cellular Automata, yet they show complex asymptotics and can even be a basic ingredient for universal quantum computation. In this work we study the time evolution of different classes of CQCAs. We distinguish between periodic CQCAs, fractal CQCAs and CQCAs with gliders. We then identify invariant states and study convergence properties of classes of states, like quasifree and stabilizer states. Finally we consider the generation of entanglement analytically and numerically for stabilizer and quasifree states.

id: 0906.3196
title: Correlations in Free Fermionic States
authors: M. Fannes, J. Wouters
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, Volume 42, Issue 46, pp. 465308 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3196
abstract: We study correlations in a bipartite, Fermionic, free state in terms of perturbations induced by one party on the other. In particular, we show that all so conditioned free states can be modelled by an auxiliary Fermionic system and a suitable completely positive map.

id: 0906.3206
title: Tackling the Gross-Pitaevskii energy functional with the Sobolev gradient - Analytical and numerical results
authors: P. Kazemi, M. Eckart
comments: 30 pages, 9 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3206
abstract: In the first part of this contribution we prove the global existence and uniqueness of a trajectory that globally converges to the minimizer of the Gross-Pitaevskii energy functional for a large class of external potentials. Using the method of Sobolev gradients we can provide an explicit construction of this minimizing sequence. In the second part we numerically apply these results to a specific realization of the external potential and illustrate the main benefits of the method of Sobolev gradients, which are high numerical stability and rapid convergence towards the minimizer.

id: 0906.3273
title: Gaussian modeling and Schmidt modes of SPDS biphoton states
authors: M.V. Fedorov, Yu.M. Mikhailova, P.A. Volkov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3273
abstract: A double-Gaussian model and the Schmidt modes are found for the biphoton wave function characterizing spontaneous parametric down-conversion with the degenerate collinear phase-matching of the type I and with a pulsed pump. The obtained results are valid for all durations of the pump pulses, short, long and intermediately long.

id: 0906.3304
title: Scalable simultaneous multi-qubit readout with 99.99% single-shot fidelity
authors: A. H. Burrell, D. J. Szwer, S. C. Webster, D. M. Lucas
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; simulations added to fig.3, with some further text and figure revisions. Main results unchanged.
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 040302(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3304
abstract: We describe single-shot readout of a trapped-ion multi-qubit register using space and time-resolved camera detection. For a single qubit we measure 0.9(3)x10^{-4} readout error in 400us exposure time, limited by the qubit's decay lifetime. For a four-qubit register (a "qunybble") we measure an additional error of only 0.1(1)x10^{-4} per qubit, despite the presence of 4% optical cross-talk between neighbouring qubits. A study of the cross-talk indicates that the method would scale with negligible loss of fidelity to ~10000 qubits at a density <~1 qubit/um^2, with a readout time ~1us/qubit.

id: 0906.3317
title: Parametric self pulsing in a quantum opto-mechanical system
authors: C A Holmes, G J Milburn
comments: Submitted to the special issue of Fortschritte der Physik celebrating Paolo Tombesi's 70th birthday
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3317
abstract: We describe an opto-mechanical system in which the coupling between optical and mechanical degrees of freedom takes the form of a fully quantised third-order parametric interaction. Two physical realisations are proposed: a harmonically trapped atom in a standing wave and the `membrane in the middle' model. The dominant resonant interaction corresponds to a stimulated Raman process in which two phonons are converted into a single cavity photon. We show that this system can exhibit a stable limit cycle in which energy is periodically exchanged between optical and mechanical degrees of freedom. This is equivalently described as a parametric self-pulsing.

id: 0906.3328
title: Mode expansion and Bragg filtering enable a high-fidelity fiber-based photon-pair source
authors: Alexander Ling, Jun Chen, Jingyun Fan, Alan Migdall
comments: Manuscript was edited to provide additional information on the end-tapered photonic crystal fibers and high efficiency volume Bragg gratings. The analysis of the extraction efficiency was also expanded, and experimental uncertainties included where relevant. This paper has been accepted for publication in Optics Express
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3328
abstract: We report the development of a fiber-based single spatial mode source of photon-pairs where the efficiency of extracting photon-pairs is improved over a previous source [18] through the use of fiber-end expansion and Bragg filters. This improvement in efficiency enabled a spectrally bright and pure photon-pair source having a small second-order correlation function (0.03) and a raw spectral brightness of 44,700 pairs/(s nm mW). The source can be configured to generate entangled photon-pairs,characterized via optimal and minimal quantum state tomography, to have a fidelity of 97% and tangle of 92%, without subtracting any background.

id: 0906.3338
title: Expectation Values in Relativistic Coulomb Problems
authors: Sergei K. Suslov
comments: 16 pages, one table, two appendices, no figures; to appear in J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3338
abstract: We evaluate the matrix elements <Or^{p}>, where O ={1, \beta, i\alpha n \beta} are the standard Dirac matrix operators and the angular brackets denote the quantum-mechanical average for the relativistic Coulomb problem, in terms of the generalized hypergeometric functions_{3}F_{2} for all suitable powers. Their connections with the Chebyshev and Hahn polynomials of a discrete variable are emphasized. As a result, we derive two sets of Pasternack-type matrix identities for these integrals, when p->-p-1 and p->-p-3, respectively. Some applications to the theory of hydrogenlike relativistic systems are reviewed.

id: 0906.3355
title: An application of decomposable maps in proving multiplicativity of low dimensional maps
authors: Motohisa Fukuda
comments: 9 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 022201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3355
abstract: In this paper we present a class of maps for which the multiplicativity of the maximal output p-norm holds when p is 2 and p is larger than or equal to 4. The class includes all positive trace-preserving maps from the matrix algebra on the three-dimensional space to that on the two-dimensional.

id: 0906.3366
title: Elimination, reversal, and directional bias of optical diffraction
authors: O. Firstenberg, P. London, M. Shuker, A. Ron, N. Davidson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3366
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the manipulation of optical diffraction, utilizing the atomic thermal motion in a hot vapor medium of electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT). By properly tuning the EIT parameters, the refraction induced by the atomic motion may completely counterbalance the paraxial free-space diffraction and by that eliminates the effect of diffraction for arbitrary images. By further manipulation, the diffraction can be doubled, biased asymmetrically to induced deflection, or even reversed. The latter allows an experimental implementation of an analogy to a negative-index lens.

id: 0906.3387
title: Separability criteria for continuous variable systems
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 8 pages. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 (2009) 012315
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3387
abstract: A general separability condition on the second moment (covariance matrix) for continuous variable two-party systems is derived by an analysis analogous to the derivation of the Kennard's uncertainty relation without referring to the non-negativity of the partially transposed density matrix. This separability criterion is generally more stringent than that used by Simon which is based on the non-negativity of partially transposed density matrix, and thus this criterion may be useful in the analysis of general continuous two-party systems. Another separability criterion used by Duan et al. is shown to be generally weaker than that of Simon. We thus have a hierarchy of separability criteria, but all these criteria when combined with suitable squeezing become equivalent at the boundary of the P-representation condition and thus turned out to be sufficient to analyze the separability of two-party Gaussian systems.

id: 0906.3390
title: Experimental Test of Bell inequalities with Six-Qubit Graph States
authors: Wei-Bo Gao, Xing-Can Yao, Ping Xu, Otfried Ghne, Adn Cabello, Chao-Yang Lu, Tao Yang, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042334 (2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3390
abstract: We report on the experimental realization of two different Bell inequality tests based on six-qubit linear-type and Y-shape graph states. For each of these states, the Bell inequalities tested are optimal in the sense that they provide the maximum violation among all Bell inequalities with stabilizing observables and possess the maximum resistance to noise.

id: 0906.3426
title: Polarization properties of single photons emitted by nitrogen-vacancy defect in diamond at low temperature
authors: F. Kaiser, V. Jacques, A. Batalov, P. Siyushev, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3426
abstract: In this report, the polarization properties of the photoluminescence emitted by single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers in diamond are investigated using resonant excitation at cryogenic temperature. We first underline that the two excited-state orbital branches are associated with two orthogonal transition dipoles. Using selective excitation of one dipole, we then show that the photoluminescence is partially unpolarized owing to fast relaxation between the two orbitals induced by the thermal bath. This result might be important in the context of the realization of indistinguishable single photons using NV defect in diamond.

id: 0906.3440
title: Measuring Measurement: Theory and Practice
authors: A. Feito, J.S. Lundeen, H. Coldenstrodt-Ronge, J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio, I.A. Walmsley
comments: 22 pages, 27 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 093038
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3440
abstract: Recent efforts have applied quantum tomography techniques to the calibration and characterization of complex quantum detectors using minimal assumptions. In this work we provide detail and insight concerning the formalism, the experimental and theoretical challenges and the scope of these tomographical tools. Our focus is on the detection of photons with avalanche photodiodes and photon number resolving detectors and our approach is to fully characterize the quantum operators describing these detectors with a minimal set of well specified assumptions. The formalism is completely general and can be applied to a wide range of detectors

id: 0906.3454
title: Nonclassicality generated by photon annihilation-then-creation and creation-then-annihilation operations
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Jiyong Park, Se-Wan Ji, C.H.Raymond Ooi, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: To be published in Journal of the Optical Society of America B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3454
abstract: We examine nonclassical properties of the field states generated by applying the photon annihilation-then-creation operation (AC) and creation-then-annihilation operation (CA) to the thermal and coherent states. Effects of repeated applications of AC and of CA are also studied. We also discuss experimental schemes to realize AC and CA with a cavity system using atom-field interactions.

id: 0906.3464
title: Recovering part of the quantum boundary from information causality
authors: Jonathan Allcock, Nicolas Brunner, Marcin Pawlowski, Valerio Scarani
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Revised version, minor changes, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 040103(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3464
abstract: Recently, the principle of information causality has appeared as a good candidate for an information-theoretic principle that would single out quantum correlations among more general non-signalling models. Here we present results going in this direction; namely we show that part of the boundary of quantum correlations actually emerges from information causality.

id: 0906.3468
title: Uncollapsing the wavefunction by undoing quantum measurements
authors: Andrew N. Jordan, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: Contemporary Physics, 51,125 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3468
abstract: We review and expand on recent advances in theory and experiments concerning the problem of wavefunction uncollapse: Given an unknown state that has been disturbed by a generalized measurement, restore the state to its initial configuration. We describe how this is probabilistically possible with a subsequent measurement that involves erasing the information extracted about the state in the first measurement. The general theory of abstract measurements is discussed, focusing on quantum information aspects of the problem, in addition to investigating a variety of specific physical situations and explicit measurement strategies. Several systems are considered in detail: the quantum double dot charge qubit measured by a quantum point contact (with and without Hamiltonian dynamics), the superconducting phase qubit monitored by a SQUID detector, and an arbitrary number of entangled charge qubits. Furthermore, uncollapse strategies for the quantum dot electron spin qubit, and the optical polarization qubit are also reviewed. For each of these systems the physics of the continuous measurement process, the strategy required to ideally uncollapse the wavefunction, as well as the statistical features associated with the measurement is discussed. We also summarize the recent experimental realization of two of these systems, the phase qubit and the polarization qubit.

id: 0906.3511
title: Experimental quantum-enhanced estimation of a lossy phase shift
authors: M. Kacprowicz, R. Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, W. Wasilewski, K. Banaszek, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 5 pages
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 357 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3511
abstract: When standard light sources are employed, the precision of the phase determination is limited by the shot noise. Quantum entanglement provides means to exceed this limit with the celebrated example of N00N states that saturate the ultimate Heisenberg limit on precision, but at the same time are extremely fragile to losses. In contrast, we provide experimental evidence that appropriately engineered quantum states outperform both standard and N00N states in the precision of phase estimation when losses are present.

id: 0906.3532
title: Galoisian Approach to Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Primitivo B. Acosta-Humanez
comments: Phd Dissertation, Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3532
abstract: This thesis is concerning to the Differential Galois Theory point of view of the Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics. The main object considered here is the non-relativistic stationary Schr\"odinger equation, specially the integrable cases in the sense of the Picard-Vessiot theory and the main algorithmic tools used here are the Kovacic algorithm and the \emph{algebrization method} to obtain linear differential equations with rational coefficients. We analyze the Darboux transformations, Crum iterations and supersymmetric quantum mechanics with their \emph{algebrized} versions from a Galoisian approach. Applying the algebrization method and the Kovacic's algorithm we obtain the ground state, the set of eigenvalues, eigenfunctions, the differential Galois groups and eigenrings of some Schr\"odinger equation with potentials such as exactly solvable and shape invariant potentials. Finally, we introduce one methodology to find exactly solvable potentials: to construct other potentials, we apply the algebrization algorithm in an inverse way since differential equations with orthogonal polynomials and special functions as solutions.

id: 0906.3537
title: Modulation and Measurement of Time-Energy Entangled Photons
authors: Chinmay Belthangady, Shengwang Du, Chih-Sung Chuu, G.Y. Yin, S.E. Harris
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 031803(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3537
abstract: We describe a proof-of-principal experiment demonstrating a Fourier technique for measuring the shape of biphoton wavepackets. The technique is based on the use of synchronously driven fast modulators and slow (integrating) detectors.

id: 0906.3553
title: Quantum computation via measurements on the low-temperature state of a many-body system
authors: David Jennings, Andrzej Dragan, Sean D. Barrett, Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; v2 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032328 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3553
abstract: We consider measurement-based quantum computation using the state of a spin-lattice system in equilibrium with a thermal bath and free to evolve under its own Hamiltonian. Any single qubit measurements disturb the system from equilibrium and, with adaptive measurements performed at a finite rate, the resulting dynamics reduces the fidelity of the computation. We show that it is possible to describe the loss in fidelity by a single quantum operation on the encoded quantum state that is independent of the measurement history. To achieve this simple description, we choose a particular form of spin-boson coupling to describe the interaction with the environment, and perform measurements periodically at a natural rate determined by the energy gap of the system. We found that an optimal cooling exists, which is a trade-off between keeping the system cool enough that the resource state remains close to the ground state, but also isolated enough that the cooling does not strongly interfere with the dynamics of the computation. For a sufficiently low temperature we obtain a fault-tolerant threshold for the couplings to the environment.

id: 0906.3571
title: The effect of linear terms in a quadratic Hamiltonian
authors: Mark Andrews
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3571
abstract: For a non-relativistic particle subject to a Hamiltonian that is quadratic in position and momentum, with coefficients that may vary with time, it is shown that the effect of the linear terms in the Hamiltonian is just a spatial translation of the wave function and a change in its phase. The shifts in position and phase can be expressed in terms of classical trajectories. This simple effect of the linear terms is related to the fact that all moments about the centroid of the wave function evolve independently of the linear terms.

id: 0906.3576
title: Field Experiment on a Robust Hierarchical Metropolitan Quantum Cryptography Network
authors: Fangxing Xu, Wei Chen, Shuang Wang, Zhenqiang Yin, Yang Zhang, Yun Liu, Zheng Zhou, Yibo Zhao, Hongwei Li, Dong Liu, Zhengfu Han, Guangcan Guo
comments: Reference corrected Abbreviation corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3576
abstract: A hierarchical metropolitan quantum cryptography network upon the inner-city commercial telecom fiber cables is reported in this paper. The seven-user network contains a four-node backbone net with one node acting as the subnet gateway, a two-user subnet and a single-fiber access link, which is realized by the Faraday-Michelson Interferometer set-ups. The techniques of the quantum router, optical switch and trusted relay are assembled here to guarantee the feasibility and expandability of the quantum cryptography network. Five nodes of the network are located in the government departments and the secure keys generated by the quantum key distribution network are utilized to encrypt the instant video, sound, text messages and confidential files transmitting between these bureaus. The whole implementation including the hierarchical quantum cryptographic communication network links and corresponding application software shows a big step toward the practical user-oriented network with high security level.

id: 0906.3582
title: Coulomb blockade double-dot Aharonov-Bohm interferometer: harmonic decomposition of the interference pattern
authors: Feng Li, HuJun Jiao, Hui Wang, JunYan Luo, Xin-Qi Li
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: PhysicaE 41, 521-524, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3582
abstract: For the solid state double-dot interferometer, the phase shifted interference pattern induced by the interplay of inter-dot Coulomb correlation and multiple reflections is analyzed by harmonic decomposition. Unexpected result is uncovered, and is discussed in connection with the which-path detection and electron loss.

id: 0906.3584
title: Stationary solution of a weak-driven open Jaynes-Cummings system of a degenerate two-level atom coupled to an arbitrary-polarized cavity field
authors: Sungsam Kang, Youngwoon Choi, Sooin Lim, Wookrae Kim, Jai-Hyung Lee, Kyungwon An
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3584
abstract: Analytical solution for the stationary density matrix is derived, by using the Morris-Shore transformation, for an open Jaynes-Cummings system of a two-level atom with Zeeman sublevel degeneracy coupled to an arbitrary-polarized cavity mode. In the limit of weak excitation with the number of quantum in the system not exceeding one, we have obtained the stationary solution of the master equation up to the first order of the driving field intensity. We have also derived the analytic expressions for the excitation spectra of atomic spontaneous emission and cavity transmission. Our results show that the system can be regarded as a non-degenerate two-level system with a single effective coupling constant which depends only on the elliptic angle of the driving field as long as the atom-cavity coupling is not too strong. A precise condition for this approximation is derived. This work provides a theoretical ground for experimentally realizing a Jaynes-Cummings system with a coupling constant continuously varied for various cavity quantum electrodynamics studies.

id: 0906.3605
title: Efficient Coherent Control by Optimized Sequences of Pulses of Finite Duration
authors: G?tz S. Uhrig, Stefano Pasini
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: New Journal of Physics 12, 045001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3605
abstract: Reliable long-time storage of arbitrary quantum states is a key element for quantum information processing. In order to dynamically decouple a spin or quantum bit from a dephasing environment, we introduce an optimized sequence of $N$ control pulses of finite durations $\tau\pp$ and finite amplitudes. The properties of this sequence of length $T$ stem from a mathematically rigorous derivation. Corrections occur only in order $T^{N+1}$ and $\tau\pp^3$ without mixed terms such as $T^N\tau\pp$ or $T^N\tau\pp^2$. Based on existing experiments, a concrete setup for the verification of the properties of the advocated realistic sequence is proposed.

id: 0906.3621
title: Micro-mechanical oscillator ground state cooling via intracavity optical atomic excitations
authors: C. Genes, H. Ritsch, D. Vitali
comments: 
journal: Phys Rev A 80 061803(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3621
abstract: We predict ground state cooling of a micro-mechanical oscillator, i.e. a vibrating end-mirror of an optical cavity, by resonant coupling of mirror vibrations to a narrow internal optical transition of an ensemble of two level systems. The particles represented by a collective mesoscopic spin model implement, together with the cavity, an efficient, frequency tailorable zero temperature loss channel which can be turned to a gain channel of pump. As opposed to the case of resolved-sideband cavity cooling requiring a small cavity linewidth, one can work here with low finesses and very small cavity volumes to enhance the light mirror and light atom coupling. The tailored loss and gain channels provide for efficient removal of vibrational quanta and suppress reheating. In a simple physical picture of sideband cooling, the atoms shape the cavity profile to enhance/inhibit scattering into higher/lower energy sidebands. The method should be applicable to other cavity based cooling schemes for atomic and molecular gases as for molecular ensembles coupled to stripline cavities.

id: 0906.3627
title: Approximate analytical solutions of the generalized Woods-Saxon potentials including the spin-orbit coupling term and spin symmetry
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 25 pages
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 8, 665(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3627
abstract: We study the approximate analytical solutions of the Dirac equation for the generalized Woods-Saxon potential with the pseudo-centrifugal term. In the framework of the spin and pseudospin symmetry concept, the approximately analytical bound state energy eigenvalues and the corresponding upper- and lower-spinor components of the two Dirac particles are obtained, in closed form, by means of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method which is based on solving the second-order linear differential equation by reducing it to a generalized equation of hypergeometric type. The special cases $\kappa =\pm 1$ ($l=% \widetilde{l}=0,$ s-wave) and the non-relativistic limit can be reached easily and directly for the generalized and standard Woods-Saxon potentials. Also, the non-relativistic results are compared with the other works.

id: 0906.3655
title: The Veldkamp space of multiple qubits
authors: Pter Vrana, Pter Lvay
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure; added references, corrected typos; minor changes
journal: J.Phys.A43:125303,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3655
abstract: We introduce a point-line incidence geometry in which the commutation relations of the real Pauli group of multiple qubits are fully encoded. Its points are pairs of Pauli operators differing in sign and each line contains three pairwise commuting operators any of which is the product of the other two (up to sign). We study the properties of its Veldkamp space enabling us to identify subsets of operators which are distinguished from the geometric point of view. These are geometric hyperplanes and pairwise intersections thereof. Among the geometric hyperplanes one can find the set of self-dual operators with respect to the Wootters spin-flip operation well-known from studies concerning multiqubit entanglement measures. In the two- and three-qubit cases a class of hyperplanes gives rise to Mermin squares and other generalized quadrangles. In the three-qubit case the hyperplane with points corresponding to the 27 Wootters self-dual operators is just the underlying geometry of the E6(6) symmetric entropy formula describing black holes and strings in five dimensions.

id: 0906.3656
title: The elusive source of quantum effectiveness
authors: Vlatko Vedral
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3656
abstract: We discuss two qualities of quantum systems: various correlations existing between their subsystems and the distingushability of different quantum states. This is then applied to analysing quantum information processing. While quantum correlations, or entanglement, are clearly of paramount importance for efficient pure state manipulations, mixed states present a much richer arena and reveal a more subtle interplay between correlations and distinguishability. The current work explores a number of issues related with identifying the important ingredients needed for quantum information processing. We discuss the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, the Shor algorithm, the Grover algorithm and the power of a single qubit class of algorithms. One section is dedicated to cluster states where entanglement is crucial, but its precise role is highly counter-intuitive. Here we see that distinguishability becomes a more useful concept.

id: 0906.3668
title: Statistical Inference from Imperfect Photon Detection
authors: K.M.R. Audenaert, S. Scheel
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 113052 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3668
abstract: We consider the statistical properties of photon detection with imperfect detectors that exhibit dark counts and less than unit efficiency, in the context of tomographic reconstruction. In this context, the detectors are used to implement certain POVMs that would allow to reconstruct the quantum state or quantum process under consideration. Here we look at the intermediate step of inferring outcome probabilities from measured outcome frequencies, and show how this inference can be performed in a statistically sound way in the presence of detector imperfections. Merging outcome probabilities for different sets of POVMs into a consistent quantum state picture has been treated elsewhere [K.M.R. Audenaert and S. Scheel, New J. Phys. 11, 023028 (2009)]. Single-photon pulsed measurements as well as continuous wave measurements are covered.

id: 0906.3692
title: Inhomogeneous Quantum Walks
authors: Noah Linden, James Sharam
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3692
abstract: We study a natural construction of a general class of inhomogeneous quantum walks (namely walks whose transition probabilities depend on position). Within the class we analyze walks that are periodic in position and show that, depending on the period, such walks can be bounded or unbounded in time; in the latter case we analyze the asymptotic speed. We compare the construction to others in the existing literature. As an example we give a quantum version of a non-irreducible classical walk: the Polya Urn.

id: 0906.3698
title: Entanglement cost in practical scenarios
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Nilanjana Datta
comments: 4+4 pages. See also arXiv:0704.1957; v2: minor typos corrected; v3: final version to appear on PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters 106, 130503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3698
abstract: We quantify the one-shot entanglement cost of an arbitrary bipartite state, that is the minimum number of singlets needed by two distant parties to create a single copy of the state up to a finite accuracy, using local operations and classical communication only. This analysis, in contrast to the traditional one, pertains to scenarios of practical relevance, in which resources are finite and transformations can only be achieved approximately. Moreover, it unveils a fundamental relation between two well-known entanglement measures, namely, the Schmidt number and the entanglement of formation. Using this relation, we are able to recover the usual expression of the entanglement cost as a special case.

id: 0906.3725
title: Sustained Quantum Coherence and Entanglement in the Avian Compass
authors: Erik Gauger, Elisabeth Rieper, John J. L. Morton, Simon C. Benjamin, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, added journal reference
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 040503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3725
abstract: In artificial systems, quantum superposition and entanglement typically decay rapidly unless cryogenic temperatures are used. Could life have evolved to exploit such delicate phenomena? Certain migratory birds have the ability to sense very subtle variations in Earth's magnetic field. Here we apply quantum information theory and the widely accepted "radical pair" model to analyze recent experimental observations of the avian compass. We find that superposition and entanglement are sustained in this living system for at least tens of microseconds, exceeding the durations achieved in the best comparable man-made molecular systems. This conclusion is starkly at variance with the view that life is too "warm and wet" for such quantum phenomena to endure.

id: 0906.3779
title: Atom-ion quantum gate
authors: Hauke Doerk-Bendig, Zbigniew Idziaszek, Tommaso Calarco
comments: 15 pages, submitted to Phys. Rev. A, added references to Section I, corrected typos, improved Section III
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012708 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3779
abstract: We study ultracold collisions of ions with neutral atoms in traps. Recently, ultracold atom-ion systems are becoming available in experimental setups, where their quantum states can be coherently controlled. This allows for an implementation of quantum information processing combining the advantages of charged and neutral particles. The state-dependent dynamics that is a necessary ingredient for quantum computation schemes is provided in this case by the short-range interaction forces depending on hyperfine states of both particles. In this work we develop a theoretical description of spin-state-dependent trapped atom-ion collisions in the framework of a Multichannel Quantum Defect Theory (MQDT) and formulate an effective single channel model that reduces the complexity of the problem. Based on this description we simulate a two-qubit phase gate between a Ba135+ ion and a Rb87 atom using a realistic combination of the singlet and triplet scattering lengths. We optimize and accelerate the gate process with the help of optimal control techniques. Our result is a gate fidelity 0.999 within 350 microseconds.

id: 0906.3787
title: Repetition Versus Noiseless Quantum Codes For Correlated Errors
authors: Carlo Cafaro, Stefano Mancini
comments: few changes, 14 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A374, 2688 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3787
abstract: We study the performance of simple quantum error correcting codes with respect to correlated noise errors characterized by a finite correlation strength. Specifically, we consider bit flip (phase flip) noisy quantum memory channels and use repetition and noiseless quantum codes. We characterize the performance of the codes by means of the entanglement fidelity as function of the error probability and degree of memory. Finally, comparing the entanglement fidelities of repetition and noiseless quantum codes, we find a threshold for the correlation strength that allows to select the code with better performance.

id: 0906.3798
title: On the problem of Eigenschaften in the Quantum and Classical Mechanics
authors: Daniel Sepunaru, Uzi Notev
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3798
abstract: We argue that in contrast to the classical physics, the measurements in the quantum mechanics should provide simultaneous information about all relevant relative amplitudes (pure states and the transitions between them) and all relevant relative phases. Simultaneity is needed since in general the measurement changes the state of the system (in quantum physics and in classical physics as well). We call that measurement procedure the holographic detection. Mathematically it is described by the set of mutually commuting self adjoint operators similar and closely related to projections. We present explicit examples and discuss general features of the corresponding experimental setup which we identify as the quantum reference frame.

id: 0906.3807
title: Highly efficient interfacing of guided plasmons and photons in nanowires
authors: Xue-Wen Chen, Vahid Sandoghdar, Mario Agio
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3807
abstract: Successful exploitations of strongly confined surface plasmon-polaritons critically rely on their efficient and rapid conversion to lossless channels. We demonstrate a simple, robust, and broad-band butt-coupling technique for connecting a metallic nanowire and a dielectric nanofiber. Conversion efficiencies above 95% in the visible and close to 100% in the near infrared can be achieved with realistic parameters. Moreover, by combining butt-coupling with nanofocusing, we propose a broad-band high-throughput near-field optical microscope.

id: 0906.3874
title: Quantum tasks using six qubit cluster states
authors: Jayakrishnan V Menon, Naveen Paul, Siddharth Karumanchi, Sreraman Muralidharan, Prasanta K.Panigrahi
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3874
abstract: The usefulness of the recent experimentally realized six photon cluster state by C. Y. Lu et al. (2007, Nature {3} {91}), is investigated for quantum communication protocols like teleportation, quantum information splitting (QIS), remote state preparation and dense coding. We show that the present state can be used for the teleportation of an arbitrary two qubit state deterministically. Later we devise two distinct protocols for the QIS of an arbitrary two qubit state among two parties and systematically compare their relative merits in terms of classical communication and security. Sixteen orthogonal measurement basis on the cluster state is constructed, which will lock an arbitrary two qubit state among two parties. The usefulness of the state for dense coding is investigated and it is shown that one can send five classical bits by sending only three qubits using this state as a shared entangled resource. We finally show that this state can also be utilised in the remote state preparation of an arbitrary two qubit state.

id: 0906.3938
title: On coherence lengths of wave packets
authors: Kenzo Ishikawa, Yutaka Tobita
comments: 29 pages,5 figures
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 122 (2009), 1111-1136
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3938
abstract: Coherence lengths of one particle states described by quantum wave functions are studied. We show that one particle states in various situations are not described by simple plane waves but are described by wave packets that are superpositions of plane waves. Wave packet is an approximate eigenstate of the free Hamiltonian and has a finite spatial size which we call the coherence length. The coherence lengths in the coordinate space and in the momentum space are studied in the present paper. We investigate several mechanisms of forming wave packets, stabilities of wave packets, and transformations of wave packets.

id: 0906.3985
title: Minimal tomography with entanglement witnesses
authors: Huangjun Zhu, Yong Siah Teo, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 81 (2010) 052339 (8 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3985
abstract: We introduce informationally complete measurements whose outcomes are entanglement witnesses and so answer the question of how many witnesses need to be measured to decide whether an arbitrary state is entangled or not: as many as the dimension of the state space. The optimized witness-based measurement can provide exponential improvement with respect to witness efficiency in high-dimensional Hilbert spaces, at the price of a reduction in the tomographic efficiency. We describe a systematic construction, and illustrate the matter at the example of two qubits.

id: 0906.3989
title: Universal unitary gate for single-photon spinorbit four-dimensional states
authors: Sergei Slussarenko, Ebrahim Karimi, Bruno Piccirillo, Lorenzo Marrucci, Enrico Santamato
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022326 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3989
abstract: The recently demonstrated possibility of entangling opposite values of the orbital angular momentum (OAM) of a photon with its spin enables the realization of nontrivial one-photon spinorbit four-dimensional states for quantum information purposes. Hitherto, however, an optical device able to perform arbitrary unitary transformations on such spinorbit photon states has not been proposed yet. In this work we show how to realize such a ``universal unitary gate'' device, based only on existing optical technology, and describe its operation. Besides the quantum information field, the proposed device may find applications wherever an efficient and convenient manipulation of the combined OAM and spin of light is required.

id: 0906.4005
title: Dynamics of Entanglement and `Attractor' states in The Tavis-Cummings Model
authors: C. E. A. Jarvis, D. A. Rodrigues, B. L. Gy?rffy, T. P. Spiller, A. J. Short, J. F. Annett
comments: 37 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4005
abstract: We study the time evolution of $N_q$ two-level atoms (or qubits) interacting with a single mode of the quantised radiation field. In the case of two qubits, we show that for a set of initial conditions the reduced density matrix of the atomic system approaches that of a pure state at $\sfrac{t_r}{4}$, halfway between that start of the collapse and the first mini revival peak, where $t_r$ is the time of the main revival. The pure state approached is the same for a set of initial conditions and is thus termed an `attractor state'. The set itself is termed the basin of attraction and the features are at the center of our attention. Extending to more qubits, we find that attractors are a generic feature of the multi qubit Jaynes Cummings model (JCM) and we therefore generalise the discovery by Gea-Banacloche for the one qubit case. We give the `basin of attraction' for $N_q$ qubits and discuss the implications of the `attractor' state in terms of the dynamics of $N_q$-body entanglement. We observe both collapse and revival and sudden birth/death of entanglement depending on the initial conditions.

id: 0906.4071
title: Extra phase noise from thermal fluctuations in nonlinear optical crystals
authors: J. E. S. Cesar, A. S. Coelho, K. N. Cassemiro, A. S. Villar, M. Lassen, P. Nussenzveig, M. Martinelli
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 063816 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4071
abstract: We show theoretically and experimentally that scattered light by thermal phonons inside a second-order nonlinear crystal is the source of additional phase noise observed in Optical Parametric Oscillators. This additional phase noise reduces the quantum correlations and has hitherto hindered the direct production of multipartite entanglement in a single nonlinear optical system. We cooled the nonlinear crystal and observed a reduction of the extra noise. Our treatment of this noise can be successfully applied to different systems in the literature.

id: 0906.4133
title: Optimal waveform estimation for classical and quantum systems via time-symmetric smoothing
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, v2: changed the title to a more descriptive one, corrected a minor mistake in Sec. IV, accepted by Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 80, 033840 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4133
abstract: Classical and quantum theories of time-symmetric smoothing, which can be used to optimally estimate waveforms in classical and quantum systems, are derived using a discrete-time approach, and the similarities between the two theories are emphasized. Application of the quantum theory to homodyne phase-locked loop design for phase estimation with narrowband squeezed optical beams is studied. The relation between the proposed theory and Aharonov et al.'s weak value theory is also explored.

id: 0906.4143
title: Dynamics of a bistable Mott insulator to superfluid phase transition in cavity optomechanics
authors: K. Zhang, W. Chen, P. Meystre
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Communications Volume 283, Issue 5, 1 March 2010, Pages 665-670
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4143
abstract: We study the dynamics of the many-body state of ultracold bosons trapped in a bistable optical lattice in an optomechanical resonator controlled by a time-dependent input field. We focus on the dynamics of the many-body system following discontinuous jumps of the intracavity field. We identify experimentally realizable parameters for the bistable quantum phase transition between Mott insulator and superfluid.

id: 0906.4146
title: The Second Law of Thermodynamics and Quantum Feedback Control: Maxwell's Demon with Weak Measurements
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, revtex4; v2 ambiguous text in the abstract clarified, small improvements to the presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012322 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4146
abstract: Recently Sagawa and Ueda [Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 080403 (2008)] derived a bound on the work that can be extracted from a quantum system with the use of feedback control. They left open the question of whether this bound could be achieved for every measurement that could be made by the controller. We show that it can, and that this follows straightforwardly from recent work on Maxwell's demon by Alicki et al. [Open Syst. Inform. Dynam. 11, 205 (2004)], for both discrete and continuous feedback control. Our analysis also shows that bare, efficient measurements always do non-negative work on a system in equilibrium, but do not add heat.

id: 0906.4147
title: Spin and Madelung fluid
authors: G. Salesi
comments: 
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A11, 1815 (1996)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4147
abstract: Starting from the Pauli current we obtain the decomposition of the non-relativistic local velocity in two parts: one parallel and the other orthogonal to the momentum. The former is recognized to be the ``classical'' part, that is the velocity of the center-of-mass, and the latter the ``quantum'' one, that is the velocity of the motion in the center-of-mass frame (namely, the internal ``spin motion'' or {\em Zitterbewegung}). Inserting the complete expression of the velocity into the kinetic energy term of the classical non-relativistic (i.e., Newtonian) Lagrangian, we straightforwardly derive the so-called ``quantum potential'' associated to the Madelung fluid. In such a way, the quantum mechanical behaviour of particles appears to be strictly correlated to the existence of spin and Zitterbewegung.

id: 0906.4158
title: Ultracold Fermions in a Graphene-Type Optical Lattice
authors: Kean Loon Lee, Benoit Gremaud, Rui Han, Berthold-Georg Englert, Christian Miniatura
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 043411 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4158
abstract: Some important features of the graphene physics can be reproduced by loading ultracold fermionic atoms in a two-dimensional optical lattice with honeycomb symmetry and we address here its experimental feasibility. We analyze in great details the optical lattice generated by the coherent superposition of three coplanar running laser waves with respective angles $2\pi/3$. The corresponding band structure displays Dirac cones located at the corners of the Brillouin zone and close to half-filling this system is well described by massless Dirac fermions. We characterize their properties by accurately deriving the nearest-neighbor hopping parameter $t_0$ as a function of the optical lattice parameters. Our semi-classical instanton method proves in excellent agreement with an exact numerical diagonalization of the full Hamilton operator in the tight-binding regime. We conclude that the temperature range needed to access the Dirac fermions regime is within experimental reach. We also analyze imperfections in the laser configuration as they lead to optical lattice distortions which affect the Dirac fermions. We show that the Dirac cones do survive up to some critical intensity or angle mismatches which are easily controlled in actual experiments. In the tight-binding regime, we predict, and numerically confirm, that these critical mismatches are inversely proportional to the square-root of the optical potential strength. We also briefly discuss the interesting possibility of fine-tuning the mass of the Dirac fermions by controlling the laser phase in an optical lattice generated by the incoherent superposition of three coplanar independent standing waves with respective angles $2\pi/3$.

id: 0906.4187
title: Tractable measure of nonclassical correlation using density matrix truncations
authors: Akira SaiToh, Robabeh Rahimi, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, v2: minor revision, a figure replaced, v3: minor revision, an inseparable state for which M vanishes was corrected, more accurate complexity was given, v4: minor revision, counterexamples to additivity properties were given, v5: minor revision, definition of M and discussions improved, v6: major revision with an improved definition of M, to appear in QIP
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 10, 431-447 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4187
abstract: In the context of the Oppenheim-Horodecki paradigm of nonclassical correlation, a bipartite quantum state is (properly) classically correlated if and only if it is represented by a density matrix having a product eigenbasis. On the basis of this paradigm, we propose a measure of nonclassical correlation by using truncations of a density matrix down to individual eigenspaces. It is computable within polynomial time in the dimension of the Hilbert space albeit imperfect in the detection range. This is in contrast to the measures conventionally used for the paradigm. The computational complexity and mathematical properties of the proposed measure are investigated in detail and the physical picture of its definition is discussed.

id: 0906.4261
title: Unitary-circuit semantics for measurement-based computations
authors: Niel de Beaudrap
comments: 92 pages, 14 figures, 2 appendices. This article consists of a more general, more concisely written presentation of the main result of Chapter 3 of [arXiv:0812.2869]. (This version: improved introduction and bibliographical references, slight improvement of analysis.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4261
abstract: One-way measurement based quantum computations (1WQC) may describe unitary transformations, via a composition of CPTP maps which are not all unitary themselves. This motivates the following decision problems: Is it possible to determine whether a ``quantum-to-quantum'' 1WQC procedure (having non-trivial input and output subsystems) performs a unitary transformation? Is it possible to describe precisely how such computations transform quantum states, by translation to a quantum circuit of comparable complexity? In this article, we present an efficient algorithm for transforming certain families of measurement-based computations into a reasonable unitary circuit model, in particular without employing the principle of deferred measurement.

id: 0906.4288
title: Complex WKB Evolution of Markovian Open Systems
authors: O. Brodier, A. M. Ozorio de Almeida
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4288
abstract: We derive a semiclassical approximation for the evolution generated by the Lindblad equation as a generalization of complex WKB theory. Linear coupling to the environment is assumed, but the Hamiltonian can be a general function of positions and momenta. The theory is carried out in the chord representation and describes the evolved quantum characteristic function, which gives direct access to the Wigner function and the position representation of the density operator by Fourier transforms. The propagation is shown to be of Liouville type in a complex double phase space, the imaginary part of the action being responsible for decoherence. The theory is exact in the quadratic case, just as the real WKB theory that we previously developed for the Markovian evolution of extended states, but it also describes the decoherent and dissipative evolution of localized states, such as the interference terms of a Schr\"odinger cat state. The present rederivation of the real WKB approximation leads to its interpretation as a first order classical perturbation of the complex theory and to a discussion of its validity. The example of a simple cubic Hamiltonian illustrates the various levels of approximation derived from the complex WKB theory.

id: 0906.4323
title: Secure quantum conversation through non-destructive discrimination of highly entangled multipartite states
authors: Sakshi Jain, Sreraman Muralidharan, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4323
abstract: "Quantum conversation" is a way in which two parties can communicate classical information with each other using entanglement as a shared resource. We present this scheme using a multipartite entangled state after describing its generation through appropriate circuit diagrams. We make use of a discrimination scheme which allows one to perform a measurement on the system without destroying its entanglement. We later prove that this scheme is secure in a noiseless and a lossless quantum channel.

id: 0906.4344
title: What is a quantum computer, and how do we build one?
authors: Carlos A. Perez-Delgado, Pieter Kok
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4344
abstract: The DiVincenzo criteria for implementing a quantum computer have been seminal in focussing both experimental and theoretical research in quantum information processing. These criteria were formulated specifically for the circuit model of quantum computing. However, several new models for quantum computing (paradigms) have been proposed that do not seem to fit the criteria well. The question is therefore what are the general criteria for implementing quantum computers. To this end, a formal operational definition of a quantum computer is introduced. It is then shown that according to this definition a device is a quantum computer if it obeys the following four criteria: Any quantum computer must (1) have a quantum memory; (2) facilitate a controlled quantum evolution of the quantum memory; (3) include a method for cooling the quantum memory; and (4) provide a readout mechanism for subsets of the quantum memory. The criteria are met when the device is scalable and operates fault-tolerantly. We discuss various existing quantum computing paradigms, and how they fit within this framework. Finally, we lay out a roadmap for selecting an avenue towards building a quantum computer. This is summarized in a decision tree intended to help experimentalists determine the most natural paradigm given a particular physical implementation.

id: 0906.4388
title: Non-classical photon streams using rephased amplified spontaneous emission
authors: Patrick M. Ledingham, William R. Naylor, Jevon J. Longdell, Sarah E. Beavan, Matthew J. Sellars
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Added sections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4388
abstract: We present a fully quantum mechanical treatment of optically rephased photon echoes. These echoes exhibit noise due to amplified spontaneous emission, however this noise can be seen as a consequence of the entanglement between the atoms and the output light. With a rephasing pulse one can get an "echo" of the amplified spontaneous emission, leading to light with nonclassical correlations at points separated in time, which is of interest in the context of building wide bandwidth quantum repeaters. We also suggest a wideband version of DLCZ protocol based on the same ideas.

id: 0906.4390
title: Dark Periods in Rabi Oscillations of Superconducting Phase Qubit Coupled to a Microscopic Two-Level System
authors: Xueda Wen, Shi-Liang Zhu, Yang Yu
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 094507 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4390
abstract: We proposed a scheme to demonstrate macroscopic quantum jumps in a superconducting phase qubit coupled to a microscopic two-level system in the Josephson tunnel junction. Irradiated with suitable microwaves, the Rabi oscillations of the qubit exhibit signatures of quantum jumps: a random telegraph signal with long intervals of intense macroscopic quantum tunneling events (bright periods) interrupted by the complete absence of tunneling events (dark periods). An analytical model was developed to describe the width of the dark periods quantitatively. The numerical simulations indicate that our analytical model captured underlying physics of the system. Besides calibrating the quality of the microscopic two-level system, our results have significance in quantum information process since dark periods in Rabi oscillations are also responsible for errors in quantum computing with superconducting qubits.

id: 0906.4417
title: Population Dynamics in Cold Gases Resulting from the Long-Range Dipole-Dipole Interaction
authors: A. Mandilara, V. M. Akulin, P. Pillet
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4417
abstract: We consider the effect of the long range dipole-dipole interaction on the excitation exchange dynamics of cold two-level atomic gase in the conditions where the size of the atomic cloud is large as compared to the wavelength of the dipole transition. We show that this interaction results in population redistribution across the atomic cloud and in specific spectra of the spontaneous photons emitted at different angles with respect to the direction of atomic polarization.

id: 0906.4420
title: A Gauss Elimination Method for Resonances
authors: John P.Killingbeck, Alain Grosjean
comments: 6 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4420
abstract: A Gaussian elimination form of inverse iteration within the complex coordinate approach is shown to produce a simple uniform method of finding both real bound state energies and complex resonant state energies for several problems which have been treated by a variety of methods in the literature. The energy shift method for expectation values is shown to be a useful diagnostic tool.

id: 0906.4425
title: On the power of a unique quantum witness
authors: Rahul Jain, Iordanis Kerenidis, Greg Kuperberg, Miklos Santha, Or Sattath, Shengyu Zhang
comments: The results in version 2 are mostly unchanged from version 1 by Jain, Kerenidis, Santha and Zhang. Some of this work was done independently by Sattath and Kuperberg and hence version 2 includes all authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4425
abstract: In a celebrated paper, Valiant and Vazirani raised the question of whether the difficulty of NP-complete problems was due to the wide variation of the number of witnesses of their instances. They gave a strong negative answer by showing that distinguishing between instances having zero or one witnesses is as hard as recognizing NP, under randomized reductions. We consider the same question in the quantum setting and investigate the possibility of reducing quantum witnesses in the context of the complexity class QMA, the quantum analogue of NP. The natural way to quantify the number of quantum witnesses is the dimension of the witness subspace W in some appropriate Hilbert space H. We present an efficient deterministic procedure that reduces any problem where the dimension d of W is bounded by a polynomial to a problem with a unique quantum witness. The main idea of our reduction is to consider the Alternating subspace of the d-th tensor power of H. Indeed, the intersection of this subspace with the d-th tensor power of W is one-dimensional, and therefore can play the role of the unique quantum witness.

id: 0906.4444
title: Topological Quantum Computing with p-Wave Superfluid Vortices
authors: Tetsuo Ohmi, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Two-qubit gate implementation is added.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4444
abstract: It is shown that Majorana fermions trapped in three vortices in a p-wave superfluid form a qubit in a topological quantum computing (TQC). Several similar ideas have already been proposed: Ivanov [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 86}, 268 (2001)] and Zhang {\it et al.} [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 99}, 220502 (2007)] have proposed schemes in which a qubit is implemented with two and four Majorana fermions, respectively, where a qubit operation is performed by exchanging the positions of Majorana fermions. The set of gates thus obtained is a discrete subset of the relevant unitary group. We propose, in this paper, a new scheme, where three Majorana fermions form a qubit. We show that continuous 1-qubit gate operations are possible by exchanging the positions of Majorana fermions complemented with dynamical phase change. 2-qubit gates are realized through the use of the coupling between Majorana fermions of different qubits.

id: 0906.4453
title: General conditions for a quantum adiabatic evolution
authors: Daniel Comparat
comments: Physical Review A to be published (7 pages)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4453
abstract: Adiabaticity occurs when, during its evolution, a physical system remains in the instantaneous eigenstate of the hamiltonian. Unfortunately, existing results, such as the quantum adiabatic theorem based on a slow down evolution (H(epsilon t), epsilon ? 0), are insufficient to describe an evolution driven by the hamiltonian H(t) itself. Here we derive general criteria and exact bounds, for the state and its phase, ensuring an adiabatic evolution for any hamiltonian H(t). As a corollary we demonstrate that the commonly used condition of a slow hamiltonian variation rate, compared to the spectral gap, is indeed sufficient to ensure adiabaticity but only when the hamiltonian is real and non oscillating (for instance containing exponential or polynomial but no sinusoidal functions).

id: 0906.4463
title: Optimal Measurement on Noisy Quantum Systems
authors: Yu Watanabe, Takahiro Sagawa, Masahito Ueda
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 020401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4463
abstract: We identify the optimal measurement for obtaining information about the original quantum state after the state to be measured has undergone partial decoherence due to noise. We quantify the information that can be obtained by the measurement in terms of the Fisher information and find its value for the optimal measurement. We apply our results to a quantum control scheme based on a spin-boson model.

id: 0906.4465
title: Macroscopic realism and spatiotemporal continuity
authors: Johannes Kofler, Nikola Buric, Caslav Brukner
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4465
abstract: Macroscopic realism, as introduced by Leggett and Garg, is the world view in which properties of macroscopic systems exist independent of and are not influenced by measurement. Motivated by classical physical laws such as Newtonian mechanics or Maxwell's electrodynamics, in this work we add the restrictive postulate that the observables of macroscopic objects are evolved continuously through space and time. Quantum theory violates both macroscopic realism and the continuity assumption. While decoherence or collapse models (e.g. due to a universal noise background or gravitational self energy) can restore macroscopic realism, we show that a continuous spatiotemporal description does not become possible in general. This shines new light on the question how the classical world arises out of the quantum realm.

id: 0906.4516
title: Notes on the Qubit Phase Space and Discrete Symplectic Structures
authors: Etera R. Livine
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4516
abstract: We start from Wootter's construction of discrete phase spaces and Wigner functions for qubits and more generally for finite dimensional Hilbert spaces. We look at this framework from a non-commutative space perspective and we focus on the Moyal product and the differential calculus on the discrete phase spaces. In particular, the qubit phase space provides the simplest example of a four-point non-commutative phase space. We give an explicit expression of the Moyal bracket as a differential operator. We then compare the quantum dynamics encoded by the Moyal bracket to the classical dynamics: we show that the classical Poisson bracket does not satisfy the Jacobi identity thus leaving the Moyal bracket as the only consistent symplectic structure. We finally generalizes our analysis to Hilbert spaces of prime dimensions d and their associated d*d phase spaces.

id: 0906.4528
title: Hybrid photonic entanglement: Realization, characterization and applications
authors: Leonardo Neves, Gustavo Lima, Aldo Delgado, Carlos Saavedra
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042322 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4528
abstract: We show that the quantum disentanglement eraser implemented on a two-photon system from parametric down-conversion is a general method to create hybrid photonic entanglement, namely the entanglement between different degrees of freedom of the photon pair. To demonstrate this, we generate and characterize a source with tunable degree of hybrid entanglement between two qubits, one encoded in the transverse momentum and position of a photon, and the other in the polarization of its partner. In addition, we show that a simple extension of our setup enables the generation of two-photon qubit-qudit hybrid entangled states. Finally, we discuss the advantages that this type of entanglement can bring for an optical quantum network.

id: 0906.4533
title: The Optimal Control Landscape for the Generation of Unitary Transformations with Constrained Dynamics
authors: Michael Hsieh, Rebing Wu, Herschel Rabitz, Daniel Lidar
comments: Submitted to Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062352 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4533
abstract: The reliable and precise generation of quantum unitary transformations is essential to the realization of a number of fundamental objectives, such as quantum control and quantum information processing. Prior work has explored the optimal control problem of generating such unitary transformations as a surface optimization problem over the quantum control landscape, defined as a metric for realizing a desired unitary transformation as a function of the control variables. It was found that under the assumption of non-dissipative and controllable dynamics, the landscape topology is trap-free, implying that any reasonable optimization heuristic should be able to identify globally optimal solutions. The present work is a control landscape analysis incorporating specific constraints in the Hamiltonian corresponding to certain dynamical symmetries in the underlying physical system. It is found that the presence of such symmetries does not destroy the trap-free topology. These findings expand the class of quantum dynamical systems on which control problems are intrinsically amenable to solution by optimal control.

id: 0906.4534
title: A quasi-free position-dependent-mass jump and self-scattering correspondence
authors: Omar Mustafa, S.Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 82 (2010) 065013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4534
abstract: A quasi-free quantum particle endowed with Heaviside position dependent mass jump is observed to experience scattering effects manifested by its by-product introduction of the derivative of the Dirac's-delta point dipole interaction. Using proper parametric mappings, the reflection and transmission coefficients are obtained. A new ordering ambiguity parameters set, as the only feasibly admissible within the current methodical proposal, is suggested.

id: 0906.4544
title: Decoherence without decoherence
authors: Steven Weinstein
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4544
abstract: It has been claimed that decoherence of open quantum systems explains the tendency of macroscopic systems to exhibit quasiclassical behavior. We show that quasiclassicality is in fact an unremarkable property, characterizing generic subsystems of environments even in the absence of dynamical decoherence. It is suggested that decoherence is best regarded as explaining the persistence of true classicality, rather than the emergence, rather than the emergence of quasiclassicality.

id: 0906.4547
title: The black paper of quantum cryptography: real implementation problems
authors: Valerio Scarani, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: Small changes and clarifications. This paper still describes the situation of QKD in June 2009, when its first version was sent out; we have mentioned a few developments in a Note added in proof. Accepted in a special issue of "Theoretical Computer Science" (T. Mor and R. Renner, editors)
journal: Theoretical Computer Science 560, pp 27-32 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4547
abstract: The laws of physics play a crucial role in the security of quantum key distribution (QKD). This fact has often been misunderstood as if the security of QKD would be based only on the laws of physics. As the experts know well, things are more subtle. We review the progresses in practical QKD focusing on (I) the elements of trust that are common to classical and quantum implementations of key distribution; and (II) some threats to security that have been highlighted recently, none of which is unredeemable (i.e., in principle QKD can be made secure). This leads us to guess that the field, similar to non-quantum modern cryptography, is going to split in two directions: those who pursue practical devices may have to moderate their security claims; those who pursue ultimate security may have to suspend their claims of usefulness.

id: 0906.4563
title: On the Application of a Monolithic Array for Detecting Intensity-Correlated Photons Emitted by Different Source Types
authors: D. L. Boiko, N. J. Gunther, N. Brauer, M. Sergio, C. Niclass, G. B. Beretta, E. Charbon
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Express 17 (2009) 15087--15103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4563
abstract: It is not widely appreciated that many subtleties are involved in the accurate measurement of intensity-correlated photons; even for the original experiments of Hanbury Brown and Twiss (HBT). Using a monolithic 4x4 array of single-photon avalanche diodes (SPADs), together with an off-chip algorithm for processing streaming data, we investigate the difficulties of measuring second-order photon correlations g2 in a wide variety of light fields that exhibit dramatically different correlation statistics: a multimode He-Ne laser, an incoherent intensity-modulated lamp-light source and a thermal light source. Our off-chip algorithm treats multiple photon-arrivals at pixel-array pairs, in any observation interval, with photon fluxes limited by detector saturation, in such a way that a correctly normalized g2 function is guaranteed. The impact of detector background correlations between SPAD pixels and afterpulsing effects on second-order coherence measurements is discussed. These results demonstrate that our monolithic SPAD array enables access to effects that are otherwise impossible to measure with stand-alone detectors.

id: 0906.4578
title: Non-Abelian anyonic interferometry with a multi-photon spin lattice simulator
authors: D. W. Berry, M. Aguado, A. Gilchrist, G.K. Brennen
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. Several references added in v2
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 053011 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4578
abstract: Recently a pair of experiments demonstrated a simulation of Abelian anyons in a spin network of single photons. The experiments were based on an Abelian discrete gauge theory spin lattice model of Kitaev. Here we describe how to use linear optics and single photons to simulate non-Abelian anyons. The scheme makes use of joint qutrit-qubit encoding of the spins and the resources required are three pairs of parametric down converted photons and 14 beam splitters.

id: 0906.4586
title: Hoare Logic for Quantum Programs
authors: Mingsheng Ying
comments: 50 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4586
abstract: Hoare logic is a foundation of axiomatic semantics of classical programs and it provides effective proof techniques for reasoning about correctness of classical programs. To offer similar techniques for quantum program verification and to build a logical foundation of programming methodology for quantum computers, we develop a full-fledged Hoare logic for both partial and total correctness of quantum programs. It is proved that this logic is (relatively) complete by exploiting the power of weakest preconditions and weakest liberal preconditions for quantum programs.

id: 0906.4598
title: Implementation of local and high-fidelity quantum conditional phase gates in a scalable two-dimensional ion trap
authors: Ping Zou, Jian Xu, Wei song, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4598
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement high-fidelity conditional phase gates on pair of trapped ions immersed in a two-dimensional Coulomb crystal, using interaction mediated by all axial modes without side-band addressing. We show through numerical calculations that only local modes can be excited to achieve entangling gates through shaping the laser beams, so that the complexity of the quantum gate does not increase with the size of the system. These results suggest a promising approach for realization of large scale fault-tolerant quantum computation in two dimensional traps architecture.

id: 0906.4620
title: Landau-Zener Interference in Multilevel Superconducting Flux Qubits Driven by Large Amplitude Fields
authors: Xueda Wen, Yang Yu
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 094529 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4620
abstract: We proposed an analytical model to analyze the Landau-Zener interference in a multilevel superconducting flux qubit driven by large amplitude external fields. Our analytical results agree remarkably with those of the experiment [Nature 455, 51 (2008)]. Moreover, we studied the effect of driving-frequency and dephasing rate on the interference. The dephasing generally destroys the interference while increasing frequency rebuilds the interference at large dephasing rate. At certain driving frequency and dephasing rate, the interference shows some anomalous features as observed in recent experiments.

id: 0906.4655
title: LC Oscillating Circuit as the Simple Classical Analog of the Quantum Zeno Effect
authors: Vladan Pankovic
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4655
abstract: In this work a simple classical analog of the quantum Zeno effect is suggested. As it is well known, in the quantum mechanics, in the limit of the infinite series of alternative short dynamical evolution and measurement, an unstable quantum system will never decay, that is called quantum Zeno effect. Here an ideal (without resistance), classical LC oscillating circuit with quick switch ON-OFF alternation is considered. In the limit of the infinite series of alternative short electrical current regime (switch in the ON state) and no-current regime (current breaking by quick switch ON-OFF state alternation) given LC circuit will never oscillate. Obviously, it represents a classical electro-dynamical Zeno effect deeply analogous to quantum Zeno effect. All this admits a general definition of the Zeno effect that includes both quantum and classical cases (without any classical interpretation of the quantum Zeno effect or quantum interpretation of the classical Zeno effect).

id: 0906.4688
title: Continuous wave photon pair generation in silicon-on-insulator waveguides and ring resonators
authors: S. Clemmen, K. Phan Huy, W. Bogaerts, R. G. Baets, Ph. Emplit, S. Massar
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures To be published in Optics Express
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4688
abstract: Silicon waveguides are promising $\chi^3$-based photon pair sources. Demonstrations so far have been based on picosecond pulsed lasers. Here, we present the first investigation of photon pair generation in silicon waveguides in a continuous regime. The source is characterized by coincidence measurements. We uncover the presence of unexpected noise which had not been noticed in earlier experiments. Subsequently, we present advances towards integration of the photon pair source with other components on the chip. This is demonstrated by photon pair generation in a Sagnac loop interferometer and inside a micro-ring cavity. Comparison with the straight waveguide shows that these are promising avenues for improving the source. In particular photon pair generation in the micro-ring cavity yields a source with a spectral width of approximately 150 pm resulting in a spectral brightness increased by more than 2 orders of magnitude.

id: 0906.4716
title: Algebraic characterization of X-states in quantum information
authors: A. R. P. Rau
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 42, 412002 (7pp) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4716
abstract: A class of two-qubit states called X-states are increasingly being used to discuss entanglement and other quantum correlations in the field of quantum information. Maximally entangled Bell states and "Werner" states are subsets of them. Apart from being so named because their density matrix looks like the letter X, there is not as yet any characterization of them. The su(2) X su(2) X u(1) subalgebra of the full su(4) algebra of two qubits is pointed out as the underlying invariance of this class of states. X-states are a seven-parameter family associated with this subalgebra of seven operators. This recognition provides a route to preparing such states and also a convenient algebraic procedure for analytically calculating their properties. At the same time, it points to other groups of seven-parameter states that, while not at first sight appearing similar, are also invariant under the same subalgebra. And it opens the way to analyzing invariant states of other subalgebras in bipartite systems.

id: 0906.4719
title: Composite pulses in NMR quantum computation
authors: Jonathan A. Jones
comments: 5 pages revtex4; mini review paper commissioned by Journal of the Indian Institute of Science
journal: J. Ind. Inst. Sci. 89, 303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4719
abstract: I describe the use of techniques based on composite rotations to combat systematic errors in quantum logic gates. Although developed and described within the context of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) quantum computing these sequences should be applicable to other implementations of quantum computation.

id: 0906.4723
title: A wave-function Monte Carlo method for simulating conditional master equations
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, revtex 4, 1 eps figure. v2: correction to Eqs (3),(9), and (11); v3 added further information
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4723
abstract: Wave-function Monte Carlo methods are an important tool for simulating quantum systems, but the standard method cannot be used to simulate decoherence in continuously measured systems. Here we present a new Monte Carlo method for such systems. This was used to perform the simulations of a continuously measured nano-resonator in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 057208 (2009)].

id: 0906.4725
title: Interacting Quantum Observables: Categorical Algebra and Diagrammatics
authors: Bob Coecke, Ross Duncan
comments: 81 pages, many figures. Significant changes from previous version. The first sections contain a gentle introduction for physicists to the graphical language, and its use in quantum computation
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 043016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4725
abstract: This paper has two tightly intertwined aims: (i) To introduce an intuitive and universal graphical calculus for multi-qubit systems, the ZX-calculus, which greatly simplifies derivations in the area of quantum computation and information. (ii) To axiomatise complementarity of quantum observables within a general framework for physical theories in terms of dagger symmetric monoidal categories. We also axiomatize phase shifts within this framework. Using the well-studied canonical correspondence between graphical calculi and symmetric monoidal categories, our results provide a purely graphical formalisation of complementarity for quantum observables. Each individual observable, represented by a commutative special dagger Frobenius algebra, gives rise to an abelian group of phase shifts, which we call the phase group. We also identify a strong form of complementarity, satisfied by the Z and X spin observables, which yields a scaled variant of a bialgebra.

id: 0906.4726
title: Ultra-cold mechanical resonators coupled to atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Andrew A. Geraci, John Kitching
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032317 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4726
abstract: We propose an experiment utilizing an array of cooled micro-cantilevers coupled to a sample of ultra-cold atoms trapped near a micro-fabricated surface. The cantilevers allow individual lattice site addressing for atomic state control and readout, and potentially may be useful in optical lattice quantum computation schemes. Assuming resonators can be cooled to their vibrational ground state, the implementation of a two-qubit controlled-NOT gate with atomic internal states and the motional states of the resonator is described. We also consider a protocol for entangling two or more cantilevers on the atom chip with different resonance frequencies, using the trapped atoms as an intermediary. Although similar experiments could be carried out with magnetic microchip traps, the optical confinement scheme we consider may exhibit reduced near-field magnetic noise and decoherence. Prospects for using this novel system for tests of quantum mechanics at macroscopic scales or quantum information processing are discussed.

id: 0906.4734
title: Controlling the transverse correlation in QPM parametric down-conversion
authors: O. Cosme, A. Delgado, G. Lima, C. H. Monken, S. Pdua
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4734
abstract: In this work we study the transverse spatial correlation of the pair of photons generated via the process of spontaneous parametric frequency down-conversion, in periodically poled non-linear crystals illuminated by a pulsed laser beam. It is well known that the two-photon state generated in quasi-phase matching (QPM) configurations depends explicitly on the characteristics of the pump beam, on the crystal modulated non-linearity, and on the detection geometry. This has allowed the development of several techniques for controlling the biphoton spectral and spatial properties. Here we discuss another technique for implementing the spatial entanglement modification in QPM gratings. We show, theoretically and experimentally, that in nearly collinear geometries, the spatial shape modulation of the pump beam allows for the control of the biphoton transverse spatial correlation.

id: 0906.4755
title: On the quantum f-relative entropy and generalized data processing inequalities
authors: Naresh Sharma
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4755
abstract: We study the fundamental properties of the quantum f-relative entropy, where f(.) is an operator convex function. We give the equality conditions under monotonicity and joint convexity, and these conditions are more general than, since they hold for a class of operator convex functions, and different for f(t) = -ln(t) from, the previously known conditions. The quantum f-entropy is defined in terms of the quantum f-relative entropy and we study its properties giving the equality conditions in some cases. We then show that the f-generalizations of the Holevo information, the entanglement-assisted capacity, and the coherent information also satisfy the data processing inequality, and give the equality conditions for the f-coherent information.

id: 0906.4760
title: The impossibility of non-signaling privacy amplification
authors: Esther H?nggi, Renato Renner, Stefan Wolf
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4760
abstract: Barrett, Hardy, and Kent have shown in 2005 that protocols for quantum key agreement exist the security of which can be proven under the assumption that quantum or relativity theory is correct. More precisely, this is based on the non-local behavior of certain quantum systems, combined with the non-signaling postulate from relativity. An advantage is that the resulting security is independent of what (quantum) systems the legitimate parties' devices operate on: they do not have to be trusted. Unfortunately, the protocol proposed by Barrett et al. cannot tolerate any errors caused by noise in the quantum channel. Furthermore, even in the error-free case it is inefficient: its communication complexity is Theta(1/epsilon) when forcing the attacker's information below epsilon, even if only a single key bit is generated. Potentially, the problem can be solved by privacy amplification of relativistic - or non-signaling - secrecy. We show, however, that such privacy amplification is impossible with respect to the most important form of non-local behavior, and application of arbitrary hash functions.

id: 0906.4790
title: Quantum Control of d-Dimensional Quantum Systems with Application to Alkali Atomic Spins
authors: Seth Merkel
comments: Dissertation, as submitted in June 2009, 179 pages, 16 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4790
abstract: In this dissertation I analyze Hamiltonian control of $d$-dimensional quantum systems as realized in alkali atomic spins. Alkali atoms provide an ideal platform for studies of quantum control due to the extreme precision with which the control fields are characterized as well as their isolation from their environment. In chapter 2, I review some background material on open-loop quantum control theory. Chapter 3 provides a derivation of the Hamiltonians arising from electromagnetic fields that we use to control our alkali atomic spins. In chapter 4, I develop an algorithm for state preparation, that is mapping a fiducial state to some arbitrary target state, and show numerical and experimental implementations for making arbitrary superpositions of hyperfine states in $^{133}Cs. Finally, chapter 5 presents a protocol for generating full unitary maps efficiently by utilizing the ability to construct state mappings.

id: 0906.4828
title: Ultrasensitive Beam Deflection Measurement via Interferometric Weak Value Amplification
authors: P. Ben Dixon, David J. Starling, Andrew N. Jordan, John C. Howell
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 173601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4828
abstract: We report on the use of an interferometric weak value technique to amplify very small transverse deflections of an optical beam. By entangling the beam's transverse degrees of freedom with the which-path states of a Sagnac interferometer, it is possible to realize an optical amplifier for polarization independent deflections. The theory for the interferometric weak value amplification method is presented along with the experimental results, which are in good agreement. Of particular interest, we measured the angular deflection of a mirror down to 560 femtoradians and the linear travel of a piezo actuator down to 20 femtometers.

id: 0906.4832
title: Interferometric weak value deflections: quantum and classical treatments
authors: John C. Howell, David J. Starling, P. Ben Dixon, Praveen K. Vudyasetu, Andrew N. Jordan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4832
abstract: We derive the weak value deflection given in a paper by Dixon et al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 173601 (2009)) both quantum mechanically and classically. This paper is meant to cover some of the mathematical details omitted in that paper owing to space constraints.

id: 0906.4851
title: Asymmetric Gaussian steering: when Alice and Bob disagree
authors: S. L. W. Midgley, A. J. Ferris, M. K. Olsen
comments: 5 Pages, 4 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4851
abstract: Asymmetric steering is an effect whereby an inseparable bipartite system can be found to be described by either quantum mechanics or local hidden variable theories depending on which one of Alice or Bob makes the required measurements. We show that, even with an inseparable bipartite system, situations can arise where Gaussian measurements on one half are not sufficient to answer the fundamental question of which theory gives an adequate description and the whole system must be considered. This phenomenon is possible because of an asymmetry in the definition of the original Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox and in this article we show theoretically that it may be demonstrated, at least in the case where Alice and Bob can only make Gaussian measurements, using the intracavity nonlinear coupler.

id: 0906.4860
title: Squeezing Components in Linear Quantum Feedback Networks
authors: J.E. Gough, M.R. James, H.I. Nurdin
comments: 18 pages, 4 internal figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 023804 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4860
abstract: The aim of this paper is to extend linear quantum dynamical network theory to include static Bogoliubov components (such as squeezers). Within this integrated quantum network theory we provide general methods for cascade or series connections, as well as feedback interconnections using linear fractional transformations. In addition, we define input-output maps and transfer functions for representing components and describing convergence. We also discuss the underlying group structure in this theory arising from series interconnection. Several examples illustrate the theory.

id: 0906.4871
title: Dimensions, nodes and phases in quantum numbers
authors: A. R. P. Rau
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4871
abstract: Students of quantum mechanics encounter discrete quantum numbers in a somewhat incoherent and bewildering number of ways. For each physical system studied, quantum numbers seem to be introduced in its own specific way, some enumerating from 1 and others from 0, without a common uniting thread. This essay presents a point of view that builds on dimensions, boundary conditions and various inputs that, while known, are often not brought together to present a simple, consistent picture. At the same time, some surprisingly sophisticated connections are also made.

id: 0906.4884
title: Discrimination with error margin between two states - Case of general occurrence probabilities -
authors: H. Sugimoto, T. Hashimoto, M. Horibe, A. Hayashi
comments: Final version, 9 pages, references added, presentation improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052322 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4884
abstract: We investigate a state discrimination problem which interpolates minimum-error and unambiguous discrimination by introducing a margin for the probability of error. We closely analyze discrimination of two pure states with general occurrence probabilities. The optimal measurements are classified into three types. One of the three types of measurement is optimal depending on parameters (occurrence probabilities and error margin). We determine the three domains in the parameter space and the optimal discrimination success probability in each domain in a fully analytic form. It is also shown that when the states to be discriminated are multipartite, the optimal success probability can be attained by local operations and classical communication. For discrimination of two mixed states, an upper bound of the optimal success probability is obtained.

id: 0906.4919
title: Quantum mechanics from classical statistics
authors: C. Wetterich
comments: 33 pages, improvement of presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4919
abstract: Quantum mechanics can emerge from classical statistics. A typical quantum system describes an isolated subsystem of a classical statistical ensemble with infinitely many classical states. The state of this subsystem can be characterized by only a few probabilistic observables. Their expectation values define a density matrix if they obey a "purity constraint". Then all the usual laws of quantum mechanics follow, including Heisenberg's uncertainty relation, entanglement and a violation of Bell's inequalities. No concepts beyond classical statistics are needed for quantum physics - the differences are only apparent and result from the particularities of those classical statistical systems which admit a quantum mechanical description. Born's rule for quantum mechanical probabilities follows from the probability concept for a classical statistical ensemble. In particular, we show how the non-commuting properties of quantum operators are associated to the use of conditional probabilities within the classical system, and how a unitary time evolution reflects the isolation of the subsystem. As an illustration, we discuss a classical statistical implementation of a quantum computer.

id: 0906.4981
title: Quantum Dynamics of Mesoscopic Driven Duffing Oscillators
authors: Lingzhen Guo, Zhigang Zheng, Xin-Qi Li
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; revised version accepted for publication in EPL
journal: EPL, 90 (2010) 10011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4981
abstract: We investigate the nonlinear dynamics of a mesoscopic driven Duffing oscillator in a quantum regime. In terms of Wigner function, we identify the nature of state near the bifurcation point, and analyze the transient process which reveals two distinct stages of quenching and escape. The rate process in the escape stage allows us to extract the transition rate, which displays perfect scaling behavior with the driving distance to the bifurcation point. We numerically determine the scaling exponent, compare it with existing result, and propose open questions to be resolved.

id: 0906.4992
title: The shadow interpretation versus quantum paradoxes
authors: Warren Leffler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4992
abstract: This paper explores the consequences of denying the "emptiness of paths not taken," EPNT, premise of Bernstein, Greenberger, Horne, and Zeilinger (BGHZ) in their paper titled, Bell theorem without inequalities.[ ] Carrying out the negation of EPNT leads to the concept of a "shadow stream." Streams are essentially particle implementations of the paths in Feynman path-integrals, resulting in a simple and consistent extension of the standard axioms for quantum mechanics. The construct provides elegant resolutions of single- and multi-particle interference paradoxes. Moreover, combining the argument of this paper with that of BGHZ shows that there are just two choices for quantum foundations: interpretations closely similar to the present one or those that harbor instantaneous action at a distance.

id: 0906.4994
title: Transient effects and reconstruction of the energy spectra in the time evolution of transmitted Gaussian wave packets
authors: Sergio Cordero, Gaston Garcia-Calderon
comments: v2: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 185301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4994
abstract: We derive an exact analytical solution to the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation for transmission of a Gaussian wave packet through an arbitrary potential of finite range. We consider the situation where the initial Gaussian wave packet is sufficiently broad in momentum space to guarantee that the resonance structure of the system is included in the dynamical description. We demonstrate that the transmitted wave packet exhibits a transient behavior which at very large distances and long times may be written as the free evolving Gaussian wave packet solution times the transmission amplitude of the system and hence it reproduces the resonance spectra of the system. This is a novel result that predicts the ultimate fate of the transmitted Gaussian wave packet. We also prove that at a fixed distance and very long times the solution goes as $t^{-3/2}$ which extends to arbitrary finite range potentials previous analysis on this issue. Our results are exemplified for single and multibarrier systems.

id: 0906.5019
title: Ultracold three-body collisions near narrow Feshbach resonances
authors: Yujun Wang, J. P. D'Incao, B.D. Esry
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042710 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5019
abstract: We study ultracold three-body collisions of bosons and fermions when the interatomic interaction is tuned near a narrow Feshbach resonance. We show that the width of the resonance has a substantial impact on the collisional properties of ultracold gases in the strongly interacting regime. We obtain numerical and analytical results that allow us to identify universal features related to the resonance width. For narrow resonances, we have found a suppression of all inelastic processes in boson systems leading to deeply bound states and an enhancement for fermion systems.

id: 0906.5024
title: Low-Noise Amplification of a Continuous Variable Quantum State
authors: R. C. Pooser, A. M. Marino, V. Boyer, K. M. Jones, P. D. Lett
comments: To appear in Physical Review Letters July 3rd. 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5024
abstract: We present an experimental realization of a low-noise, phase-insensitive optical amplifier using a four-wave mixing interaction in hot Rb vapor. Performance near the quantum limit for a range of amplifier gains, including near unity, can be achieved. Such low-noise amplifiers are essential for so-called quantum cloning machines and are useful in quantum information protocols. We demonstrate that amplification and ``cloning'' of one half of a two-mode squeezed state is possible while preserving entanglement.

id: 0906.5049
title: Rigorous results for tight-binding networks: particle trapping and scattering
authors: L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 81, 022107 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5049
abstract: We investigate the particle trapping and scattering properties in a tight-binding network which consists of several subgraphs. The particle trapping condition is proved under which particles can be trapped in a subgraph without leaking. Based on exact solutions for the configuration of a $\pi$-shaped lattice, it is argued that the bound states in a specified subgraph are of two types, resonant and evanescent. It is also shown that, when such a subgraph is embedded in a one-dimensional chain as the waveguide, an incident wave experiences total reflection if its energy matches the resonant bound state energy.

id: 0906.5061
title: Effect of Bohm potential on a charged gas
authors: D. Mostacci, V. Molinari, F. Pizzio
comments: 11 pages, no figures, pdf format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5061
abstract: Bohm's interpretation of Quantum Mechanics leads to the derivation of a Quantum Kinetic Equation (QKE): in the present work, propagation of waves in charged quantum gases is investigated starting from this QKE. Dispersion relations are derived for fully and weakly degenerate fermions and bosons (these latter above critical temperature), and the differences underlined. Use of a kinetic equation permits investigation of "Landau-type" damping: it is found that the presence of damping in fermion gases is dependent upon the degree of degeneracy, whereas it is always present in boson gases. In fully degenerate fermions a phenomenon appears that is akin to the "zero sound" propagation.

id: 0906.5093
title: A Close Look at the EPR Data of Weihs et al
authors: James H. Bigelow
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5093
abstract: I examine data from EPR experiments conducted in 1997 through 1999 by Gregor Weihs and colleagues. They used detection windows of 4-6 ns to identify coincidences; I find that one obtains better results with windows 40-50 ns wide. Coincidences identified using different windows have substantially different distributions over the sixteen combinations of Alice's and Bob's measurement settings and results, which is the essence of the coincidence time loophole. However, wide and narrow window coincidences violate a Bell inequality equally strongly. The wider window yields substantially smaller violations of no-signaling conditions.

id: 0906.5122
title: Long-time memory in non-Markovian evolutions
authors: Dariusz Chru?ciski, Andrzej Kossakowski, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 6 pages
journal: Physical Review A 81 (2010) 032101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5122
abstract: If the dynamics of an open quantum systems is non-Markovian, its {asymptotic} state strongly depends on the initial conditions, even if the dynamics possesses an {invariant} state. This is the very essence of memory effects. In particular, the {asymptotic} state can remember and partially preserve its initial entanglement. Interestingly, even if the non-Markovian evolution relaxes to an equilibrium state, this state needs not be invariant. Therefore, the non-invariance of equilibrium becomes a clear sign of non-Markovianity.

id: 0906.5130
title: The entanglement of some non-two-colorable graph states
authors: Xiao-yu Chen, Li-zhen Jiang
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5130
abstract: We exactly evaluate the entanglement of a six vertex and a nine vertex graph states which correspond to non ''two-colorable'' graphs. The upper bound of entanglement for five vertices ring graph state is improved to 2.9275, less than upper bound determined by LOCC. An upper bound of entanglement is proposed based on the definition of graph state.

id: 0906.5138
title: Quantum bouncer: theory and experiment
authors: Anatoli Andrei Vankov
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5138
abstract: The quantum bouncer (QB) concept is a known QM textbook example of confined particle, namely, a solution to the 1D Schroedinger equation for a linear potential (the so-called Airy equation). It would be a great methodological challenge to create such a QM object in laboratory. An attempt of observation of the QB ``running'' in the horizontal direction was recently made by the international team at the Laue-Langevin Institute, Grenoble. The experiment was performed with ultra-cold neutrons. In this paper, the experiment is analyzed in view of the authors' claim that ``neutron quantum states in Earth gravitational field'' are observed. The experimental apparatus is designed for measurements of horizontal flux of neutrons passing through an absorbing wave guide with a variable height of absorber. From our analysis, it follows, however, that in such a layout measured data are not sensitive to quantum probability density in the vertical direction. The overall conclusion is made that the experimental data do not contain sufficient information to justify the claim.

id: 0906.5142
title: Smearing effect due to the spread of a probe-particle on the Brownian motion near a perfectly reflecting boundary
authors: Masafumi Seriu, Chun-Hsien Wu
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:052101,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5142
abstract: Quantum fluctuations of electromagnetic vacuum are investigated in a half-space bounded by a perfectly reflecting plate by introducing a probe described by a charged wave-packet distribution in time-direction. The wave-packet distribution of the probe enables one to investigate the smearing effect upon the measured vacuum fluctuations caused by the quantum nature of the probe particle. It is shown that the wave-packet spread of the probe particle significantly influences the measured velocity dispersion of the probe. In particular, the asymptotic late-time behavior of its $z$-component, $ < \D v_{z}^{2}>$, for the wave-packet case is quite different from the test point-particle case ($z$ is the coordinate normal to the plate). The result for the wave-packet is $<\D v_{z}^{2} > \sim 1/\t^2$ in the late time ($\t$ is the measuring time), in stead of the reported late-time behavior $<\D v_{z}^{2} > \sim 1/z^2$ for a point-particle probe. This result can be quite significant for further investigations on the measurement of vacuum fluctuations.

id: 0906.5170
title: Casimir forces in the time domain II: Applications
authors: Alexander P. McCauley, Alejandro W. Rodriguez, John D. Joannopoulos, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures. Includes additional examples (dispersive materials and fully three-dimensional systems)
journal: Physical Review A, 81:012119, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5170
abstract: Our preceding paper introduced a method to compute Casimir forces in arbitrary geometries and for arbitrary materials that was based on a finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) scheme. In this manuscript, we focus on the efficient implementation of our method for geometries of practical interest and extend our previous proof-of-concept algorithm in one dimension to problems in two and three dimensions, introducing a number of new optimizations. We consider Casimir piston-like problems with nonmonotonic and monotonic force dependence on sidewall separation, both for previously solved geometries to validate our method and also for new geometries involving magnetic sidewalls and/or cylindrical pistons. We include realistic dielectric materials to calculate the force between suspended silicon waveguides or on a suspended membrane with periodic grooves, also demonstrating the application of PML absorbing boundaries and/or periodic boundaries. In addition we apply this method to a realizable three-dimensional system in which a silica sphere is stably suspended in a fluid above an indented metallic substrate. More generally, the method allows off-the-shelf FDTD software, already supporting a wide variety of materials (including dielectric, magnetic, and even anisotropic materials) and boundary conditions, to be exploited for the Casimir problem.

id: 0906.5205
title: Quantum Dynamics With Intrinsic Time Asymmetry and Indistinguishable Events
authors: P. W. Bryant
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5205
abstract: The extrinsic quantum mechanical arrow of time is understood to be a consequence of the interaction between quantum systems and their environment. A choice of boundary conditions for the Schr\"odinger equation results in a different time asymmetry intrinsic to quantum mechanical dynamics and independent of environmental interactions. Correct application of the intrinsically asymmetric dynamics, however, leads unavoidably to predictions of the experimental signatures of the extrinsic arrow of time. We are led to a new, model-independent mechanism for quantum decoherence. We need not invoke a master equation or a phase-destroying, non-Hermitian Hamiltonian operator. As an application, we calculate predictive probabilities for the decoherence measured in Rabi oscillations experiments. We can also show that a previously puzzling experimental result, unexplained within the formalism of the quantum master equation, is in fact expected and is the measurable consequence of the indistinguishability of separate, uncontrolled interactions between systems and their environment.

id: 0906.5209
title: Quantum logic with weakly coupled qubits
authors: Michael R. Geller, Emily J. Pritchett, Andrei Galiautdinov, John M. Martinis
comments: 4 pages, Revtex
journal: Physical Review A 81, 012320 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5209
abstract: There are well-known protocols for performing CNOT quantum logic with qubits coupled by particular high-symmetry (Ising or Heisenberg) interactions. However, many architectures being considered for quantum computation involve qubits or qubits and resonators coupled by more complicated and less symmetric interactions. Here we consider a widely applicable model of weakly but otherwise arbitrarily coupled two-level systems, and use quantum gate design techniques to derive a simple and intuitive CNOT construction. Useful variations and extensions of the solution are given for common special cases.

id: 0906.5231
title: Threshold non-linear absorption in Zeeman transitions
authors: Andal Narayan, Abheera Hazra, S. N. Sandhya
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5231
abstract: We experimentally study the absorption spectroscopy from a collection of gaseous $^87 Rb$ atoms at room temperature irradiated with three fields. Two of these fields are in a pump probe saturation absorption configuration. The third field co-propagates with the pump field. The three fields address Zeeman degenerate transitions between hyperfine levels $5S_{1/2}, F = 1$ and $5P_{3/2}, F = 0$ and also between $5S_{1/2}, F = 1$ and $5P_{3/2}, F =1$ around the D2 line. We find a sub-natural absorption resonance in the counter-propagating probe field. The novel feature of this absorption is its abrupt onset in the vicinity of $5P_{3/2}, F = 0$, as the laser frequency is scanned from $5P_{3/2}, F = 0$ to $5P_{3/2}, F =1$. The experimental results are compared with the theory modeled after a four level system. There is a qualitative agreement between our theory and experiment. We find the threshold absorption to be a result of the off-resonant interaction of the strong field with nearby hyperfine levels.

id: 0906.5241
title: Key Generation: Foundations and a New Quantum Approach
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: To appear in the IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5241
abstract: The fundamental security and efficiency considerations for fresh key generation will be described. It is shown that the attacker's optimal probability of finding the generated key is an indispensable measure of security and that this probability limits the possibility of privacy amplification and the amount of fresh key that can be generated. A new approach to quantum cryptography to be called KCQ, keyed communication in quantum noise, is developed on the basis of quantum detection and communication theory for classical information transmission. KCQ key generation schemes with coherent states of considerable energy will be described. The possibility of fresh key generation is demonstrated for binary and N-ary detection systems under heterodyne attacks. The security issues of these schemes will be discussed and compared with BB84. The emphasis throughout is on concrete finite bit-length protocols.

id: 0906.5254
title: Quantum Measurement Theory Explains the Deuteration Effect in Radical-Ion-Pair Reactions
authors: A. T. Dellis, I. K. Kominis
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5254
abstract: It has been recently shown that radical-ion pairs and their reactions are a paradigm biological system manifesting non-trivial quantum effects, so far invisible due to the phenomenological description of radical-ion-pair reactions used until now. We here use the quantum-mechanically consistent master equation describing magnetic-sensitive radical-ion-pair reactions to explain experimental data [C. R. Timmel and K. B. Henbest, Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. A {\bf 362}, 2573 (2004); C. T. Rodgers, S. A. Norman, K. B. Henbest, C. R. Timmel and P. J. Hore, J. Am. Chem. Soc. {\bf 129} 6746 (2007)] on the effect of deuteration on the reaction yields. Anomalous behavior of radical-ion-pair reactions after deuteration, i.e. data inconsistent with the predictions of the phenomenological theory used so far, has been observed since the 70's and has remained unexplained until now.

id: 0906.5255
title: Symmetric extendibility for a class of qudit states
authors: Kedar S. Ranade
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009), 425302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5255
abstract: The concept of symmetric extendibility has recently drawn attention in the context of tolerable error rates in quantum cryptography, where it can be used to decide whether quantum states shared between two parties can be purified by means of entanglement purification with one-way classical communication only. Unfortunately, at present there exists no simple general criterion to decide whether a state possesses a symmetric extension or not. In this article we derive criteria for symmetric extendibility within subclasses of all two-qudit states. Using these criteria, we can completely solve the problem for a two-parameter family of two-qudit states, which includes the isotropic states as a subclass.

id: 0906.5264
title: Towards measurable bounds on entanglement measures
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 15 pages, 2 fig, small corrections, published version
journal: Quantum Information Processing 8, 493-521 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5264
abstract: While the experimental detection of entanglement provides already quite a difficult task, experimental quantification of entanglement is even more challenging, and has not yet been studied thoroughly. In this paper we discuss several issues concerning bounds on concurrence measurable collectively on copies of a given quantum state. Firstly, we concentrate on the recent bound on concurrence by Mintert--Buchleitner [F. Mintert and A. Buchleitner, Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140505 (2007)]. Relating it to the reduction criterion for separability we provide yet another proof of the bound and point out some possibilities following from the proof which could lead to improvement of the bound. Then, relating concurrence to the generalized robustness of entanglement, we provide a method allowing for construction of lower bounds on concurrence from any positive map (not only the reduction one). All these quantities can be measured as mean values of some two--copy observables. In this sense the method generalizes the Mintert--Buchleitner bound and recovers it when the reduction map is used. As a particular case we investigate the bound obtained from the transposition map. Interestingly, comparison with MB bound performed on the class of 4\otimes 4 rotationally invariant states shows that the new bound is positive in regions in which the MB bound gives zero. Finally, we provide measurable upper bounds on the whole class of concurrences.

id: 0906.5279
title: Imitating quantum mechanics: qubit-based model for simulation
authors: Steven Peil
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042320 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5279
abstract: We present an approach to simulating quantum computation based on a classical model that directly imitates discrete quantum systems. Qubits are represented as harmonic functions in a 2D vector space. Multiplication of qubit representations of different frequencies results in exponential growth of the state space similar to the tensor-product composition of qubit spaces in quantum mechanics. Individual qubits remain accessible in a composite system, which is represented as a complex function of a single variable, though entanglement imposes a demand on resources that scales exponentially with the number of entangled qubits. We carry out a simulation of Shor's algorithm and discuss a simpler implementation in this classical model.

id: 0906.5301
title: Light propagation in chiral media
authors: R. Fleischhaker, J. Evers
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5301
abstract: Light propagation in chiral media is discussed. We derive the wave equations for a probe pulse propagating through a chiral medium, and solve them analytically in Fourier space using the slowly varying envelope approximation. Our analysis reveals the influence of the different medium response coefficients on the propagation dynamics. Applying these results to a specific example system, we show that chiral interactions already become important at experimentally accessible parameter ranges in dilute vapors. The chirality renders the propagation dynamics sensitive to the phase of the applied fields, and we show that this phase-dependence enables one to control the pulse evolution during its propagation through the medium. Our results demonstrate that the magnetic field component of a probe beam can crucially influence the system dynamics even if it couples to the medium only weakly.

id: 0906.5316
title: Semiclassical Wigner distribution for two-mode entangled state generated by an optical parametric oscillator
authors: K. Dechoum, M. D. Hahn, A. Z. Khoury, R. O. Vallejos
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5316
abstract: We derive the steady state solution of the Fokker-Planck equation that describes the dynamics of the nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator in the truncated Wigner representation of the density operator. The adiabatic limit of strong pump damping is assumed. This phase space image provides a clear view of the intracavity two-mode entangled state valid in all operating regimes of the OPO. A nongaussian distribution is obtained for the above threshold solution.

id: 0906.5320
title: Fractal Weyl laws for quantum decay in generic dynamical systems
authors: M. Kopp, H. Schomerus
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 026208 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5320
abstract: Weyl's law approximates the number of states in a quantum system by partitioning the energetically accessible phase-space volume into Planck cells. Here we show that typical resonances in generic open quantum systems follow a modified, fractal Weyl law, even though their classical dynamics is not globally chaotic but also contains domains of regular motion. Besides the obvious ramifications for quantum decay, this delivers detailed insight into quantum-to-classical correspondence, a phenomenon which is poorly understood for generic quantum-dynamical systems.

id: 0906.5331
title: A one dimensional model showing a quantum phase transition based on a singular potential
authors: M.L. Glasser, M. Gadella, L.M. Nieto
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5331
abstract: We study a one-dimensional singular potential plus three types of regular interactions: constant electric field, harmonic oscillator and infinite square well. We use the Lippman-Schwinger Green function technique in order to search for the bound state energies. In the electric field case the unique bound state coincides with that found in an earlier study as the field is switched off. For non-zero field the ground state is shifted and positive energy ``quasibound states" appear. For the harmonic oscillator we find a quantum phase transition of a novel type. This behavior does not occur in the corresponding case of an infinite square well and demonstrates the influence of quantum non-locality.

id: 0906.5335
title: Deterministic reordering of 40Ca+ ions in a linear segmented Paul trap
authors: F. Splatt, M. Harlander, M. Brownnutt, F. Z?hringer, R. Blatt, W. H?nsel
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures. Added section on possibility of adiabatic turn. Added appendix on point charge model. Other minor alterations/clarifications. Version now published (this http URL)
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 103008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5335
abstract: In the endeavour to scale up the number of qubits in an ion-based quantum computer several groups have started to develop miniaturized ion traps for extended spatial control and manipulation of the ions. Shuttling and separation of ion strings have been the foremost issues in linear-trap arrangements and some prototypes of junctions have been demonstrated for the extension of ion motion to two dimensions (2D). While junctions require complex trap structures, small extensions to the 1D motion can be accomplished in simple linear trap arrangements. Here, control of the extended field in a planar, linear chip trap is used to shuttle ions in 2D. With this approach, the order of ions in a string is deterministically reversed. Optimized potentials are theoretically derived and simulations show that the reordering can be carried out adiabatically. The control over individual ion positions in a linear trap presents a new tool for ion-trap quantum computing. The method is also expected to work with mixed crystals of different ion species and as such could have applications for sympathetic cooling of an ion string.

id: 0906.5378
title: Entanglement Evolution in a Non-Markovian Environment
authors: Ting Yu, J. H. Eberly
comments: REVTeX, 6 pages, 4 figures. Submission for a Special Issue of Optics Communications in Memory of Krzystof Wodkiewicz
journal: Opt. Commun. 283, 676 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5378
abstract: We extend recent theoretical studies of entanglement dynamics in the presence of environmental noise, following the long-time interest of Krzysztof Wodkiewicz in the effects of stochastic models of noise on quantum optical coherences. We investigate the quantum entanglement dynamics of two spins in the presence of classical Ornstein-Uhlenbeck noise, obtaining exact solutions for evolution dynamics. We consider how entanglement can be affected by non-Markovian noise, and discuss several limiting cases.

id: 0906.5387
title: Photon losses depending on polarization mixedness
authors: Laleh Memarzadeh, Stefano Mancini
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 56, 291-296 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5387
abstract: We introduce a quantum channel describing photon losses depending on the degree of polarization mixedness. This can be regarded as a model of quantum channel with correlated errors between discrete and continuous degrees of freedom. We consider classical information over a continuous alphabet encoded on weak coherent states as well as classical information over a discrete alphabet encoded on single photons using dual rail representation. In both cases we study the one-shot capacity of the channel and its behaviour in terms of correlation between losses and polarization mixedness.

id: 0906.5409
title: Extending Hamilton's principle to quantize classical fields
authors: K.B. Wharton
comments: 10 pages, to be submitted to PRL, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5409
abstract: Hamilton's principle does not formally apply to systems whose boundary conditions lie outside configuration space, but extensions are possible using certain "natural" boundary conditions that allow action extremization. With the single conjecture that only such action-extremizing boundaries can be physically realized, the classical relativistic scalar field becomes subject to certain quantization conditions upon measurement. These conditions appear to be analogous to Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization, and are derived explicitly for the case of angular momentum measurements of a classical scalar field.

id: 0906.5416
title: Non-Identity Check Remains QMA-Complete for Short Circuits
authors: Zhengfeng Ji, Xiaodi Wu
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5416
abstract: The Non-Identity Check problem asks whether a given a quantum circuit is far away from the identity or not. It is well known that this problem is QMA-Complete \cite{JWB05}. In this note, it is shown that the Non-Identity Check problem remains QMA-Complete for circuits of short depth. Specifically, we prove that for constant depth quantum circuit in which each gate is given to at least $\Omega(\log n)$ bits of precision, the Non-Identity Check problem is QMA-Complete. It also follows that the hardness of the problem remains for polylogarithmic depth circuit consisting of only gates from any universal gate set and for logarithmic depth circuit using some specific universal gate set.

id: 0906.5417
title: Quantum phase transition of the 103mRh spin-density wave
authors: Yao Cheng
comments: ICAME09, vienna, July 19-24, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5417
abstract: We induce a quantum phase transition of the 103mRh excitation at the critical density of 10^{12} cm^{-3} by bremsstrahlung pumping at 300 K. A massive 103mRh spin-density wave carrying a spin current moves on the identical 103Rh matrix like a quantum fluid. The collapse-and-revival spectral evolution indicates that the collective nuclear excitation undergoes dynamic Bose-Einstein condensation. Applying an external magnetic field, we observe the Onsager-Feynman quantization, which gives further evidence of the superfluidic phase.

id: 0906.5419
title: Optimal Observables for Minimum-Error State Discrimination in General Probabilistic Theories
authors: Koji Nuida, Gen Kimura, Takayuki Miyadera
comments: 30 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 51, 093505 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5419
abstract: General Probabilistic Theories provide the most general mathematical framework for the theory of probability in an operationally natural manner, and generalize classical and quantum theories. In this article, we study state-discrimination problems in general probabilistic theories using a Bayesian strategy. After re-formulation of the theories with mathematical rigor, we first prove that an optimal observable to discriminate any (finite) number of states always exists in the most general setting. Next, we revisit our recently proposed geometric approach for the problem and show that, for two-state discrimination, this approach is indeed effective in arbitrary dimensional cases. Moreover, our method reveals an operational meaning of Gudder's ``intrinsic metric'' by means of the optimal success probability, which turns out to be a generalization of the trace distance for quantum systems. As its by-product, an information-disturbance theorem in general probabilistic theories is derived, generalizing its well known quantum version.

id: 0906.5445
title: Maximally entangled state can be a mixed state
authors: Zong-Guo Li, Ming-Jing Zhao, Shao-Ming Fei, Heng Fan, W. M. Liu
comments: 7 pages
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, 12, 0063-0073 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5445
abstract: We find that the mixed maximally entangled states exist and prove that the form of the mixed maximally entangled states is unique in terms of the entanglement of formation. Moreover, even if the entanglement is quantified by other entanglement measures, this conclusion is still proven right. This result is a supplementary to the generally accepted fact that all maximally entangled states are pure. These states possess important properties of the pure maximally entangled states, for example, these states can be used as a resource for faithful teleportation and they can be distinguished perfectly by local operations and classical communication.

id: 0906.5455
title: Bell-type inequalities and upper bounds of multi-qudit states
authors: Loran V. Akopyan, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures, 8 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5455
abstract: Multi-qudit systems are studied in tomographic probability representations of quantum qudit states. Results of calculations for Bell-type numbers within the framework of classical probability theory and in quantum tomography are compared. Violation of Bell-type inequalities are shown explicitly using the method of averaging in tomographic picture of quantum states.

id: 0906.5494
title: Optimal cloning with respect to the relative error
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. Major changes. New section in which different criteria are compared is added. The bibliography is recast
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5494
abstract: The relative error of cloning of quantum states with arbitrary prior probabilities is considered. It is assumed that the ancilla may contain some a priori information about the input state to be cloned. The lower bound on the relative error for general cloning scenario is derived. Both the case of two-state set and case of multi-state set are analyzed in details. The treated figure of merit is compared with other optimality criteria. The quantum circuit for optimal cloning of a pair of pure states is constructed.

id: 0906.5532
title: High performance entanglement-assisted quantum LDPC codes need little entanglement
authors: Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Wen-Tai Yen, Li-Yi Hsu
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. Published version
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 57(3), 1761-1769, (2011),
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5532
abstract: Though the entanglement-assisted formalism provides a universal connection between a classical linear code and an entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting code (EAQECC), the issue of maintaining large amount of pure maximally entangled states in constructing EAQECCs is a practical obstacle to its use. It is also conjectured that the power of entanglement-assisted formalism to convert those good classical codes comes from massive consumption of maximally entangled states. We show that the above conjecture is wrong by providing families of EAQECCs with an entanglement consumption rate that diminishes linearly as a function of the code length. Notably, two families of EAQECCs constructed in the paper require only one copy of maximally entangled state no matter how large the code length is. These families of EAQECCs that are constructed from classical finite geometric LDPC codes perform very well according to our numerical simulations. Our work indicates that EAQECCs are not only theoretically interesting, but also physically implementable. Finally, these high performance entanglement-assisted LDPC codes with low entanglement consumption rates allow one to construct high-performance standard QECCs with very similar parameters.

id: 0906.0050
title: Composite system in deformed space with minimal length
authors: C. Quesne, V.M. Tkachuk
comments: 22 pages, no figure; small additions in Secs. I, III and VI
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:012106,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0050
abstract: For composite systems made of $N$ different particles living in a space characterized by the same deformed Heisenberg algebra, but with different deformation parameters, we define the total momentum and the center-of-mass position to first order in the deformation parameters. Such operators satisfy the deformed algebra with new effective deformation parameters. As a consequence, a two-particle system can be reduced to a one-particle problem for the internal motion. As an example, the correction to the hydrogen atom $n$S energy levels is re-evaluated. Comparison with high-precision experimental data leads to an upper bound of the minimal length for the electron equal to $3.3\times 10^{-18} {\rm m}$. The effective Hamiltonian describing the center-of-mass motion of a macroscopic body in an external potential is also found. For such a motion, the effective deformation parameter is substantially reduced due to a factor $1/N^2$. This explains the strangely small result previously obtained for the minimal length from a comparison with the observed precession of the perihelion of Mercury. From our study, an upper bound of the minimal length for quarks equal to $2.4\times 10^{-17}{\rm m}$ is deduced, which appears close to that obtained for electrons.

id: 0906.0089
title: 3D scalar model as a 4D perfect conductor limit: dimensional reduction and variational boundary conditions
authors: A. Edery, N. Graham, I. MacDonald
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:125018,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0089
abstract: Under dimensional reduction, a system in D spacetime dimensions will not necessarily yield its D-1-dimensional analog version. Among other things, this result will depend on the boundary conditions and the dimension D of the system. We investigate this question for scalar and abelian gauge fields under boundary conditions that obey the symmetries of the action. We apply our findings to the Casimir piston, an ideal system for detecting boundary effects. Our investigation is not limited to extra dimensions and we show that the original piston scenario proposed in 2004, a toy model involving a scalar field in 3D (2+1)dimensions, can be obtained via dimensional reduction from a more realistic 4D electromagnetic (EM) system. We show that for perfect conductor conditions, a D-dimensional EM field reduces to a D-1 scalar field and not its lower-dimensional version. For Dirichlet boundary conditions, no theory is recovered under dimensional reduction and the Casimir pressure goes to zero in any dimension. This "zero Dirichlet" result is useful for understanding the EM case. We then identify two special systems where the lower-dimensional version is recovered in any dimension: systems with perfect magnetic conductor (PMC) and Neumann boundary conditions. We show that these two boundary conditions can be obtained from a variational procedure in which the action vanishes outside the bounded region. The fields are free to vary on the surface and have zero modes which survive after dimensional reduction.

id: 0906.0142
title: Infinitely many shape invariant potentials and new orthogonal polynomials
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 4 pages; published in Phys.Lett.B, two references and comments added, eqs.(34)(35)(45)(46) simplified
journal: Phys.Lett.B679:414-417,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0142
abstract: Three sets of exactly solvable one-dimensional quantum mechanical potentials are presented. These are shape invariant potentials obtained by deforming the radial oscillator and the trigonometric/hyperbolic P\"oschl-Teller potentials in terms of their degree \ell polynomial eigenfunctions. We present the entire eigenfunctions for these Hamiltonians (\ell=1,2,...) in terms of new orthogonal polynomials. Two recently reported shape invariant potentials of Quesne and G\'omez-Ullate et al's are the first members of these infinitely many potentials.

id: 0906.0162
title: Emergence of robust gaps in 2D antiferromagnets via additional spin-1/2 probes
authors: A. Ferreira, J. Viana Lopes, J. M. B. Lopes dos Santos
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, 1 table + appendices (published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022320 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0162
abstract: We study the capacity of antiferromagnetic lattices of varying geometries to entangle two additional spin-1/2 probes. Analytical modeling of the Quantum Monte Carlo data shows the appearance of a robust gap, allowing a description of entanglement in terms of probe-only states, even in cases where the coupling to the probes is larger than the gap of the spin lattice and cannot be treated perturbatively. We find a considerable enhancement of the temperature at which probe entanglement disappears as we vary the geometry of the bus and the coupling to the probes. In particular, the square Heisenberg antiferromagnet exhibits the best thermal robustness of all systems, whereas the three-leg ladder chain shows the best performance in the natural quantum ground state.

id: 0906.0279
title: On the Implication of Bell's Probability Distribution and Proposed Experiments of Quantum Measurement
authors: Hai-Long Zhao
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures, minor clarifications and corrections for some concepts and experiments
journal: JETP(Russian Version) Vol. 144 (12) (2013); JETP(English Version) Vol. 117 (6) (2013);
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0279
abstract: In the derivation of Bell's inequalities, probability distribution is supposed to be a function of only hidden variable. We point out that the true implication of the probability distribution of Bell's correlation function is the distribution of the joint measurement outcomes on the two sides. So it is a function of both hidden variable and settings. In this case, Bell's inequalities fail. Our further analysis shows that Bell's locality holds neither for dependent events nor for independent events. We think that the measurements of EPR pairs are dependent events, thus violation of Bell's inequalities cannot rule out the existence of local hidden variable. In order to explain the results of EPR-type experiments, we suppose that polarization entangled photon pair can be composed of two circularly or linearly polarized photons with correlated hidden variables, and a couple of experiments of quantum measurement are proposed. The first uses delayed measurement on one photon of the EPR pair to demonstrate directly whether measurement on the other could have any non-local influence on it. Then several experiments are suggested to reveal the components of polarization entangled photon pair. The last one uses successive polarization measurements on a pair of EPR photons to show that two photons with a same quantum state will behave in the same way under the same measuring condition.

id: 0906.0292
title: Lattice Refining Loop Quantum Cosmology from an Isotropic Embedding of Anisotropic Cosmology
authors: William Nelson, Mairi Sakellariadou
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure; slightly amended version to appear in Classical and Quantum Gravity
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.27:145014,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0292
abstract: We demonstrate that it is possible to produce different isotropic embeddings of anisotropic Loop Quantum Cosmology, resulting to "lattice refinement" in the isotropic system. To introduce the general approach, we first use a simple model with only two anisotropic directions. We then employ the specific case of a Bianchi I model, to show how the method extends to three-dimensional systems. To concisely calculate the step-size of the resulting isotropic state, we define the "symmetric dual" of states and operators, for the two- and three-dimensional systems, respectively.

id: 0906.0342
title: Scattering and bound states of spinless particles in a mixed vector-scalar smooth step potential
authors: M.G. Garcia, A.S. de Castro
comments: 
journal: Annals Phys.324:2372-2384,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0342
abstract: Scattering and bound states for a spinless particle in the background of a kink-like smooth step potential, added with a scalar uniform background, are considered with a general mixing of vector and scalar Lorentz structures. The problem is mapped into the Schr\"{o}dinger-like equation with an effective Rosen-Morse potential. It is shown that the scalar uniform background present subtle and trick effects for the scattering states and reveals itself a high-handed element for formation of bound states. In that process, it is shown that the problem of solving a differential equation for the eigenenergies is transmuted into the simpler and more efficient problem of solving an irrational algebraic equation.

id: 0906.0425
title: Manipulation of double-dot spin qubit by continuous noisy measurement
authors: Rusko Ruskov, Viatcheslav V. Dobrovitski, Bruce N. Harmon
comments: 12 pages, 5 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0425
abstract: We consider evolution of a double quantum dot (DQD) two-electron spin qubit which is continuously weakly measured with a linear charge detector (quantum point contact). Since the interaction between the spins of two electrons depends on their charge state, the charge measurement affects the state of two spins, and induces non-trivial spin dynamics. We consider the regimes of strong and weak coupling to the detector, and investigate the measurement-induced spin dynamics both analytically and numerically. We observe emergence of the negative-result evolution and the system stabilization due to an analog of quantum Zeno effect. Moreover, unitary evolution between the triplet and a singlet state is induced by the negative-result measurement. We demonstrate that these effects exist for both strong and weak coupling between the detector and the DQD system.

id: 0906.0509
title: p-adic probability prediction of correlations between particles in the two-slit and neutron interferometry experiments
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: Nuovo Cim.B113:751-760,1998
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0509
abstract: We start from Feynman`s idea to use negative probabilities to describe the two slit experiment and other quantum interfernce experiments. Formally by using negative probability distributions we can explain the results of the two slit experiment on the basis of the pure corpuscular picture of quantum mechnanics. However, negative probabilities are absurd objects in the framework of the standard Kolmogorov theory of probability. We present a large class of non-Kolmogorovean probability models where negative probabilities are well defined on the frequency basis. These are models with probabilities which belong to the so-called field of $p$-adic numbers. However, these models are characterized by correlations between trails. Therefore, we predict correlations between particles in interference experiments. In fact, our predictions are similar to the predictions of the so-called nonergodic interpretation of quantum mechanics, which was proposed by V. Buonomano. We propose the concrete experiments (in particular, in the framework of the neutron interferometry) to verify our predictions on the correlations.

id: 0906.0514
title: A hidden variables model for interference phenomena based on $p$-adic random dynamical systems
authors: Daniel Dubischar, Volker Matthias Gundlach, Oliver Steinkamp, Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: Il Nuovo Cimento, B, 114, N. 4, 373- 382 (1999)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0514
abstract: We propose a model based on random dynamical systems (RDS) in information spaces (realized as rings of $p$-adic integers) which supports Buonomano's non-ergodic interpretation of quantum mechanics. In this model the memory system of an equipment works as a dynamical system perturbed by noise. Interference patterns correspond to attractors of RDS. There exists a large class of $p$-adic RDS for which interference patterns cannot be disturbed by noise. Therefore, if the equipment is described by such a RDS then the result of statistical experiment does not depend on noise in the equipment. On the one hand, we support the corpuscular model, because a quantum particle can be described as a corpuscular object. On the other hand, our model does not differ strongly from the wave model, because a quantum particle interacts with the whole equipment. Hence the interaction has nonlocal character. For example, in the two slit experiment a quantum particle interacts with both slits (but it passes only one of them).

id: 0906.0549
title: Hidden Symmetry from Supersymmetry in One-Dimensional Quantum Mechanics
authors: Alexander A. Andrianov, Andrey V. Sokolov
comments: 
journal: Sigma.5:064,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0549
abstract: When several inequivalent supercharges form a closed superalgebra in Quantum Mechanics it entails the appearance of hidden symmetries of a Super-Hamiltonian. We examine this problem in one-dimensional QM for the case of periodic potentials and potentials with finite number of bound states. After the survey of the results existing in the subject the algebraic and analytic properties of hidden-symmetry differential operators are rigorously elaborated in the Theorems and illuminated by several examples.

id: 0906.0586
title: Precision measurement of the lifetime of the 6p 2P_1/2 level of Yb+
authors: S. Olmschenk, D. Hayes, D. N. Matsukevich, P. Maunz, D. L. Moehring, K. C. Younge, C. Monroe
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022502 (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0586
abstract: We present a precise measurement of the lifetime of the 6p 2P_1/2 excited state of a single trapped ytterbium ion (Yb+). A time-correlated single-photon counting technique is used, where ultrafast pulses excite the ion and the emitted photons are coupled into a single-mode optical fiber. By performing the measurement on a single atom with fast excitation and excellent spatial filtering, we are able to eliminate common systematics. The lifetime of the 6p 2P_1/2 state is measured to be 8.12 +/- 0.02 ns.

id: 0906.0592
title: Correlation-dependent coherent to incoherent transitions in resonant energy transfer dynamics
authors: Ahsan Nazir
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, 2 page supplement. Published version. Figure edited, section added on experimental relevance, reference added, various minor changes to the text. Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 146404 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0592
abstract: I investigate energy transfer in a donor-acceptor pair beyond weak system-bath coupling. I identify a transition from coherent to incoherent dynamics with increasing temperature, due to multi-phonon effects not captured by a standard weak-coupling treatment. The crossover temperature has a marked dependence on the degree of spatial correlation between fluctuations experienced at the two system sites. For strong correlations, this leads to the possibility of coherence surviving into a high temperature regime.

id: 0906.0729
title: Optimal control of the silicon-based donor electron spin quantum computing
authors: Dong-Bang Tsai, Po-Wen Chen, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: 4 figures, accepted as a Rapid Communication by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 060306(R) (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0729
abstract: We demonstrate how gradient ascent pulse engineering optimal control methods can be implemented on donor electron spin qubits in Si semiconductors with an architecture complementary to the original Kane's proposal. We focus on the high-fidelity controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate and explicitly find its digitized control sequences by optimizing its fidelity over the external controls of the hyperfine A and exchange J interactions. This high-fidelity CNOT gate has an error of about $10^{-6}$, below the error threshold required for fault-tolerant quantum computation, and its operation time of 100ns is about 3 times faster than 297ns of the proposed global control scheme. It also relaxes significantly the stringent distance constraint of two neighboring donor atoms of 10~20nm as reported in the original Kane's proposal to about 30nm in which surface A and J gates may be built with current fabrication technology. The effects of the control voltage fluctuations, the dipole-dipole interaction and the electron spin decoherence on the CNOT gate fidelity are also discussed.

id: 0906.1011
title: The construction of a general inner product in non-Hermitian quantum theory and some explanation for the nonuniqueness of the C operator in PT quantum mechanics
authors: F. Kleefeld
comments: 9 pages, no figures; references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1011
abstract: Most recently it has been observed e.g. by Bender and Klevansky (arXiv:0905.4673 [hep-th]) that the C-operator related to a PT-symmetric non-Hermitian Hamilton operator is not unique. Moreover it has been remarked by Shi and Sun (arXiv:0905.1771 [hep-th]) very recently that there seems to exist a well defined inner product in the context of the Hamilton operator of the PT-symmetric non-Hermitian Lee model yielding a different C-operator as compared to the one previously derived by Bender et al.. The puzzling observations of both manuscripts are reconciled and explained in the present manuscript as follows: the actual form of the metric operator (and the induced C-operator) related to some non-Hermitian Hamilton operator constructed along the lines of Shi and Su depends on the chosen normalization of the left and right eigenvectors of the Hamilton operator under consideration and is therefore ambiguous. For a specific PT-symmetric 2x2-matrix Hamilton operator it is shown that - by a suitable choice of the norm of its eigenvectors - the metric operator yielding a positive semi-definite inner product can be made even independent of the parameters of the considered Hamilton operator. This surprising feature makes in turn the obtained metric operator rather unique and attractive. For later convenience the metric operator for the Bosonic and Fermionic (anti)causal harmonic oscillator is derived.

id: 0906.1016
title: On graphs whose Laplacian matrix's multipartite separability is invariant under graph isomorphism
authors: Chai Wah Wu
comments: 5 pages
journal: Final version in Discrete Mathematics 310 (2010), 2811-2814
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1016
abstract: Normalized Laplacian matrices of graphs have recently been studied in the context of quantum mechanics as density matrices of quantum systems. Of particular interest is the relationship between quantum physical properties of the density matrix and the graph theoretical properties of the underlying graph. One important aspect of density matrices is their entanglement properties, which are responsible for many nonintuitive physical phenomena. The entanglement property of normalized Laplacian matrices is in general not invariant under graph isomorphism. In recent papers, graphs were identified whose entanglement and separability properties are invariant under isomorphism. The purpose of this note is to characterize the set of graphs whose separability is invariant under graph isomorphism. In particular, we show that this set consists of $K_{2,2}$, $\overline{K_{2,2}}$ and all complete graphs.

id: 0906.1110
title: Dynamical creation of a supersolid in asymmetric mixtures of bosons
authors: Tassilo Keilmann, J. Ignacio Cirac, Tommaso Roscilde
comments: Accepted at Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:255304,2009
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1110
abstract: We propose a scheme to dynamically create a supersolid state in an optical lattice, using an attractive mixture of mass-imbalanced bosons. Starting from a "molecular" quantum crystal, supersolidity is induced dynamically as an out-of-equilibrium state. When neighboring molecular wavefunctions overlap, both bosonic species simultaneously exhibit quasi-condensation and long-range solid order, which is stabilized by their mass imbalance. Supersolidity appears in a perfect one-dimensional crystal, without the requirement of doping. Our model can be realized in present experiments with bosonic mixtures that feature simple on-site interactions, clearing the path to the observation of supersolidity.

id: 0906.1153
title: Shannon and entanglement entropies of one- and two-dimensional critical wave functions
authors: Jean-Marie Stphan, Shunsuke Furukawa, Grgoire Misguich, Vincent Pasquier
comments: 23 pages, 19 figures, to be published in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 184421 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1153
abstract: We study the Shannon entropy of the probability distribution resulting from the ground-state wave function of a one-dimensional quantum model. This entropy is related to the entanglement entropy of a Rokhsar-Kivelson-type wave function built from the corresponding two-dimensional classical model. In both critical and massive cases, we observe that it is composed of an extensive part proportional to the length of the system and a subleading universal constant S_0. In c=1 critical systems (Tomonaga-Luttinger liquids), we find that S_0 is a simple function of the boson compactification radius. This finding is based on a field-theoretical analysis of the Dyson-Gaudin gas related to dimer and Calogero-Sutherland models. We also performed numerical demonstrations in the dimer models and the spin-1/2 XXZ chain. In a massive (crystal) phase, S_0 is related to the ground-state degeneracy. We also examine this entropy in the Ising chain in a transverse field as an example showing a c=1/2 critical point.

id: 0906.1179
title: Feshbach Resonance in Optical Lattices and the Quantum Ising Model
authors: M. J. Bhaseen, A. O. Silver, M. Hohenadler, B. D. Simons
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 265302 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1179
abstract: Motivated by experiments on heteronuclear Feshbach resonances in Bose mixtures, we investigate s-wave pairing of two species of bosons in an optical lattice. The zero temperature phase diagram supports a rich array of superfluid and Mott phases and a network of quantum critical points. This topology reveals an underlying structure that is succinctly captured by a two-component Landau theory. Within the second Mott lobe we establish a quantum phase transition described by the paradigmatic longitudinal and transverse field Ising model. This is confirmed by exact diagonalization of the 1D bosonic Hamiltonian. We also find this transition in the homonuclear case.

id: 0906.1383
title: Ultrastrong coupling regime of cavity QED with phase-biased flux qubits
authors: J. Bourassa, J. M. Gambetta, A. A. Abdumalikov Jr, O. Astafiev, Y. Nakamura, A. Blais
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures. Published version with minor changes and corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032109 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1383
abstract: We theoretically study a circuit QED architecture based on a superconducting flux qubit directly coupled to the center conductor of a coplanar waveguide transmission-line resonator. As already shown experimentally [Abdumalikov et al. Phys. Rev. B 78, 180502 (2008)], the strong coupling regime of cavity QED can readily be achieved by optimizing the local inductance of the resonator in the vicinity of the qubit. In addition to yielding stronger coupling with respect to other proposals for flux qubit based circuit QED, this approach leads to a qubit-resonator coupling strength g which does not scale as the area of the qubit but is proportional to the total inductance shared between the resonator and the qubit. Strong coupling can thus be attained while still minimizing sensitivity to flux noise. Finally, we show that by taking advantage of the the large kinetic inductance of a Josephson junction in the center conductor of the resonator can lead to coupling energies of several tens of percent of the resonator frequency, reaching the ultrastrong coupling regime of cavity QED where the rotating-wave approximation breaks down. This should allow an on-chip implementation of the E x B Jahn-Teller model.

id: 0906.1399
title: On Quantum-Classical Equivalence for Composed Communication Problems
authors: Alexander A. Sherstov
comments: Journal version
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, 10(5-6):435-455, 2010
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1399
abstract: An open problem in communication complexity proposed by several authors is to prove that for every Boolean function f, the task of computing f(x AND y) has polynomially related classical and quantum bounded-error complexities. We solve a variant of this question. For every f, we prove that the task of computing, on input x and y, both of the quantities f(x AND y) and f(x OR y) has polynomially related classical and quantum bounded-error complexities. We further show that the quantum bounded-error complexity is polynomially related to the classical deterministic complexity and the block sensitivity of f. This result holds regardless of prior entanglement.

id: 0906.1435
title: Chaos and Correspondence in Classical and Quantum Hamiltonian Ratchets: A Heisenberg Approach
authors: Jordan Pelc, Jiangbin Gong, Paul Brumer
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 066207 (2009)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1435
abstract: Previous work [Gong and Brumer, Phys. Rev. Lett., 97, 240602 (2006)] motivates this study as to how asymmetry-driven quantum ratchet effects can persist despite a corresponding fully chaotic classical phase space. A simple perspective of ratchet dynamics, based on the Heisenberg picture, is introduced. We show that ratchet effects are in principle of common origin in classical and quantum mechanics, though full chaos suppresses these effects in the former but not necessarily the latter. The relationship between ratchet effects and coherent dynamical control is noted.

id: 0906.1499
title: A short review on entanglement in quantum spin systems
authors: J. I. Latorre, A. Riera
comments: 20 pages and 6 figures. Review article for the special issue "Entanglement entropy in extended systems" in J. Phys. A, edited by P. Calabrese, J. Cardy and B. Doyon
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 504002
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1499
abstract: We review some of the recent progress on the study of entropy of entanglement in many-body quantum systems. Emphasis is placed on the scaling properties of entropy for one-dimensional multi-partite models at quantum phase transitions and, more generally, on the concept of area law. We also briefly describe the relation between entanglement and the presence of impurities, the idea of particle entanglement, the evolution of entanglement along renormalization group trajectories, the dynamical evolution of entanglement and the fate of entanglement along a quantum computation.

id: 0906.1569
title: Scaling of Entanglement Entropy at 2D quantum Lifshitz fixed points and topological fluids
authors: Eduardo Fradkin
comments: 34 pages, 8 figures. Review paper to appear in a special issue of J. Phys. A on Entanglement Entropy
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. 42, 504011 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1569
abstract: The entanglement entropy of a pure quantum state of a bipartite system is defined as the von Neumann entropy of the reduced density matrix obtained by tracing over one of the two parts. Critical ground states of local Hamiltonians in one dimension have an entanglement entropy that diverges logarithmically in the subsystem size, with a universal coefficient that is is related to the central charge of the associated conformal field theory. Here I will discuss recent extensions of these ideas to a class of quantum critical points with dynamic critical exponent $z=2$ in two space dimensions and to 2D systems in a topological phase. The application of these ideas to quantum dimer models and fractional quantum Hall states will be discussed.

id: 0906.1634
title: M?bius Graphene Strip as Topological Insulator
authors: Z. L. Guo, Z. R. Gong, H. Dong, C. P. Sun
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 195310 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1634
abstract: We study the electronic properties of M\"{o}bius graphene strip with a zigzag edge. We show that such graphene strip behaves as a topological insulator with a gapped bulk and a robust metallic surface, which enjoys some features due to its nontrivial topology of the spatial configuration, such as the existence of edge states and the non-Abelian induced gauge field. We predict that the topological properties of the M\"{o}bius graphene strip can be experimentally displayed by the destructive interference in the transmission spectrum, and the robustness of edge states under certain perturbations.

id: 0906.1663
title: Reduced density matrices and entanglement entropy in free lattice models
authors: Ingo Peschel, Viktor Eisler
comments: 33 pages, 18 figures, minor changes, references added. Review article for the special issue "Entanglement entropy in extended systems" in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 504003 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1663
abstract: We review the properties of reduced density matrices for free fermionic or bosonic many-particle systems in their ground state. Their basic feature is that they have a thermal form and thus lead to a quasi-thermodynamic problem with a certain free-particle Hamiltonian. We discuss the derivation of this result, the character of the Hamiltonian and its eigenstates, the single-particle spectra and the full spectra, the resulting entanglement and in particular the entanglement entropy. This is done for various one- and two-dimensional situations, including also the evolution after global or local quenches.

id: 0906.1686
title: Quantum entanglement of spin-1 bosons with coupled ground states in optical lattices
authors: B. ?ztop, M. ?. Oktel, ?. E. Mstecapl?o?lu, L. You
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures. To be published in Journal of Physics B
journal: Journal of Physics B 42, 145505 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1686
abstract: We examine particle entanglement, characterized by pseudo-spin squeezing, of spin-1 bosonic atoms with coupled ground states in a one-dimensional optical lattice. Both the superfluid and Mott-insulator phases are investigated separately for ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic interactions. Mode entanglement is also discussed in the Mott insulating phase. The role of a small but nonzero angle between the polarization vectors of counter-propagating lasers forming the optical lattice on quantum correlations is investigated as well.

id: 0906.1702
title: Approximating the Permanent via Nonabelian Determinants
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1702
abstract: Celebrated work of Jerrum, Sinclair, and Vigoda has established that the permanent of a {0,1} matrix can be approximated in randomized polynomial time by using a rapidly mixing Markov chain. A separate strand of the literature has pursued the possibility of an alternate, purely algebraic, polynomial-time approximation scheme. These schemes work by replacing each 1 with a random element of an algebra A, and considering the determinant of the resulting matrix. When A is noncommutative, this determinant can be defined in several ways. We show that for estimators based on the conventional determinant, the critical ratio of the second moment to the square of the first--and therefore the number of trials we need to obtain a good estimate of the permanent--is (1 + O(1/d))^n when A is the algebra of d by d matrices. These results can be extended to group algebras, and semi-simple algebras in general. We also study the symmetrized determinant of Barvinok, showing that the resulting estimator has small variance when d is large enough. However, for constant d--the only case in which an efficient algorithm is known--we show that the critical ratio exceeds 2^{n} / n^{O(d)}. Thus our results do not provide a new polynomial-time approximation scheme for the permanent. Indeed, they suggest that the algebraic approach to approximating the permanent faces significant obstacles. We obtain these results using diagrammatic techniques in which we express matrix products as contractions of tensor products. When these matrices are random, in either the Haar measure or the Gaussian measure, we can evaluate the trace of these products in terms of the cycle structure of a suitably random permutation. In the symmetrized case, our estimates are then derived by a connection with the character theory of the symmetric group.

id: 0906.1761
title: Unique decompositions, faces, and automorphisms of separable states
authors: Erik Alfsen, Fred Shultz
comments: Since original version:Cor. 6 revised and renamed Thm 6, some definitions added before Cor. 11, introduction revised and references added, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1761
abstract: Let S_k be the set of separable states on B(C^m \otimes C^n) admitting a representation as a convex combination of k pure product states, or fewer. If m>1, n> 1, and k \le max(m,n), we show that S_k admits a subset V_k such that V_k is dense and open in S_k, and such that each state in V_k has a unique decomposition as a convex combination of pure product states, and we describe all possible convex decompositions for a set of separable states that properly contains V_k. In both cases we describe the associated faces of the space of separable states, which in the first case are simplexes, and in the second case are direct convex sums of faces that are isomorphic to state spaces of full matrix algebras. As an application of these results, we characterize all affine automorphisms of the convex set of separable states, and all automorphisms of the state space of B(C^m otimes C^n). that preserve entanglement and separability.

id: 0906.1791
title: Semiclassical approach to the ac-conductance of chaotic cavities
authors: Cyril Petitjean, Daniel Waltner, Jack Kuipers, Inanc Adagideli, Klaus Richter
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 80,115310 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1791
abstract: We address frequency-dependent quantum transport through mesoscopic conductors in the semiclassical limit. By generalizing the trajectory-based semiclassical theory of dc quantum transport to the ac case, we derive the average screened conductance as well as ac weak-localization corrections for chaotic conductors. Thereby we confirm respective random matrix results and generalize them by accounting for Ehrenfest time effects. We consider the case of a cavity connected through many leads to a macroscopic circuit which contains ac-sources. In addition to the reservoir the cavity itself is capacitively coupled to a gate. By incorporating tunnel barriers between cavity and leads we obtain results for arbitrary tunnel rates. Finally, based on our findings we investigate the effect of dephasing on the charge relaxation resistance of a mesoscopic capacitor in the linear low-frequency regime.

id: 0906.1809
title: Entanglement entropy in quantum impurity systems and systems with boundaries
authors: Ian Affleck, Nicolas Laflorencie, Erik S. Sorensen
comments: 40 pages and 22 figures. Review article for the special issue "Entanglement entropy in extended systems" in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 504009 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1809
abstract: We review research on a number of situations where a quantum impurity or a physical boundary has an interesting effect on entanglement entropy. Our focus is mainly on impurity entanglement as it occurs in one dimensional systems with a single impurity or a boundary, in particular quantum spin models, but generalizations to higher dimensions are also reviewed. Recent advances in the understanding of impurity entanglement as it occurs in the spin-boson and Kondo impurity models are discussed along with the influence of boundaries. Particular attention is paid to 1+1 dimensional models where analytical results can be obtained for the case of conformally invariant boundary conditions and a connection to topological entanglement entropy is made. New results for the entanglement in systems with mixed boundary conditions are presented. Analytical results for the entanglement entropy obtained from Fermi liquid theory are also discussed as well as several different recent definitions of the impurity contribution to the entanglement entropy.

id: 0906.1877
title: Random quantum channels II: Entanglement of random subspaces, Renyi entropy estimates and additivity problems
authors: Beno?t Collins, Ion Nechita
comments: 3 figures added, minor typos corrected
journal: Advances in Mathematics 226 (2011), 1181-1201
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1877
abstract: In this paper we obtain new bounds for the minimum output entropies of random quantum channels. These bounds rely on random matrix techniques arising from free probability theory. We then revisit the counterexamples developed by Hayden and Winter to get violations of the additivity equalities for minimum output R\'enyi entropies. We show that random channels obtained by randomly coupling the input to a qubit violate the additivity of the $p$-R\'enyi entropy. For some sequences of random quantum channels, we compute almost surely the limit of their Schatten $S_1 \to S_p$ norms.

id: 0906.2001
title: Klein-Gordon lower bound to the semirelativistic ground-state energy
authors: Richard L. Hall, Wolfgang Lucha
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A374:1980-1984,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2001
abstract: For the class of attractive potentials V(r) <= 0 which vanish at infinity, we prove that the ground-state energy E of the semirelativistic Hamiltonian H = \sqrt{m^2 + p^2} + V(r) is bounded below by the ground-state energy e of the corresponding Klein--Gordon problem (p^2 + m^2)\phi = (V(r) -e)^2\phi. Detailed results are presented for the exponential and Woods--Saxon potentials.

id: 0906.2157
title: On consistency of the quantum-like representation algorithm
authors: Peter Nyman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2157
abstract: In this paper we continue to study so called ``inverse Born's rule problem'': to construct representation of probabilistic data of any origin by a complex probability amplitude which matches Born's rule. The corresponding algorithm -- quantum-like representation algorithm (QLRA) was recently proposed by A. Khrennikov [1]--[5]. Formally QLRA depends on the order of conditioning. For two observables $a$ and $b,$ $b| a$- and $a | b$ conditional probabilities produce two representations, say in Hilbert spaces $H^{b| a}$ and $H^{a| b}.$ In this paper we prove that under natural assumptions these two representations are unitary equivalent. This result proves consistency QLRA.

id: 0906.2161
title: Noncommutative quantum mechanics as a gauge theory
authors: F. S. Bemfica, H. O. Girotti
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review D
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:125024,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2161
abstract: The classical counterpart of noncommutative quantum mechanics is a constrained system containing only second class constraints. The embedding procedure formulated by Batalin, Fradkin and Tyutin (BFT) enables one to transform this system into an Abelian gauge theory exhibiting only first class constraints. The appropriateness of the BFT embedding, as implemented in this work, is verified by showing that there exists a one to one mapping linking the second class model with the gauge invariant sector of the gauge theory. As is known, the functional quantization of a gauge theory calls for the elimination of its gauge freedom. Then, we have at our disposal an infinite set of alternative descriptions for noncommutative quantum mechanics, one for each gauge. We study the relevant features of this infinite set of correspondences. The functional quantization of the gauge theory is explicitly performed for two gauges and the results compared with that corresponding to the second class system. Within the operator framework the gauge theory is quantized by using Dirac's method.

id: 0906.2313
title: Interplay between geometry and temperature for inclined Casimir plates
authors: Alexej Weber, Holger Gies
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures, revtex4
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:065033,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2313
abstract: We provide further evidence for the nontrivial interplay between geometry and temperature in the Casimir effect. We investigate the temperature dependence of the Casimir force between an inclined semi-infinite plate above an infinite plate in D dimensions using the worldline formalism. Whereas the high-temperature behavior is always found to be linear in T in accordance with dimensional-reduction arguments, different power-law behaviors at small temperatures emerge. Unlike the case of infinite parallel plates, which shows the well-known T^D behavior of the force, we find a T^{D-1} behavior for inclined plates, and a ~T^{D-0.3} behavior for the edge effect in the limit where the plates become parallel. The strongest temperature dependence ~T^{D-2} occurs for the Casimir torque of inclined plates. Numerical as well as analytical worldline results are presented.

id: 0906.2331
title: Solvable Rational Potentials and Exceptional Orthogonal Polynomials in Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Christiane Quesne
comments: v2: additions in secs. 1 and 4, 5 new references; v3: published version
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 084, 24 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2331
abstract: New exactly solvable rationally-extended radial oscillator and Scarf I potentials are generated by using a constructive supersymmetric quantum mechanical method based on a reparametrization of the corresponding conventional superpotential and on the addition of an extra rational contribution expressed in terms of some polynomial $g$. The cases where $g$ is linear or quadratic are considered. In the former, the extended potentials are strictly isospectral to the conventional ones with reparametrized couplings and are shape invariant. In the latter, there appears a variety of extended potentials, some with the same characteristics as the previous ones and others with an extra bound state below the conventional potential spectrum. Furthermore, the wavefunctions of the extended potentials are constructed. In the linear case, they contain $(\nu+1)$th-degree polynomials with $\nu=0,1,2,...$, which are shown to be $X_1$-Laguerre or $X_1$-Jacobi exceptional orthogonal polynomials. In the quadratic case, several extensions of these polynomials appear. Among them, two different kinds of $(\nu+2)$th-degree Laguerre-type polynomials and a single one of $(\nu+2)$th-degree Jacobi-type polynomials with $\nu=0,1,2,...$ are identified. They are candidates for the still unknown $X_2$-Laguerre and $X_2$-Jacobi exceptional orthogonal polynomials, respectively.

id: 0906.2669
title: Lump-like Structures in Scalar-field Models
authors: A.T. Avelar, D. Bazeia, W.B. Cardoso, L. Losano
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:222-227,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2669
abstract: In this work we investigate the presence of lump-like solutions in models described by a single real scalar field. We take advantage of a procedure recently used to describe explicit analytical solutions and we study several distinct models, showing how the parameters can be used to control the specific features of the lump-like structures. The proposed models are of direct interest to the construction of q-balls, to induce tachyonic excitations and gravitating structures of nontopological profile on braneworld models with a single extra dimension, to map solitons in optical fibers, and to describe collective excitations in Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 0906.2712
title: Decoherence and CPT Violation in a Stringy Model of Space-Time Foam
authors: Nick E. Mavromatos
comments: 41 pages Latex, five eps figures incorporated. Uses special macros
journal: Found.Phys.40:917-960,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2712
abstract: I discuss a model inspired from the string/brane framework, in which our Universe is represented as a three brane, propagating in a bulk space time punctured by D0-brane (D-particle) defects. As the D3-brane world moves in the bulk, the D-particles cross it, and from an effective observer on D3 the situation looks like a ``space-time foam'' with the defects ``flashing'' on and off (``D-particle foam''). The open strings, with their ends attached on the brane, which represent matter in this scenario, can interact with the D-particles on the D3-brane universe in a topologically non-trivial manner, involving splitting and capture of the strings by the D0-brane defects. Such processes are described by logarithmic conformal field theories on the world-sheet. Physically, they result in effective decoherence of the string matter on the D3 brane, and as a result, of CPT Violation, but of a type that implies an ill-defined nature of the effective CPT operator. Due to electric charge conservation, only electrically neutral (string) matter can exhibit such interactions with the D-particle foam. This may have unique, experimentally detectable, consequences for electrically-neutral entangled quantum matter states on the brane world, in particular the modification of the pertinent EPR Correlation of neutral mesons in a meson factory.

id: 0906.2898
title: Casimir Effect on the brane
authors: Antonino Flachi, Takahiro Tanaka
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; version to appear in Phys. Rev. D Abstract shortened in the arXive entry
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:124022,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2898
abstract: We consider the Casimir effect between two parallel plates localized on a brane. In order to properly compute the contribution to the Casimir energy due to any higher dimensional field, it is necessary to take into account the localization properties of the KK modes. When no massless mode appears in the spectrum, the correction to the Casimir energy is exponentially suppressed. When a massless mode is present in the spectrum, the correction to the Casimir energy can be, in principle, sizeable. Here we illustrate a new method to compute the correction to the Casimir energy between two parallel plates, localized on a brane. The Casimir energy is suppressed by two factors: at lowest order in $\varepsilon$, the correction comes entirely from the massive mode and turns out to be exponentially suppressed; the next-to-leading order correction in $\varepsilon$ follows, instead, a power-law suppression due to the small wave function overlap of the zero-mode with matter confined on the visible brane. Generic comments on the constraints on new physics that may arise from Casimir force experiments are also made.

id: 0906.2929
title: The algebra of Grassmann canonical anti-commutation relations (GAR) and its applications to fermionic systems
authors: Michael Keyl, Dirk-M. Schlingemann
comments: 25 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys.51:023522,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2929
abstract: We present an approach to a non-commutative-like phase space which allows to analyze quasi-free states on the CAR algebra in analogy to quasi-free states on the CCR algebra. The used mathematical tools are based on a new algebraic structure the "Grassmann algebra of canonical anti-commutation relations" (GAR algebra) which is given by the twisted tensor product of a Grassmann and a CAR algebra. As a new application, the corresponding theory provides an elegant tool for calculating the fidelity of two quasi-free fermionic states which is needed for the study of entanglement distillation within fermionic systems.

id: 0906.2979
title: Exploiting Kerr Cross Non-linearity in Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics for Non-demolition Measurements
authors: Shwetank Kumar, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2979
abstract: We propose a scheme for dispersive readout of stored energy in one mode of a nonlinear superconducting microwave ring resonator by detection of the frequency shift of a second mode coupled to the first via a Kerr nonlinearity. Symmetry is used to enhance the device responsivity while minimizing self nonlinearity of each mode. Assessment of the signal to noise ratio indicates that the scheme will function at the single photon level, allowing quantum non-demolition measurement of the photon number state of one mode. Experimental data from a simplified version of the device demonstrating the principle of operation are presented.

id: 0906.3042
title: Optical Kagome lattice for ultra-cold atoms with nearest neighbor interactions
authors: J. Ruostekoski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 (2009) 080406
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3042
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement an optical Kagome lattice for ultra-cold atoms with controllable s-wave interactions between nearest neighbor sites and a gauge potential. The atoms occupy three different internal atomic levels with electromagnetically-induced coupling between the levels. We show that by appropriately shifting the triangular lattice potentials, experienced by atoms in different levels, the Kagome lattice can be realized using only two standing waves, generating a highly frustrated quantum system for the atoms.

id: 0906.3127
title: The dynamical Casimir effect in a superconducting coplanar waveguide
authors: J.R. Johansson, G. Johansson, C.M. Wilson, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 147003 (2009)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3127
abstract: We investigate the dynamical Casimir effect in a coplanar waveguide (CPW) terminated by a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID). Changing the magnetic flux through the SQUID parametrically modulates the boundary condition of the CPW, and thereby, its effective length. Effective boundary velocities comparable to the speed of light in the CPW result in broadband photon generation which is identical to the one calculated in the dynamical Casimir effect for a single oscillating mirror. We estimate the power of the radiation for realistic parameters and show that it is experimentally feasible to directly detect this nonclassical broadband radiation.

id: 0906.3148
title: Evidence of magic numbers in nuclei by statistical indicators
authors: Ricardo Lopez-Ruiz, Jaime Sanudo
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3148
abstract: The calculation of a statistical measure of complexity and the Fisher-Shannon information in nuclei is carried out in this work. We use the nuclear shell model in order to obtain the fractional occupation probabilities of nuclear orbitals. The increasing of both magnitudes, the statistical complexity and the Fisher-Shannon information, with the number of nucleons is observed. The shell structure is reflected by the behavior of the statistical complexity. The magic numbers are revealed by the Fisher-Shannon information.

id: 0906.3294
title: Time-optimal performance of Josephson charge qubits: A process tomography approach
authors: Robert Roloff, Walter P?tz
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 224516 (2009)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3294
abstract: A process tomography based optimization scheme for open quantum systems is used to determine the performance limits of Josephson charge qubits within current experimental means. The qubit is modeled microscopically as an open quantum system taking into account state leakage, as well as environment-induced dephasing based on experimental noise spectra. Within time-optimal control theory, we show that the competing requirements for suppression of state leakage and dephasing can be met by an external control of the effective qubit-environment interaction, yielding minimal gate fidelity losses of around $\Delta F \approx 10^{-3}$ under typical experimental conditions.

id: 0906.3344
title: Above-threshold ionization photoelectron spectrum from quantum trajectory
authors: X. Y. Lai, Q. Y. Cai, M. S. Zhan
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.D53:393-396,2009
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3344
abstract: Many nonlinear quantum phenomena of intense laser-atom physics can be intuitively explained with the concept of trajectory. In this paper, Bohmian mechanics (BM) is introduced to study a multiphoton process of atoms interacting with the intense laser field: above-threshold ionization (ATI). Quantum trajectory of an atomic electron in intense laser field is obtained from the Bohm-Newton equation first and then the energy of the photoelectron is gained from its trajectory. With energies of an ensemble of photoelectrons, we obtain the ATI spectrum which is consistent with the previous theoretical and experimental results. Comparing BM with the classical trajectory Monte-Carlo method, we conclude that quantum potential may play a key role to reproduce the spectrum of ATI. Our work may present a new approach to understanding quantum phenomena in intense laser-atom physics with the image of trajectory.

id: 0906.3578
title: Duality Breaking of Vortex Configuration in a Hierarchical Honeycomb Network
authors: S. Tsuchiya, T. Toshima, H. Nobukane, K. Inagaki, S. Tanda
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 094502 (2009)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3578
abstract: We report measurements of Little-Parks oscillation on the hierarchical honeycomb-superconducting network for investigating possible effects of hierarchical structure in terms of spatial symmetry, parity and duality. We observed an asymmetric Little-Parks oscillation about $\Phi/\Phi_0 = 1/2$, although spatial symmetry was kept in the network. In comparison with a regular honeycomb network, the asymmetric oscillation is attributed to hierarchy which induces mixture of commensurate and incommensurate regions. The asymmetric oscillation is found to indicate breaking of the duality of vortex configuration.

id: 0906.3703
title: When finite-size corrections vanish: The S=1/2 XXZ model and the Razumov-Stroganov state
authors: Leonardo Banchi, Filippo Colomo, Paola Verrucchi
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 (2009) 022341
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3703
abstract: We study the one-dimensional $S=1/2$ XXZ model on a finite lattice at zero temperature, varying the exchange anisotropy $\Delta$ and the number of sites $N$ of the lattice. Special emphasis is given to the model with $\Delta=1/2$ and $N$ odd, whose ground state, the so-called Razumov-Stroganov state, has a peculiar structure and no finite-size corrections to the energy per site. We find that such model corresponds to a special point on the $\Delta$-axis which separates the region where adding spin-pairs increases the energy per site from that where the longer the chain the lower the energy. Entanglement properties do not hold surprises for $\Delta=1/2$ and $N$ odd. Finite-size corrections to the energy per site non trivially vanish also in the ferromagnetic $\Delta\to -1^+$ isotropic limit, which is consequently addressed; in this case, peculiar features of some entanglement properties, due to the finite length of the chain and related with the change in the symmetry of the Hamiltonian, are evidenced and discussed. In both the above models the absence of finite-size corrections to the energy per site is related to a peculiar structure of the ground state, which has permitted us to provide new exact analytic expressions for some correlation functions.

id: 0906.3905
title: Numerical representation of quantum states in the positive-P and Wigner representations
authors: M. K. Olsen, A. S. Bradley
comments: 16 pages, single column format
journal: Optics Communications, 282, 3924 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3905
abstract: Numerical stochastic integration is a powerful tool for the investigation of quantum dynamics in interacting many body systems. As with all numerical integration of differential equations, the initial conditions of the system being investigated must be specified. With application to quantum optics in mind, we show how various commonly considered quantum states can be numerically simulated by the use of widely available Gaussian and uniform random number generators. We note that the same methods can also be applied to computational studies of Bose-Einstein condensates, and give some examples of how this can be done.

id: 0906.3958
title: Super Mario's prison break -- a proposal of object-intelligent-feedback-based classical Zeno and anti-Zeno effects
authors: Shi-Jian Gu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: EPL(Europhysics Letters) 88, 20007 (2009).
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3958
abstract: Super Mario is imprisoned by a demon in a finite potential well. He can escape from the well with the help of a flight of magic stairs floating in the space. However, the hateful demon may occasionally check his status. At that time, he has to make a judgement of either jumping to the inside ground immediately in order to avoid the discovery of his escape intention, or speeding up his escape process. Therefore, if the demon checks him too frequently such that there is no probability for him to reach the top of the barrier, he will be always inside the well, then a classical Zeno effect occurs. On the other hand, if the time interval between two subsequent checks is large enough such that he has a higher probability of being beyond the demon's controllable range already, then the demon's check actually speeds up his escape and a classical anti-Zeno effect takes place.

id: 0906.3976
title: Adiabatic Splitting, Transport, and Self-Trapping of a Bose-Einstein Condensate in a Double-Well Potential
authors: C. Ottaviani, V. Ahufinger, R. Corbaln, J. Mompart
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043621 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.3976
abstract: We show that the adiabatic dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a double well potential can be described in terms of a dark variable resulting from the combination of the population imbalance and the spatial atomic coherence between the two wells. By means of this dark variable, we extend, to the non-linear matter wave case, the recent proposal by Vitanov and Shore [Phys. Rev. A 73, 053402 (2006)] on adiabatic passage techniques to coherently control the population of two internal levels of an atom/molecule. We investigate the conditions to adiabatically split or transport a BEC as well as to prepare an adiabatic self trapping state by the optimal delayed temporal variation of the tunneling rate via either the energy bias between the two wells or the BEC non-linearity. The emergence of non-linear eigenstates and unstable stationary solutions of the system as well as their role in the breaking down of the adiabatic dynamics is investigated in detail.

id: 0906.4042
title: Quantum Coherence of Electrons Field-Emitted from a Superconductor: Correlations and Entanglement
authors: Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80 (2009) 104516
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4042
abstract: The correlations of the electrons field-emitted from a superconductor are fully analyzed, both in space and time. It is proposed that a coincidence experiment would reveal a positive correlation between the electrons emitted in opposite directions. The electrons can be entangled and can even violate Bell's inequality. The crucial role played by Andreev's process is scrutinized, analytical formulas are derived for the correlations, and the physics behind the phenomenon is clarified.

id: 0906.4055
title: Hidden superconformal symmetry of spinless Aharonov-Bohm system
authors: Francisco Correa, Horacio Falomir, Vit Jakubsky, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 25 pages, published version
journal: J.Phys.A43:075202,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4055
abstract: A hidden supersymmetry is revealed in the spinless Aharonov-Bohm problem. The intrinsic supersymmetric structure is shown to be intimately related with the scale symmetry. As a result, a bosonized superconformal symmetry is identified in the system. Different self-adjoint extensions of the Aharonov-Bohm problem are studied in the light of this superconformal structure and interacting anyons. Scattering problem of the original Aharonov-Bohm model is discussed in the context of the revealed supersymmetry.

id: 0906.4282
title: Logarithmic nonlinearity in theories of quantum gravity: Origin of time and observational consequences
authors: Konstantin G. Zloshchastiev
comments: Shortened version was given as a talk at the Memorial Gamow'105 [AIP Conf. Proc. 1206 (2010) 112-120]. Updates: v2: added parts about Wehrl entropy and EPR locality violation, v3: more thorough analysis of dispersion relations and phenomenological implications, v4: added momentum dispersion relations and refractive index, some refs, v5 (published version): some additional explanations added
journal: Grav. Cosmol. 16 (2010) 288-297
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4282
abstract: Starting from a generic generally covariant classical theory we introduce the logarithmic correction to the quantum wave equation. We demonstrate the emergence of the evolution time from the group of automorphisms of the von Neumann algebra governed by this non-linear correction. It turns out that such time parametrization is essentially energy-dependent and becomes global only asymptotically - when the energies get very small comparing to the effective quantum gravity scale. Similar thing happens to the Lorentz invariance - in the resulting theory it becomes an asymptotic low-energy phenomenon. We show how the logarithmic non-linearity deforms the vacuum wave dispersion relations and explains certain features of the astrophysical data coming from recent observations of high-energy cosmic rays. In general, the estimates imply that ceteris paribus the particles with higher energy propagate slower than those with lower one, therefore, for a high-energy particle the mean free path, lifetime in a high-energy state and, therefore, travel distance from the source can be significantly larger than one would expect from the conventional theory. Apart from this, we discuss also the possibility and conditions of the transluminal phenomena in the physical vacuum such as the Cherenkov-type shock waves.

id: 0906.4291
title: The Pattern Matrix Method (Journal Version)
authors: Alexander A. Sherstov
comments: Revised and expanded version of the STOC'08 article. To appear in SIAM J. Comput., 2009
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4291
abstract: We develop a novel and powerful technique for communication lower bounds, the pattern matrix method. Specifically, fix an arbitrary function f:{0,1}^n->{0,1} and let A_f be the matrix whose columns are each an application of f to some subset of the variables x_1,x_2,...,x_{4n}. We prove that A_f has bounded-error communication complexity Omega(d), where d is the approximate degree of f. This result remains valid in the quantum model, regardless of prior entanglement. In particular, it gives a new and simple proof of Razborov's breakthrough quantum lower bounds for disjointness and other symmetric predicates. We further characterize the discrepancy, approximate rank, and approximate trace norm of A_f in terms of well-studied analytic properties of f, broadly generalizing several recent results on small-bias communication and agnostic learning. The method of this paper has recently enabled important progress in multiparty communication complexity.

id: 0906.4362
title: Photodetection of propagating quantum microwaves in circuit QED
authors: G. Romero, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, E. Solano
comments: 27 pages, submitted to Physica Scripta for Nobel Symposium on "Qubits for Quantum Information", 2009
journal: Phys. Scr. T 137, 014004 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4362
abstract: We develop the theory of a metamaterial composed of an array of discrete quantum absorbers inside a one-dimensional waveguide that implements a high-efficiency microwave photon detector. A basic design consists of a few metastable superconducting nanocircuits spread inside and coupled to a one-dimensional waveguide in a circuit QED setup. The arrival of a {\it propagating} quantum microwave field induces an irreversible change in the population of the internal levels of the absorbers, due to a selective absorption of photon excitations. This design is studied using a formal but simple quantum field theory, which allows us to evaluate the single-photon absorption efficiency for one and many absorber setups. As an example, we consider a particular design that combines a coplanar coaxial waveguide with superconducting phase qubits, a natural but not exclusive playground for experimental implementations. This work and a possible experimental realization may stimulate the possible arrival of "all-optical" quantum information processing with propagating quantum microwaves, where a microwave photodetector could play a key role.

id: 0906.4451
title: Probing Quantum Frustrated Systems via Factorization of the Ground State
authors: Salvatore M. Giampaolo, Gerardo Adesso, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 207202 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4451
abstract: The existence of definite orders in frustrated quantum systems is related rigorously to the occurrence of fully factorized ground states below a threshold value of the frustration. Ground-state separability thus provides a natural measure of frustration: strongly frustrated systems are those that cannot accommodate for classical-like solutions. The exact form of the factorized ground states and the critical frustration are determined for various classes of nonexactly solvable spin models with different spatial ranges of the interactions. For weak frustration, the existence of disentangling transitions determines the range of applicability of mean-field descriptions in biological and physical problems such as stochastic gene expression and the stability of long-period modulated structures.

id: 0906.4511
title: The Fisher-Hartwig Formula and Generalized Entropies in XY Spin Chain
authors: A. R. Its, V. E. Korepin
comments: 29 page, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics: Volume 137, Issue 5 (2009), Page 1014.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4511
abstract: Toeplitz matrices have applications to different problems of statistical mechanics. Recently they were used for calculation of entanglement entropy in spin chains. We use the Fisher-Hartwig formula to calculate entanglement entropy of large block of spins in the ground state of XY spin chain. We also calculate Renyi entropy and prove that the spectrum of the density matrix of a block of spins is exact geometric sequence [also different eigenvalues are degenerated differently].

id: 0906.4732
title: Mixtures of correlated bosons and fermions: Dynamical mean-field theory for normal and condensed phases
authors: Krzysztof Byczuk, Dieter Vollhardt
comments: 11 pages, removed style-files for Greek letters
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 18, 622 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4732
abstract: We derive a dynamical mean-field theory for mixtures of interacting bosons and fermions on a lattice (BF-DMFT). The BF-DMFT is a comprehensive, thermodynamically consistent framework for the theoretical investigation of Bose-Fermi mixtures and is applicable for arbitrary values of the coupling parameters and temperatures. It becomes exact in the limit of high spatial dimensions d or coordination number Z of the lattice. In particular, the BF-DMFT treats normal and condensed bosons on equal footing and thus includes the effects caused by their dynamic coupling. Using the BF-DMFT we investigate two different interaction models of correlated lattice bosons and fermions, one where all particles are spinless (model I) and one where fermions carry a spin one-half (model II). In model I the local, repulsive interaction between bosons and fermions can give rise to an attractive effective interaction between the bosons. In model II it can also lead to an attraction between the fermions.

id: 0906.5337
title: Static Soliton at Nonequilibrium Steady State
authors: S. Ajisaka, S. Tasaki, I. Terasaki
comments: 9 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5337
abstract: Nonequlibrium phase transition of an open Takayama-Lin Liu-Maki chain coupled with two reservoirs is investigated. We will show that solitons connecting two uniform phases are possible, and the amplitude of solitons obeys the same self-consistent equation as that of uniform phases.

id: 0906.5339
title: Asymmetric Quantum Cyclic Codes
authors: Salah A. Aly
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5339
abstract: It is recently conjectured in quantum information processing that phase-shift errors occur with high probability than qubit-flip errors, hence the former is more disturbing to quantum information than the later one. This leads us to construct asymmetric quantum error controlling codes to protect quantum information over asymmetric channels, $\Pr Z \geq \Pr X$. In this paper we present two generic methods to derive asymmetric quantum cyclic codes using the generator polynomials and defining sets of classical cyclic codes. Consequently, the methods allow us to construct several families of asymmetric quantum BCH, RS, and RM codes. Finally, the methods are used to construct families of asymmetric subsystem codes.

id: 0906.5396
title: Discreteness of Space from the Generalized Uncertainty Principle
authors: Ahmed Farag Ali, Saurya Das, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: 3 pages, revtex4, no figures, to appear in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett.B678:497-499,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5396
abstract: Various approaches to Quantum Gravity (such as String Theory and Doubly Special Relativity), as well as black hole physics predict a minimum measurable length, or a maximum observable momentum, and related modifications of the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle to a so-called Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP). We propose a GUP consistent with String Theory, Doubly Special Relativity and black hole physics, and show that this modifies all quantum mechanical Hamiltonians. When applied to an elementary particle, it implies that the space which confines it must be quantized. This suggests that space itself is discrete, and that all measurable lengths are quantized in units of a fundamental length (which can be the Planck length). On the one hand, this signals the breakdown of the spacetime continuum picture near that scale, and on the other hand, it can predict an upper bound on the quantum gravity parameter in the GUP, from current observations. Furthermore, such fundamental discreteness of space may have observable consequences at length scales much larger than the Planck scale.

id: 0906.5603
title: Correlation Inequalities for Quantum Spin Systems with Quenched Centered Disorder
authors: Pierluigi Contucci, Joel L. Lebowitz
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5603
abstract: It is shown that random quantum spin systems with centered disorder satisfy correlation inequalities previously proved (arXiv:cond-mat/0612371) in the classical case. Consequences include monotone approach of pressure and ground state energy to the thermodynamic limit. Signs and bounds on the surface pressures for different boundary conditions are also derived for finite range potentials.

id: 0906.4960
title: Quantum divisibility test and its application in mesoscopic physics
authors: G.B. Lesovik, M.V. Suslov, G. Blatter
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4960
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm to transform the cardinality of a set of charged particles flowing along a quantum wire into a binary number. The setup performing this task (for at most N particles) involves log_2 N quantum bits serving as counters and a sequential read out. Applications include a divisibility check to experimentally test the size of a finite train of particles in a quantum wire with a one-shot measurement and a scheme allowing to entangle multi-particle wave functions and generating Bell states, Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, or Dicke states in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer.

id: 0906.4279
title: Quantum information processing at the cellular level. Euclidean approach
authors: Vasily Ogryzko
comments: 82 pages. The part on decoherence and enzymatic mechanism has been improved
journal: 
subjects: Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.4279
abstract: Application of quantum principles to living cells requires a new approximation of the full quantum mechanical description of intracellular dynamics. We discuss what principal elements any such good approximation should contain. As one such element, the notion of "Catalytic force" Cf is introduced. Cf is the effect of the molecular target of catalysis on the catalytic microenvironment that adjusts the microenvironment towards a state that facilitates the catalytic act. This phenomenon is experimentally testable and has an intriguing implication for biological organization and evolution, as it amounts to "optimization without natural selection of replicators". Unlike the statistical-mechanical approaches to self-organization, the Cf principle does not encounter the problem of "tradeoff between stability and complexity" at the level of individual cell. Physically, the Cf is considered as a harmonic-like force of reaction, which keeps the state of the cell close to the ground state, defined here as a state where enzymatic acts work most efficiently. Ground state is subject to unitary evolution, and serves as a starting point in a general strategy of quantum description of intracellular processes, termed here "Euclidean approach". The next step of this strategy is transition from the description of ground state to that one of growing state, and we suggest how it can be accomplished using arguments from the fluctuation-dissipation theorem. Finally, given that the most reliable and informative observable of an individual cell is the sequence of its genome, we propose that the non-classical correlations between individual molecular events at the single cell level could be easiest to detect using high throughput DNA sequencing.

id: 0906.2368
title: Poor qubits make for rich physics: noise-induced quantum Zeno effects and noise-induced Berry phases
authors: Robert S. Whitney
comments: 6 pages - Proceedings of International Conference on Noise and Fluctuations (Pisa, 14-19 June 2009) - Improved with respect to version in Conf. Proc
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1129, 469 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2368
abstract: We briefly review three ways that environmental noise can slow-down (or speed-up) quantum transitions; (i) Lamb shifts, (ii) over-damping and (iii) orthogonality catastrophe. We compare them with the quantum Zeno effect induced by observing the system. These effects are relevant to poor qubits (those strongly coupled to noise). We discuss Berry phases generated by the orthogonality catastrophe, and argue that noise may make it easier to observe Berry phases.

id: 0906.0906
title: Quantum non-demolition measurements of a qubit coupled to a harmonic oscillator
authors: Luca Chirolli, Guido Burkard
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review B 80, 184509 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0906
abstract: We theoretically describe the weak measurement of a two-level system (qubit) and quantify the degree to which such a qubit measurement has a quantum non-demolition (QND) character. The qubit is coupled to a harmonic oscillator which undergoes a projective measurement. Information on the qubit state is extracted from the oscillator measurement outcomes, and the QND character of the measurement is inferred by the result of subsequent measurements of the oscillator. We use the positive operator valued measure (POVM) formalism to describe the qubit measurement. Two mechanisms lead to deviations from a perfect QND measurement: (i) the quantum fluctuations of the oscillator, and (ii) quantum tunneling between the qubit states $|0>$ and $|1>$ during measurements. Our theory can be applied to QND measurements performed on superconducting qubits coupled to a circuit oscillator.

id: 0906.2567
title: Adiabatic preparation of many-body states in optical lattices
authors: Anders S. Sorensen, Ehud Altman, Michael Gullans, J. V. Porto, Mikhail D. Lukin, Eugene Demler
comments: 4+epsilon pages, V2: minor changes V3: Minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.2567
abstract: We analyze a technique for the preparation of low entropy many body states of atoms in optical lattices based on adiabatic passage. In particular, we show that this method allows preparation of strongly correlated states as stable highest energy states of Hamiltonians that have trivial ground states. As an example, we analyze the generation of antiferromagnetically ordered states by adiabatic change of a staggered field acting on the spins of bosonic atoms with ferromagnetic interactions.

id: 0906.0046
title: Time Evolution of the External Field Problem in QED
authors: D.-A. Deckert, D. Drr, F. Merkl, M. Schottenloher
comments: 60 pages, 1 figure, revised introduction, summary of results added, typos corrected
journal: J.Math.Phys.51:122301,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.0046
abstract: We construct the time-evolution for the second quantized Dirac equation subject to a smooth, compactly supported, time dependent electromagnetic potential and identify the degrees of freedom involved. Earlier works on this (e.g. Ruijsenaars) observed the Shale-Stinespring condition and showed that the one-particle time-evolution can be lifted to Fock space if and only if the external field had zero magnetic components. We scrutinize the idea, observed earlier by Fierz and Scharf, that the time-evolution can be implemented between time varying Fock spaces. In order to define these Fock spaces we are led to consider classes of reference vacua and polarizations. We show that this implementation is up to a phase independent of the chosen reference vacuum or polarization and that all induced transition probabilities are well-defined and unique.

id: 0906.5033
title: Entropy is Conserved in Hawking Radiation as Tunneling: a Revisit of the Black Hole Information Loss Paradox
authors: Baocheng Zhang, Qing-yu Cai, Ming-sheng Zhan, Li You
comments: The published version. It has been revised as required by the referees
journal: Annals Phys.326:350-363,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.5033
abstract: We revisit in detail the paradox of black hole information loss due to Hawking radiation as tunneling. We compute the amount of information encoded in correlations among Hawking radiations for a variety of black holes, including the Schwarzchild black hole, the Reissner-Nordstr\"{o}m black hole, the Kerr black hole, and the Kerr-Newman black hole. The special case of tunneling through a quantum horizon is also considered. Within a phenomenological treatment based on the accepted emission probability spectrum from a black hole, we find that information is leaked out hidden in the correlations of Hawking radiation. The recovery of this previously unaccounted for information helps to conserve the total entropy of a system composed of a black hole plus its radiations. We thus conclude, irrespective of the microscopic picture for black hole collapsing, the associated radiation process: Hawking radiation as tunneling, is consistent with unitarity as required by quantum mechanics.

