id: 0907.1565
title: Quantum Walk in Position Space with Single Optically Trapped Atoms
authors: Micha? Karski, Leonid F?rster, Jai-Min Choi, Andreas Steffen, Wolfgang Alt, Dieter Meschede, Artur Widera
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Science 325, p174 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1565
abstract: The quantum walk is the quantum analogue of the well-known random walk, which forms the basis for models and applications in many realms of science. Its properties are markedly different from the classical counterpart and might lead to extensive applications in quantum information science. In our experiment, we implemented a quantum walk on the line with single neutral atoms by deterministically delocalizing them over the sites of a one-dimensional spin-dependent optical lattice. With the use of site-resolved fluorescence imaging, the final wave function is characterized by local quantum state tomography, and its spatial coherence is demonstrated. Our system allows the observation of the quantum-to-classical transition and paves the way for applications, such as quantum cellular automata.

id: 0907.1623
title: Faster quantum algorithm for evaluating game trees
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures
journal: Proc. 22nd ACM-SIAM Symp. on Discrete Algorithms (SODA), 2011, pages 546-559
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1623
abstract: We give an O(sqrt n log n)-query quantum algorithm for evaluating size-n AND-OR formulas. Its running time is poly-logarithmically greater after efficient preprocessing. Unlike previous approaches, the algorithm is based on a quantum walk on a graph that is not a tree. Instead, the algorithm is based on a hybrid of direct-sum span program composition, which generates tree-like graphs, and a novel tensor-product span program composition method, which generates graphs with vertices corresponding to minimal zero-certificates. For comparison, by the general adversary bound, the quantum query complexity for evaluating a size-n read-once AND-OR formula is at least Omega(sqrt n), and at most O(sqrt{n} log n / log log n). However, this algorithm is not necessarily time efficient; the number of elementary quantum gates applied between input queries could be much larger. Ambainis et al. have given a quantum algorithm that uses sqrt{n} 2^{O(sqrt{log n})} queries, with a poly-logarithmically greater running time.

id: 0907.2432
title: Non-Gaussian and Gaussian Entanglement in Coupled Leaky Waveguides
authors: Amit Rai, Sumanta Das, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Optics Express Vol 18 6254 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2432
abstract: We investigate the viability of coupled waveguides as basic units of quantum circuits. In particular, we study the dynamics of entanglement for the single photon state, and single mode squeezed vacuum state. We further consider the case of entangled inputs in terms of the two mode mode squeezed vacuum states and the two photon NOON state. We present explicit analytical results for the measure of entanglement in terms of the logarithmic negativity. We also address the effect of loss on entanglement dynamics of waveguide modes. Our results indicate that the waveguide structures are reasonably robust against the effect of loss and thus quite appropriate for quantum architectures as well as for the study of coherent phenomena like random walks. Our analysis is based on realistic structures used currently.

