id: 0907.0014
title: How to perform the most accurate possible phase measurements
authors: D. W. Berry, B. L. Higgins, S. D. Bartlett, M. W. Mitchell, G. J. Pryde, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures; new general definition of resources
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052114 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0014
abstract: We present the theory of how to achieve phase measurements with the minimum possible variance in ways that are readily implementable with current experimental techniques. Measurements whose statistics have high-frequency fringes, such as those obtained from NOON states, have commensurately high information yield. However this information is also highly ambiguous because it does not distinguish between phases at the same point on different fringes. We provide schemes to eliminate this phase ambiguity in a highly efficient way, providing phase estimates with uncertainty that is within a small constant factor of the Heisenberg limit, the minimum allowed by the laws of quantum mechanics. These techniques apply to NOON state and multi-pass interferometry, as well as phase measurements in quantum computing. We have reported the experimental implementation of some of these schemes with multi-pass interferometry elsewhere. Here we present the theoretical foundation, and also present some new experimental results. There are three key innovations to the theory in this paper. First, we examine the intrinsic phase properties of the sequence of states (in multiple time modes) via the equivalent two-mode state. Second, we identify the key feature of the equivalent state that enables the optimal scaling of the intrinsic phase uncertainty to be obtained. This enables us to identify appropriate combinations of states to use. The remaining difficulty is that the ideal phase measurements to achieve this intrinic phase uncertainty are often not physically realizable. The third innovation is to solve this problem by using realizable measurements that closely approximate the optimal measurements, enabling the optimal scaling to be preserved.

id: 0907.0049
title: No More Perfect Codes: Classification of Perfect Quantum Codes
authors: Zhuo Li, Lijuan Xing
comments: 3 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0049
abstract: We solve the problem of the classification of perfect quantum codes. We prove that the only nontrivial perfect quantum codes are those with the parameters . There exist no other nontrivial perfect quantum codes.

id: 0907.0050
title: Single-photon entanglement concentration for long-distance quantum communication
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 10, 271-280 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0050
abstract: We present a single-photon entanglement concentration protocol for long-distance quantum communication with quantum nondemolition detector. It is the first concentration protocol for single-photon entangled states and it dose not require the two parties of quantum communication to know the accurate information about the coefficient $\alpha$ and $\beta$ of the less entangled states. Also, it does not resort to sophisticated single-photon detectors, which makes this protocol more feasible in current experiments. Moreover, it can be iterated to get a higher efficiency and yield. All these advantages maybe make this protocol have more practical applications in long-distance quantum communication and quantum internet.

id: 0907.0052
title: Genuine tripartite entanglement in quantum brachistochrone evolution of a three-qubit system
authors: Bao-Kui Zhao, Fu-Guo Deng, Feng-Shou Zhang, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052106 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0052
abstract: We explore the connection between quantum brachistochrone (time-optimal) evolution of a three-qubit system and its residual entanglement called three-tangle. The result shows that the entanglement between two qubits is not required for some brachistochrone evolutions of a three-qubit system. However, the evolution between two distinct states cannot be implemented without its three-tangle, except for the trivial cases in which less than three qubits attend evolution. Although both the probability density function of the time-averaged three-tangle and that of the time-averaged squared concurrence between two subsystems become more and more uniform with the decrease in angles of separation between an initial state and a final state, the features of their most probable values exhibit a different trend.

id: 0907.0053
title: Efficient faithful qubit transmission with frequency degree of freedom
authors: Xi-Han Li, Bao-Kui Zhao, Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Optics Communications 282 (2009) 4025-4027
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0053
abstract: We propose an efficient faithful polarization-state transmission scheme by utilizing frequency degree of freedom besides polarization and an additional qubit prepared in a fixed polarization. An arbitrary single-photon polarization state is protected against the collective noise probabilistically. With the help of frequency beam splitter and frequency shifter, the success probability of our faithful qubit transmission scheme with frequency degree of freedom can be 1/2 in principle.

id: 0907.0083
title: Superposition of two nonlinear coherent states $\frac¦Ð{2}$ out of phase and their nonclassical properties
authors: O. Abbasi, M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 11 pages, 27 figures, Accepeted for Publication in Optics Communications 2009
journal: Optics Communications 282 (2009) 3737-3745
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0083
abstract: Considering the concept of "{\it nonlinear coherent states}", we will study the interference effects by introducing the {\it "superposition of two classes of nonlinear coherent states"} which are $\frac{\pi}{2}$ out of phase. The formalism has then been applied to a few physical systems as "harmonious states", "SU(1,1) coherent states" and "the center of mass motion of trapped ion". Finally, the nonclassical properties such as sub-Poissonian statistics, quadrature squeezing, amplitude-squared squeezing and Wigner distribution function of the superposed states have been investigated, numerically. Especially, as we will observe the Wigner functions of the superposed states take negative values in phase space, while their original components do not.

id: 0907.0085
title: Many-body reduced fidelity susceptibility in Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model
authors: Jian Ma, Xiaoguang Wang, Shi-Jian Gu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW E 80, 021124 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0085
abstract: We study the reduced fidelity susceptibility $\chi_{r}$ for an $M$-body subsystem of an $N$-body Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model with $\tau=M/N$ fixed. The reduced fidelity susceptibility can be viewed as the response of subsystem to a certain parameter. In noncritical region, the inner correlation of the system is weak, and $\chi_{r}$ behaves similar with the global fidelity susceptibility $\chi_{g}$, the ratio $\eta=\chi_{r}/\chi_{g}$ depends on $\tau$ but not $N$. However, at the critical point, the inner correlation tends to be divergent, then we find $\chi_{r}$ approaches $\chi_{g}$ with the increasing the $N$, and $\eta=1$ in the thermodynamic limit. The analytical predictions are perfect agreement with the numerical results.

id: 0907.0108
title: Normal Typicality and von Neumann's Quantum Ergodic Theorem
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Joel L. Lebowitz, Christian Mastrodonato, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 18 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society A 466(2123): 3203-3224 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0108
abstract: We discuss the content and significance of John von Neumann's quantum ergodic theorem (QET) of 1929, a strong result arising from the mere mathematical structure of quantum mechanics. The QET is a precise formulation of what we call normal typicality, i.e., the statement that, for typical large systems, every initial wave function $\psi_0$ from an energy shell is "normal": it evolves in such a way that $|\psi_t> <\psi_t|$ is, for most $t$, macroscopically equivalent to the micro-canonical density matrix. The QET has been mostly forgotten after it was criticized as a dynamically vacuous statement in several papers in the 1950s. However, we point out that this criticism does not apply to the actual QET, a correct statement of which does not appear in these papers, but to a different (indeed weaker) statement. Furthermore, we formulate a stronger statement of normal typicality, based on the observation that the bound on the deviations from the average specified by von Neumann is unnecessarily coarse and a much tighter (and more relevant) bound actually follows from his proof.

id: 0907.0125
title: Towards a more fundamental theory beyond quantum mechanics, avoiding the Schroedinger paradox
authors: Francesco Caravaglios
comments: 5 pages. Accepted for publication in the International Journal of Modern Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0125
abstract: The main distinction between classical mechanics and quantum mechanics is the lack in the latter of a full mechanical determinism: different final states can arise from the same physical state, after the measurement. No hidden variable is supposed to exist, nothing can discriminate two apparently identical states even if they give a different result. In this paper we try to put the basis for a more fundamental theory that (approximately) coincides with quantum mechanics when comparing statistics, but it is more fundamental, since it mathematically describes measurement processes giving an explicit time evolution of the wave function during the collapse. The theory is deterministic even if the Heisenberg uncertainty principle is still valid. The theory distinguishes physical states that collapse and physical states that do not collapse. The theory can be made compatible with all experiments done in the past, but new phenomena such as violations of the Born law or the superposition principle could transpire. However, even if we have probably shown that it is possible to build ad hoc a theory that can describe both the wave function collapse and the Schroedinger linear evolution, a simple and unified construction is still missing.

id: 0907.0132
title: Single mode quadrature entangled light from room temperature atomic vapour
authors: W. Wasilewski, T. Fernholz, K. Jensen, L. S. Madsen, H. Krauter, C. Muschik, E. S. Polzik
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17, Issue 16, pp. 14444-14457 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0132
abstract: We analyse a novel squeezing and entangling mechanism which is due to correlated Stokes and anti-Stokes photon forward scattering in a multi-level atom vapour. Following the proposal we present an experimental demonstration of 3.5 dB pulsed frequency nondegenerate squeezed (quadrature entangled) state of light using room temperature caesium vapour. The source is very robust and requires only a few milliwatts of laser power. The squeezed state is generated in the same spatial mode as the local oscillator and in a single temporal mode. The two entangled modes are separated by twice the Zeeman frequency of the vapour which can be widely tuned. The narrow-band squeezed light generated near an atomic resonance can be directly used for atom-based quantum information protocols. Its single temporal mode characteristics make it a promising resource for quantum information processing.

id: 0907.0150
title: Quantum Decoherence and Pointer Basis: Dynamics in State Vectors
authors: Kentaro Urasaki
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0150
abstract: It is well-known that the pointer basis of a quantum system satisfies the condition to diagonalize the interaction Hamiltonian between the subsystems. We show that this condition can be translated into the form $\delta\Lambda=0,$ where $\Lambda$, so-called the action, is the time integrated interaction energy: it is found out naturally in the phase of state vectors due to diagonal interaction. The careful treatment of a two states system demonstrates that the states of the total system branch into the states with different values of the action. Mathematically the pointer states are selected out by the saddle point condition on the phase $\Lambda$. This study helps us to understand the precise mechanism and the general dynamics of decoherence.

id: 0907.0176
title: Experimental violation of the Leggett-Garg inequality under decoherence
authors: Jin-Shi Xu, Chuan-Feng Li, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures; Scientific Report 1, 101 (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0176
abstract: Despite the great success of quantum mechanics, questions regarding its application still exist and the boundary between quantum and classical mechanics remains unclear. Based on the philosophical assumptions of macrorealism and noninvasive measurability, Leggett and Garg devised a series of inequalities (LG inequalities) involving a single system with a set of measurements at different times. Introduced as the Bell inequalities in time, the violation of LG inequalities excludes the hidden-variable description based on the above two assumptions. We experimentally investigated the single photon LG inequalities under decoherence simulated by birefringent media. These generalized LG inequalities test the evolution trajectory of the photon and are shown to be maximally violated in a coherent evolution process. The violation of LG inequalities becomes weaker with the increase of interaction time in the environment. The ability to violate the LG inequalities can be used to set a boundary of the classical realistic description.

id: 0907.0179
title: Detecting Entanglement with Jarzynski's Equality
authors: Jenny Hide, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0179
abstract: We present a method for detecting the entanglement of a state using non-equilibrium processes. A comparison of relative entropies allows us to construct an entanglement witness. The relative entropy can further be related to the quantum Jarzynski equality, allowing non-equilibrium work to be used in entanglement detection. To exemplify our results, we consider two different spin chains.

id: 0907.0236
title: Designing quantum memories with embedded control: photonic circuits for autonomous quantum error correction
authors: Joseph Kerckhoff, Hendra I. Nurdin, Dmitri S. Pavlichin, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 040502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0236
abstract: Quantum error correction (QEC) is fundamental for quantum information processing but entails a substantial overhead of classically-controlled quantum operations, which can be architecturally cumbersome to accommodate. Here we discuss a novel approach to designing elementary QEC memory cells, in which all control operations are performed autonomously by an embedded optical feedback loop. Our approach is natural for nanophotonic implementations in which each qubit can be coupled to its own optical resonator, and our design for a memory cell based on the quantum bit-flip or phase-flip code requires only five qubit-cavities (three for the register and two for the controller) connected by wave-guides. The photonic QEC circuit is entirely on-chip, requiring no external clocking or control, and during steady-state operation would only need to be powered by the injection of constant-amplitude coherent fields.

id: 0907.0252
title: Localization in one-dimensional incommensurate lattices beyond the Aubry-Andr¨¦ model
authors: J. Biddle, B. Wang, D. J. Priour Jr., S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 021603 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0252
abstract: Localization properties of particles in one-dimensional incommensurate lattices without interaction are investigated with models beyond the tight-binding Aubry-Andr\'e (AA) model. Based on a tight-binding t_1 - t_2 model with finite next-nearest-neighbor hopping t_2, we find the localization properties qualitatively different from those of the AA model, signaled by the appearance of mobility edges. We then further go beyond the tight-binding assumption and directly study the system based on the more fundamental single-particle Schr\"odinger equation. With this approach, we also observe the presence of mobility edges and localization properties dependent on incommensuration.

id: 0907.0265
title: Negative Refraction Gives Rise to the Klein Paradox
authors: Durdu O. Guney, David A. Meyer
comments: 4 journal pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 063834 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0265
abstract: Electromagnetic negative refraction in metamaterials has attracted increasingly great interest, since its first experimental verification in 2001. It potentially leads to the applications superior to conventional devices including compact antennas for mobile stations, imaging beyond the diffraction limit, and high-resolution radars, not to mention the anamolous wave propagation in fundamental optics. Here, we report how metamaterials could be used to simulate the "negative refraction of spin-zero particles interacting with a strong potential barrier", which gives rise to the Klein paradox--a counterintuitive relativistic process. We address the underlying physics of analogous wave propagation behaviours in those two entirely different domains of quantum and classical.

id: 0907.0336
title: Single Nuclear Spin Cavity QED
authors: Makoto Takeuchi, Nobuyuki Takei, Kodai Doi, Peng Zhang, Masahito Ueda, Mikio Kozuma
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0336
abstract: We constructed a cavity QED system with a diamagnetic atom of 171Yb and performed projective measurements on a single nuclear spin. Since Yb has no electronic spin and has 1/2 nuclear spin, the procedure of spin polarization and state verification can be dramatically simplified compared with the pseudo spin-1/2 system. By enhancing the photon emission rate of the 1S0-3P1 transition, projective measurement is implemented for an atom with the measurement time of T_meas = 30us. Unwanted spin flip as well as dark counts of the detector lead to systematic error when the present technique is applied for the determination of diagonal elements of an unknown spin state, which is delta|beta|^2 < 2 * 10^-2. Fast measurement on a long-lived qubit is key to the realization of large-scale one-way quantum computing.

id: 0907.0372
title: A glance beyond the quantum model
authors: Miguel Navascues, Harald Wunderlich
comments: 
journal: Proc.Roy.Soc.Lond.A466:881-890,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0372
abstract: One of the most important problems in Physics is how to reconcile Quantum Mechanics with General Relativity. Some authors have suggested that this may be realized at the expense of having to drop the quantum formalism in favor of a more general theory. However, as the experiments we can perform nowadays are far away from the range of energies where we may expect to observe non-quantum effects, it is difficult to theorize at this respect. Here we propose a fundamental axiom that we believe any reasonable post-quantum theory should satisfy, namely, that such a theory should recover classical physics in the macroscopic limit. We use this principle, together with the impossibility of instantaneous communication, to characterize the set of correlations that can arise between two distant observers. Although several quantum limits are recovered, our results suggest that quantum mechanics could be falsified by a Bell-type experiment if both observers have a sufficient number of detectors.

id: 0907.0386
title: Effective separability of typical entangled many-body states
authors: S. Camalet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0386
abstract: We consider two systems of harmonically trapped particles in a typical pure state of the Hilbert space defined by given values of the particle numbers and energies of the two gases. Such a state is entangled but we show that, for large systems, the resulting correlations between the two gases are identical to those of a separable mixture. This result can be generalized to other physical systems. We discuss the relation of this effective separability to the well-known existence of quantum correlations in any entangled state. We study in detail a small bipartite system and find that its correlations are well explained by the large systems results.

id: 0907.0394
title: Monte Carlo analysis of critical phenomenon of the Ising model on memory stabilizer structures
authors: C. Ricardo Viteri, Yu Tomita, Kenneth R. Brown
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, 5 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0394
abstract: We calculate the critical temperature of the Ising model on a set of graphs representing a concatenated three-bit error-correction code. The graphs are derived from the stabilizer formalism used in quantum error correction. The stabilizer for a subspace is defined as the group of Pauli operators whose eigenvalues are +1 on the subspace. The group can be generated by a subset of operators in the stabilizer, and the choice of generators determines the structure of the graph. The Wolff algorithm, together with the histogram method and finite-size scaling, is used to calculate both the critical temperature and the critical exponents of each structure. The simulations show that the choice of stabilizer generators, both the number and the geometry, has a large effect on the critical temperature.

id: 0907.0444
title: Protocol for Hybrid Entanglement Between a Trapped Atom and a Semiconductor Quantum Dot
authors: Edo Waks, Christopher Monroe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0444
abstract: We propose a quantum optical interface between an atomic and solid state system. We show that quantum states in a single trapped atom can be entangled with the states of a semiconductor quantum dot through their common interaction with a classical laser field. The interference and detection of the resulting scattered photons can then herald the entanglement of the disparate atomic and solid-state quantum bits. We develop a protocol that can succeed despite a significant mismatch in the radiative characteristics of the two matter-based qubits. We study in detail a particular case of this interface applied to a single trapped \Yb ion and a cavity-coupled InGaAs semiconductor quantum dot. Entanglement fidelity and success rates are found to be robust to a broad range of experimental nonideal effects such as dispersion mismatch, atom recoil, and multi-photon scattering. We conclude that it should be possible to produce highly entangled states of these complementary qubit systems under realistic experimental conditions.

id: 0907.0463
title: Looping on the Bloch sphere: Oscillatory effects in dephasing of qubits subject to broad-spectrum noise
authors: Dong Zhou, Robert Joynt
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: PRA 81, 010103(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0463
abstract: For many implementations of quantum computing, 1/f and other types of broad-spectrum noise are an important source of decoherence. An important step forward would be the ability to back out the characteristics of this noise from qubit measurements and to see if it leads to new physical effects. For certain types of qubits, the working point of the qubit can be varied. Using a new mathematical method that is suited to treat all working points, we present theoretical results that show how this degree of freedom can be used to extract noise parameters and to predict a new effect: noise-induced looping on the Bloch sphere. We analyze data on superconducting qubits to show that they are very near the parameter regime where this looping should be observed.

id: 0907.0493
title: Robust Unconditionally Secure Quantum Key Distribution with Two Nonorthogonal and Uninformative States
authors: Marco Lucamarini, Giovanni Di Giuseppe, Kiyoshi Tamaki
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032327 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0493
abstract: We introduce a novel form of decoy-state technique to make the single-photon Bennett 1992 protocol robust against losses and noise of a communication channel. Two uninformative states are prepared by the transmitter in order to prevent the unambiguous state discrimination attack and improve the phase-error rate estimation. The presented method does not require strong reference pulses, additional electronics or extra detectors for its implementation.

id: 0907.0533
title: Complete characterization of post-selected quantum statistics using weak measurement tomography
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: Extended version (5 pages), including double slit interference as an example and the resolution of Schroedinger`s cat paradox
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0533
abstract: The reconstruction of quantum states from a sufficient set of experimental data can be achieved with arbitrarily weak measurement interactions. Since such weak measurements have negligible back-action, the quantum state reconstruction is also valid for the post-selected sub-ensembles usually considered in weak measurement paradoxes. It is shown that post-selection can then be identified with a statistical decomposition of the initial density matrix into transient density matrices conditioned by the anticipated measurement outcomes. This result indicates that it is possible to ascribe the properties determined by the final measurement outcome to each individual quantum system before the measurement has taken place. The ``collapse'' of the pure state wavefunction in a measurement can then be understood in terms of the classical ``collapse'' of a probability distribution as new information becomes available.

id: 0907.0534
title: A dynamical systems approach to Bohmian trajectories
authors: F. Borondo, A. Luque, J. Villanueva, D. A. Wisniacki
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A, 42 495103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0534
abstract: Vortices are known to play a key role in the dynamics of the quantum trajectories defined within the framework of the de Broglie-Bohm formalism of quantum mechanics. It has been rigourously proved that the motion of a vortex in the associated velocity field can induce chaos in these trajectories, and numerical studies have explored the rich variety of behaviors that due to their influence can be observed. In this paper, we go one step further and show how the theory of dynamical systems can be used to construct a general and systematic classification of such dynamical behaviors. This should contribute to establish some firm grounds on which the studies on the intrinsic stochasticity of Bohm's quantum trajectories can be based. An application to the two dimensional isotropic harmonic oscillator is presented as an illustration.

id: 0907.0539
title: Time evolution of the one-dimensional Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard Hamiltonian
authors: M.I. Makin, Jared H. Cole, Charles D. Hill, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0539
abstract: The Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard (JCH) system describes a network of single-mode photonic cavities connected via evanescent coupling. Each cavity contains a single two level system which can be tuned in resonance with the cavity. Here we explore the behavior of single excitations (where an excitation can be either photonic or atomic) in the linear JCH system, which describes a coupled cavity waveguide. We use direct, analytic diagonalization of the Hamiltonian to study cases where inter-cavity coupling is either uniform or varies parabolically along the chain. Both excitations located in a single cavity, as well as one excitation as a Gaussian pulse spread over many cavities, are investigated as initial states. We predict unusual behavior of this system in the time domain, including slower than expected propagation of the excitation, and also splitting of the excitation into two distinct pulses, which travel at distinct speeds. In certain limits, we show that the JCH system mimics two Heisenberg spin chains.

id: 0907.0570
title: Multidimensional hydrogenic complexity
authors: Sheila Lopez-Rosa, Daniel Manzano, Jesus S. Dehesa
comments: 12 pages, 0 figures. Published in Mathematical Physics and Field Theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0570
abstract: The internal disorder of a D-dimensional hydrogenic system, which is strongly associated to the non-uniformity of the quantum-mechanical density of its physical states, is investigated by means of the shape complexity in the two reciprocal spaces. This quantity, which is the product of the disequilibrium and the Shannon entropic power, is mathematically expressed for both ground and excited stationary states in terms of certain entropic functionals of Laguerre and Gegenbauer (or ultraspherical) polynomials. Emphasis is made in the ground and circular states.

id: 0907.0576
title: Irreversible photon transfer in an ensemble of $¦«$-type atoms and photon diode
authors: Gor Nikoghosyan, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0576
abstract: We show that a pair of quantized cavity modes interacting with a spectrally broadened ensemble of Lambda-type atoms is analogous to an ensemble of two level systems coupled to a bosonic reservoir. This provides the possibility for an irreversible photon transfer between photon modes. The density of states as well as the quantum state of the reservoir can be engineered allowing the observation of effects such as the quantum Zeno- and anti-Zeno effect, the destructive interference of decay channels and the decay in a squeezed vacuum. As a particular application we discuss a photon diode, i.e. a device which directs a single photon from anyone of two input ports to a common output port.

id: 0907.0610
title: Pseudo-classical theory for fidelity of nearly resonant quantum rotors
authors: Martina Abb, Italo Guarneri, Sandro Wimberger
comments: Shortened and improved version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 035206(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0610
abstract: Using a semiclassical ansatz we analytically predict for the fidelity of delta-kicked rotors the occurrence of revivals and the disappearance of intermediate revival peaks arising from the breaking of a symmetry in the initial conditions. A numerical verification of the predicted effects is given and experimental ramifications are discussed.

id: 0907.0683
title: Unitary equilibrations: probability distribution of the Loschmidt echo
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 15 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022113 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0683
abstract: Closed quantum systems evolve unitarily and therefore cannot converge in a strong sense to an equilibrium state starting out from a generic pure state. Nevertheless for large system size one observes temporal typicality. Namely, for the overwhelming majority of the time instants, the statistics of observables is practically indistinguishable from an effective equilibrium one. In this paper we consider the Loschmidt echo (LE) to study this sort of unitary equilibration after a quench. We draw several conclusions on general grounds and on the basis of an exactly-solvable example of a quasi-free system. In particular we focus on the whole probability distribution of observing a given value of the LE after waiting a long time. Depending on the interplay between the initial state and the quench Hamiltonian, we find different regimes reflecting different equilibration dynamics. When the perturbation is small and the system is away from criticality the probability distribution is Gaussian. However close to criticality the distribution function approaches a double peaked, "batman-hood" shaped, universal form.

id: 0907.0699
title: Probing the quantumness of channels with mixed states
authors: Hauke H?seler, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 11 Pages, 9 Figures, published version
journal: Physical Review A {\bf 80}, 042304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0699
abstract: We present an alternative approach to the derivation of benchmarks for quantum channels, such as memory or teleportation channels. Using the concept of effective entanglement and the verification thereof, a testing procedure is derived which demands very few experimental resources. The procedure is generalized by allowing for mixed test states. By constructing optimized measure & re-prepare channels, the benchmarks are found to be very tight in the considered experimental regimes.

id: 0907.0722
title: A quantum description of bubble growth in a superheated fluid
authors: S. Choi, K. M. Galdamez, B. Sundaram
comments: 1 Figure. To be published in Phys. Lett A. v3: Updated abstract and significant changes from v2, in particular inclusion of a new section on Weyl transform
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0722
abstract: We discuss a quantum description of bubble growth in a superheated liquid Helium by addressing the problem of operator ordering ambiguities that arise due to the presence of position dependent mass (PDM) in this system. Using a supersymmetric quantum mechanics formalism along with the Weyl quantization rule, we are able to identify specific operator orderings for this problem. This is a general method which should be applicable to other PDM systems.

id: 0907.0739
title: Entangled black holes as ciphers of hidden information
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Hans-J¨¹rgen Sommers, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0739
abstract: The black-hole information paradox has fueled a fascinating effort to reconcile the predictions of general relativity and those of quantum mechanics. Gravitational considerations teach us that black holes must trap everything that falls into them. Quantum mechanically the mass of a black hole leaks away as featureless (Hawking) radiation. However, if Hawking's analysis turned out to be accurate then the information would be irretrievably lost and a fundamental axiom of quantum mechanics, that of unitary evolution, would likewise fail. Here we show that the information about the matter that collapses to form a black hole becomes encoded into pure correlations within a tripartite quantum system, the quantum analog of a one-time pad until very late in the evaporation, provided we accept the view that the thermodynamic entropy of a black hole is due to entropy of entanglement. In this view the black hole entropy is primarily due to trans-event horizon entanglement between external modes neighboring the black hole and internal degrees of freedom of the black hole.

id: 0907.0754
title: The emergence of probabilities in anhomomorphic logic
authors: Yousef Ghazi-Tabatabai, Petros Wallden
comments: Contribution for the DICE2008 conferennce
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 174, 012054 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0754
abstract: Anhomomorphic logic is a new interpretation of Quantum Theory (due to R. Sorkin). It is a histories formulation (c.f. consistent histories, quantum measure theory). In this approach, reality is a co-event, which is essentially an assignment of a truth value {True, False} to each question. The way this assignment is done mimics classical physics in as much as possible allowing however for sufficient flexibility to accommodate quantum 'paradoxes', as is shown by the analysis of Kochen-Specker theorem. In this contribution, after briefly reviewing the approach, we will examine how probabilistic predictions can arise. The Cournot principle and the use of approximate preclusions will play a crucial role. Facing similar problems in interpreting probability as in classical probability theory, we will resort to the weak form of Cournot principle, where possible realities will be preclusive co-events and the quantum measure is used to obtain predictions. Examples considered, includes the fair coin and the double slit pattern arguably one of the most important paradigms for quantum theory.

id: 0907.0757
title: Higgs algebraic symmetry in the two-dimensional Dirac equation
authors: Fu-Lin Zhang, Bo Fu, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 4p, no fig, pubulished version
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:054102,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0757
abstract: The dynamical symmetry algebra of the two-dimensional Dirac Hamiltonian with equal scalar and vector Smorodinsky-Winternitz potentials is constructed. It is the Higgs algebra, a cubic polynomial generalization of SU(2). With the help of the Casimir operators, the energy levels are derived algebraically.

id: 0907.0761
title: Single Photons Made-to-Measure
authors: Genko S. Vasilev, Daniel Ljunggren, Axel Kuhn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics, 12 (6):063024, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0761
abstract: We investigate the efficiency of atom-cavity based photon-generation schemes to deliver single photons of arbitrary temporal shape. Our model applies to Raman transitions in three-level atoms with one branch of the transition driven by a laser pulse, and the other coupled to a cavity mode. For any possible shape of the single-photon wavepacket, we derive an unambiguous analytic expression for the shape of the required driving laser pulse. We furthermore discuss the constraints limiting the maximum probability for emitting any desired photon, and use these to estimate upper bounds for the efficiency of the process. The model is not only valid for Vacuum-Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passages (V-STIRAP) in the strong-coupling and bad-cavity regime, but it generally allows controlling the coherence and population flow in any Raman process.

id: 0907.0767
title: Possible Experience: from Boole to Bell
authors: K. Hess, K. Michielsen, H. De Raedt
comments: Published in: EPL, 87 (2009) 60007
journal: Europhys. Lett. 87, 60007 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0767
abstract: Mainstream interpretations of quantum theory maintain that violations of the Bell inequalities deny at least either realism or Einstein locality. Here we investigate the premises of the Bell-type inequalities by returning to earlier inequalities presented by Boole and the findings of Vorob'ev as related to these inequalities. These findings together with a space-time generalization of Boole's elements of logic lead us to a completely transparent Einstein local counterexample from everyday life that violates certain variations of the Bell inequalities. We show that the counterexample suggests an interpretation of the Born rule as a pre-measure of probability that can be transformed into a Kolmogorov probability measure by certain Einstein local space-time characterizations of the involved random variables.

id: 0907.0778
title: Dicke model and environment-induced entanglement in ion-cavity QED
authors: K. Harkonen, F. Plastina, S. Maniscalco
comments: 17 pages, 11 figures. V2: published version, one reference added, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033841 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0778
abstract: We investigate realistic experimental conditions under which the collective Dicke model can be implemented in ion-cavity QED context. We show how ideal subradiance and superradiance can be observed and we propose an experiment to generate entanglement exploiting the existence of the subradiant state. We explore the conditions to achieve optimal entanglement generation and we show that they are reachable with current experimental technology.

id: 0907.0805
title: Critical Assessment of Wave-Particle Complementarity via Derivation from Quantum Mechanics
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 44 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0805
abstract: After introducing sketchily Bohr's wave-particle complementarity principle in his own words, a derivation of an extended form of the principle from standard quantum mechanics is performed. Reality-evaluation of each step is given. The derived theory is applied to simple examples and the extended entities are illustrated in a thought experiment. Assessment of the approach of Bohr and of this article is taken up again with a rather negative conclusion as far as reflecting reality is concerned. The paper ends with selected incisive opinions on Bohr's dogmatic attitude and with some comments by the present author.

id: 0907.0835
title: New nonlinear coherent states associated to inverse bosonic and $f$-deformed ladder operators
authors: M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 285305 (17pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0835
abstract: Using the {\it nonlinear coherent states method}, a formalism for the construction of the coherent states associated to {\it "inverse bosonic operators"} and their dual family has been proposed. Generalizing the approach, the "inverse of $f$-deformed ladder operators" corresponding to the nonlinear coherent states in the context of quantum optics and the associated coherent states have been introduced. Finally, after applying the proposal to a few known physical systems, particular nonclassical features as sub-Poissonian statistics and the squeezing of the quadratures of the radiation field corresponding to the introduced states have been investigated.

id: 0907.0838
title: On the finite size behavior of quantum collective spin systems
authors: Giuseppe Liberti, Franco Piperno, Francesco Plastina
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0838
abstract: We discuss the finite size behavior of the adiabatic Dicke model, describing the collective coupling of a set of N-two level atoms (qubits) to a faster (electromagnetic) oscillator mode. The energy eigen-states of this system are shown to be directly related to those of another widely studied collective spin model, the uniaxial one. By employing an approximate continuum approach, we obtain a complete characterization of the properties of the latter, which we then use to evaluate the scaling properties of various observables for the original Dicke model near its quantum phase transition.

id: 0907.0852
title: New derivation of Born's law and parameter estimation based on a relative state formulation
authors: Fuyuhiko Tanaka
comments: 23 pages; Presentation and explanation are improved. Grammatical and typographical errors are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0852
abstract: Excluding the concept of probability in quantum mechanics, we derive Born's law from the remaining postulates in quantum mechanics using type method. We also give a way of determining the unknown parameter in a state vector based on an indirect measurement model. While Deutsch adopt a concept of rational decision-maker who introduces probability, we adopt a concept of statistician in our measurement model and clarifies the distinguished feature of quantum measurement. Like many worlds interpretation, our scenario gives a simple solution for problem of measurement.

id: 0907.0854
title: Quantum Algorithm for Obtaining the Energy Spectrum of Molecular Systems
authors: Hefeng Wang, Sabre Kais, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Mark R. Hoffmann
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 10, 5388, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0854
abstract: Simulating a quantum system is more efficient on a quantum computer than on a classical computer. The time required for solving the Schr\"odinger equation to obtain molecular energies has been demonstrated to scale polynomially with system size on a quantum computer, in contrast to the well-known result of exponential scaling on a classical computer. In this paper, we present a quantum algorithm to obtain the energy spectrum of molecular systems based on the multi-configurational self-consistent field (MCSCF) wave function. By using a MCSCF wave function as the initial guess, the excited states are accessible; Entire potential energy surfaces of molecules can be studied more efficiently than if the simpler Hartree-Fock guess was employed. We show that a small increase of the MCSCF space can dramatically increase the success probability of the quantum algorithm, even in regions of the potential energy surface that are far from the equilibrium geometry. For the treatment of larger systems, a multi-reference configuration interaction approach is suggested. We demonstrate that such an algorithm can be used to obtain the energy spectrum of the water molecule.

id: 0907.0855
title: Comment on `Do we have a consistent non-adiabatic quantum-classical mechanics?'
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: 2 pages, EPL2 style; v2: numerous improvements
journal: Euro Phys. Lett. (EPL), 89 (2010) 50005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0855
abstract: We argue with claims of the paper [Agostini F., Caprara S. and Ciccotti G., Europhys. Lett. EPL, 78 (2007) Art. 30001, 6] that the quantum-classic bracket introduced in [arXiv:quant-ph/0506122] produces "artificial coupling" and has "genuinely classical nature". Keywords: p-mechanics, quantum, classic, commutator, Poisson bracket, mixing, coupling, semi-classical

id: 0907.0866
title: The Quantum Blackwell Theorem and Minimum Error State Discrimination
authors: Anthony Chefles
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures. Couple of typos fixed and further references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0866
abstract: A quantum analogue of the famous Blackwell Theorem in classical statistics has recently been proposed. Given two quantum channels A and B, a set of payoff functions have been proven to have values for B at least as high as they are for A if and only if there exists a quantum garbling channel E such that A=EB. When such a channel E exists, we can globally compare A and B in terms of their `noisiness'. We show that this method of channel noise comparison is equivalent to one obtained by considering the degradation of the distinguishability of states. Here, the channel A is said to be at least as noisy as the channel B if any ensemble of states, fed into each channel and possibly entangled with ancillae, emerges no more distinguishable from A than it does from channel B, where distinguishability is quantified by the minimum error discrimination probability. We also provide a novel application to eavesdropper detection in quantum cryptography.

id: 0907.0890
title: Gazeau$-$Klauder squeezed states associated with solvable quantum systems
authors: M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: J. Phys. A; Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 11583-11597
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0890
abstract: A formalism for the construction of some classes of Gazeau$-$Klauder squeezed states, corresponding to arbitrary solvable quantum systems with a known discrete spectrum, are introduced. As some physical applications, the proposed structure is applied to a few known quantum systems and then statistical properties as well as squeezing of the obtained squeezed states are studied. Finally, numerical results are presented.

id: 0907.0909
title: Origin of Complex Quantum Amplitudes and Feynman's Rules
authors: Philip Goyal, Kevin H. Knuth, John Skilling
comments: v2: Clarifications, and minor corrections and modifications. Results unchanged. v3: Minor changes to introduction and conclusion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022109 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0909
abstract: Complex numbers are an intrinsic part of the mathematical formalism of quantum theory, and are perhaps its most mysterious feature. In this paper, we show that the complex nature of the quantum formalism can be derived directly from the assumption that a pair of real numbers is associated with each sequence of measurement outcomes, with the probability of this sequence being a real-valued function of this number pair. By making use of elementary symmetry conditions, and without assuming that these real number pairs have any other algebraic structure, we show that these pairs must be manipulated according to the rules of complex arithmetic. We demonstrate that these complex numbers combine according to Feynman's sum and product rules, with the modulus-squared yielding the probability of a sequence of outcomes.

id: 0907.0948
title: Quantum 2-Body Hamiltonian for Topological Color Codes
authors: H. Bombin, M. Kargarian, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Cotribution to the Proceedings of the Scala Conference 2009 (Cortina, Italy). Special Issue dedicated to Prof. Prof. Tombesi, on occasion of his seventieth birthday. Editors: D. Vitali, I Marzoli, S. Mancini, G. Di Giuseppe. "Fortschritte der Physik"
journal: Fortsch.Phys.57:1103-1110,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0948
abstract: We introduce a two-body quantum Hamiltonian model with spins-$\half$ located on the vertices of a 2D spatial lattice. The model exhibits an exact topological degeneracy in all coupling regimes. This is a remarkable non-perturbative effect. The model has a $\Z_2\times \Z_2$ gauge group symmetry and string-net integrals of motion. There exists a gapped phase in which the low-energy sector reproduces an effective topological color code model. High energy excitations fall into three families of anyonic fermions that turn out to be strongly interacting. All these, and more, are new features not present in honeycomb lattice models like Kitaev model.

id: 0907.0977
title: Locality and the classical limit of quantum systems
authors: T. Banks
comments: 21 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0977
abstract: I argue that conventional estimates of the criterion for classical behavior of a macroscopic body are incorrect in most circumstances,because they do not take into account the locality of interactions, which characterizes the behavior of all systems described approximately by local quantum field theory. The deviations from classical behavior of a macroscopic body, except for those that can be described as classical uncertainties in the initial values of macroscopic variables,are {\it exponentially} small as a function of the volume of the macro-system in microscopic units. Conventional estimates are correct only when the internal degrees of freedom of the macrosystem are in their ground state, and the classical motion of collective coordinates is adiabatic. Otherwise, the system acts as its own environment and washes out quantum phase correlations between different classical states of its collective coordinates. I suggest that it is likely that we can only achieve meso-scopic superpositions, for systems which have topological variables, and for which we can couple to those variables without exciting phonons.

id: 0907.0979
title: The confined hydrogen atom with a moving nucleus
authors: Francisco M. Fernandez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0979
abstract: We study the hydrogen atom confined to a spherical box with impenetrable walls but, unlike earlier pedagogical articles on the subject, we assume that the nucleus also moves. We obtain the ground-state energy approximately by means of first--order perturbation theory and by a more accurate variational approach. We show that it is greater than the one for the case in which the nucleus is clamped at the center of the box. Present approach resembles the well-known treatment of the helium atom with clamped nucleus.

id: 0907.0980
title: Introduction to the multiple-quantum operator spaces
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 8 pages, no figure, a minor correction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0980
abstract: The multiple-quantum NMR spectroscopy has an extensive application in determination of the bio-macro-molecular structures and in the investigation of the properties of a variety of physical materials. In quantum computation the multiple-quantum transition processes have been used to construct the quantum circuits, quantum algorithms, and quantum simulations. The multiple-quantum operator algebra spaces are closely related to the symmetries of a multiple-spin quantum system. They may have an important effect on the multiple-quantum transition processes and the multiple-quantum NMR spectroscopy of the spin system. Here gives a brief introduction to the multiple-quantum operator algebra spaces.

id: 0907.0982
title: Capacity of a bosonic memory channel with Gauss-Markov noise
authors: Joachim Sch?fer, David Daems, Evgueni Karpov, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, final corrections made
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062313 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0982
abstract: We address the classical capacity of a quantum bosonic memory channel with additive noise, subject to an input energy constraint. The memory is modeled by correlated noise emerging from a Gauss-Markov process. Under reasonable assumptions, we show that the optimal modulation results from a "quantum water-filling" solution above a certain input energy threshold, similar to the optimal modulation for parallel classical Gaussian channels. We also derive analytically the optimal multimode input state above this threshold, which enables us to compute the capacity of this memory channel in the limit of an infinite number of modes. The method can also be applied to a more general noise environment which is constructed by a stationary Gauss process. The extension of our results to the case of broadband bosonic channels with colored Gaussian noise should also be straightforward.

id: 0907.0998
title: A geometric comparison of entanglement and quantum nonlocality in discrete systems
authors: Christoph Spengler, Marcus Huber, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 065304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0998
abstract: We compare entanglement with quantum nonlocality employing a geometric structure of the state space of bipartite qudits. Central object is a regular simplex spanned by generalized Bell states. The Collins-Gisin-Linden-Massar-Popescu-Bell inequality is used to reveal states of this set that cannot be described by local-realistic theories. Optimal measurement settings necessary to ascertain nonlocality are determined by means of a recently proposed parameterization of the unitary group U(d) combined with robust numerical methods. The main results of this paper are descriptive geometric illustrations of the state space that emphasize the difference between entanglement and quantum nonlocality. Namely, it is found that the shape of the boundaries of separability and Bell inequality violation are essentially different. Moreover, it is shown that also for mixtures of states sharing the same amount of entanglement, Bell inequality violations and entanglement measures are non-monotonically related.

id: 0907.1062
title: Entanglement of unstable atoms: modifications of the emission properties
authors: Pedro Sancho, Luis Plaja
comments: Accepted in JPB
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1062
abstract: We analyse the influence of entanglement on the emission properties of atoms. To this end, first, we propose a scheme for the preparation of a pair of entangled Helium atoms, one in the ortho and the other in the para spin configuration. We discuss a realistic scenario for this process, based in the double ionization of He by intense laser fields. These states are used to analyse disentanglement and the role of entanglement in the spontaneous emission from the pair. In particular, we show that the decaying rate of an entangled atom is different from that in a product state, modifying the temporal emission distribution and lifetime of the atoms.

id: 0907.1068
title: Thermal entanglement witness for materials with variable local spin lengths
authors: Andre M. C. Souza, Francisco A. G. Almeida
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 79, 052337 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1068
abstract: We show that the thermal entanglement in a spin system using only magnetic susceptibility measurements is restricted to the insulator materials. We develop a generalization of the thermal entanglement witness that allows us to get information about the system entanglement with variable local spin lengths that can be used experimentally in conductor or insulator materials. As an application, we study thermal entanglement for the half-filled Hubbard model for linear, square and cubic clusters. We note that it is the itinerancy of electrons that favors the entanglement. Our results suggest a weak dependence between entanglement and external spin freedom degrees.

id: 0907.1109
title: Experimental criteria for steering and the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox
authors: E. G. Cavalcanti, S. J. Jones, H. M. Wiseman, M. D. Reid
comments: Changed title, updated references, minor corrections, added journal-ref and DOI
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032112 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1109
abstract: We formally link the concept of steering (a concept created by Schrodinger but only recently formalised by Wiseman, Jones and Doherty [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140402 (2007)] and the criteria for demonstrations of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox introduced by Reid [Phys. Rev. A, 40, 913 (1989)]. We develop a general theory of experimental EPR-steering criteria, derive a number of criteria applicable to discrete as well as continuous-variables observables, and study their efficacy in detecting that form of nonlocality in some classes of quantum states. We show that previous versions of EPR-type criteria can be rederived within this formalism, thus unifying these efforts from a modern quantum-information perspective and clarifying their conceptual and formal origin. The theory follows in close analogy with criteria for other forms of quantum nonlocality (Bell-nonlocality, entanglement), and because it is a hybrid of those two, it may lead to insights into the relationship between the different forms of nonlocality and the criteria that are able to detect them.

id: 0907.1114
title: Viable entanglement detection of unknown mixed states in low dimensions
authors: Thiago O. Maciel, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, 4 tables
journal: Phys. Rev A 80, 032325 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1114
abstract: We explore procedures to detect entanglement of unknown mixed states, which can be experimentally viable. The heart of the method is a hierarchy of simple feasibility problems, which provides sufficient conditions to entanglement. Our numerical investigations indicate that the entanglement is detected with a cost which is much lower than full state tomography. The procedure is applicable to both free and bound entanglement, and involves only single copy measurements.

id: 0907.1130
title: Practical Entanglement Distillation Scheme Using Recurrence Method And Quantum Low Density Parity Check Codes
authors: H. F. Chau, K. H. Ho
comments: extensively revised, 9 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Quant. Inf. Proc
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1130
abstract: Many entanglement distillation schemes use either universal random hashing or breeding as their final step to obtain almost perfect shared EPR pairs. In spite of a high yield, the hardness of decoding a random linear code makes the use of random hashing and breeding infeasible in practice. In this pilot study, we analyze the performance of the recurrence method, a well-known entanglement distillation scheme, with its final random hashing or breeding procedure being replaced by various efficiently decodable quantum codes. Among all the replacements investigated, the one using a certain adaptive quantum low density parity check (QLDPC) code is found to give the highest yield for Werner states over a wide range of noise level --- the yield for using this QLDPC code is higher than the first runner up by more than 25\% over a wide parameter range. In this respect, the effectiveness of using QLDPC codes in practical entanglement distillation is illustrated.

id: 0907.1138
title: Ultra-Stable Matter-Wave Gyroscopy with Counter-Rotating Vortex Superpositions in Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Sulakshana Thanvanthri, Kishore T. Kapale, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1138
abstract: Matter-wave interferometers are, in principle, orders of magnitude more sensitive than their optical counterparts. Nevertheless, creation of matter-wave currents to achieve such a sensitivity is a continuing challenge. Here, we propose the use of Optical Angular Momentum (OAM) induced vortex superpositions in Bose-Einstein Condensates (BECs) as an alternative to atom interferometers for gyroscopy. The coherent superposition of two counter-rotating vortex states of a trapped condensate leads to an interference pattern that rotates by an angle proportional to the angular velocity of the rotating trap \mdash in accordance with the Sagnac effect. We show that the rotation rate can be easily read out and that the device is highly stable. The signal-to-noise ratio and sensitivity of the scheme are also discussed.

id: 0907.1180
title: Dynamics of a two-level system coupled to a quantum oscillator: Transformed rotating-wave approximation
authors: Congjun Gan, Hang Zheng
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1180
abstract: For studying the dynamics of a two-level system coupled to a quantum oscillator we have presented an analytical approach, the transformed rotating-wave approximation, which takes into account the effect of the counter-rotating terms but still keeps the simple mathematical structure of the ordinary rotating-wave approximation. We have calculated the energy levels of ground and lower-lying excited states, as well as the time-dependent quantum dynamics. It is obvious that the approach is quite simple and can be easily extended to more complicated situation. Besides, the results are compared with the numerically exact ones to show that for weak and intermediate coupling and moderate detuning our analytic calculations are quantitatively in good agreement with the exact ones.

id: 0907.1190
title: Better Late than Never: Information Retrieval from Black Holes
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Stefano Pirandola, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: Change of title to reflect information return. The physics of "energetic curtains" remains unchanged
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 101301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1190
abstract: We show that, in order to preserve the equivalence principle until late times in unitarily evaporating black holes, the thermodynamic entropy of a black hole must be primarily entropy of entanglement across the event horizon. For such black holes, we show that the information entering a black hole becomes encoded in correlations within a tripartite quantum state, the quantum analogue of a one-time pad, and is only decoded into the outgoing radiation very late in the evaporation. This behavior generically describes the unitary evaporation of highly entangled black holes and requires no specially designed evolution. Our work suggests the existence of a matter-field sum rule for any fundamental theory.

id: 0907.1215
title: Analysis of adiabatic transfer in cavity QED
authors: Joyee Ghosh, R. Ghosh, Deepak Kumar
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1215
abstract: A three-level atom in a $\Lambda$ configuration trapped in an optical cavity forms a basic unit in a number of proposed protocols for quantum information processing. Through control with an appropriate laser, this system allows for efficient storage of cavity photons into long-lived atomic excitations, and their retrieval with high fidelity. This process presumes an adiabatic transfer through the `dark state', a coherent superposition of the two lower levels of the $\Lambda$ system, by a slow variation of the intensity of the control laser. We study the full quantum mechanics of this transfer process with a view to examine the nonadiabatic effects, as the control laser is varied in time. The nonadiabatic effects arise due to inevitable excitations of the system to states involving the highest level of the $\Lambda$ configuration, which is radiative. We formulate the problem in terms of the instantaneous eigenstates and solve it numerically, allowing for spontaneous decays from the excited level. We present detailed results for both storage and retrieval for a suitable range of variation rates and intensity of the control laser, and examine optimum conditions for the transfer process.

id: 0907.1220
title: Semiclassical Description of Wavepacket Revival
authors: F. Toscano, R. O. Vallejos, D. A. Wisniacki
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 04621 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1220
abstract: We test the ability of semiclassical theory to describe quantitatively the revival of quantum wavepackets --a long time phenomena-- in the one dimensional quartic oscillator (a Kerr type Hamiltonian). Two semiclassical theories are considered: time-dependent WKB and Van Vleck propagation. We show that both approaches describe with impressive accuracy the autocorrelation function and wavefunction up to times longer than the revival time. Moreover, in the Van Vleck approach, we can show analytically that the range of agreement extends to arbitrary long times.

id: 0907.1267
title: On the speed of fluctuations around thermodynamic equilibrium
authors: Noah Linden, Sandu Popescu, Anthony J Short, Andreas Winter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1267
abstract: We study the speed of fluctuation of a quantum system around its thermodynamic equilibrium state, and show that the speed will be extremely small for almost all times in typical thermodynamic cases. The setting considered here is that of a quantum system couples to a bath, both jointly described as a closed system. This setting, is the same as the one considered in [N. Linden et al., Phys. Rev. E 79:061103 (2009)] and the ``thermodynamic equilibrium state'' refers to a situation that includes the usual thermodynamic equilibrium case, as well as far more general situations.

id: 0907.1286
title: Geometrical aspects of qudits concerning Bell inequalities
authors: Christoph Spengler
comments: Diploma Thesis, University of Vienna (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1286
abstract: The aim of this thesis is to investigate quantum entanglement and quantum nonlocality of bipartite finite-dimensional systems (bipartite qudits). Entanglement is one of the most fascinating non-classical features of quantum theory, and besides its impact on our view of the world, it can be exploited for applications such as quantum cryptography and quantum computing. (...) Although entanglement and nonlocality are ordinarily regarded as one and the same, under close consideration this cannot be taken for granted. The reason for this is that entanglement is defined by the mathematical structure of a quantum state in a composite Hilbert space, whereas nonlocality signifies that the statistical behaviour of a system cannot be described by a local realistic theory. For the latter it is essential that the correlation probabilities of such theories obey so-called Bell inequalities, which are violated for certain quantum states. The main focus of this thesis is on the comparison of both properties with the objective of understanding their relation. (...) Because of the fact that the correlation probabilities in general depend on the measurement settings it is necessary to optimise these in order to reveal nonlocality. This problem is solved for a particular Bell inequality (CGMLP) by means of a self-developed numerical search algorithm. The method is then applied to density matrices of a subspace spanned by the projectors of maximally entangled two-qudit states. This set of states (...) serves to visualise and analyse the state space geometrically.

id: 0907.1297
title: Bounds on the quantum satisfiability threshold
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1297
abstract: Quantum k-SAT is the problem of deciding whether there is a n-qubit state which is perpendicular to a set of vectors, each of which lies in the Hilbert space of k qubits. Equivalently, the problem is to decide whether a particular type of local Hamiltonian has a ground state with zero energy. We consider random quantum k-SAT formulas with n variables and m = \alpha n clauses, and ask at what value of \alpha these formulas cease to be satisfiable. We show that the threshold for random quantum 3-SAT is at most 3.594. For comparison, convincing arguments from statistical physics suggest that the classical 3-SAT threshold is \alpha \approx 4.267. For larger k, we show that the quantum threshold is a constant factor smaller than the classical one. Our bounds work by determining the generic rank of the satisfying subspace for certain gadgets, and then using the technique of differential equations to analyze various algorithms that partition the hypergraph into a collection of these gadgets. Our use of differential equation to establish upper bounds on a satisfiability threshold appears to be novel, and our techniques may apply to various classical problems as well.

id: 0907.1315
title: Soft-Pulse Dynamical Decoupling with Markovian Decoherence
authors: Leonid P. Pryadko, Gregory Quiroz
comments: New version contains minor content clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1315
abstract: We consider the effect of broadband decoherence on the performance of refocusing sequences, having in mind applications of dynamical decoupling in concatenation with quantum error correcting codes as the first stage of coherence protection. Specifically, we construct cumulant expansions of effective decoherence operators for a qubit driven by a pulse of a generic symmetric shape, and for several sequences of $\pi$- and $\pi/2$-pulses. While, in general, the performance of soft pulses in decoupling sequences in the presence of Markovian decoherence is worse than that of the ideal $\delta$-pulses, it can be substantially improved by shaping.

id: 0907.1333
title: Demonstrating mesoscopic superpositions in double-well Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: T.J. Haigh, A.J. Ferris, M.K. Olsen
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1333
abstract: The availability of Bose-Einstein condensates as mesoscopic or macroscopic quantum objects has aroused new interest in the possiblity of making and detecting coherent superpositions involving many atoms. In this article we show that it may be possible to generate such a superposition state in a reasonably short time using Feshbach resonances to tune the inter-atomic interactions in a double-well condensate. We also consider the important problem of distinguishing whether a coherent superposition or a statistical mixture is generated by a given experimental procedure. We find that unambiguously distinguishing even a perfect `NOON' state from a statistical mixture using standard detection methods will present experimental difficulties.

id: 0907.1337
title: A general theoretical framework for decoherence in open and closed systems
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin, Roberto Laura, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 10 pages, 0 figures
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 25 154002, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1337
abstract: A general theoretical framework for decoherence is proposed, which encompasses formalisms originally devised to deal just with open or with closed systems. The conditions for decoherence are clearly stated and the relaxation and decoherence times are compared. Finally, the spin-bath model is developed in detail from the new perspective.

id: 0907.1353
title: Homodyne Detection and Quantum State Reconstruction
authors: Dirk-Gunnar Welsch, Werner Vogel, Tomas Opatrny
comments: 119 pages, 23 figures. Volume XXXIX of Progress in Optics is out of print, while the topic of our review article continues to be of interest
journal: Progress in Optics, Vol. XXXIX, ed. E. Wolf (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1999), p. 63--211
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1353
abstract: A review is given on phase-sensitive measurements, such as homodyne detection, for radiation fields and material systems. Methods of quantum-state reconstruction are considered for radiation fields, including multimode and pulsed radiation. For matter systems, methods are reported for the reconstruction of quantum states of molecular vibrations, the quantized motion of trapped atoms, Bose-Einstein condensates, atomic matter waves, electron motion, spin and angular momentum systems, and crystal lattices.

id: 0907.1372
title: Magnetic field sensors using 13-spin cat states
authors: Stephanie Simmons, Jonathan A. Jones, Steven D. Karlen, Arzhang Ardavan, John J. L. Morton
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures; v2: corrected figure 3, expanded conclusion, simplified explanation of equation 2; v3: accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022330 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1372
abstract: Measurement devices could benefit from entangled correlations to yield a measurement sensitivity approaching the physical Heisenberg limit. Building upon previous magnetometric work using pseudo-entangled spin states in solution-state NMR, we present two conceptual advancements to better prepare and interpret the pseudo-entanglement resource as well as the use of a 13-spin cat state to measure the local magnetic field with a sensitivity beyond the standard quantum limit.

id: 0907.1381
title: Noisy quantum Monty Hall game
authors: Piotr Gawron
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1381
abstract: The influence of spontaneous emission channel and generalized Pauli channel on quantum Monty Hall Game is analysed. The scheme of Flittney and Abbott is reformulated using the formalism of density matrices. Optimal classical strategies for given quantum strategies are found. The whole presented scheme illustrates how quantum noise may change the odds of a zero-sum game.

id: 0907.1399
title: Decoherence of a quantum memory coupled to a collective spin bath
authors: Richard Walters, Stephen R. Clark, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 8, Nos. 1 & 2 (2010) 271-294
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1399
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a single qubit coupled to a bath of interacting spins as a model for decoherence in solid state quantum memories. The spin bath is described by the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model and the bath spins are subjected to a transverse magnetic field. We investigate the qubit interacting via either an Ising- or an XY-type coupling term to subsets of bath spins of differing size. The large degree of symmetry of the bath allows us to find parameter regimes where the initial qubit state is revived at well defined times after the qubit preparation. These times may become independent of the bath size for large baths and thus enable faithful qubit storage even in the presence of strong coupling to a bath. We analyze a large range of parameters and identify those which are best suited for quantum memories. In general we find that a small number of links between qubit and bath spins leads to less decoherence and that systems with Ising coupling between qubit and bath spins are preferable.

id: 0907.1433
title: Entanglement in the anisotropic Heisenberg XYZ model with different Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction and inhomogeneous magnetic field
authors: Da-Chuang Li, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 50, 207 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1433
abstract: We investigate the entanglement in a two-qubit Heisenberg XYZ system with different Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya(DM) interaction and inhomogeneous magnetic field. It is found that the control parameters ($D_{x}$, $B_{x}$ and $b_{x}$) are remarkably different with the common control parameters ($D_{z}$,$B_{z}$ and $b_{z}$) in the entanglement and the critical temperature, and these x-component parameters can increase the entanglement and the critical temperature more efficiently. Furthermore, we show the properties of these x-component parameters for the control of entanglement. In the ground state, increasing $D_{x}$ (spin-orbit coupling parameter) can decrease the critical value $b_{xc}$ and increase the entanglement in the revival region, and adjusting some parameters (increasing $b_{x}$ and $J$, decreasing $B_{x}$ and $\Delta$) can decrease the critical value $D_{xc}$ to enlarge the revival region. In the thermal state, increasing $D_{x}$ can increase the revival region and the entanglement in the revival region (for $T$ or $b_{x}$), and enhance the critical value $B_{xc}$ to make the region of high entanglement larger. Also, the entanglement and the revival region will increase with the decrease of $B_{x}$ (uniform magnetic field). In addition, small $b_{x}$ (nonuniform magnetic field) has some similar properties to $D_{x}$, and with the increase of $b_{x}$ the entanglement also has a revival phenomenon, so that the entanglement can exist at higher temperature for larger $b_{x}$.

id: 0907.1532
title: Methods for Estimating Capacities and Rates of Gaussian Quantum Channels
authors: Oleg V. Pilyavets, Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Mancini
comments: 39 pages, 30 figures. New results and graphs were added. Errors and misprints were corrected. To appear in IEEE Trans. Inf. Th
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 58, no. 9, pp. 6126-6164, Sept. 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1532
abstract: Optimization methods aimed at estimating the capacities of a general Gaussian channel are developed. Specifically evaluation of classical capacity as maximum of the Holevo information is pursued over all possible Gaussian encodings for the lossy bosonic channel, but extension to other capacities and other Gaussian channels seems feasible. Solutions for both memoryless and memory channels are presented. It is first dealt with single use (single-mode) channel where the capacity dependence from channel's parameters is analyzed providing a full classification of the possible cases. Then it is dealt with multiple uses (multi-mode) channel where the capacity dependence from the (multi-mode) environment state is analyzed when both total environment energy and environment purity are fixed. This allows a fair comparison among different environments, thus understanding the role of memory (inter-mode correlations) and phenomenon like superadditivity of the capacity. The developed methods are also used for deriving transmission rates with heterodyne and homodyne measurements at the channel output. Classical capacity and transmission rates are presented within a unique framework where the rates can be treated as logarithmic approximations of the capacity.

id: 0907.1544
title: Forgetfulness of continuous Markovian quantum channels
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Laleh Memarzadeh, Stefano Mancini
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, comments are welcome. Minor corrections and acknoledgment added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042328 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1544
abstract: The notion of forgetfulness, used in discrete quantum memory channels, is slightly weakened in order to be applied to the case of continuous channels. This is done in the context of quantum memory channels with Markovian noise. As a case study, we apply the notion of weak-forgetfulness to a bosonic memory channel with additive noise. A suitable encoding and decoding unitary transformation allows us to unravel the effects of the memory, hence the channel capacities can be computed using known results from the memoryless setting.

id: 0907.1565
title: Quantum Walk in Position Space with Single Optically Trapped Atoms
authors: Micha? Karski, Leonid F?rster, Jai-Min Choi, Andreas Steffen, Wolfgang Alt, Dieter Meschede, Artur Widera
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Science 325, p174 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1565
abstract: The quantum walk is the quantum analogue of the well-known random walk, which forms the basis for models and applications in many realms of science. Its properties are markedly different from the classical counterpart and might lead to extensive applications in quantum information science. In our experiment, we implemented a quantum walk on the line with single neutral atoms by deterministically delocalizing them over the sites of a one-dimensional spin-dependent optical lattice. With the use of site-resolved fluorescence imaging, the final wave function is characterized by local quantum state tomography, and its spatial coherence is demonstrated. Our system allows the observation of the quantum-to-classical transition and paves the way for applications, such as quantum cellular automata.

id: 0907.1576
title: Uncertainty relation on Wigner-Yanase-Dyson skew information
authors: Kenjiro Yanagi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1576
abstract: We give a trace inequality related to the uncertainty relation of Wigner-Yanase-Dyson skew information. This inequality corresponds to a generalization of the uncertainty relation derived by S. Luo for the quantum uncertainty quantity excluding the classical mixture.

id: 0907.1579
title: The Computational Power of Minkowski Spacetime
authors: Jacob D. Biamonte
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX, feedback welcome
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.229:012020,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1579
abstract: The Lorentzian length of a timelike curve connecting both endpoints of a classical computation is a function of the path taken through Minkowski spacetime. The associated runtime difference is due to time-dilation: the phenomenon whereby an observer finds that another's physically identical ideal clock has ticked at a different rate than their own clock. Using ideas appearing in the framework of computational complexity theory, time-dilation is quantified as an algorithmic resource by relating relativistic energy to an $n$th order polynomial time reduction at the completion of an observer's journey. These results enable a comparison between the optimal quadratic \emph{Grover speedup} from quantum computing and an $n=2$ speedup using classical computers and relativistic effects. The goal is not to propose a practical model of computation, but to probe the ultimate limits physics places on computation.

id: 0907.1611
title: On virtual phonons, photons and electrons
authors: G. Nimtz
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics, 39, 1346-1355 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1611
abstract: A macroscopic realization of the strange virtual particles is presented. The classical Helmholtz and the quantum mechanical Schr\"odinger equations are analogous differential equations. Their imaginary solutions are called evanescent modes in the case of elastic and electromagnetic fields. In the case of non-relativistic quantum mechanical fields they are called tunneling solutions. The imaginary solutions of this differential equation point to strange consequences: They are non local, they are not observable, and they described as virtual particles. During the last two decades QED calculations of the imaginary solutions have been experimentally confirmed for phonons, photons, and for electrons. The experimental proofs of the predictions of the non-relativistic quantum mechanics and of the Wigner phase time approach for the elastic, the electromagnetic and the Schr\"odinger fields will be presented in this article. The results are zero tunneling time and an interaction time (i.e. a phase shift) at the barrier interfaces. The measured barrier interaction time (i.e. the barrier transmission time) scales approximately inversely with the particle energy.

id: 0907.1615
title: Non-Markovian quantum trajectories: an exact result
authors: Angelo Bassi, Luca Ferialdi
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX. Minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 050403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1615
abstract: We analyze the non-Markovian stochastic Schroedinger equation describing a particle subject to spontaneous collapses in space (in the language of collapse models), or subject to a continuous measurement of its position (in the language of continuous quantum measurement). For the first time, we give the explicit general solution for the free particle case (H = p^2/2m), and discuss the main properties. We analyze the case of an exponential correlation function for the noise, giving a quantitative description of the dynamics and of its dependence on the correlation time.

id: 0907.1622
title: Span-program-based quantum algorithm for evaluating unbalanced formulas
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1622
abstract: The formula-evaluation problem is defined recursively. A formula's evaluation is the evaluation of a gate, the inputs of which are themselves independent formulas. Despite this pure recursive structure, the problem is combinatorially difficult for classical computers. A quantum algorithm is given to evaluate formulas over any finite boolean gate set. Provided that the complexities of the input subformulas to any gate differ by at most a constant factor, the algorithm has optimal query complexity. After efficient preprocessing, it is nearly time optimal. The algorithm is derived using the span program framework. It corresponds to the composition of the individual span programs for each gate in the formula. Thus the algorithm's structure reflects the formula's recursive structure.

id: 0907.1623
title: Faster quantum algorithm for evaluating game trees
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures
journal: Proc. 22nd ACM-SIAM Symp. on Discrete Algorithms (SODA), 2011, pages 546-559
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1623
abstract: We give an O(sqrt n log n)-query quantum algorithm for evaluating size-n AND-OR formulas. Its running time is poly-logarithmically greater after efficient preprocessing. Unlike previous approaches, the algorithm is based on a quantum walk on a graph that is not a tree. Instead, the algorithm is based on a hybrid of direct-sum span program composition, which generates tree-like graphs, and a novel tensor-product span program composition method, which generates graphs with vertices corresponding to minimal zero-certificates. For comparison, by the general adversary bound, the quantum query complexity for evaluating a size-n read-once AND-OR formula is at least Omega(sqrt n), and at most O(sqrt{n} log n / log log n). However, this algorithm is not necessarily time efficient; the number of elementary quantum gates applied between input queries could be much larger. Ambainis et al. have given a quantum algorithm that uses sqrt{n} 2^{O(sqrt{log n})} queries, with a poly-logarithmically greater running time.

id: 0907.1626
title: Asymptotic boundary layer method for unstable trajectories: Semiclassics for individual scar wavefunctions
authors: A. Vagov, H. Schomerus, V. V. Zalipaev
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 056202 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1626
abstract: We extend the asymptotic boundary layer (ABL) method, originally developed for stable resonator modes, to the description of individual wavefunctions localized around unstable periodic orbits. The formalism applies to the description of scar states in fully or partially chaotic quantum systems, and also allows for the presence of smooth and sharp potentials, as well as magnetic fields. We argue that the separatrix wave function provides the largest contribution to the scars on a single wave function. This agrees with earlier results on the wave-function asymptotics and on the quantization condition of the scar states. Predictions of the ABL formalism are compared with the exact numerical solution for a strip resonator with a parabolic confinement potential and a magnetic field.

id: 0907.1635
title: Implementation of Fault-tolerant Quantum Logic Gates via Optimal Control
authors: R. Nigmatullin, S. G. Schirmer
comments: 18 pages, ioptex, many figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 105032 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1635
abstract: The implementation of fault-tolerant quantum gates on encoded logic qubits is considered. It is shown that transversal implementation of logic gates based on simple geometric control ideas is problematic for realistic physical systems suffering from imperfections such as qubit inhomogeneity or uncontrollable interactions between qubits. However, this problem can be overcome by formulating the task as an optimal control problem and designing efficient algorithms to solve it. In particular, we can find solutions that implement all of the elementary logic gates in a fixed amount of time with limited control resources for the five-qubit stabilizer code. Most importantly, logic gates that are extremely difficult to implement using conventional techniques even for ideal systems, such as the T-gate for the five-qubit stabilizer code, do not appear to pose a problem for optimal control.

id: 0907.1638
title: Effects of Vacuum Fluctuation Suppression on Atomic Decay Rates
authors: L. H. Ford, Thomas A. Roman
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: Annals Phys.326:2294,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1638
abstract: The use of atomic decay rates as a probe of sub-vacuum phenomena will be studied. Because electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations are essential for radiative decay of excited atomic states, decay rates can serve as a measure of the suppression of vacuum fluctuation in non-classical states, such as squeezed vacuum states. In such states the renormalized expectation value of the square of the electric field or the energy density can be periodically negative, representing suppression of vacuum fluctuations. We explore the extent to which atomic decays can be used to measure the mean squared electric field or energy density. We consider a scheme in which atoms in an excited state transit a closed cavity whose lowest mode contains photons in a non-classical state. The change in the decay probability of the atom in the cavity due to the non-classical state can, under certain circumstances, serve as a measure of the mean squared electric field or energy density in the cavity. We derive a quantum inequality bound on the decrease in this probability. We also show that the decrease in decay rate can sometimes be a measure of negative energy density or negative squared electric field. We make some estimates of the magnitude of this effect, which indicate that an experimental test might be possible.

id: 0907.1657
title: A Rydberg Quantum Simulator
authors: Hendrik Weimer, Markus M¨¹ller, Igor Lesanovsky, Peter Zoller, Hans Peter B¨¹chler
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Phys. 6, 382-388 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1657
abstract: Following Feynman and as elaborated on by Lloyd, a universal quantum simulator (QS) is a controlled quantum device which reproduces the dynamics of any other many particle quantum system with short range interactions. This dynamics can refer to both coherent Hamiltonian and dissipative open system evolution. We investigate how laser excited Rydberg atoms in large spacing optical or magnetic lattices can provide an efficient implementation of a universal QS for spin models involving (high order) n-body interactions. This includes the simulation of Hamiltonians of exotic spin models involving n-particle constraints such as the Kitaev toric code, color code, and lattice gauge theories with spin liquid phases. In addition, it provides the ingredients for dissipative preparation of entangled states based on engineering n-particle reservoir couplings. The key basic building blocks of our architecture are efficient and high-fidelity n-qubit entangling gates via auxiliary Rydberg atoms, including a possible dissipative time step via optical pumping. This allows to mimic the time evolution of the system by a sequence of fast, parallel and high-fidelity n-particle coherent and dissipative Rydberg gates.

id: 0907.1666
title: Some Aspects of Classical and Quantum Phases
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Tirzah Kaufherr, Shmuel Nussinov
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.173:012020,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1666
abstract: We study classical and quantum phases in the adiabatic Born-Oppenheimer context. These include a classical astronomical case, the general dual description of the phases, a new "Paradox" connected to scattering Berry phase and its resolution and various elaboration of topological/geometrical/non-abelian phases.

id: 0907.1673
title: A Novel Phase Shift Acquired due to Virtual Forces
authors: T. Kaufherr, Y. Aharonov, S. Nussinov, S. Popescu, J. Tollaksen
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1673
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author.

id: 0907.1677
title: New Insights into the Born Oppenheimer Approximation and "Potential Effects" with No Ordinary Potentials
authors: T. Kaufherr, Y. Aharonov, S. Nussinov, J. Tollaksen
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1677
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author.

id: 0907.1679
title: Violation of the Leggett-Garg inequality with weak measurements of photons
authors: M. E. Goggin, M. P. Almeida, M. Barbieri, B. P. Lanyon, J. L. O'Brien, A. G. White, G. J. Pryde
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 108, 1256 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1679
abstract: By weakly measuring the polarization of a photon between two strong polarization measurements, we experimentally investigate the correlation between the appearance of anomalous values in quantum weak measurements, and the violation of realism and non-intrusiveness of measurements. A quantitative formulation of the latter concept is expressed in terms of a Leggett-Garg inequality for the outcomes of subsequent measurements of an individual quantum system. We experimentally violate the Leggett-Garg inequality for several measurement strengths. Furthermore, we experimentally demonstrate that there is a one-to-one correlation between achieving strange weak values and violating the Leggett-Garg inequality.

id: 0907.1702
title: Quantum Logic Between Distant Trapped Ions
authors: S. Olmschenk, D. Hayes, D. N. Matsukevich, P. Maunz, D. L. Moehring, C. Monroe
comments: 59 pages, 19 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info. 8, 337 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1702
abstract: Trapped atomic ions have proven to be one of the most promising candidates for the realization of quantum computation due to their long trapping times, excellent coherence properties, and exquisite control of the internal atomic states. Integrating ions (quantum memory) with photons (distance link) offers a unique path to large-scale quantum computation and long-distance quantum communication. In this article, we present a detailed review of the experimental implementation of a heralded photon-mediated quantum gate between remote ions, and the employment of this gate to perform a teleportation protocol between two ions separated by a distance of about one meter.

id: 0907.1708
title: Graphical algorithms and threshold error rates for the 2d colour code
authors: D. S. Wang, A. G. Fowler, C. D. Hill, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 20 pages, 19 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 10, 780 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1708
abstract: Recent work on fault-tolerant quantum computation making use of topological error correction shows great potential, with the 2d surface code possessing a threshold error rate approaching 1% (NJoP 9:199, 2007), (arXiv:0905.0531). However, the 2d surface code requires the use of a complex state distillation procedure to achieve universal quantum computation. The colour code of (PRL 97:180501, 2006) is a related scheme partially solving the problem, providing a means to perform all Clifford group gates transversally. We review the colour code and its error correcting methodology, discussing one approximate technique based on graph matching. We derive an analytic lower bound to the threshold error rate of 6.25% under error-free syndrome extraction, while numerical simulations indicate it may be as high as 13.3%. Inclusion of faulty syndrome extraction circuits drops the threshold to approximately 0.1%.

id: 0907.1713
title: Off-diagonal geometric phase of atom-electron coupling in hydrogen atom
authors: Guo-Qiang Zhu
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1713
abstract: In this paper, the off-diagonal geometric phase of thermal state in hydrogen atom under the effects of external magnetic field is considered. Increasing temperature tends to suppress the off-diagonal geometric phase, including 1-order and 2-order cases. On the other hand, the relationship between the geometric phase and external magnetic field is discussed.

id: 0907.1736
title: Large Oscillator representations for self-adjoint Calogero Hamiltonians
authors: D.M. Gitman, I.V. Tyutin, B.L. Voronov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1736
abstract: In the article arXiv:0903.5277 [quant-ph], we have presented a mathematically rigorous quantum-mechanical treatment of a one-dimensional motion of a particle in the Calogero potential $V(x)=\alpha x^{-2}$. In such a way, we have described all possible s.a. operators (s.a. Hamiltonians) associated with the formal differential expression $\check{H}=-d_{x}^{2}+\alpha x^{-2}$ for the Calogero Hamiltonian. Here, we discuss a new aspect of the problem, the so-called oscillator representation for the Calogero Hamiltonians. As it is know, operators of the form $\hat{N}=\hat{a}^{+}\hat{a}$ and $\hat{A}=\hat{a}\hat{a}^{+}$ are called operators of oscillator type. Oscillator type operators obey several useful properties in case if the elementary operator $\hat{a}$ and $\hat{a}^{+}$ are densely defined. It turns out that some s.a. Calogero Hamiltonians are oscillator type operators. We describe such Hamiltonians and find the corresponding mutually adjoint elementary operators.

id: 0907.1754
title: On entanglement and perfect LOCC discrimination of a class of multiqubit states
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay
comments: Latex, 11 pages, minor changes
journal: Physical Review A 81, 022327 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1754
abstract: It is shown that while entanglement remains a significant factor in discriminating a set of mutually orthogonal entangled states perfectly by local operations and classical communication (LOCC), entanglement content is not. In particular, for a class of entangled multi-qubit states, the maximum number of perfectly LOCC distinguishable orthogonal states is shown to be independent of the average entanglement of the states, and the spatial configuration with respect to which LOCC operations may be carried out. It is also pointed out that the make-up of an ensemble, that is, whether it consists only of entangled states or is a mix of both entangled and product states, determines the maximum number of perfectly distinguishable states.

id: 0907.1764
title: Efficient compression of quantum information
authors: Martin Plesch, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032317 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1764
abstract: We propose a scheme for an exact efficient transformation of a tensor product state of many identically prepared qubits into a state of a logarithmically small number of qubits. Using a quadratic number of elementary quantum gates we transform N identically prepared qubits into a state, which is nontrivial only on the first log(N+1) qubits. This procedure might be useful for quantum memories, as only a small portion of the original qubits has to be stored. Another possible application is in communicating a direction encoded in a set of quantum states, as the compressed state provides a high-effective method for such an encoding.

id: 0907.1784
title: Entangled states : Classical versus Quantum
authors: S. Kanmani
comments: Expository article on entanglement; 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1784
abstract: Quantum mechanics of composite systems, gives rise to certain special states called entangled states. A physical system, that is in an entangled state displays an intricate correlation between its subsystems. There are also some composite quantum states (classically correlated states or separable states) that are not entangled. It is generally claimed, often without a rigorous proof to support, that these intricate correlations of an entangled state cannot occur in a classical system. This expository article, provides an elementary proof that entangled states cannot arise in the setting of classical mechanics. In addition, a detailed description of the origin of entanglement in quantum systems is included. The mathematical concepts that are necessary for this purpose are presented. The absence of entanglement in the classical setting is due to the fact that every pure classical state of a composite system is a product state, that is, a tensor product of two pure states of the subsystems. In contrast, there are pure composite quantum states that cannot be expressed in the form of a product state or even by a convex sum of product states. Roughly speaking, this is because classical states are positive valued functions on the phase-space while quantum states are positive linear operators. The structure of the tensor product between two commutative spaces of scalar valued functions is drastically different from that of the tensor product between two non-commutative spaces of linear operators. In other words, entanglement is a non-commutative phenomenon.

id: 0907.1792
title: Tunneling times with covariant measurements
authors: J. Kiukas, A. Ruschhaupt, R. F. Werner
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Found. Phys. 39: 829-846 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1792
abstract: We consider the time delay of massive, non-relativistic, one-dimensional particles due to a tunneling potential. In this setting the well-known Hartman effect asserts that often the sub-ensemble of particles going through the tunnel seems to cross the tunnel region instantaneously. An obstacle to the utilization of this effect for getting faster signals is the exponential damping by the tunnel, so there seems to be a trade-off between speedup and intensity. In this paper we prove that this trade-off is never in favor of faster signals: the probability for a signal to reach its destination before some deadline is always reduced by the tunnel, for arbitrary incoming states, arbitrary positive and compactly supported tunnel potentials, and arbitrary detectors. More specifically, we show this for several different ways to define ``the same incoming state'' and ''the same detector'' when comparing the settings with and without tunnel potential. The arrival time measurements are expressed in the time-covariant approach, but we also allow the detection to be a localization measurement at a later time.

id: 0907.1831
title: Qubit Mediated Time Robust Entangling of Oscillators in Thermal Environments
authors: Tommaso Tufarelli, M. S. Kim, Sougato Bose
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures containing 7 pictures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062317 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1831
abstract: We consider two separated oscillators initially in equilibrium and continuously interacting with thermal environments, and propose a way to entangle them using a mediating qubit. An appropriate interaction allows for an analytic treatment of the open system, removes the necessity of fine-tuning interaction times and results in a high tolerance of the entanglement to finite temperature. The entanglement thus produced between the oscillators can be verified either through a Bell inequality relying on oscillator parity measurements or through conditional extraction of the entanglement on to two mutually non-interacting qubits. The latter process also shows that the generated mixed entangled state of the oscillators is an useful resource for entangling qubits. By allowing for influences from environments, taking feasible qubit-oscillator interactions and measurement settings, this scheme should be implementable in a variety of experimental setups. The method presented for the solution of the master equation can also be adapted to a variety of problems involving the same form of qubit-oscillator interaction

id: 0907.1848
title: Estimating Purity and Entropy in Stabilizer State Experiments
authors: Harald Wunderlich, Martin B. Plenio
comments: submitted to International Journal of Quantum Information - Special Issue on Distributed Quantum Computing
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 8, 325 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1848
abstract: Many experiments in quantum information aim at creating graph states. Quantifying the purity of an experimentally achieved graph state could in principle be accomplished using full-state tomography. This method requires a number of measurement settings growing exponentially with the number of constituents involved. Thus, full-state tomography becomes experimentally infeasible even for a moderate number of qubits. In this paper we present a method to estimate the purity of experimentally achieved graph states with simple measurements. The observables we consider are the stabilizers of the underlying graph. Then, we formulate the problem as: "What is the state with the least purity that is compatible with the measurement data?" We solve this problem analytically and compare the obtained bounds with results from full-state tomography for simulated data.

id: 0907.1865
title: Complete methods set for scalable ion trap quantum information processing
authors: J. P. Home, D. Hanneke, J. D. Jost, J. M. Amini, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. Accepted to Science, and thus subject to a press embargo
journal: Science 325, 1227 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1865
abstract: Large-scale quantum information processors must be able to transport and maintain quantum information, and repeatedly perform logical operations. Here we demonstrate a combination of all the fundamental elements required to perform scalable quantum computing using qubits stored in the internal states of trapped atomic ions. We quantify the repeatability of a multi-qubit operation, observing no loss of performance despite qubit transport over macroscopic distances. Key to these results is the use of different pairs of beryllium ion hyperfine states for robust qubit storage, readout and gates, and simultaneous trapping of magnesium re-cooling ions along with the qubit ions.

id: 0907.1884
title: Error rates of Belavkin weighted quantum measurements and a converse to Holevo's asymptotic optimality theorem
authors: Jon Tyson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032343 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1884
abstract: We compare several instances of pure-state Belavkin weighted square-root measurements from the standpoint of minimum-error discrimination of quantum states. The quadratically weighted measurement is proven superior to the so-called "pretty good measurement" (PGM) in a number of respects: (1) Holevo's quadratic weighting unconditionally outperforms the PGM in the case of two-state ensembles, with equality only in trivial cases. (2) A converse of a theorem of Holevo is proven, showing that a weighted measurement is asymptotically optimal only if it is quadratically weighted. Counterexamples for three states are constructed. The cube-weighted measurement of Ballester, Wehner, and Winter is also considered. Sufficient optimality conditions for various weights are compared.

id: 0907.1887
title: Fast, high fidelity information transmission through spin chain quantum wires
authors: S. G. Schirmer, P. J. Pemberton-Ross
comments: revtex4, 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 030301(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1887
abstract: Spin chains have been proposed as quantum wires for information transfer in solid state quantum architectures. We show that huge gains in both transfer speed and fidelity are possible using a minimalist control approach that relies only a single, local, on-off switch actuator. Effective switching time sequences can be determined using optimization techniques for both ideal and disordered chains. Simulations suggest that effective optimization is possible even in the absence of accurate models.

id: 0907.1902
title: Efficient optical quantum state engineering
authors: Kevin T. McCusker, Paul G. Kwiat
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 163602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1902
abstract: We discuss a novel method of efficiently producing multi-photon states using repeated spontaneous parametric downconversion. Specifically, by attempting downconversion several times, we can pseudo-deterministically add photons to a mode, producing various several-photon states. We discuss both expected performance and experimental limitations.

id: 0907.1933
title: Decoherence as a relative phenomenon: a generalization of the spin-bath model
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 25 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1933
abstract: In this paper we propose a closed-system perspective to study decoherence. From this perspective we analyze the spin-bath model as presented in the literature, and a natural generalization of that model. On the basis of the results obtained from that analysis, we argue that decoherence may be understood as a phenomenon relative to the partition of a closed system, selected in each particular case. This viewpoint frees the decoherence program from certain conceptual difficulties derived from its open-system perspective. We also argue that the usual picture of decoherence in terms of energy dissipation is misguided.

id: 0907.1960
title: Fermionic entanglement that survives a black hole
authors: E. Martin-Martinez, J. Leon
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 80, 042318 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1960
abstract: We introduce an arbitrary number of accessible modes when analyzing bipartite entanglement degradation due to Unruh effect between two partners Alice and Rob. Under the single mode approximation (SMA) a fermion field only had a few accessible levels due to Pauli exclusion principle, conversely to bosonic fields which had an infinite number of excitable levels. This was argued to justify entanglement survival in the fermionic case in the SMA infinite acceleration limit. Here we relax SMA. Hence, an infinite number of modes are excited as the observer Rob accelerates, even for a fermion field. We will prove that, despite this analogy with the bosonic case, entanglement loss is limited. We will show that this comes from fermionic statistics through the characteristic structure it imposes on the infinite dimensional density matrix for Rob. Surprisingly, the surviving entanglement is independent of the specific maximally entangled state chosen, the kind of fermionic field analyzed, and the number of accessible modes considered. We shall discuss whether this surviving entanglement goes beyond the purely statistical correlations, giving insight concerning the black hole information paradox.

id: 0907.1964
title: Entanglement measurement of the quadrature components without the homodyne detection in the spatially multi-mode far-field
authors: T. Golubeva, Yu. Golubev, K. Samburskaya, C. Fabre, N. Treps, M. Kolobov
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX4. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 81, 013831 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1964
abstract: We consider the measuring procedure that in principle allows to avoid the homodyne detection for the simultaneous selection of both quadrature components in the far-field. The scheme is based on the use of the coherent sources of the non-classical light. The possibilities of the procedure are illustrated on the basis of the use of pixellised sources, where the phase-locked sub-Poissonian lasers or the degenerate optical parametric oscillator generating above threshold are chosen as the pixels. The theory of the pixellised source of the spatio-temporal squeezed light is elaborated as a part of this investigation.

id: 0907.1974
title: Feasible scheme for measuring experimentally the speed of the response of quantum states to the change of the boundary condition
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: Title changed to suit the content more faithfully. The proposed experimental scheme remains unchanged. Added suggested specifications for implementing the scheme with single-electron biprism interference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1974
abstract: When the boundary condition of a quantum system changes, how fast will it affect the state of the system? Here we show that if the response takes place immediately, then it can allow superluminal signal transfer. Else if the response propagates in space with a finite speed, then it could give a simple explanation why our world shows classicality on the macroscopic scale. Furthermore, determining the exact value of this speed can either clarify the doubts on static experiments for testing Bell's inequality, or support the pilot-wave interpretation of quantum mechanics. We propose an experimental scheme for measuring this speed, which can be implemented with state-of-art technology, e.g., single-electron biprism interference.

id: 0907.1977
title: Nonlinear Quantum Evolution Equations to Model Irreversible Adiabatic Relaxation with Maximal Entropy Production and Other Nonunitary Processes
authors: Gian Paolo Beretta
comments: To appear in Reports on Mathematical Physics. Presented at the The Jubilee 40th Symposium on Mathematical Physics, "Geometry & Quanta", Torun, Poland, June 25-28, 2008
journal: Reports on Mathematical Physics, Vol. 64, 139-168 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1977
abstract: We first discuss the geometrical construction and the main mathematical features of the maximum-entropy-production/steepest-entropy-ascent nonlinear evolution equation proposed long ago by this author in the framework of a fully quantum theory of irreversibility and thermodynamics for a single isolated or adiabatic particle, qubit, or qudit, and recently rediscovered by other authors. The nonlinear equation generates a dynamical group, not just a semigroup, providing a deterministic description of irreversible conservative relaxation towards equilibrium from any non-equilibrium density operator. It satisfies a very restrictive stability requirement equivalent to the Hatsopoulos-Keenan statement of the second law of thermodynamics. We then examine the form of the evolution equation we proposed to describe multipartite isolated or adiabatic systems. This hinges on novel nonlinear projections defining local operators that we interpret as ``local perceptions'' of the overall system's energy and entropy. Each component particle contributes an independent local tendency along the direction of steepest increase of the locally perceived entropy at constant locally perceived energy. It conserves both the locally-perceived energies and the overall energy, and meets strong separability and non-signaling conditions, even though the local evolutions are not independent of existing correlations. We finally show how the geometrical construction can readily lead to other thermodynamically relevant models, such as of the nonunitary isoentropic evolution needed for full extraction of a system's adiabatic availability.

id: 0907.2038
title: Clustered Error Correction of Codeword-Stabilized Quantum Codes
authors: Yunfan Li, Ilya Dumer, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, revtex4; number of editorial changes in v4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2038
abstract: Codeword stabilized (CWS) codes are a general class of quantum codes that includes stabilizer codes and many families of non-additive codes with good parameters. For such a non-additive code correcting all t-qubit errors, we propose an algorithm that employs a single measurement to test all errors located on a given set of t qubits. Compared with exhaustive error screening, this reduces the total number of measurements required for error recovery by a factor of about 3^t.

id: 0907.2064
title: Has the Born rule been proven?
authors: J. Finkelstein
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2064
abstract: This note is a somewhat-lighthearted comment on a recent paper by David Wallace, arXiv:0906.2718[quant-ph] entitled "A formal proof of the Born rule from decision-theoretic assumptions".

id: 0907.2094
title: Two-sided estimates of minimum-error distinguishability of mixed quantum states via generalized Holevo-Curlander bounds
authors: Jon Tyson
comments: It was not realized at the time of publication that the lower bound of Theorem 10 has a simple generalization using matrix monotonicity (See [J. Math. Phys. 50, 062102]). Furthermore, this generalization is a trivial variation of a previously-obtained bound of Ogawa and Nagaoka [IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 45, 2486-2489 (1999)], which had been overlooked by the author
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 032106 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2094
abstract: We prove a concise factor-of-2 estimate for the failure rate of optimally distinguishing an arbitrary ensemble of mixed quantum states, generalizing work of Holevo [Theor. Probab. Appl. 23, 411 (1978)] and Curlander [Ph.D. Thesis, MIT, 1979]. A modification to the minimal principle of Cocha and Poor [Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement, and Computing (Rinton, Princeton, NJ, 2003)] is used to derive a suboptimal measurement which has an error rate within a factor of 2 of the optimal by construction. This measurement is quadratically weighted and has appeared as the first iterate of a sequence of measurements proposed by Jezek et al. [Phys. Rev. A 65, 060301 (2002)]. Unlike the so-called pretty good measurement, it coincides with Holevo's asymptotically optimal measurement in the case of nonequiprobable pure states. A quadratically weighted version of the measurement bound by Barnum and Knill [J. Math. Phys. 43, 2097 (2002)] is proven. Bounds on the distinguishability of syndromes in the sense of Schumacher and Westmoreland [Phys. Rev. A 56, 131 (1997)] appear as a corollary. An appendix relates our bounds to the trace-Jensen inequality.

id: 0907.2112
title: Necessity of macroscopic operation for the creation of superpositions of macroscopically distinct states
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 9 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2112
abstract: We consider the creation of superpositions of macroscopically distinct states by a completely-positive (CP) operation on a subsystem. We conclude that the subsystem on which the CP operation acts must be macroscopically large if the success probability of the CP operation does not vanish in the thermodynamic limit. In order to obtain this conclusion, we show two inequalities each of which represents a trade-off relation among the magnitude of an indicator for superpositions of macroscopically distinct states, the success probability of a CP operation, and the volume of the subsystem on which the CP operation acts.

id: 0907.2148
title: Perfect state transfer, integral circulants and join of graphs
authors: R.J. Angeles-Canul, R. Norton, M. Opperman, C. Paribello, M. Russell, C. Tamon
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures; added text and one missing citation; attempted to patch TeX->PDF problems
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 10(3&4):325-342, 2010.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2148
abstract: We propose new families of graphs which exhibit quantum perfect state transfer. Our constructions are based on the join operator on graphs, its circulant generalizations, and the Cartesian product of graphs. We build upon the results of Ba\v{s}i\'{c} et al \cite{bps09,bp09} and construct new integral circulants and regular graphs with perfect state transfer. More specifically, we show that the integral circulant $\textsc{ICG}_{n}(\{2,n/2^{b}\} \cup Q)$ has perfect state transfer, where $b \in \{1,2\}$, $n$ is a multiple of 16 and $Q$ is a subset of the odd divisors of $n$. Using the standard join of graphs, we also show a family of double-cone graphs which are non-periodic but exhibit perfect state transfer. This class of graphs is constructed by simply taking the join of the empty two-vertex graph with a specific class of regular graphs. This answers a question posed by Godsil \cite{godsil08}.

id: 0907.2159
title: Non-Gaussian entanglement distillation for continuous variables
authors: Hiroki Takahashi, Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Makoto Takeuchi, Masahiro Takeoka, Kazuhiro Hayasaka, Akira Furusawa, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 178 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2159
abstract: Entanglement distillation is an essential ingredient for long distance quantum communications. In the continuous variable setting, Gaussian states play major roles in quantum teleportation, quantum cloning and quantum cryptography. However, entanglement distillation from Gaussian states has not yet been demonstrated. It is made difficult by the no-go theorem stating that no Gaussian operation can distill Gaussian states. Here we demonstrate the entanglement distillation from Gaussian states by using measurement-induced non-Gaussian operations, circumventing the fundamental restriction of the no-go theorem. We observed a gain of entanglement as a result of conditional local subtraction of a single photon or two photons from a two-mode Gaussian state. Furthermore we confirmed that two-photon subtraction also improves Gaussian-like entanglement as specified by the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) correlation. This distilled entanglement can be further employed to downstream applications such as high fidelity quantum teleportation and a loophole-free Bell test.

id: 0907.2170
title: Device independent state estimation based on Bell's inequalities
authors: C.-E. Bardyn, T. C. H. Liew, S. Massar, M. McKague, V. Scarani
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Added appendices containing proofs
journal: PRA 80(6): 062327 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2170
abstract: The only information available about an alleged source of entangled quantum states is the amount $S$ by which the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality is violated: nothing is known about the nature of the system or the measurements that are performed. We discuss how the quality of the source can be assessed in this black-box scenario, as compared to an ideal source that would produce maximally entangled states (more precisely, any state for which $S=2\sqrt{2}$). To this end, we introduce several inequivalent notions of fidelity, each one related to the use one can make of the source after having assessed it; and we derive quantitative bounds for each of them in terms of the violation $S$. We also derive a lower bound on the entanglement of the source as a function of $S$ only.

id: 0907.2208
title: Enhanced Two-Photon Absorption Using Entangled States and Small Mode Volumes
authors: Hao You, S.M. Hendrickson, J.D. Franson
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 043823 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2208
abstract: We calculate the rate of two-photon absorption for frequency entangled photons in a tapered optical fiber whose diameter is comparable to the wavelength of the light. The confinement of the electric field in the transverse direction increases the intensity associated with a single photon, while the two-photon absorption rate is further enhanced by the fact that the sum of the frequencies of the two photons is on resonance with the upper atomic state, even though each photon has a relatively broad linewidth. As a result, the photons are effectively confined in all three dimensions and the two-photon absorption rate for frequency-entangled photons in a tapered fiber was found to be comparable to that for unentangled photons in a microcavity with a small mode volume.

id: 0907.2217
title: Exact density oscillations in the Tonks-Girardeau gas and their optical detection
authors: Mihaly G. Benedict, Csaba Benedek, Attila Czirjak
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2217
abstract: We construct the exact time dependent density profile for a superposition of the ground and singly excited states of a harmonically trapped one dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate in the limit of strongly interacting particles, the Tonks-Girardeau gas. Results of an off resonant light scattering experiment probing the system could allow to determine the number of particles contained in the gas, as well as the coefficients of the superposition.

id: 0907.2225
title: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state protocols for fully connected qubit networks
authors: Andrei Galiautdinov, Mark W. Coffey, Ron Deiotte
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2225
abstract: We generalize the recently proposed Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) tripartite protocol [A. Galiautdinov, J. M. Martinis, Phys. Rev. A 78, 010305(R) (2008)] to fully connected networks of weakly coupled qubits interacting by way of anisotropic Heisenberg exchange g(XX+YY)+g1*ZZ. Our model adopted here differs from the more familiar Ising-Heisenberg chain in that here every qubit interacts with every other qubit in the circuit. The assumption of identical couplings on all qubit pairs allows an elegant proof of the protocol for arbitrary N. In order to further make contact with experiment, we study fidelity degradation due to coupling imperfections by numerically simulating the N=3 and N=4 cases. Our simulations indicate that the best fidelity at unequal couplings is achieved when (a) the system is initially prepared in the uniform superposition state (similarly to how it is done in the ideal case), and (b) the entangling time and the final rotations on each of the qubits are appropriately adjusted.

id: 0907.2241
title: High Bandwidth Atomic Magnetometery with Continuous Quantum Non-demolition Measurements
authors: V. Shah, G. Vasilakis, M. V. Romalis
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 013601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2241
abstract: We describe an experimental study of spin-projection noise in a high sensitivity alkali-metal magnetometer. We demonstrate a four-fold improvement in the measurement bandwidth of the magnetometer using continuous quantum non-demolition (QND) measurements. Operating in the scalar mode with a measurement volume of 2 cm^3 we achieve magnetic field sensitivity of 22 fT/Hz^(1/2) and a bandwidth of 1.9 kHz with a spin polarization of only 1%. Our experimental arrangement is naturally back-action evading and can be used to realize sub-fT sensitivity with a highly polarized spin-squeezed atomic vapor.

id: 0907.2264
title: Pull-in control due to Casimir forces using external magnetic fields
authors: R. Esquivel-Sirvent, M. A. Palomino-Ovando, G. H. Cocoletzi
comments: accepted for publication in App. Phys. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2264
abstract: We present a theoretical calculation of the pull-in control in capacitive micro switches actuated by Casimir forces, using external magnetic fields. The external magnetic fields induces an optical anisotropy due to the excitation of magneto plasmons, that reduces the Casimir force. The calculations are performed in the Voigt configuration, and the results show that as the magnetic field increases the system becomes more stable. The detachment length for a cantilever is also calculated for a cantilever, showing that it increases with increasing magnetic field. At the pull-in separation, the stiffness of the system decreases with increasing magnetic field.

id: 0907.2289
title: Observation of geometric phases in quantum erasers
authors: H. Kobayashi, S. Tamate, T. Nakanishi, K. Sugiyama, M. Kitano
comments: 7 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 80, 034401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2289
abstract: We introduce a simple experiment involving a double-slit interferometer by which one can learn basic concepts of quantum interference such as which-path marking, quantum erasers, and geometric phases. Each of them exhibits seemingly mysterious phenomena in quantum physics. In our experiment, we use the double-slit interference of visible light with the polarization as an internal state to demonstrate the disappearance of fringes by which-path marking, recovery of interference using quantum erasers, and the rapid shifting of the fringe pattern induced by the geometric phase. We also present a simple theoretical analysis of an interferometer with an internal state.

id: 0907.2293
title: Quantum Monty Hall problem under decoherence
authors: Salman Khan, M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: 22 pages, 6 .eps figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 54 pp. 47-54 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2293
abstract: We study the effect of decoherence on quantum Monty Hall problem under the influence of amplitude damping, depolarizing and dephasing channels. It is shown that under the effect of decoherence, there is a Nash equilibrium of the game in case of depolarizing channel for Alice's quantum strategy. Where as in case of dephasing noise, the game is not influenced by the quantum channel. For amplitude damping channel, the Bob's payoffs are found symmetrical with maximum at p=0.5 against his classical strategy. However, it is worth-mentioning that in case of depolarizing channel, Bob's classical strategy remains always dominant against any choice of Alice's strategy.

id: 0907.2298
title: Multi-mode entanglement of N harmonic oscillators coupled to a non-Markovian reservoir
authors: Gao-xiang Li, Li-hui Sun, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43, 135501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2298
abstract: Multi-mode entanglement is investigated in the system composed of $N$ coupled identical harmonic oscillators interacting with a common environment. We treat the problem very general by working with the Hamiltonian without the rotating-wave approximation and by considering the environment as a non-Markovian reservoir to the oscillators. We invoke an $N$-mode unitary transformation of the position and momentum operators and find that in the transformed basis the system is represented by a set of independent harmonic oscillators with only one of them coupled to the environment. Working in the Wigner representation of the density operator, we find that the covariance matrix has a block diagonal form that it can be expressed in terms of multiples of $3\times 3$ and $4\times 4$ matrices. This simple property allows to treat the problem to some extend analytically. We illustrate the advantage of working in the transformed basis on a simple example of three harmonic oscillators and find that the entanglement can persists for long times due to presence of constants of motion for the covariance matrix elements. We find that, in contrast to what one could expect, a strong damping of the oscillators leads to a better stationary entanglement than in the case of a weak damping.

id: 0907.2311
title: Blackbody radiation drag on a relativistically moving mirror
authors: N.R.Balasanyan, V.E.Mkrtchian
comments: an exact solution of relativistic photon drag problem
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2311
abstract: We compute the drag force on a mirror moving at relativistic velocity relative to blackbody radiation background.

id: 0907.2316
title: Casimir-Lifshitz Interaction between Dielectric Heterostructures
authors: Arash Azari, Himadri S. Samanta, Ramin Golestanian
comments: 7 pages, 3 combined figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2316
abstract: The interaction between arbitrary dielectric heterostructures is studied within the framework of a recently developed dielectric contrast perturbation theory. It is shown that periodically patterned dielectric or metallic structures lead to oscillatory lateral Casimir-Lifshitz forces, as well as modulations in the normal force as they are displaced with respect to one another. The strength of these oscillatory contributions increases with decreasing gap size and increasing contrast in the dielectric properties of the materials used in the heterostructures.

id: 0907.2319
title: Quantum Jump Approach to Switching Process of a Josephson Junction Coupled to a Microscopic Two-Level System
authors: Xueda Wen, Yiwen Wang, Ning Dong, Guozhu Sun, Jian Chen, Lin Kang, Weiwei Xu, Peiheng Wu, Yang Yu
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures; Invited article for special issue (ISEC 09) in Supercond. Sci. Technol. (2009)
journal: Supercond. Sci. Technol. 22, 114016 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2319
abstract: With microwave irradiation, the switching current of a Josephson junction coupled to a microscopic two-level system jumps randomly between two discrete states. We modeled the switching process of the coupled system with quantum jump approach that was generally used in quantum optics. The parameters that affect the character of the quantum jumps between macroscopic quantum states are discussed. The results obtained from our theoretical analysis agree well with those of the experiments and provide a clear physical picture for the macroscopic quantum jumps in Josephson junctions coupled with two-level systems. In addition, quantum jumps may serve as a useful tool to investigate the microscopic two-level structures in solid-state systems.

id: 0907.2327
title: Dynamical state reduction in an EPR experiment
authors: D. J. Bedingham
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2327
abstract: A model is developed to describe state reduction in an EPR experiment as a continuous, relativistically-invariant, dynamical process. The system under consideration consists of two entangled isospin particles each of which undergo isospin measurements at spacelike separated locations. The equations of motion take the form of stochastic differential equations. These equations are solved explicitly in terms of random variables with a priori known probability distribution in the physical probability measure. In the course of solving these equations a correspondence is made between the state reduction process and the problem of classical nonlinear filtering. It is shown that the solution is covariant, violates Bell inequalities, and does not permit superluminal signaling. It is demonstrated that the model is not governed by the Free Will Theorem and it is argued that the claims of Conway and Kochen, that there can be no relativistic theory providing a mechanism for state reduction, are false.

id: 0907.2344
title: Electric control of collective atomic coherence in an Erbium doped solid
authors: Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Bj?rn Lauritzen, Hugues de Riedmatten, Mikael Afzelius, Christoph Simon, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009), 113019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2344
abstract: We demonstrate fast and accurate control of the evolution of collective atomic coherences in an Erbium doped solid using external electric fields. This is achieved by controlling the inhomogeneous broadening of Erbium ions emitting at 1536 nm using an electric field gradient and the linear Stark effect. The manipulation of atomic coherence is characterized with the collective spontaneous emission (optical free induction decay) emitted by the sample after an optical excitation, which does not require any previous preparation of the atoms. We show that controlled dephasing and rephasing of the atoms by the electric field result in collapses and revivals of the optical free induction decay. Our results show that the use of external electric fields does not introduce any substantial additional decoherence and enables the manipulation of collective atomic coherence with a very high degree of precision on the time scale of tens of ns. This provides an interesting resource for photonic quantum state storage and quantum state manipulation.

id: 0907.2350
title: Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom and a dielectric slab
authors: Ana Maria Contreras Reyes, Claudia Eberlein
comments: 10 pages, incl 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032901 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2350
abstract: We present an explicit analytic calculation of the energy-level shift of an atom in front of a non-dispersive and non-dissipative dielectric slab. We work with the fully quantized electromagnetic field, taking retardation into account. We give the shift as a two-dimensional integral and use asymptotic analysis to find expressions for it in various retarded and non-retarded limiting cases. The results can be used to estimate the energy shift of an atom close to layered microstructures.

id: 0907.2354
title: Singularities of Quantum Control Landscapes
authors: Rebing Wu, Jason Dominy, Tak-San Ho, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2354
abstract: A quantum control landscape is defined as the objective to be optimized as a function of the control variables. Existing empirical and theoretical studies reveal that most realistic quantum control landscapes are generally devoid of false traps. However, the impact of singular controls has yet to be investigated, which can arise due to a singularity on the mapping from the control to the final quantum state. We provide an explicit characterization of such controls that are strongly Hamiltonian-dependent and investigate their associated landscape geometry. Although in principle the singularities may correspond to local traps, we did not find any in numerical simulations. Also, as they occupy a small portion of the entire set of possible critical controls, their influence is expected to be much smaller than controls corresponding to the commonly located regular extremals. This observation supports the established ease of optimal searches to find high-quality controls in simulations and experiments.

id: 0907.2368
title: Cavity-assisted energy relaxation for quantum many-body simulations
authors: Jaeyoon Cho, Sougato Bose, M. S. Kim
comments: To appear in Optics Communications (Special Issue)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2368
abstract: We propose an energy relaxation mechanism whereby strongly correlated spin systems decay into their ground states. The relaxation is driven by cavity quantum electrodynamics interaction and the decay of cavity photons. It is shown that by applying broadband driving fields, strongly correlated systems can be cooled regardless of the specific details of their energy level profile. The scheme would also have significant implications in other contexts, such as adiabatic quantum computation and steady-state entanglement in dissipative systems.

id: 0907.2369
title: Constructing new optimal entanglement witnesses
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Justyna Pytel, Gniewomir Sarbicki
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062314 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2369
abstract: We provide a new class of indecomposable entanglement witnesses. In 4 x 4 case it reproduces the well know Breuer-Hall witness. We prove that these new witnesses are optimal and atomic, i.e. they are able to detect the "weakest" quantum entanglement encoded into states with positive partial transposition (PPT). Equivalently, we provide a new construction of indecomposable atomic maps in the algebra of 2k x 2k complex matrices. It is shown that their structural physical approximations give rise to entanglement breaking channels. This result supports recent conjecture by Korbicz et. al.

id: 0907.2382
title: Super-Resolution at the Shot-Noise Limit with Coherent States and Photon-Number-Resolving Detectors
authors: Yang Gao, Christoph F. Wildfeuer, Petr M. Anisimov, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2382
abstract: There has been much recent interest in quantum optical interferometry for applications to metrology, sub-wavelength imaging, and remote sensing, such as in quantum laser radar (LADAR). For quantum LADAR, atmospheric absorption rapidly degrades any quantum state of light, so that for high-photon loss the optimal strategy is to transmit coherent states of light, which suffer no worse loss than the Beer law for classical optical attenuation, and which provides sensitivity at the shot-noise limit. This approach leaves open the question -- what is the optimal detection scheme for such states in order to provide the best possible resolution? We show that coherent light coupled with photon number resolving detectors can provide a super-resolution much below the Rayleigh diffraction limit, with sensitivity no worse than shot-noise in terms of the detected photon power.

id: 0907.2396
title: A counter-argument to "Hidden variable models for quantum theory cannot have any local part" arXiv:0801.2218
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2396
abstract: Colbeck and Renner [arXiv:0801.2218] analyzed a class of combined models for entanglements in which local and non-local hidden variables cooperate for producing the measurement results. They came to the conclusion that the measurement results are fully independent of the local components of the hidden variables. Their conclusion is based mainly on an assumption on the local hidden variables, assumption similar to the non-signaling property of probabilities of observables' values. In the present text it is proved that hidden variables are not observables, so their distributions of probabilities do not necessarily possess the non-signaling property. Also, a counter-example is brought to the Colbeck and Renner assumption, showing that their type of models and conclusion are not general. The question whether hidden variables, local or non-local, exist or not, remains open.

id: 0907.2402
title: Coherent-state phase concentration by quantum probabilistic amplification
authors: Petr Marek, Radim Filip
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2402
abstract: We propose novel coherent-state phase concentration by probabilistic measurement-induced ampli- fication. The amplification scheme uses novel architecture, thermal noise addition (instead of single photon addition) followed by feasible multiple photon subtraction using realistic photon-number resolving detector. It allows to substantially amplify weak coherent states and simultaneously reduce their phase uncertainty, contrary to the deterministic amplifier.

id: 0907.2427
title: Bohmian Mechanics and Quantum Information
authors: Sheldon Goldstein
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2427
abstract: Many recent results suggest that quantum theory is about information, and that quantum theory is best understood as arising from principles concerning information and information processing. At the same time, by far the simplest version of quantum mechanics, Bohmian mechanics, is concerned, not with information but with the behavior of an objective microscopic reality given by particles and their positions. What I would like to do here is to examine whether, and to what extent, the importance of information, observation, and the like in quantum theory can be understood from a Bohmian perspective. I would like to explore the hypothesis that the idea that information plays a special role in physics naturally emerges in a Bohmian universe.

id: 0907.2432
title: Non-Gaussian and Gaussian Entanglement in Coupled Leaky Waveguides
authors: Amit Rai, Sumanta Das, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Optics Express Vol 18 6254 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2432
abstract: We investigate the viability of coupled waveguides as basic units of quantum circuits. In particular, we study the dynamics of entanglement for the single photon state, and single mode squeezed vacuum state. We further consider the case of entangled inputs in terms of the two mode mode squeezed vacuum states and the two photon NOON state. We present explicit analytical results for the measure of entanglement in terms of the logarithmic negativity. We also address the effect of loss on entanglement dynamics of waveguide modes. Our results indicate that the waveguide structures are reasonably robust against the effect of loss and thus quite appropriate for quantum architectures as well as for the study of coherent phenomena like random walks. Our analysis is based on realistic structures used currently.

id: 0907.2453
title: Quantum noise limited and entanglement-assisted magnetometry
authors: W. Wasilewski, K. Jensen, H. Krauter, J.J. Renema, M. V. Balabas, E.S. Polzik
comments: To appear in Physical Review Letters, April 9 issue (provisionally)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 133601 (2010); Erratum: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 209902(E) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2453
abstract: We study experimentally the fundamental limits of sensitivity of an atomic radio-frequency magnetometer. First we apply an optimal sequence of state preparation, evolution, and the back-action evading measurement to achieve a nearly projection noise limited sensitivity. We furthermore experimentally demonstrate that Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement of atoms generated by a measurement enhances the sensitivity to pulsed magnetic fields. We demonstrate this quantum limited sensing in a magnetometer utilizing a truly macroscopic ensemble of 1.5*10^12 atoms which allows us to achieve sub-femtoTesla/sqrt(Hz) sensitivity.

id: 0907.2465
title: The Transactional Nature of Quantum Information
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: Presented at the 11th International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations and 4th Feynman Festival, Olomouc, Czech Republic, June 22-26, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2465
abstract: Information, in its communications sense, is a transactional property. If the received signals communicate choices made by the sender of the signals, then information has been transmitter by the sender to the receiver. Given this reality, the potential information in an unknown pure quantum state should be non-zero. We examine transactional quantum information, which unlike von Neumann entropy, depends on the mutuality of the relationship between the sender and the receiver, associating information with an unknown pure state. The information that can be obtained from a pure state in repeated experiments is potentially infinite.

id: 0907.2482
title: On the indistinguishability of Raman photons
authors: Charles Santori, David Fattal, Kai-Mei C. Fu, Paul E. Barclay, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures, final version
journal: New Journal of Physics 11, 123009 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2482
abstract: We provide a theoretical framework to study the effect of dephasing on the quantum indistinguishability of single photons emitted from a coherently driven cavity QED $\Lambda$-system. We show that with a large excited-state detuning, the photon indistinguishability can be drastically improved provided that the fluctuation rate of the noise source affecting the excited state is fast compared with the photon emission rate. In some cases a spectral filter is required to realize this improvement, but the cost in efficiency can be made small.

id: 0907.2614
title: Two-electron atoms, ions and molecules
authors: Hallstein Hogaasen, Jean-Marc Richard, Paul Sorba
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 78 86 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2614
abstract: The quantum mechanics of two-electron systems is reviewed, starting with the ground state of the helium atom and helium-like ions, with central charge $Z\ge 2$. For Z=1, demonstrating the stability of the negative hydrogen ion, H$^-$, cannot be achieved using a mere product of individual electron wave functions, and requires instead an explicit account for the anticorrelation among the two electrons. The wave function proposed by Chandrasekhar is revisited, where the permutation symmetry is first broken and then restored by a counter-term. More delicate problems can be studied using the same strategy: the stability of hydrogen-like ions $(M^+,m^-,m^-)$ for any value of the proton-to-electron mass ratio $M/m$; the energy of the lowest spin-triplet state of helium and helium-like ions; the stability of the doubly-excited hydrogen ion with unnatural parity. The positronium molecule $(e^+,e^+,e^-,e^-)$, which has been predicted years ago and discovered recently, can also be shown to be stable against spontaneous dissociation, though the calculation is a little more involved. Emphasis is put on symmetry breaking which can either spoil or improve the stability of systems.

id: 0907.2619
title: Hidden variable models for quantum mechanics can have local parts
authors: Jan-Ake Larsson, Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2619
abstract: We criticize Colbeck and Renner's (CR's) statement that "any hidden variable model can only be compatible with quantum mechanics if its local part is trivial" [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 050403 (2008)]. We note that CR's attempt to divide a nonlocal hidden variable model into a "local part" and a "nonlocal part" contains a restriction on the latter. This restriction implies that the division is really into a "local part" and a "nonsignaling nonlocal part." CR's nonsignaling requirement on the "nonlocal part" cannot be physically motivated, since the hidden variables cannot be accessed by experimenters. Nor is it a natural mathematical generalization from the local hidden variable case, since it is simple to make a generalization without CR's requirement. We give an explicit nonlocal hidden variable model that, in the case the restriction is not enforced, contains nontrivial local hidden variables.

id: 0907.2620
title: Effect of biased noise fluctuations on the output radiation of coherent beat laser
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: PMC Physics B 2008, 1:17
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2620
abstract: Effect of biased noise fluctuations on the degree of squeezing as well as the intensity of a radiation generated by a one-photon coherent beat laser is presented. It turns out that the radiation exhibits squeezing inside and outside the cavity under certain conditions. The degree of squeezing is enhanced by the biased noise input significantly in both regions. Despite the presence of the biased environment modes outside the cavity, the degree of squeezing outside the cavity can be greater than or equal to or even less than the cavity radiation depending on the initial preparation of the atomic superposition and amplitude of the external driving radiation. But the intensity of the radiation is found to be lesser outside the cavity regardless of these parameters.

id: 0907.2654
title: Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom and a small magnetodielectric sphere
authors: Agnes Sambale, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, minor additions
journal: Physical Review A 81 (1), 012509 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2654
abstract: On the basis of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics and point-scattering techniques, we derive a closed expression for the Casimir-Polder force between a ground-state atom and a small magnetodielectric sphere in an arbitrary environment. In order to allow for the presence of both bodies and media, local-field corrections are taken into account. Our results are compared with the known van der Waals force between two ground-state atoms. To continuously interpolate between the two extreme cases of a single atom and a macroscopic sphere, we also derive the force between an atom and a sphere of variable radius that is embedded in an Onsager local-field cavity. Numerical examples illustrate the theory.

id: 0907.2667
title: Understanding interference experiments with polarized light through photon trajectories
authors: A. S. Sanz, M. Davidovic, M. Bozic, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 36 pages, 6 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 325, 763 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2667
abstract: Bohmian mechanics allows to visualize and understand the quantum-mechanical behavior of massive particles in terms of trajectories. As shown by Bialynicki-Birula, Electromagnetism also admits a hydrodynamical formulation when the existence of a wave function for photons (properly defined) is assumed. This formulation thus provides an alternative interpretation of optical phenomena in terms of photon trajectories, whose flow yields a pictorial view of the evolution of the electromagnetic energy density in configuration space. This trajectory-based theoretical framework is considered here to study and analyze the outcome from Young-type diffraction experiments within the context of the Arago-Fresnel laws. More specifically, photon trajectories in the region behind the two slits are obtained in the case where the slits are illuminated by a polarized monochromatic plane wave. Expressions to determine electromagnetic energy flow lines and photon trajectories within this scenario are provided, as well as a procedure to compute them in the particular case of gratings totally transparent inside the slits and completely absorbing outside them. As is shown, the electromagnetic energy flow lines obtained allow to monitor at each point of space the behavior of the electromagnetic energy flow and, therefore, to evaluate the effects caused on it by the presence (right behind each slit) of polarizers with the same or different polarization axes. This leads to a trajectory-based picture of the Arago-Fresnel laws for the interference of polarized light.

id: 0907.2703
title: Comment on "Quantum mechanical versus semiclassical tunneling and decay times"
authors: Robert L. Intemann
comments: 6 pages, 2 postscript figures, typos corrected, approximation clarified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2703
abstract: Shegelski, Kavka, and Hynbida have developed a method for calculating the lifetime of a particle initially localized in a potential well exactly quantum mechanically by employing a heuristic expression for the lifetime <t>. Their method allows for the inclusion of a bound state, and their results for tunneling through a centrifugal barrier demonstrate the major role that bound states play in determining the lifetime. In this comment, I show that one can greatly simplify the analysis by calculating <t^2>^(1/2) instead. Results obtained are exact when no bound state is present. In the presence of a bound state the results are only approximate but still illustrate the influence that the presence of a bound state has on the lifetime.

id: 0907.2720
title: Cavity-QED models of switches for attojoule-scale nanophotonic logic
authors: Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 4 pages, 4 color figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2720
abstract: Quantum optical input-output models are described for a class of optical switches based on cavity quantum electrodynamics (cavity QED) with a single multilevel atom (or comparable bound system of charges) coupled simultaneously to several resonant field modes. A recent limit theorem for quantum stochastic differential equations is used to show that such models converge to a simple scattering matrix in a type of strong coupling limit that seems natural for nanophotonic systems. Numerical integration is used to show that the behavior of the pre-limit model approximates that of the simple scattering matrix in a realistic regime for the physical parameters, and that it is possible in the proposed cavity-QED configuration for low power optical signals to switch higher-power signals at attojoule energy scales.

id: 0907.2729
title: The effect of random coupling coefficients on decoherence
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A25:611-617,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2729
abstract: The aim of this letter is to analyze the effect on decoherence of the randomness of the coupling coefficients involved in the interaction Hamiltonian. By studying the spin-bath model with computer simulations, we show that such randomness greatly improves the "efficiency" of decoherence and, then, its physical meaning deserves to be considered.

id: 0907.2733
title: Optimal Simulation of a Perfect Entangler
authors: Nengkun Yu, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 4 pages, Comments are welcomed;v2 : more discussions with previous related works, main results unchanged, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032328 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2733
abstract: A $2\otimes 2$ unitary operation is called a perfect entangler if it can generate a maximally entangled state from some unentangled input. We study the following question: How many runs of a given two-qubit entangling unitary operation is required to simulate some perfect entangler with one-qubit unitary operations as free resources? We completely solve this problem by presenting an analytical formula for the optimal number of runs of the entangling operation. Our result reveals an entanglement strength of two-qubit unitary operations.

id: 0907.2776
title: Two-Photon Scattering in One Dimension by Localized Two-Level System
authors: T. Shi, C. P. Sun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2776
abstract: We study two-photon scattering in a one-dimensional coupled resonator arrays (CRA) by a two-level system (TLS), which is localized as a quantum controller. The $S$-matrix is analytically calculated for various two-photon scattering processes by TLS, e.g., one photon is confined by TLS to form a bound state while the other is in the scattering state. It is discovered from the poles of the $S$-matrix that there exist two kinds of three-body bound states for describing two bound photons localized around TLS.

id: 0907.2780
title: Entanglement localization after a coupling to incoherent noisy system
authors: Fabio Sciarrino, Eleonora Nagali, Francesco De Martini, Miroslav Gavenda, Radim Filip
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 060304(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2780
abstract: We report the experimental realization of entanglement localization which restores polarization entanglement completely redirected after a linear coupling with incoherent and noisy surrounding photon. The method, based only on measurements of the surrounding photon after the coupling and on post-selection, can localize the entanglement back to original systems for any linear coupling.

id: 0907.2796
title: Matrix Product States, Projected Entangled Pair States, and variational renormalization group methods for quantum spin systems
authors: F. Verstraete, J.I. Cirac, V. Murg
comments: Review from 2007
journal: Adv. Phys. 57,143 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2796
abstract: This article reviews recent developments in the theoretical understanding and the numerical implementation of variational renormalization group methods using matrix product states and projected entangled pair states.

id: 0907.2807
title: Thermodynamic stability criteria for a quantum memory based on stabilizer and subsystem codes
authors: Stefano Chesi, Daniel Loss, Sergey Bravyi, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 23 pages. v2: revised introduction, various additional comments, and a new section on gapped hamiltonians
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 025013 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2807
abstract: We discuss and review several thermodynamic criteria that have been introduced to characterize the thermal stability of a self-correcting quantum memory. We first examine the use of symmetry-breaking fields in analyzing the properties of self-correcting quantum memories in the thermodynamic limit: we show that the thermal expectation values of all logical operators vanish for any stabilizer and any subsystem code in any spatial dimension. On the positive side, we generalize the results in [R. Alicki et al., arXiv:0811.0033] to obtain a general upper bound on the relaxation rate of a quantum memory at nonzero temperature, assuming that the quantum memory interacts via a Markovian master equation with a thermal bath. This upper bound is applicable to quantum memories based on either stabilizer or subsystem codes.

id: 0907.2833
title: Learning and Testing Algorithms for the Clifford Group
authors: Richard A. Low
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol 80, 052314 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2833
abstract: Given oracle access to an unknown unitary C from the Clifford group and its conjugate, we give an exact algorithm for identifying C with O(n) queries, which we prove is optimal. We then extend this to all levels of the Gottesman-Chuang hierarchy (also known as the C_k hierarchy). Further, for unitaries not in the hierarchy itself but known to be close to an element of the hierarchy, we give a method of finding this close element. We also present a Clifford testing algorithm that decides whether a given black-box unitary is close to a Clifford or far from every Clifford.

id: 0907.2838
title: An angular momentum approach to quadratic Fourier transform, Hadamard matrices, Gauss sums, mutually unbiased bases, unitary group and Pauli group
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler
comments: Topical review (40 pages). Dedicated to the memory of Yurii Fedorovich Smirnov
journal: Journal of Physics A Mathematical and Theoretical 42 (2009) 353001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2838
abstract: The construction of unitary operator bases in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space is reviewed through a nonstandard approach combinining angular momentum theory and representation theory of SU(2). A single formula for the bases is obtained from a polar decomposition of SU(2) and analysed in terms of cyclic groups, quadratic Fourier transforms, Hadamard matrices and generalized Gauss sums. Weyl pairs, generalized Pauli operators and their application to the unitary group and the Pauli group naturally arise in this approach.

id: 0907.2878
title: Quantum measurement theory for particle oscillations
authors: C. Anastopoulos, N. Savvidou
comments: 4 pages,revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2878
abstract: A fundamental principle of quantum theory, clearly manifested in the two-slit experiment, is that for any alternatives that cannot be distinguished by measurement physical predictions are obtained by summation of their amplitudes. In particle oscillation experiments, a particle's time of detection is not directly measured, consequently, the detection probability should involve the summation over amplitudes corresponding to different detection times. However, in contrast to the principle above, standard treatments involve summation over probabilities rather than amplitudes; this implicitly assumes the existence of a decohering mechanism. In this work, we construct the detection probabilities for particle oscillations by summation over amplitudes, corresponding to different detection times. The resulting wavelength of particle oscillations differs from the standard expression by a factor of two. Moreover, we predict a dependence of the oscillation wavelength on the threshold of the decay process used for detection.

id: 0907.2897
title: Robust and Efficient Sifting-Less Quantum Key Distribution Protocols
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Grosshans
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2897
abstract: We show that replacing the usual sifting step of the standard quantum-key-distribution protocol BB84 by a one-way reverse reconciliation procedure increases its robustness against photon-number-splitting (PNS) attacks to the level of the SARG04 protocol while keeping the raw key-rate of BB84. This protocol, which uses the same state and detection than BB84, is the m=4 member of a protocol-family using m polarization states which we introduce here. We show that the robustness of these protocols against PNS attacks increases exponentially with m, and that the effective keyrate of optimized weak coherent pulses decreases with the transmission T like T^{1+1/(m-2)}.

id: 0907.2992
title: Dynamics of entanglement in a two-mode nonlinear Jaynes-Cummings mode
authors: A B M Ahmed, S Sivakumar
comments: 26 pages;9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2992
abstract: Dynamics of entanglement due to intensity-dependent interaction between a two-level atom and a single-mode electromagnetic field in a Kerr medium is studied. The form of the interaction is such that the Hamiltonian evolution is exactly solvable. The Hamiltonian is shown to be a deformed Jaynes-Cummings model admitting a closed, symmetric algebra. Dynamics of population inversion and atom-field entanglement are studied taking the initial state of the field to be either a coherent state or a squeezed vacuum. Analysis is extended to the case of a two-mode cavity field interacting with a two-level atom. For the two-mode case, the initial field is a pair coherent state or a two-mode squeezed vacuum. Effects due to nonlinearity, intensity-dependent interaction and detuning on the dynamics are discussed and compared with those of the single-mode case.

id: 0907.3018
title: Comment on "Quantum linear Boltzmann equation with finite intercollision time"
authors: Klaus Hornberger, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 3 pages; v3: corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 036101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3018
abstract: Inconsistencies are pointed out in a recent proposal [L. Diosi, Phys. Rev. A 80, 064104 (2009); arXiv:0905.3908v1] for a quantum version of the classical linear Boltzmann equation.

id: 0907.3116
title: Rotating Morse wave packet dynamics of diatomic molecule
authors: Utpal Roy, Suranjana Ghosh
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3116
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a rotating Morse wave packet, appropriate for a ro-vibrating diatomic molecule. The coupling between vibrational and rotational degrees of freedom is explicated in real position space as well as in phase space Wigner distribution of a SU(2) coherent state at various dynamically evolved times. We choose the well studied $I_{2}$ molecule with the parameter values in good agrement with experiments. A quantitative measure of the angles of rotations for different angular momenta is also given.

id: 0907.3147
title: Number operator-annihilation operator uncertainty as an alternative of the number-phase uncertainty relation
authors: Inigo Urizar-Lanz, Geza Toth
comments: 8 pages including 3 figures, revtex4; v2: typos corrected, presentation improved; v3: presentation considerably extended; v4: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052108 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3147
abstract: We consider a number operator-annihilation operator uncertainty as a well behaved alternative to the number-phase uncertainty relation, and examine its properties. We find a formulation in which the bound on the product of uncertainties depends on the expectation value of the particle number. Thus, while the bound is not a constant, it is a quantity that can easily be controlled in many systems. The uncertainty relation is approximately saturated by number-phase intelligent states. This allows us to define amplitude squeezing, connecting coherent states to Fock states, without a reference to a phase operator. We propose several setups for an experimental verification.

id: 0907.3187
title: Fast, High Fidelity Quantum Dot Spin Initialization without a Strong Magnetic Field by Two-Photon Processes
authors: Arka Majumdar, Ziliang Lin, Andrei Faraon, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3187
abstract: We describe a proposal for fast electron spin initialization in a negatively charged quantum dot coupled to a microcavity without the need for a strong magnetic field. We employ two-photon excitation to access trion states that are spin forbidden by one-photon excitation. Our simulation shows a maximum initialization speed of 1.3 GHz and maximum fidelity of 99.7% with realistic system parameters.

id: 0907.3189
title: Tight Noise Thresholds for Quantum Computation with Perfect Stabilizer Operations
authors: Wim van Dam, Mark Howard
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters, Volume 103, Number 17, Article 170504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3189
abstract: We study how much noise can be tolerated by a universal gate set before it loses its quantum-computational power. Specifically we look at circuits with perfect stabilizer operations in addition to imperfect non-stabilizer gates. We prove that for all unitary single-qubit gates there exists a tight depolarizing noise threshold that determines whether the gate enables universal quantum computation or if the gate can be simulated by a mixture of Clifford gates. This exact threshold is determined by the Clifford polytope spanned by the 24 single-qubit Clifford gates. The result is in contrast to the situation wherein non-stabilizer qubit states are used; the thresholds in that case are not currently known to be tight.

id: 0907.3210
title: On Hastings' counterexamples to the minimum output entropy additivity conjecture
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Michal Horodecki
comments: 17 pages + 1 line
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 17, 31 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3210
abstract: Hastings recently reported a randomized construction of channels violating the minimum output entropy additivity conjecture. Here we revisit his argument, presenting a simplified proof. In particular, we do not resort to the exact probability distribution of the Schmidt coefficients of a random bipartite pure state, as in the original proof, but rather derive the necessary large deviation bounds by a concentration of measure argument. Furthermore, we prove non-additivity for the overwhelming majority of channels consisting of a Haar random isometry followed by partial trace over the environment, for an environment dimension much bigger than the output dimension. This makes Hastings' original reasoning clearer and extends the class of channels for which additivity can be shown to be violated.

id: 0907.3212
title: Nonequilibrium Casimir-Polder Force in Non-Stationary Systems
authors: Ryan Orson Behunin, Bei-Lok Hu
comments: Rewritten Introduction and Abstract in v2 with a slightly altered title to place a sharper focus of our goals and a clearer distinction of what the influence functional method can achieve beyond the macroscopic QED approach. The rest of the paper and the results remain the same
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 012001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3212
abstract: Recently the Casmir-Polder force felt by an atom near a substrate under nonequilibrium stationary conditions has been studied theoretically with macroscopic quantum electrodyanamics (MQED) and verified experimentally with cold atoms. We give a quantum field theory derivation of the Langevin equation describing the atom's motion based on the influence functional method valid for fully nonequilibrium (nonstationary) conditions. The noise associated with the quantum field derived from first principles is generally colored and nonlocal, which is at variance with the `local source hypothesis' of MQED's generalization to nonequilibrium conditions. Precision measurements on the shape deformation of an atomic gas as a function of its distance from a mirror would provide a direct check of our predictions based on this Langevin equation.

id: 0907.3213
title: Measuring atomic NOON-states and using them to make precision measurements
authors: David W. Hallwood, Adam Stokes, Jessica J. Cooper, Jacob Dunningham
comments: 14 preprint pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 103040 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3213
abstract: A scheme for creating NOON-states of the quasi-momentum of ultra-cold atoms has recently been proposed [New J. Phys. 8, 180 (2006)]. This was achieved by trapping the atoms in an optical lattice in a ring configuration and rotating the potential at a rate equal to half a quantum of angular momentum . In this paper we present a scheme for confirming that a NOON-state has indeed been created. This is achieved by spectroscopically mapping out the anti-crossing between the ground and first excited levels by modulating the rate at which the potential is rotated. Finally we show how the NOON-state can be used to make precision measurements of rotation.

id: 0907.3283
title: Quantum complex networks
authors: S. Perseguers, M. Lewenstein, A. Ac¨ªn, J. I. Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Nature Physics 6, 539 - 543 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3283
abstract: In recent years, new algorithms and cryptographic protocols based on the laws of quantum physics have been designed to outperform classical communication and computation. We show that the quantum world also opens up new perspectives in the field of complex networks. Already the simplest model of a classical random network changes dramatically when extended to the quantum case, as we obtain a completely distinct behavior of the critical probabilities at which different subgraphs appear. In particular, in a network of N nodes, any quantum subgraph can be generated by local operations and classical communication if the entanglement between pairs of nodes scales as 1/N^2.

id: 0907.3313
title: Preparation and Detection of a Mechanical Resonator Near the Ground State of Motion
authors: T. Rocheleau, T. Ndukum, C. Macklin, J.B. Hertzberg, A.A. Clerk, K.C. Schwab
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3313
abstract: We have cooled the motion of a radio-frequency nanomechanical resonator by parametric coupling to a driven microwave frequency superconducting resonator. Starting from a thermal occupation of 480 quanta, we have observed occupation factors as low as 3.8$\pm$1.2 and expect the mechanical resonator to be found with probability 0.21 in the quantum ground state of motion. Cooling is limited by random excitation of the microwave resonator and heating of the dissipative mechanical bath.

id: 0907.3323
title: Homodyne locking of a squeezer
authors: M. Heurs, I. R. Petersen, M. R. James, E. H. Huntington
comments: Accepted to Optics Letters
journal: Optics Letters, 34, 2465, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3323
abstract: We report on the successful implementation of a new approach to locking the frequencies of an OPO-based squeezed-vacuum source and its driving laser. The technique allows the simultaneous measurement of the phase-shifts induced by a cavity, which may be used for the purposes of frequency-locking, as well as the simultaneous measurement of the sub-quantum-noise-limited (sub-QNL) phase quadrature output of the OPO. The homodyne locking technique is cheap, easy to implement and has the distinct advantage that subsequent homodyne measurements are automatically phase-locked. The homodyne locking technique is also unique in that it is a sub-QNL frequency discriminator.

id: 0907.3343
title: Quantum circuits for solving one-dimensional Schr?dinger equations
authors: K.Nakao, A.Matsuyama
comments: 20 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3343
abstract: We construct quantum circuits for solving one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equations. Simulations of three typical examples, i.e., harmonic oscillator, square-well and Coulomb potential, show that reasonable results can be obtained with eight qubits. Our simulations show that simple quantum circuits can solve the standard quantum mechanical problems.

id: 0907.3345
title: Photostatistics Reconstruction via Loop Detector Signatures
authors: J. G. Webb, E. H. Huntington
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures
journal: J. G. Webb and E. H. Huntington, "Photostatistics reconstruction via loop detector signatures," Opt. Express 17, 11799-11812 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3345
abstract: Photon-number resolving detectors are a fundamental building-block of optical quantum information processing protocols. A loop detector, combined with appropriate statistical processing, can be used to convert a binary on/off photon counter into a photon-number-resolving detector. Here we describe the idea of a signature of photon-counts, which may be used to more robustly reconstruct the photon number distribution of a quantum state. The methodology is applied experimentally in a 9-port loop detector operating at a telecommunications wavelength and compared directly to the approach whereby only the number of photon-counts is used to reconstruct the input distribution. The signature approach is shown to be more robust against calibration errors, exhibit reduced statistical uncertainty, and reduced reliance on a-priori assumptions about the input state.

id: 0907.3349
title: Dirac's Quantum Phase Problem
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3349
abstract: In 1927 the great physicist Paul A. M. Dirac failed to provide a consistent quantum description of the phase of a radiation field. Only one year later, he developed the famous Dirac theory of the electron, which led to the anti-particle -- the positron. We show that the reason for Dirac's failure with the phase problem bears a striking resemblance to his ingenious insight into the nature of the electron. For a correct quantum description of the phase of a radiation field it is necessary to take the polarisation into account. Similarly to the introduction of the anti-particle of the electron, the inclusion of the second polarisation resolves the inconsistency of the quantum phase problem. This also leads to new insight into the quantum measurement problem of time.

id: 0907.3357
title: An analysis of reversible multiplier circuits
authors: Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3357
abstract: Multiplier circuits play an important role in reversible computation, which is helpful in diverse areas such as low power CMOS design, optical computing, DNA computing and bioinformatics. Here we propose a new reversible multiplier circuit with optimized hardware complexity. The optimized multiplier circuit is compared with the earlier proposals. We have shown that the quantum cost of earlier proposals can be further reduced with the help of existing local optimization algorithms (e.g. template matching, moving rule and deletion rule). A systematic protocol for reduction of quantum cost has been proposed. It has also been shown that the advantage in gate count obtained in some of the earlier proposals by introduction of new reversible gates is an artifact and if it is allowed then every circuit block can be reduced to a single gate. Further, it is shown that the 4x4 reversible gates proposed for designing of a component of multiplier circuit (full adder) is neither unique nor special and many such 4x4 gates may be proposed. As example three such new gates have been presented here and it is shown that the proposed gates are universal. It is also shown that the total cost of our design is minimum.

id: 0907.3367
title: Finite-Temperature Fidelity-Metric Approach to the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Model
authors: D. D. Scherer, C. A. M¨¹ller, M. Kastner
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 465304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3367
abstract: The fidelity metric has recently been proposed as a useful and elegant approach to identify and characterize both quantum and classical phase transitions. We study this metric on the manifold of thermal states for the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model. For the isotropic LMG model, we find that the metric reduces to a Fisher-Rao metric, reflecting an underlying classical probability distribution. Furthermore, this metric can be expressed in terms of derivatives of the free energy, indicating a relation to Ruppeiner geometry. This allows us to obtain exact expressions for the (suitably rescaled) metric in the thermodynamic limit. The phase transition of the isotropic LMG model is signalled by a degeneracy of this (improper) metric in the paramagnetic phase. Due to the integrability of the isotropic LMG model, ground state level crossings occur, leading to an ill-defined fidelity metric at zero temperature.

id: 0907.3386
title: Two-sided bounds on minimum-error quantum measurement, on the reversibility of quantum dynamics, and on the maximum overlap problem using directional iterates
authors: Jon Tyson
comments: Extensively revised & new content added. Improved min-entropy bounds. Notation made more accessible. Minimax theorem used to clarify relationship between "worst case" bounds and "single instance" bounds. Improved motivation of the choice of "small angle" guess. Eliminated spurious factor appearing when overlap bounds are applied to state distinction. Work connected to that of Beny and Oreshkov
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 092204 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3386
abstract: In a unified framework, we obtain two-sided estimates of the following quantities of interest in quantum information theory: 1.The minimum-error distinguishability of arbitrary ensembles of mixed quantum states. 2.The approximate reversibility of quantum dynamics in terms of entanglement fidelity. (This is also referred to as "channel-adapted quantum error recovery" when the reversed channel is the composition of an encoding operation and a noise channel.) 3.The maximum overlap between a bipartite pure quantum state and a bipartite mixed state that may be achieved by applying a local quantum operation to one part of the mixed state. 4. The conditional min-entropy of bipartite quantum states. A refined version of the author's techniques [J. Math. Phys. 50, 032016] for bounding the first quantity is employed to give two-sided estimates of the remaining three quantities. Our primary tool is "small angle" initialization of an abstract generalization of the iterative schemes for computing optimal measurements and quantum error recoveries introduced by Jezek-Rehacek-Fiurasek [Phys. Rev. A 65, 060301], Jezek-Fiurasek-Hradil [Phys. Rev. A 68, 012305], and Reimpell-Werner [Phys. Rev. Lett 94, 080501].

id: 0907.3389
title: Entanglement and localization of wavefunctions
authors: O. Giraud, J. Martin, B. Georgeot
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, to appear in the proceedings of the NATO Advanced Research Workshop 'Recent Advances in Nonlinear Dynamics and Complex System Physics', Tashkent, Uzbekistan, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3389
abstract: We review recent works that relate entanglement of random vectors to their localization properties. In particular, the linear entropy is related by a simple expression to the inverse participation ratio, while next orders of the entropy of entanglement contain information about e.g. the multifractal exponents. Numerical simulations show that these results can account for the entanglement present in wavefunctions of physical systems.

id: 0907.3393
title: Quantum key distribution using vacuum-one-photon qubits: maximum number of transferable bits per particle
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Se-Wan Ji, Hai-Woong Lee, Jae-Weon Lee, Janos A. Bergou
comments: Accepted for publication in Journal of Physical Society of Japan. This paper incorporates and comprehensively extends quant-ph/0510205
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3393
abstract: Quantum key distribution schemes which employ encoding on vacuum-one-photon qubits are capable of transferring more information bits per particle than the standard schemes employing polarization or phase coding. We calculate the maximum number of classical bits per particle that can be securely transferred when the key distribution is performed with the BB84 and B92 protocols, respectively, using the vacuum-one-photon qubits. In particular, we show that for a generalized B92 protocol with the vacuum-one-photon qubits, a maximum of two bits per particle can be securely transferred. We also demonstrate the advantage brought about by performing a generalized measurement that is optimized for unambiguous discrimination of the encoded states: the parameter range where the transfer of two bits per particle can be achieved is dramatically enhanced as compared to the corresponding parameter range of projective measurements.

id: 0907.3398
title: Quantum Reading of Digital Memories
authors: Stefano Pirandola
comments: This document includes both the published Letter and the online Supplemental Material (as Appendix). REVTeX. 25 pages. 17 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Optics (physics.optics); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3398
abstract: We consider a basic model of digital memory where each cell is composed of a reflecting medium with two possible reflectivities. By fixing the mean number of photons irradiated over each memory cell, we show that a non-classical source of light can retrieve more information than any classical source. This improvement is shown in the regime of few photons and high reflectivities, where the gain of information can be surprising. As a result, the use of quantum light can have non-trivial applications in the technology of digital memories, such as optical disks and barcodes.

id: 0907.3411
title: Observation of the Anderson Metal-Insulator Transition with Atomic Matter Waves: Theory and Experiment
authors: Gabriel Lemari¨¦, Julien Chab¨¦, Pascal Szriftgiser, Jean-Claude Garreau, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud, Dominique Delande
comments: 19 pages, 15 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys.Rev.A 80, 4 (2009) 043626
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3411
abstract: Using a cold atomic gas exposed to laser pulses -- a realization of the chaotic quasiperiodic kicked rotor with three incommensurate frequencies -- we study experimentally and theoretically the Anderson metal-insulator transition in three dimensions. Sensitive measurements of the atomic wavefunction and the use of finite-size scaling techniques make it possible to unambiguously demonstrate the existence of a quantum phase transition and to measure its critical exponents. By taking proper account of systematic corrections to one-parameter scaling, we show the universality of the critical exponent $\nu=1.59\pm0.01,$ which is found to be equal to the one previously computed for the Anderson model.

id: 0907.3419
title: Re-Creation: A possible interpretation of quantum indeterminism
authors: M.B. Altaie
comments: 18 pages, Revtex4, partial change of the introduction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3419
abstract: I discuss some of the main interpretations given to explain the indeterministic nature of quantum measurements and show that all has some loopholes in one corner or another. I propose an alternative interpretation based on the notion of continued re-creation of the physical properties. The rate at which the system is re-created is a measure of the determinism of the measurements. The existence of uncertainties is better explained through this view, the meaning of incompatible observables becomes clearer and with the notion of re-creation and the origin of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle becomes more vivid.

id: 0907.3452
title: Quantum Stochastic Stability
authors: Javad Sharifi, Hamidreza Momeni
comments: 8 page, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3452
abstract: the stability criterion is constructed for open quantum systems which govern by quantum stochastic differential equations (QSDE) both for quantum observable flow and the stochastic density operator. We derive stability criteria (local, asymptotic and exponential stability) for those QSDE.

id: 0907.3465
title: Exponential quantum enhancement for distributed addition with local nonlinearity
authors: Adam Henry Marblestone, Michel Devoret
comments: To appear in Quantum Information Processing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3465
abstract: We consider classical and entanglement-assisted versions of a distributed computation scheme that computes nonlinear Boolean functions of a set of input bits supplied by separated parties. Communication between the parties is restricted to take place through a specific apparatus which enforces the constraints that all nonlinear, nonlocal classical logic is performed by a single receiver, and that all communication occurs through a limited number of one-bit channels. In the entanglement-assisted version, the number of channels required to compute a Boolean function of fixed nonlinearity can become exponentially smaller than in the classical version. We demonstrate this exponential enhancement for the problem of distributed integer addition.

id: 0907.3516
title: Qubit-oscillator dynamics in the dispersive regime: analytical theory beyond rotating-wave approximation
authors: David Zueco, Georg M. Reuther, Sigmund Kohler, Peter H?nggi
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 033846 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3516
abstract: We generalize the dispersive theory of the Jaynes-Cummings model beyond the frequently employed rotating-wave approximation (RWA) in the coupling between the two-level system and the resonator. For a detuning sufficiently larger than the qubit-oscillator coupling, we diagonalize the non-RWA Hamiltonian and discuss the differences to the known RWA results. Our results extend the regime in which dispersive qubit readout is possible. If several qubits are coupled to one resonator, an effective qubit-qubit interaction of Ising type emerges, whereas RWA leads to isotropic interaction. This impacts on the entanglement characteristics of the qubits.

id: 0907.3532
title: In how many ways can quantum information be split ?
authors: Sreraman Muralidharan, Siddharth Karumanchi, Srinatha Narayanaswamy, R. Srikanth, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 4 pages, Extended version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3532
abstract: We establish a theoretical understanding of the entanglement properties of a physical system that mediates a quantum information splitting protocol. We quantify the different ways in which an arbitrary $n$ qubit state can be split among a set of $k$ participants using a $N$ qubit entangled channel, such that the original information can be completely reconstructed only if all the participants cooperate. Based on this quantification, we show how to design a quantum protocol with minimal resources and define the splitting efficiency of a quantum channel which provides a way of characterizing entangled states based on their usefulness for such quantum networking protocols.

id: 0907.3538
title: Decoherence suppression of a dissipative qubit by the non-Markovian effect
authors: Qing-Jun Tong, Jun-Hong An, Hong-Gang Luo, C. H. Oh
comments: 12 pages
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43, 155501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3538
abstract: We evaluate exactly the non-Markovian effect on the decoherence dynamics of a qubit interacting with a dissipative vacuum reservoir and find that the coherence of the qubit can be partially trapped in the steady state when the memory effect of the reservoir is considered. Our analysis shows that it is the formation of a bound state between the qubit and its reservoir that results in this residual coherence in the steady state under the non-Markovian dynamics. A physical condition for the decoherence suppression is given explicitly. Our results suggest a potential way to decoherence control by modifying the system-reservoir interaction and the spectrum of the reservoir to the non-Markovian regime in the scenario of reservoir engineering.

id: 0907.3551
title: Spectral converters and luminescent solar concentrators
authors: Petra F. Scudo, Luigi Abbondanza, Roberto Fusco
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3551
abstract: In this paper we present a comprehensive theoretical description of molecular spectral converters in the specific context of Luminescent Solar Concentrators (LSCs). The theoretical model is an extension to a three-level system interacting with a solar radiation bath of the standard quantum theory of atomic radiative processes. We derive the equilibrium equations of the conversion process and provide specific examples of application of this principle to the development of solar concentration devices.

id: 0907.3584
title: Non-locality and Communication Complexity
authors: Harry Buhrman, Richard Cleve, Serge Massar, Ronald de Wolf
comments: Survey paper, 63 pages LaTeX. A reformatted version will appear in Reviews of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3584
abstract: Quantum information processing is the emerging field that defines and realizes computing devices that make use of quantum mechanical principles, like the superposition principle, entanglement, and interference. In this review we study the information counterpart of computing. The abstract form of the distributed computing setting is called communication complexity. It studies the amount of information, in terms of bits or in our case qubits, that two spatially separated computing devices need to exchange in order to perform some computational task. Surprisingly, quantum mechanics can be used to obtain dramatic advantages for such tasks. We review the area of quantum communication complexity, and show how it connects the foundational physics questions regarding non-locality with those of communication complexity studied in theoretical computer science. The first examples exhibiting the advantage of the use of qubits in distributed information-processing tasks were based on non-locality tests. However, by now the field has produced strong and interesting quantum protocols and algorithms of its own that demonstrate that entanglement, although it cannot be used to replace communication, can be used to reduce the communication exponentially. In turn, these new advances yield a new outlook on the foundations of physics, and could even yield new proposals for experiments that test the foundations of physics.

id: 0907.3595
title: Surface spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Antonin Luks, Ondrej Haderka, Michael Scalora
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 (2009) 063902
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3595
abstract: Surface spontaneous parametric down-conversion is predicted as a consequence of continuity requirements for electric- and magnetic-field amplitudes at a discontinuity of chi2 nonlinearity. A generalization of the usual two-photon spectral amplitude is suggested to describe this effect. Examples of nonlinear layered structures and periodically-poled nonlinear crystals show that surface contributions to spontaneous down-conversion can be important.

id: 0907.3598
title: Effect of vortices on the spin-flip lifetime of atoms in superconducting atom-chips
authors: Gilles Nogues, C¨¦dric Roux, Thomas Nirrengarten, Adrian Lupascu, Andreas Emmert, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche, Bernard Placais, Jean-Jacques Greffet
comments: accepted for publication in EPL on June 25 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3598
abstract: We study theoretically the lifetime of magnetically trapped atoms in the close vicinity of a type-II superconducting surface, in the context of superconducting atom-chips. We account for the magnetic noise created at the cloud position by the vortices present in the superconductor and give specific results for our experiment which uses a niobium film. Our main result is that atom losses are dominated by the presence of vortices. They remain however dramatically smaller than in equivalent room-temperature atom-chip setups using normal metals.

id: 0907.3638
title: Noiseless Linear Amplification and Distillation of Entanglement
authors: G. Y. Xiang, T. C. Ralph, A. P. Lund, N. Walk, G. J. Pryde
comments: Submitted 10 June 2009
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 316 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3638
abstract: The idea of signal amplification is ubiquitous in the control of physical systems, and the ultimate performance limit of amplifiers is set by quantum physics. Increasing the amplitude of an unknown quantum optical field, or more generally any harmonic oscillator state, must introduce noise. This linear amplification noise prevents the perfect copying of the quantum state, enforces quantum limits on communications and metrology, and is the physical mechanism that prevents the increase of entanglement via local operations. It is known that non-deterministic versions of ideal cloning and local entanglement increase (distillation) are allowed, suggesting the possibility of non-deterministic noiseless linear amplification. Here we introduce, and experimentally demonstrate, such a noiseless linear amplifier for continuous-variables states of the optical field, and use it to demonstrate entanglement distillation of field-mode entanglement. This simple but powerful circuit can form the basis of practical devices for enhancing quantum technologies. The idea of noiseless amplification unifies approaches to cloning and distillation, and will find applications in quantum metrology and communications.

id: 0907.3642
title: Implementation of a Quantum-simulation Algorithm of Calculating Molecular Ground-state Energy on an NMR Quantum Computer
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Nanyang Xu, Xinhua Peng, Pengfei Wang, Sanfeng Wu, Dawei Lu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, and 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3642
abstract: It is exponentially hard to simulate quantum systems by classical algorithms, while quantum computer could in principle solve this problem polynomially. We demonstrate such an quantum-simulation algorithm on our NMR system to simulate an hydrogen molecule and calculate its ground-state energy. We utilize the NMR interferometry method to measure the phase shift and iterate the process to get a high precision. Finally we get 17 precise bits of the energy value, and we also analyze the source of the error in the simulation.

id: 0907.3644
title: Loss of exchange symmetry in multiqubit states under Ising chain evolution
authors: Sudha Shenoy, Divyamani B.G, A.R. Usha Devi
comments: 8 pages, No figures Changed Title; Revised Content;Submitted version
journal: CHIN. PHYS. LETT. Vol. 28, No. 2 (2011) 020305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3644
abstract: Keeping in view the exchange symmetry aspects in studies on spin squeezing of multiqubit states, we show that Ising type Hamiltonian does not retain the exchange symmetry of initially symmetric multiqubit states. Specifically, we show that all N-qubit states (N greater than or equal to 5) obeying permutation symmetry lose their symmetry after evolution with one dimensional Ising chain with nearest neighbor interactions. Among 4-qubit symmetric pure states, only W type states retain their symmetry under time evolution with Ising Hamiltonian.

id: 0907.3696
title: Security of continuous-variable QKD: exploiting symmetries in phase space
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Evgueni Karpov, Philippe Grangier, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 13 pages
journal: New Journal of Physics, 11, 115009 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3696
abstract: Proving the unconditional security of a quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme is a highly challenging task as one needs to determine the most efficient attack compatible with experimental data. This task is even more demanding for continuous-variable QKD as the Hilbert space where the protocol is described is infinite dimensional. A very natural way to address this problem is to make an extensive use of the symmetries of the protocols. In this article, we investigate a symmetry in phase space that is particularly relevant to continuous-variable QKD, and explore the way towards a new quantum de Finetti theorem that would exploit this symmetry and provide a powerful tool to assess the security of continuous-variable protocols.

id: 0907.3704
title: Entropic uncertainty relations - A survey
authors: Stephanie Wehner, Andreas Winter
comments: 12 pages, revtex
journal: New Journal of Physics - Special Issue on Quantum Information and Many-Body Theory, 12, 025009 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3704
abstract: Uncertainty relations play a central role in quantum mechanics. Entropic uncertainty relations in particular have gained significant importance within quantum information, providing the foundation for the security of many quantum cryptographic protocols. Yet, rather little is known about entropic uncertainty relations with more than two measurement settings. In this note we review known results and open questions.

id: 0907.3724
title: Microscopic description of 2d topological phases, duality and 3d state sums
authors: Zoltan Kadar, Annalisa Marzuoli, Mario Rasetti
comments: 19 pages, typos corrected, style improved, a final paragraph added
journal: Adv. Math. Phys., (2010) 671039
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3724
abstract: Doubled topological phases introduced by Kitaev, Levin and Wen supported on two dimensional lattices are Hamiltonian versions of three dimensional topological quantum field theories described by the Turaev-Viro state sum models. We introduce the latter with an emphasis on obtaining them from theories in the continuum. Equivalence of the previous models in the ground state are shown in case of the honeycomb lattice and the gauge group being a finite group by means of the well-known duality transformation between the group algebra and the spin network basis of lattice gauge theory. An analysis of the ribbon operators describing excitations in both types of models and the three dimensional geometrical interpretation are given.

id: 0907.3757
title: A scalable control system for a superconducting adiabatic quantum optimization processor
authors: M. W. Johnson, P. Bunyk, F. Maibaum, E. Tolkacheva, A. J. Berkley, E. M. Chapple, R. Harris, J. Johansson, T. Lanting, I. Perminov, E. Ladizinsky, T. Oh, G. Rose
comments: 14 pages, 15 figures
journal: Supercond. Sci. Technol. 23 (2010) 065004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3757
abstract: We have designed, fabricated and operated a scalable system for applying independently programmable time-independent, and limited time-dependent flux biases to control superconducting devices in an integrated circuit. Here we report on the operation of a system designed to supply 64 flux biases to devices in a circuit designed to be a unit cell for a superconducting adiabatic quantum optimization system. The system requires six digital address lines, two power lines, and a handful of global analog lines.

id: 0907.3766
title: Semiclassical Approach to Survival Probability at Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Wen-ge Wang, Pinquan Qin, Lewei He, Ping Wang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; published version
journal: Phys.Rev.E, 81, 016214(1-5) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3766
abstract: We study the decay of survival probability at quantum phase transitions (QPT). The semiclassical theory is found applicable in the vicinities of critical points with infinite degeneracy. The theory predicts a power law decay of the survival probability for relatively long times in systems with d=1 and an exponential decay in systems with sufficiently large d, where d is the degrees of freedom of the underlying classical dynamics. The semiclassical predictions are checked numerically in four models.

id: 0907.3778
title: Security proof for cryptographic protocols based only on the monogamy of Bell's inequality violations
authors: Marcin Pawlowski
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3778
abstract: We show that monogamy of Bell's inequality violations, which is strictly weaker condition than no-signaling is enough to prove security of quantum key distribution. We derive our results for a whole class of monogamy constraints and generalize our results to any theory that communicating parties may have access to. Some of these theories do not respect no-signaling principle yet still allow for secure communication. This proves that no-signaling is only a sufficient condition for the possibility of secure communication, but not the necessary one. We also present some new qualitative results concerning the security of existing quantum key distribution protocols.

id: 0907.3788
title: Spreading of the conception of permanent resonance to wave motions over lattices
authors: B.N. Zakhariev
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3788
abstract: Discovered by us [1] special (permanent) resonance mechanism of spectral zone creation in periodic structures is generalized to the case of discrete space lattices and finite difference Schroedinger equation with local V(n) and minimally nonlocal U(n). It would be interesting to generalize the periodicity formalism to the multidiagonal finite-difference potentials.

id: 0907.3798
title: Entanglement dynamics of a moving multi-photon Jaynes-Cummings model in mixed states
authors: Lei Tan, Zhong-Hua Zhu, Yu-Qing Zhang
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3798
abstract: Using the algebraic dynamical method, the dynamics of entanglement in an atom-field bipartite system in a mixed state is investigated. The atomic center-ofmass motion and the field-mode structure are also included in this system. We find that the larger values of the detuning and the average photon number, the smaller fluctuation of the entanglement, but the period for the evolution of the entanglement doesn't increase accordingly; It is also found that the fluctuation of the entanglement varies slightly with the atomic motion and oscillates fast with the value of the fieldmode structure and the transition photon number increasing. Moreover, a damping evolution of the entanglement appears when considering detuning and the atomic motion simultaneously.

id: 0907.3802
title: Progress on Problem about Quantum Hamming Bound for Impure Quantum Codes
authors: Zhuo Li, Lijuan Xing
comments: 3 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3802
abstract: A famous open problem in the theory of quantum error-correcting codes is whether or not the parameters of an impure quantum code can violate the quantum Hamming bound for pure quantum codes. We partially solve this problem. We demonstrate that there exists a threshold such that an arbitrary quantum code must obey the quantum Hamming bound whenever . We list some values of for small d and binary quantum codes.

id: 0907.3825
title: Non-Gaussian states produced by close-to-threshold optical parametric oscillators: role of classical and quantum fluctuations
authors: Virginia D'Auria, Corrado de Lisio, Alberto Porzio, Salvatore Solimeno, Javaid Anwar, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 10 pages, new figure added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 033846 (2010) [9 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3825
abstract: Quantum states with non-Gaussian statistics generated by optical parametric oscillators (OPO) with fluctuating parameters are studied by means of the Kurtosis excess of the external field quadratures. The field generated is viewed as the response of a nonlinear device to the fluctuations of laser pump amplitude and frequency, crystal temperature and cavity detuning, in addition to quantum noise sources. The Kurtosis excess has been evaluated perturbatively up to the third order in the strength of the crystal nonlinear coupling factor and the second order in the classical fluctuating parameters. Applied to the device described in Opt. Expr. 13, 948-956 (2005) the model has given values of the Kurtosi excess in good agreement with the measured ones.

id: 0907.3827
title: Intrinsically universal n-dimensional quantum cellular automata
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Jonathan Grattage
comments: 26 pages, 15 figures. Journal paper incorporating arXiv:0907.3827 and arXiv:1002.1015
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3827
abstract: There have been several non-axiomatic approaches taken to define Quantum Cellular Automata (QCA). Partitioned QCA (PQCA) are the most canonical of these non-axiomatic definitions. In this work we first show that any QCA can be put into the form of a PQCA. Our construction reconciles all the non-axiomatic definitions of QCA, showing that they can all simulate one another, and hence that they are all equivalent to the axiomatic definition. Next, we describe a simple n-dimensional QCA capable of simulating all others, in that the initial configuration and the forward evolution of any n-dimensional QCA can be encoded within the initial configuration of the intrinsically universal QCA, and that several steps of the intrinsically universal QCA then correspond to one step of the simulated QCA. Both results are made formal by defining generalised n-dimensional intrinsic simulation, i.e. a notion of simulation which preserves the topology in the sense that each cell of the simulated QCA is encoded as a group of adjacent cells in the universal QCA. We argue that this notion brings the computer science based concepts of simulation and universality one step closer to theoretical physics.

id: 0907.3833
title: Optimal electron propagation on a quantum chain by a topological phase
authors: S. Paganelli, G. L. Giorgi, F. de Pasquale
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 57, 1094 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3833
abstract: We study the quantum diffusion of an electron in a quantum chain starting from an initial state localized around a given site. As the wavepacket diffuses, the probability of reconstructing the initial state on another site diminishes drastically with the distance. In order to optimize the state transmission we find that a topological quantum phase can be introduced. The effect of this phase is the reduction of wavepacket spreading together with almost coherent group propagation. In this regime, the electron has a quasi-linear dispersion and high fidelity can be achieved also over large distances in terms of lattice spacing.

id: 0907.3839
title: Fast Entanglement Distribution with Atomic Ensembles and Fluorescent Detection
authors: Jonatan B. Brask, Liang Jiang, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Vladan Vuletic, Anders S. Sorensen, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 020303(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3839
abstract: Quantum repeaters based on atomic ensemble quantum memories are promising candidates for achieving scalable distribution of entanglement over long distances. Recently, important experimental progress has been made towards their implementation. However, the entanglement rates and scalability of current approaches are limited by relatively low retrieval and single-photon detector efficiencies. We propose a scheme, which makes use of fluorescent detection of stored excitations to significantly increase the efficiency of connection and hence the rate. Practical performance and possible experimental realizations of the new protocol are discussed.

id: 0907.3845
title: Discrete coherent and squeezed states of many-qudit systems
authors: A. B. Klimov, C. Munoz, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 11 pages, 3 eps figures. Submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 043836 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3845
abstract: We consider the phase space for a system of $n$ identical qudits (each one of dimension $d$, with $d$ a primer number) as a grid of $d^{n} \times d^{n}$ points and use the finite field $GF(d^{n})$ to label the corresponding axes. The associated displacement operators permit to define $s$-parametrized quasidistribution functions in this grid, with properties analogous to their continuous counterparts. These displacements allow also for the construction of finite coherent states, once a fiducial state is fixed. We take this reference as one eigenstate of the discrete Fourier transform and study the factorization properties of the resulting coherent states. We extend these ideas to include discrete squeezed states, and show their intriguing relation with entangled states between different qudits.

id: 0907.3887
title: Compensating for Beamsplitter Asymmetries in Quantum Interference Experiments
authors: J.L. Liang, T.B. Pittman
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, 350-353 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3887
abstract: The visibility of the quantum interference "dip" seen in the Hong-Ou-Mandel experiment is optimized when a symmetric 50/50 beamsplitter is used in the interferometer. Here we show that the reduction in visibility caused by an asymmetric beamsplitter can be compensated by manipulating the polarization states of the two input photons. We experimentally demonstrate this by using a highly asymmetric 10/90 beamsplitter, and converting an initial dip visibility of 22% to a compensated value of 99%.

id: 0907.3920
title: Quantum algorithms for testing properties of distributions
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Aram W. Harrow, Avinatan Hassidim
comments: 20 pages
journal: IEEE. Trans. Inf. Th., vol. 57, no. 6, pp. 3971--3981, June 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3920
abstract: Suppose one has access to oracles generating samples from two unknown probability distributions P and Q on some N-element set. How many samples does one need to test whether the two distributions are close or far from each other in the L_1-norm ? This and related questions have been extensively studied during the last years in the field of property testing. In the present paper we study quantum algorithms for testing properties of distributions. It is shown that the L_1-distance between P and Q can be estimated with a constant precision using approximately N^{1/2} queries in the quantum settings, whereas classical computers need \Omega(N) queries. We also describe quantum algorithms for testing Uniformity and Orthogonality with query complexity O(N^{1/3}). The classical query complexity of these problems is known to be \Omega(N^{1/2}).

id: 0907.3960
title: Deterministic Transformations of Multipartite Entangled States with Tensor Rank 2
authors: S. Turgut, Y. Gul, N. K. Pak
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure; added new references and improved the presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012317 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3960
abstract: Transformations involving only local operations assisted with classical communication are investigated for multipartite entangled pure states having tensor rank 2. All necessary and sufficient conditions for the possibility of deterministically converting truly multipartite, rank-2 states into each other are given. Furthermore, a chain of local operations that successfully achieves the transformation has been identified for all allowed transformations. The identified chains have two nice features: (1) each party needs to carry out at most one local operation and (2) all of these local operations are also deterministic transformations by themselves. Finally, it is found that there are disjoint classes of states, all of which can be identified by a single real parameter, which remain invariant under deterministic transformations.

id: 0907.3988
title: Stroboscopic Generation of Topological Protection
authors: C. M. Herdman, Kevin C. Young, V. Scarola, Mohan Sarovar, K. B. Whaley
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 230501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3988
abstract: Trapped neutral atoms offer a powerful route to robust simulation of complex quantum systems. We present here a stroboscopic scheme for realization of a Hamiltonian with $n$-body interactions on a set of neutral atoms trapped in an addressable optical lattice, using only 1- and 2-body physical operations together with a dissipative mechanism that allows thermalization to finite temperature or cooling to the ground state. We demonstrate this scheme with application to the toric code Hamiltonian, ground states of which can be used to robustly store quantum information when coupled to a low temperature reservoir.

id: 0907.4117
title: Experimental estimation of entanglement at the quantum limit
authors: Giorgio Brida, Ivo Degiovanni, Angela Florio, Marco Genovese, Paolo Giorda, Alice Meda, Matteo G. A. Paris, Alex Shurupov
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 100501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4117
abstract: Entanglement is the central resource of quantum information processing and the precise characterization of entangled states is a crucial issue for the development of quantum technologies. This leads to the necessity of a precise, experimental feasible measure of entanglement. Nevertheless, such measurements are limited both from experimental uncertainties and intrinsic quantum bounds. Here we present an experiment where the amount of entanglement of a family of two-qubit mixed photon states is estimated with the ultimate precision allowed by quantum mechanics.

id: 0907.4190
title: The most probable wave function of a single free moving particle
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: revtex, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4190
abstract: We develop the most probable wave functions for a single free quantum particle given its momentum and energy by imposing its quantum probability density to maximize Shannon information entropy. We show that there is a class of solutions in which the quantum probability density is self-trapped with finite-size spatial support, uniformly moving hence keeping its form unchanged.

id: 0907.4198
title: Quantum limited particle sensing in optical tweezers
authors: Jian Wei Tay, Magnus T. L. Hsu, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: Submitted to Biophys J
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4198
abstract: Particle sensing in optical tweezers systems provides information on the position, velocity and force of the specimen particles. The conventional quadrant detection scheme is applied ubiquitously in optical tweezers experiments to quantify these parameters. In this paper we show that quadrant detection is non-optimal for particle sensing in optical tweezers and propose an alternative optimal particle sensing scheme based on spatial homodyne detection. A formalism for particle sensing in terms of transverse spatial modes is developed and numerical simulations of the efficacy of both quadrant and spatial homodyne detection are shown. We demonstrate that an order of magnitude improvement in particle sensing sensitivity can be achieved using spatial homodyne over quadrant detection.

id: 0907.4201
title: Phase gate of one superconducting qubit simultaneously controlling n qubits in a cavity
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: This paper arXiv:0907.4201 is the shorter (just four pages) version of our published paper arXiv:0912.4242 (which has 21 pages)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4201
abstract: We propose how to realize a three-step controlled-phase gate of one superconducting qubit simultaneously controlling n qubits selected from N qubits in a cavity (1<n<N). The operation time of this gate is independent of the number n of qubits involved in the gate operation. This phase gate controlling at once n qubits is insensitive to the initial state of the cavity mode and can be used to produce an analogous CNOT gate simultaneously acting on n qubits.

id: 0907.4207
title: Conditions for the approximate correction of algebras
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny
comments: Related to a talk given at TQC 2009 in Waterloo
journal: TQC 2009 LNCS 5906, pp. 6675 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4207
abstract: We study the approximate correctability of general algebras of observables, which represent hybrid quantum-classical information. This includes approximate quantum error correcting codes and subsystems codes. We show that the main result of arXiv:quant-ph/0605009 yields a natural generalization of the Knill-Laflamme conditions in the form of a dimension independent estimate of the optimal reconstruction error for a given encoding, measured using the trace-norm distance to a noiseless channel.

id: 0907.4246
title: Sampling in a Quantum Population, and Applications
authors: Niek J. Bouman, Serge Fehr
comments: [v5] Fixed a proof-technical issue related to abort in QOT, and rephrased some statements about composability; Proceedings CRYPTO 2010 (LNCS vol. 6223, Springer)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4246
abstract: We propose a framework for analyzing classical sampling strategies for estimating the Hamming weight of a large string, when applied to a multi-qubit quantum system instead. The framework shows how to interpret such a strategy and how to define its accuracy when applied to a quantum system. Furthermore, we show how the accuracy of any strategy relates to its accuracy in its classical usage, which is well understood for the important examples. We show the usefulness of our framework by using it to obtain new and simple security proofs for the following quantum-cryptographic schemes: quantum oblivious-transfer from bit-commitment, and BB84 quantum-key-distribution.

id: 0907.4258
title: Product measurements and fully symmetric measurements in qubit-pair tomography: A numerical study
authors: Yong Siah Teo, Huangjun Zhu, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Optics Communications 283 (2010) 724-729
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4258
abstract: State tomography on qubit pairs is routinely carried out by measuring the two qubits separately, while one expects a higher efficiency from tomography with highly symmetric joint measurements of both qubits. Our numerical study of simulated experiments does not support such expectations.

id: 0907.4261
title: Manipulating mesoscopic multipartite entanglement with atom-light interfaces
authors: Julia Stasi¨½ska, Carles Rod¨®, Simone Paganelli, Gerhard Birkl, Anna Sanpera
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4261
abstract: Entanglement between two macroscopic atomic ensembles induced by measurement on an ancillary light system has proven to be a powerful method for engineering quantum memories and quantum state transfer. Here we investigate the feasibility of such methods for generation, manipulation and detection of genuine multipartite entanglement between mesoscopic atomic ensembles. Our results extend in a non trivial way the EPR entanglement between two macroscopic gas samples reported experimentally in [B. Julsgaard, A. Kozhekin, and E. Polzik, Nature {\bf 413}, 400 (2001)]. We find that under realistic conditions, a second orthogonal light pulse interacting with the atomic samples, can modify and even reverse the entangling action of the first one leaving the samples in a separable state.

id: 0907.4263
title: An Entropic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Criterion
authors: S. P. Walborn, A. Salles, R. M. Gomes, F. Toscano, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4263
abstract: We propose an EPR inequality based on an entropic uncertainty relation for complementary continuous variable observables. This inequality is more sensitive than the previously established EPR inequality based on inferred variances, and opens up the possibility of EPR tests of quantum nonlocality in a wider variety of quantum states. We experimentally test the inequality using spatially entangled photons. For a particular quantum state, our experimental results show a violation of the entropic EPR inequality, while the variance EPR inequality is not violated.

id: 0907.4267
title: Energy average formula of photon gas rederived by using the generalized Hermann-Feynman theorem
authors: Hong-yi Fan
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4267
abstract: By virtue of the generalized Hermann-Feynmam theorem and the method of characteristics we rederive energy average formula of photon gas, this is another useful application of the theorem.

id: 0907.4275
title: Observation of Stueckelberg oscillations in dipole-dipole interactions
authors: C. S. E. van Ditzhuijzen, Atreju Tauschinsky, H. B. van Linden van den Heuvell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4275
abstract: We have observed Stueckelberg oscillations in the dipole-dipole interaction between Rydberg atoms with an externally applied radio-frequency field. The oscillating RF field brings the interaction between cold Rydberg atoms in two separated volumes into resonance. We observe multi-photon transitions when varying the amplitude of the RF-field and the static electric field offset. The angular momentum states we use show a quadratic Stark shift, which leads to a fundamentally different behavior than linearly shifting states. Both cases are studied theoretically using the Floquet approach and are compared. The amplitude of the sidebands, related to the interaction strength, is given by the Bessel function in the linearly shifting case and by the generalized Bessel function in the quadratically shifting case. The oscillatory behavior of both functions corresponds to Stueckelberg oscillations, an interference effect described by the semi-classical Landau-Zener-Stueckelberg model. The measurements prove coherent dipole-dipole interaction during at least 0.6 micro-seconds.

id: 0907.4315
title: Long Range Free Bosonic Models in Block Decimation Notation: Applications and Entanglement
authors: Jose Reslen, Sougato Bose
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4315
abstract: We study the effect of long range particle exchange in bosonic arrangements. We show that by combining the solution of the Heisenberg equations of motion with matrix product state representation it is possible to investigate the dynamics as well as the ground state while including particle exchange beyond next-neighbours sites. These ideas are then applied to study the emergence of entanglement as a result of scattering in boson chains. We propose a scheme to generate highly entangled multi-particle states that exploits collision as a powerful entangling mechanism.

id: 0907.4335
title: From Entropic Dynamics to Quantum Theory
authors: Ariel Caticha
comments: Extended and corrected version of a paper presented at MaxEnt 2009, the 29th International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering (July 5-10, 2009, Oxford, Mississippi, USA). In version v3 I corrected a mistake and considerably simplified the argument. The overall conclusions remain unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4335
abstract: Non-relativistic quantum theory is derived from information codified into an appropriate statistical model. The basic assumption is that there is an irreducible uncertainty in the location of particles: positions constitute a configuration space and the corresponding probability distributions constitute a statistical manifold. The dynamics follows from a principle of inference, the method of Maximum Entropy. The concept of time is introduced as a convenient way to keep track of change. A welcome feature is that the entropic dynamics notion of time incorporates a natural distinction between past and future. The statistical manifold is assumed to be a dynamical entity: its curved and evolving geometry determines the evolution of the particles which, in their turn, react back and determine the evolution of the geometry. Imposing that the dynamics conserve energy leads to the Schroedinger equation and to a natural explanation of its linearity, its unitarity, and of the role of complex numbers. The phase of the wave function is explained as a feature of purely statistical origin. There is a quantum analogue to the gravitational equivalence principle.

id: 0907.4338
title: Random nonlinear layered structures as sources of photon pairs for quantum-information processing
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Marco Centini, Concita Sibilia, Mario Bertolotti
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Russ. Laser Res. 30 (2009) 508-513
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4338
abstract: Random nonlinear layered structures have been found to be a useful source of photon pairs with perfectly indistinguishable un-entangled photons emitted into a very narrow spectral range. Localization of the interacting optical fields typical for random structures gives relatively high photon-pair fluxes. Superposing photon-pair emission quantum paths at different emission angles, several kinds of two-photon states (including states with coincident frequencies) useful in quantum-information processing can easily be generated.

id: 0907.4361
title: A Classical Switched LC/LR Circuit Modeling the Quantum Zeno and Anti-Zeno Effects
authors: T. Hubsch, V. Pankovic
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4361
abstract: Generalizing a recent analysis, we model the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects with a quickly switched, ideal LC/LR circuit, in the limiting case of it alternating very many times between its short LC and even shorter LR regime. If the initial current is arranged to be negligible, the capacitor turns out never to discharge. If the initial current is made dominant, this capacitor discharges, and faster than the exponential decay to which it limits. The existence and simplicity of these phases in such a rudimentary model indicates that the corresponding effects are ubiquitous throughout physics, both quantum and classical. In turn, the parameter space of this model contains intermediate phases in which the circuit exhibits behaviors that seem to foreshadow other quantum effects of some interest.

id: 0907.4494
title: State-independent quantum contextuality with single photons
authors: Elias Amselem, Magnus Radmark, Mohamed Bourennane, Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 (2009) 160405
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4494
abstract: We present an experimental state-independent violation of an inequality for noncontextual theories on single particles. We show that 20 different single-photon states violate an inequality which involves correlations between results of sequential compatible measurements by at least 419 standard deviations. Our results show that, for any physical system, even for a single system, and independent of its state, there is a universal set of tests whose results do not admit a noncontextual interpretation. This sheds new light on the role of quantum mechanics in quantum information processing.

id: 0907.4501
title: Remarks on CHSH inequality, Tsirelson bound, Popescu-Rohlich boxes and inner product spaces
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4501
abstract: The EPR correlation matrix admit a Hilbert model if it can be extended to a positive full correlation matrix. A simple proof of the corresponding Tsirelson bound is given and the relations to PR boxes and indefinite inner product spaces are briefly discussed.

id: 0907.4535
title: Effects of multiple pairs on visibility measurements of entangled photons generated by spontaneous parametric processes
authors: Hiroki Takesue, Kaoru Shimizu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4535
abstract: Entangled photon-pair sources based on spontaneous parametric processes are widely used in photonic quantum information experiments. In this paper, we clarify the relationship between average photon-pair number and the visibility of two-photon interference (TPI) using those entanglement sources. We consider sources that generate distinguishable and indistinguishable entangled photon pairs, assuming coincidence measurements that use threshold detectors. We present formulas for the TPI visibility of a polarization entanglement that take account of all the high-order multi-pair emission events. Moreover, we show that the formulas can be approximated with simple functions of the average pair number when the photon collection efficiency is small. As a result, we reveal that an indistinguishable entangled pair provides better visibility than a distinguishable one.

id: 0907.4546
title: Creation of pure multi-mode entangled states in a ring cavity
authors: Gao-xiang Li, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: "Quo vadis Quantum Optics"- special issue of Optics Communications memory of Krzysztof Wodkiewicz
journal: Optics Commun. 283 (2010) 814
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4546
abstract: Practical schemes for creation of multi-mode squeezed (entangled) states of atomic ensembles located inside a high-Q ring cavity are discussed. It is assumed that the cavity is composed of two degenerate mutually counter-propagating modes that can simultaneously couple to the atomic ensembles with the same coupling strengths. The ensembles are composed of ultra-cold atoms which are modeled as four-level systems driven by two laser fields, both co-propagating with one of the cavity directions. We illustrate a procedure that constructs multi-mode squeezed states from the vacuum by a unitary transformation associated with the collective dynamics of the atomic ensembles subjected to driving lasers of a suitably adjusted amplitudes and phases. The lasers pulses together with the cavity dissipation prepare the collective modes in a desired stationary squeezed state.

id: 0907.4550
title: Quantum theory of Synchronously Pumped type I Optical Parametric Oscillators: characterization of the squeezed supermodes
authors: Giuseppe Patera, Nicolas Treps, Claude Fabre, German J. De Valcarcel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4550
abstract: Quantum models for synchronously pumped type I optical parametric oscillators (SPOPO) are presented. The study of the dynamics of SPOPOs, which typically involves millions of coupled signal longitudinal modes, is significantly simplified when one considers the ?supermodes?, which are independent linear superpositions of all the signal modes diagonalizing the parametric interaction. In terms of these supermodes the SPOPO dynamics becomes that of about a hundred of independent, single mode degenerate OPOs, each of them being a squeezer. One derives a general expression for the squeezing spectrum measured in a balanced homodyne detection experiment, valid for any temporal shape of the local oscillator. Realistic cases are then studied using both analytical and numerical methods: the oscillation threshold is derived, and the spectral and temporal shapes of the squeezed supermodes are characterized.

id: 0907.4598
title: No-cloning theorem for a single POVM
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 7 pages, one figure. Typo errors are corrected. The bibliography is extended. Minor grammatical and explanatory changes
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 10, 0971-0980 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4598
abstract: Cloning of statistics of general quantum measurement is discussed. The presented approach is connected with the known concept of observable cloning, but differs in some essential respects. The reasons are illustrated within some variety of B92 protocol. As it is shown, there exist pairs of states such that the perfect cloning of given POVM is not possible. We discuss some properties of these intolerant sets. An example allowing the perfect cloning is presented as well.

id: 0907.4610
title: Yangian symmetry in molecule {V6} and four-spin Heisenberg model
authors: Xu-Biao Peng, Cheng-Ming Bai, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 24 pages,8 figures, submitted to Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4610
abstract: The symmetry operator $Q=Y^2$ is introduced to re-describe the Heisenberg spin triangles in the \{V6\} molecule, where $\mathbf{Y}$ stands for the Yangian operator which can be viewed as special form of Dzyaloshiky-Moriya (DM) interaction for spin 1/2 systems. Suppose a parallelogram Heisenberg model that is comprised of four 1/2-spins commutes with $Q$, which means that it possesses Yangian symmetry, we show that the ground state of the Hamiltonian $H_4$ for the model allows to take the total spin S=1 by choosing some suitable exchange constants in $H_4$. In analogy to the molecular \{V6\} where the two triangles interact through Yangian operator we then give the magnetization for the theoretical molecule "\{V8\}" model which is comprised of two parallelograms. Following the example of molecule \{V15\}, we give another theoretical molecule model regarding the four 1/2-spins system with total spin S=1 and predict the local moments to be 1/10u_B, 9/10u_B, 1/10u_B,9/10u_B respectively.

id: 0907.4629
title: Non-Markovian dissipative dynamics of two coupled qubits in independent reservoirs: a comparison between exact solutions and master equation approaches
authors: E. Ferraro, M. Scala, R. Migliore, A. Napoli
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to PRA
journal: Physical Review A 80, 042112 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4629
abstract: The reduced dynamics of two interacting qubits coupled to two independent bosonic baths is investigated. The one-excitation dynamics is derived and compared with that based on the resolution of appropriate non-Markovian master equations. The Nakajima-Zwanzig and the time-convolutionless projection operator techniques are exploited to provide a description of the non-Markovian features of the dynamics of the two-qubits system. The validity of such approximate methods and their range of validity in correspondence to different choices of the parameters describing the system are brought to light.

id: 0907.4638
title: N-Slit Interference: Fractals in Near-Field Region, Bohmian Trajectories
authors: Valeriy I. Sbitnev
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures; added one new section, 6 new figures, and 4 references; added 1 figure, some comments, renew 3 figures,
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4638
abstract: Scattering cold particles on an $N$-slit grating is shown to reproduce an interference pattern, that manifests itself in the near-field region as the fractal Talbot carpet. In the far-field region the pattern is transformed to an ordinary diffraction, where principal beams are partitioned from each other by ($N-2$) weak ones. A probability density plot of the wave function, to be represented by a gaussian wavepacket, is calculated both in the near-field region and in the far-field one. Bohmian (geodesic) trajectories, to be calculated by a guidance equation, are superimposed on the probability density plot well enough. It means, that a particle, moving from a source to a detector, passes across the grating along a single bohmian trajectory through-passing one and only one slit. Keywords: Gaussian wavepacket, neutron scattering, guidance equation, bohmian trajectory, near-field interference, far-field diffraction, Talbot carpet, fractal

id: 0907.4654
title: Violation of Bell-like Inequality for spin-energy entanglement in neutron polarimetry
authors: S. Sponar, J. Klepp, C. Zeiner, G. Badurek, Y. Hasegawa
comments: 4 pages 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010), pp. 431-434
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4654
abstract: Violation of a Bell-like inequality for a spin-energy entangled neutron state has been confirmed in a polarimetric experiment. The proposed inequality, in Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) formalism, relies on correlations between the spin and energy degree of freedom in a single-neutron system. The entangled states are generated utilizing a suitable combination of two radio-frequency fields in a neutron polarimeter setup. The correlation function S is determined to be 2.333+/-0.005, which violates the Bell-like CHSH inequality by more than 66 standard deviations.

id: 0907.4672
title: An area law for the entropy of low-energy states
authors: Lluis Masanes
comments: 6 pages + appendix, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:052104,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4672
abstract: It is often observed in the ground state of spatially-extended quantum systems with local interactions that the entropy of a large region is proportional to its surface area. In some cases, this area law is corrected with a logarithmic factor. This contrasts with the fact that in almost all states of the Hilbert space, the entropy of a region is proportional to its volume. This paper shows that low-energy states have (at most) an area law with the logarithmic correction, provided two conditions hold: (i) the state has sufficient decay of correlations, (ii) the number of eigenstates with vanishing energy-density is not exponential in the volume. These two conditions are satisfied by many relevant systems. The central idea of the argument is that energy fluctuations inside a region can be observed by measuring the exterior and a superficial shell of the region.

id: 0907.4683
title: Magnetic field imaging with atomic Rb vapor
authors: Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, I. Novikova, M. D. Havey, F. A. Narducci
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Issue 22, 34, 3529-3531, (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4683
abstract: We demonstrate the possibility of dynamic imaging of magnetic fields using electromagnetically induced transparency in an atomic gas. As an experimental demonstration we employ an atomic Rb gas confined in a glass cell to image the transverse magnetic field created by a long straight wire. In this arrangement, which clearly reveals the essential effect, the field of view is about 2 x 2 mm^2 and the field detection uncertainty is 0.14 mG per 10 um x 10 um image pixel.

id: 0907.4694
title: Universality and The Criterion 'd' in Quantum Key Generation
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4694
abstract: The common security criterion d in quantum key distribution is taken to solve the universal composability problem in quantum key distribution as well as providing good general quantitative security guarantee. In this paper it is shown that these are a result of an invalid interpretation of d. The general security significance of d is analyzed in detail. The related issues of universality and attacker's side information are discussed.

id: 0907.4700
title: Casimir-Polder forces on moving atoms
authors: Stefan Scheel, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 80 (4), 042902 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4700
abstract: Polarisable atoms and molecules experience the Casimir-Polder force near magnetoelectric bodies, a force that is induced by quantum fluctuations of the electromagnetic field and the matter. Atoms and molecules in relative motion to a magnetoelectric surface experience an additional, velocity-dependent force. We present a full quantum-mechanical treatment of this force and identify a generalised Doppler effect, the time delay between photon emission and reabsorption, and the Roentgen interaction as its three sources. For ground-state atoms, the force is very small and always decelerating, hence commonly known as quantum friction. For atom and molecules in electronically excited states, on the contrary, both decelerating and accelerating forces can occur depending on the magnitude of the atomic transition frequency relative to the surface plasmon frequency.

id: 0907.4737
title: QIP = PSPACE
authors: Rahul Jain, Zhengfeng Ji, Sarvagya Upadhyay, John Watrous
comments: 21 pages; v2 includes corrections and minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4737
abstract: We prove that the complexity class QIP, which consists of all problems having quantum interactive proof systems, is contained in PSPACE. This containment is proved by applying a parallelized form of the matrix multiplicative weights update method to a class of semidefinite programs that captures the computational power of quantum interactive proofs. As the containment of PSPACE in QIP follows immediately from the well-known equality IP = PSPACE, the equality QIP = PSPACE follows.

id: 0907.4757
title: Entanglement combing
authors: Dong Yang, Jens Eisert
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, replaced with final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 220501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4757
abstract: We show that all multi-partite pure states can, under local operations, be transformed into bi-partite pairwise entangled states in a "lossless fashion": An arbitrary distinguished party will keep pairwise entanglement with all other parties after the asymptotic protocol - decorrelating all other parties from each other - in a way that the degree of entanglement of this party with respect to the rest will remain entirely unchanged. The set of possible entanglement distributions of bi-partite pairs is also classified. Finally, we point out several applications of this protocol as a useful primitive in quantum information theory.

id: 0907.4797
title: Non-Markovian incoherent quantum dynamics of a two-state system
authors: M. H. S. Amin, Frederico Brito
comments: 10 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 214302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4797
abstract: We present a detailed study of the non-Markovian two-state system dynamics for the regime of incoherent quantum tunneling. Using perturbation theory in the system tunneling amplitude $\Delta$, and in the limit of strong system-bath coupling, we determine the short time evolution of the reduced density matrix and thereby find a general equation of motion for the non-Markovian evolution at longer times. We relate the nonlocality in time due to the non-Markovian effects with the environment characteristic response time. In addition, we study the incoherent evolution of a system with a double-well potential, where each well consists several quantized energy levels. We determine the crossover temperature to a regime where many energy levels in the wells participate in the tunneling process, and observe that the required temperature can be much smaller than the one associated with the system plasma frequency. We also discuss experimental implications of our theoretical analysis.

id: 0907.4804
title: Spontaneous dressed-state polarization in the strong driving regime of cavity QED
authors: Michael A. Armen, Anthony E. Miller, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 4 pages, 4 color figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4804
abstract: We utilize high-bandwidth phase quadrature homodyne measurement of the light transmitted through a Fabry-Perot cavity, driven strongly and on resonance, to detect excess phase noise induced by a single intracavity atom. We analyze the correlation properties and driving-strength dependence of the atom-induced phase noise to establish that it corresponds to the long-predicted phenomenon of spontaneous dressed-state polarization. Our experiment thus provides a demonstration of cavity quantum electrodynamics in the strong driving regime, in which one atom interacts strongly with a many-photon cavity field to produce novel quantum stochastic behavior.

id: 0907.4817
title: Photon--added squeezed thermal states: statistical properties and its decoherence in a photon-loss channel
authors: Xue-xiang Xu, Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4817
abstract: Using the normally ordered Gaussian form of displaced-squeezed thermal field characteristic of average photon number n, we introduce the photon-added squeezed thermo state (PASTS) and investigate its statistical properties, such as Mandel's Q-parameter, number distribution (as a Legendre polynomial), the Wigner function. We then study its decoherence in a photon-loss channel in term of the negativity of WF by deriving the analytical expression of WF for PASTS. It is found that the WF with single photon-added is always partial negative for the arbitrary values of n and the squeezing parameter r.

id: 0907.4823
title: How the result of a measurement of a component of the spin of a spin-1/2 particle can turn out to be 100 without using weak measurements
authors: S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4823
abstract: We discuss two questions related to the concept of weak values as seen from the standard quantum-mechanics point of view. In the first part of the paper, we describe a scenario where unphysical results similar to those encountered in the study of weak values are obtained using a simple experimental setup that does not involve weak measurements. In the second part of the paper, we discuss the correct physical description, according to quantum mechanics, of what is being measured in a weak-value-type experiment.

id: 0907.4900
title: Transformation design and nonlinear Hamiltonians
authors: Thomas Brougham, Goce Chadzitaskos, Igor Jex
comments: Accepted for publication in Journal of Modern Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4900
abstract: We study a class of nonlinear Hamiltonians, with applications in quantum optics. The interaction terms of these Hamiltonians are generated by taking a linear combination of powers of a simple `beam splitter' Hamiltonian. The entanglement properties of the eigenstates are studied. Finally, we show how to use this class of Hamiltonians to perform special tasks such as conditional state swapping, which can be used to generate optical cat states and to sort photons.

id: 0907.4909
title: Geometric Phase in Entangled Systems: A Single-Neutron Interferometer Experiment
authors: S. Sponar, J. Klepp, R. Loidl, S. Filipp, K. Durstberger-Rennhofer, R. A. Bertlmann, G. Badurek, Y. Hasegawa, H. Rauch
comments: 10 pages 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042113 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4909
abstract: The influence of the geometric phase on a Bell measurement, as proposed by Bertlmann et al. in [Phys. Rev. A 69, 032112 (2004)], and expressed by the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality, has been observed for a spin-path entangled neutron state in an interferometric setup. It is experimentally demonstrated that the effect of geometric phase can be balanced by a change in Bell angles. The geometric phase is acquired during a time dependent interaction with two radio-frequency (rf) fields. Two schemes, polar and azimuthal adjustment of the Bell angles, are realized and analyzed in detail. The former scheme, yields a sinusoidal oscillation of the correlation function S, dependent on the geometric phase, such that it varies in the range between 2 and 2\sqrt{2} and, therefore, always exceeds the boundary value 2 between quantum mechanic and noncontextual theories. The latter scheme results in a constant, maximal violation of the Bell-like-CHSH inequality, where S remains 2\sqrt2 for all settings of the geometric phase.

id: 0907.4912
title: Quantum key distribution in terms of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state: multi-key generation
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, Wahiddin M. R. B., Mustafa Afanddi Mat Nor, Norziana Jamil, Iskandar Bahari
comments: 10 Page, no figures. Comments are most welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4912
abstract: In this paper, we develop a quantum key distribution protocol based on the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states (GHZs). The particles are exchanged among the users in blocks through two steps. In this protocol, for three-particle GHZs three keys can be simultaneously generated. The advantage of this is that the users can select the most suitable key for communication. The protocol can be generalized to $N$ users to provide $N$ keys. The protocol has two levels for checking the eavesdroppers. Moreover, we discuss the security of the protocol against different attacks.

id: 0907.4924
title: Wigner's inequalities in quantum field theory
authors: Nikolai Nikitin, Konstantin Toms
comments: 25 pages, published in PRA, this http URL
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:032109,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4924
abstract: We present a relativistic generalization of the Wigner inequality for the scalar and pseudoscalar particles decaying to two particles with spin (fermions and photons.) We consider Wigner's inequality with the full spin anticorrelation (with the non-relativistic analog) as well as the case with the full spin correlation. The latter case may be obtained by a special choice of the plane of measurement of the spin projections on the direction of propagation of fermions. The possibility for relativistic testing of Bohr's complementarity principle is shown.

id: 0907.4925
title: Passing quantum correlations to qubits using any two-mode state
authors: Mauro Paternostro, Gerardo Adesso, Steve Campbell
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062318 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4925
abstract: We draw an explicit connection between the statistical properties of an entangled two-mode continuous variable (CV) resource and the amount of entanglement that can be dynamically transferred to a pair of non-interacting two-level systems. More specifically, we rigorously reformulate entanglement transfer process by making use of covariance matrix formalism. When the resource state is Gaussian, our method makes the approach to the transfer of quantum correlations much more flexible than in previously considered schemes and allows the straightforward inclusion of the effects of noise affecting the CV system. Moreover, the proposed method reveals that the use of de-Gaussified two-mode states is almost never advantageous for transferring entanglement with respect to the full Gaussian picture, despite the entanglement in the non-Gaussian resource can be much larger than in its Gaussian counterpart. We can thus conclude that the entanglement-transfer map overthrows the "ordering" relations valid at the level of CV resource states.

id: 0907.4967
title: Defining the local part of a hidden variable model: a comment
authors: Roger Colbeck, Renato Renner
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure; this concerns arXiv:0801.2218; v2: added response to arXiv:0907.2619v2; v3: added response to arXiv:0907.2619v3; v4: added response to arXiv:0907.2619v4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4967
abstract: In [Physical Review Letters 101, 050403 (2008)], we showed that quantum theory cannot be explained by a hidden variable model with a non-trivial local part. The purpose of this comment is to clarify our notion of local part, which seems to have caused some confusion in the recent literature. This notion is based on Bell's and demands that local hidden variables are physical, the idea being that, if discovered, they would not contradict basic physical principles. We explain why the recent supposed "counterexamples" that have appeared are not counterexamples to our theorem--in fact they are based on a definition of local hidden variables which would allow signalling and is therefore not physical.

id: 0907.4979
title: Searching for extremal PPT entangled states
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Janusz Grabowski, Marek Ku?, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, revised version due to the partial overlap with results of arXiv:0704.3348, some new results on extremality in multi-qubit systems added, contribution to the special issue of Optics Communications in memory of Krzysztof Wodkiewicz
journal: Optics Communications 283, 805-813 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4979
abstract: We study extremality in various sets of states that have positive partial transposes. One of the tools we use for this purpose is the recently formulated criterion allowing to judge if a given state is extremal in the set of PPT states. First we investigate qubit--ququart states and show that the only candidates for extremal PPT entangled states (PPTES) have ranks of the state and its partial transposition (5,5) or (5,6) (equivalently (6,5)). Then, examples of extremal states of (5,5) type and the so--called edge states of type (5,6) are provided. We also make an attempt to explore the set of PPT states with ranks (5,6). Finally, we discuss what are the possible configurations of ranks of density matrices and their respective partial transposition in general three-qubit and four-qubit symmetric states for which there may exist extremal entangled PPT states. For instance in the first case we show that the only possibilities are (4,4,4) and (4,4,5).

id: 0907.5034
title: Frequency Tracking and Parameter Estimation for Robust Quantum State-Estimation
authors: Jason F. Ralph, Kurt Jacobs, Charles D. Hill
comments: 6 figures, 13 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052119 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5034
abstract: In this paper we consider the problem of tracking the state of a quantum system via a continuous measurement. If the system Hamiltonian is known precisely, this merely requires integrating the appropriate stochastic master equation. However, even a small error in the assumed Hamiltonian can render this approach useless. The natural answer to this problem is to include the parameters of the Hamiltonian as part of the estimation problem, and the full Bayesian solution to this task provides a state-estimate that is robust against uncertainties. However, this approach requires considerable computational overhead. Here we consider a single qubit in which the Hamiltonian contains a single unknown parameter. We show that classical frequency estimation techniques greatly reduce the computational overhead associated with Bayesian estimation and provide accurate estimates for the qubit frequency

id: 0907.5085
title: Higher-order squeezing for the codirectional Kerr nonlinear coupler
authors: Faisal Aly Aly El-Orany, Jan Perina
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 333 (2004) 204-211
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5085
abstract: In this Letter we study the evolution of the higher-order squeezing, namely, $n$th-order single-mode squeezing, sum- and difference-squeezing for the codirectional Kerr nonlinear coupler. We show that the amount of squeezing decreases when $n$, i.e. the squeezing order, increases. For specific values of the interaction parameters squeezing factors exhibit a series of revival-collapse phenomena, which become more pronounced when the value of $n$ increases. Sum-squeezing can provide amounts of squeezing greater than those produced by the $n$th higher-order ($n\geq 2$) squeezing for the same values of interaction parameters and can map onto amplitude-squared squeezing. Further, we prove that the difference-squeezing is not relevant measure for obtaining information about squeezing from this device.

id: 0907.5116
title: Geometric phases without geometry
authors: Amar Vutha, David DeMille
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures; revised version with additional sections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5116
abstract: Geometric phases arise in a number of physical situations and often lead to systematic shifts in frequencies or phases measured in precision experiments. We describe, by working through some simple examples, a method to calculate geometric phases that relies only on standard quantum mechanical calculations of energy level shifts. This connection between geometric phases and off-resonant energy shifts simplifies calculation of the effect in certain situations. More generally, it also provides a way to understand and calculate geometric phases without recourse to topology.

id: 0907.5129
title: Quantum measures for density correlations in optical lattices
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, G.G. Guerreschi
comments: LaTeX, 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5129
abstract: The density-density correlation profiles obtained superimposing absorption images from atomic clouds freely expanding after the release of the confining optical lattice can be theoretically described in terms of a generalized quantum measure based on coherent-like states. We show that the corresponding density patterns differ in a testable way from those computed using standard many-body mean values, usually adopted in fitting experimental data.

id: 0907.5149
title: High performance single-error-correcting quantum codes for amplitude damping
authors: Peter W. Shor, Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin, Bei Zeng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5149
abstract: We construct families of high performance quantum amplitude damping codes. All of our codes are nonadditive and most modestly outperform the best possible additive codes in terms of encoded dimension. One family is built from nonlinear error-correcting codes for classical asymmetric channels, with which we systematically construct quantum amplitude damping codes with parameters better than any prior construction known for any block length n > 7 except n=2^r-1. We generalize this construction to employ classical codes over GF(3) with which we numerically obtain better performing codes up to length 14. Because the resulting codes are of the codeword stabilized (CWS) type, easy encoding and decoding circuits are available.

id: 0907.5178
title: Minimal Position-Velocity Uncertainty Wave Packets in Relativistic and Non-relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: U.-J. Wiese, M. H. Al-Hashimi
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics 324 (2009) 2599-2621
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5178
abstract: We consider wave packets of free particles with a general energy-momentum dispersion relation $E(p)$. The spreading of the wave packet is determined by the velocity $v = \p_p E$. The position-velocity uncertainty relation $\Delta x \Delta v \geq {1/2} |< \p_p^2 E >|$ is saturated by minimal uncertainty wave packets $\Phi(p) = A \exp(- \alpha E(p) + \beta p)$. In addition to the standard minimal Gaussian wave packets corresponding to the non-relativistic dispersion relation $E(p) = p^2/2m$, analytic calculations are presented for the spreading of wave packets with minimal position-velocity uncertainty product for the lattice dispersion relation $E(p) = - \cos(p a)/m a^2$ as well as for the relativistic dispersion relation $E(p) = \sqrt{p^2 + m^2}$. The boost properties of moving relativistic wave packets as well as the propagation of wave packets in an expanding Universe are also discussed.

id: 0907.5181
title: Relaxation of a qubit measured by a driven Duffing oscillator
authors: I. Serban, M. I. Dykman, F. K. Wilhelm
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5181
abstract: We investigate the relaxation of a superconducting qubit for the case when its detector, the Josephson bifurcation amplifier, remains latched in one of its two (meta)stable states of forced vibrations. The qubit relaxation rates are different in different states. They can display strong dependence on the qubit frequency and resonant enhancement, which is due to quasienergy resonances. Coupling to the driven oscillator changes the effective temperature of the qubit.

id: 0907.5183
title: Quantum State Tuning of Energy Transfer in a Correlated Environment
authors: Francesca Fassioli, Ahsan Nazir, Alexandra Olaya-Castro
comments: Version published in JPC Letters. Analysis and conclusions are the same as in the original version but spectral density and reorganization energy considered correspond to more realistic values for the LH1-RC complex
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett., 2010, 1, pp 2139-2143
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5183
abstract: We investigate multichromophoric energy transfer allowing for bath-induced fluctuations at different sites to be correlated. As a prototype system we consider a light-harvesting antenna surrounding a reaction center. We show that the interplay between quantum coherence and correlated fluctuations can generate a room temperature transfer process featuring a marked dependence on the degree of symmetry and delocalization of the initial exciton state. Our work illustrates how these quantum features could support fine tuning of energy transfer efficiencies in closely-packed natural and artificial light-harvesting complexes

id: 0907.5196
title: Nonclassical Nature of Dispersion Cancellation and Nonlocal Interferometry
authors: J.D. Franson
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures; minor revisions, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032119 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5196
abstract: Several recent papers have shown that some forms of dispersion cancellation have classical analogs and that some aspects of nonlocal two-photon interferometry are consistent with local realistic models. It is noted here that the classical analogs only apply to local dispersion cancellation experiments [A.M. Steinberg et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 68, 2421 (1992)] and that nonlocal dispersion cancellation [J.D. Franson, Phys. Rev. A 45, 3126 (1992)] is inconsistent with any classical field theory and has no classical analog. The local models that have been suggested for two-photon interferometry are shown to be local but not realistic if the spatial extent of the interferometers is taken into account. It is the inability of classical models to describe all of the relevant aspects of these experiments that distinguishes between quantum and classical physics, which is also the case in Bell's inequality.

id: 0907.5206
title: Photonic quantum transport in a nonlinear optical fiber
authors: Mohammad Hafezi, Darrick E. Chang, Vladimir Gritsev, Eugene Demler, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, V2: some changes in the presentation (mainly introduction and references), last part is removed to shorten the paper
journal: EPL 94, 54006 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5206
abstract: We theoretically study the transmission of few-photon quantum fields through a strongly nonlinear optical medium. We develop a general approach to investigate non-equilibrium quantum transport of bosonic fields through a finite-size nonlinear medium and apply it to a recently demonstrated experimental system where cold atoms are loaded in a hollow-core optical fiber. We show that when the interaction between photons is effectively repulsive, the system acts as a single-photon switch. In the case of attractive interaction, the system can exhibit either anti-bunching or bunching, associated with the resonant excitation of bound states of photons by the input field. These effects can be observed by probing statistics of photons transmitted through the nonlinear fiber.

id: 0907.5212
title: Phonon laser action in a tunable, two-level photonic molecule
authors: Ivan S. Grudinin, O. Painter, Kerry J. Vahala
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5212
abstract: The phonon analog of an optical laser has long been a subject of interest. We demonstrate a compound microcavity system, coupled to a radio-frequency mechanical mode, that operates in close analogy to a two-level laser system. An inversion produces gain, causing phonon laser action above a pump power threshold of around 50 $\mu$W. The device features a continuously tunable, gain spectrum to selectively amplify mechanical modes from radio frequency to microwave rates. Viewed as a Brillouin process, the system accesses a regime in which the phonon plays what has traditionally been the role of the Stokes wave. For this reason, it should also be possible to controllably switch between phonon and photon laser regimes. Cooling of the mechanical mode is also possible.

id: 0907.5228
title: Self-Correcting Quantum Computers
authors: H. Bombin, R. W. Chhajlany, M. Horodecki, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: RevTeX, 24 pages, version revised to increase readability: added sketch of proof of stability criterion, rewritten section on implementation of quantum computation, revised introduction and conclusions
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 055023
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5228
abstract: Is the notion of a quantum computer resilient to thermal noise unphysical? We address this question from a constructive perspective and show that local quantum Hamiltonian models provide self-correcting quantum computers. To this end, we first give a sufficient condition on the connect- edness of excitations for a stabilizer code model to be a self-correcting quantum memory. We then study the two main examples of topological stabilizer codes in arbitrary dimensions and establish their self-correcting capabilities. Also, we address the transversality properties of topological color codes, showing that 6D color codes provide a self-correcting model that allows the transversal and local implementation of a universal set of operations in seven spatial dimensions. Finally, we give a procedure to initialize such quantum memories at finite temperature.

id: 0907.5238
title: Duality Between Smooth Min- and Max-Entropies
authors: Marco Tomamichel, Roger Colbeck, Renato Renner
comments: 
journal: IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, 56 (2010) 4674-4681
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5238
abstract: In classical and quantum information theory, operational quantities such as the amount of randomness that can be extracted from a given source or the amount of space needed to store given data are normally characterized by one of two entropy measures, called smooth min-entropy and smooth max-entropy, respectively. While both entropies are equal to the von Neumann entropy in certain special cases (e.g., asymptotically, for many independent repetitions of the given data), their values can differ arbitrarily in the general case. In this work, a recently discovered duality relation between (non-smooth) min- and max-entropies is extended to the smooth case. More precisely, it is shown that the smooth min-entropy of a system A conditioned on a system B equals the negative of the smooth max-entropy of A conditioned on a purifying system C. This result immediately implies that certain operational quantities (such as the amount of compression and the amount of randomness that can be extracted from given data) are related. Such relations may, for example, have applications in cryptographic security proofs.

id: 0907.5240
title: Quantum Teleportation Between Distant Matter Qubits
authors: S. Olmschenk, D. N. Matsukevich, P. Maunz, D. Hayes, L.-M. Duan, C. Monroe
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Science 323, 486 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5240
abstract: Quantum teleportation is the faithful transfer of quantum states between systems, relying on the prior establishment of entanglement and using only classical communication during the transmission. We report teleportation of quantum information between atomic quantum memories separated by about 1 meter. A quantum bit stored in a single trapped ytterbium ion (Yb+) is teleported to a second Yb+ atom with an average fidelity of 90% over a replete set of states. The teleportation protocol is based on the heralded entanglement of the atoms through interference and detection of photons emitted from each atom and guided through optical fibers. This scheme may be used for scalable quantum computation and quantum communication.

id: 0907.5242
title: A Categorical Framework for Quantum Theory
authors: Thomas Filk, Albrecht von Mueller
comments: 35 pages, 1 figure
journal: Annalen Phys.522:783-801,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5242
abstract: Underlying any theory of physics is a layer of conceptual frames. They connect the mathematical structures used in theoretical models with physical phenomena, but they also constitute our fundamental assumptions about reality. Many of the discrepancies between quantum physics and classical physics (including Maxwell's electrodynamics and relativity) can be traced back to these categorical foundations. We argue that classical physics corresponds to the factual aspects of reality and requires a categorical framework which consists of four interdependent components: boolean logic, the linear-sequential notion of time, the principle of sufficient reason, and the dichotomy between observer and observed. None of these can be dropped without affecting the others. However, in quantum theory the reduction postulate also addresses the "status nascendi" of facts, i.e., their coming into being. Therefore, quantum phyics requires a different conceptual framework which will be elaborated in this article. It is shown that many of its components are already present in the standard formalisms of quantum physics, but in most cases they are highlighted not so much from a conceptual perspective but more from their mathematical structures. The categorical frame underlying quantum physics includes a profoundly different notion of time which encompasses a crucial role for the present.

id: 0907.5284
title: About the relation between pilot wave beables and decoherence
authors: I. Schmelzer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5284
abstract: Motivated by Wallace's thesis that pilot wave beables should be decoherence-preferred to recover quantum predictions, we consider the relation between pilot wave beables and decoherence. We prove that without any connection between beables and decoherence the overlap between macrcopic states becomes negligible. This is sufficient to recover quantum predictions, so that Wallace's thesis has to be rejected. A natural connection between decoherence and beables appears if the decomposition into systems used by decoherence is based on the beables. While our first result becomes inapplicable in this case, we present evidence that the overlap becomes negligible too.

id: 0907.5291
title: Quantum properties of the codirectional three-mode Kerr nonlinear coupler
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, M. Sebawe Abdalla, Jan Perina
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 33 (2005) 453-463
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5291
abstract: We investigate the quantum properties for the codirectional three-mode Kerr nonlinear coupler. We investigate single-, two- and three-mode quadrature squeezing, Wigner function and purity. We prove that this device can provide richer nonclassical effects than those produced by the conventional coupler, i.e. the two-mode Kerr coupler. We show that it can provide squeezing and the quadrature squeezing exhibiting leaf-revival-collapse phenomenon in dependence on the values of the interaction parameters. In contrast to the conventional Kerr coupler two different forms of cat states can be simultaneously generated in the waveguides. We deduce conditions required for the complete disentanglement between the components of the system.

id: 0907.5294
title: Quantum Mechanics on Spacetime I: Spacetime State Realism
authors: David Wallace, Christopher G Timpson
comments: LaTeX; 29 pages, 1 Fig. Forthcoming in the British Journal for the Philosophy of Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5294
abstract: What ontology does realism about the quantum state suggest? The main extant view in contemporary philosophy of physics is wave-function realism. We elaborate the sense in which wave-function realism does provide an ontological picture; and defend it from certain objections that have been raised against it. However, there are good reasons to be dissatisfied with wave-function realism, as we go on to elaborate. This motivates the development of an opposing picture: what we call spacetime state realism; a view which takes the states associated to spacetime regions as fundamental. This approach enjoys a number of beneficial features, although, unlike wave-function realism, it involves non-separability at the level of fundamental ontology. We investigate the pros and cons of this non-separability, arguing that it is a quite acceptable feature; even one which proves fruitful in the context of relativistic covariance. A companion paper discusses the prospects for combining a spacetime-based ontology with separability, along lines suggested by Deutsch and Hayden

id: 0907.5300
title: Controlling the sense of molecular rotation
authors: Sharly Fleischer, Yuri Khodorkovsky, Yehiam Prior, Ilya Sh. Averbukh
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures, Submitted to the New Journal of Physics for the "coherent control" special issue
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5300
abstract: We introduce a new scheme for controlling the sense of molecular rotation. By varying the polarization and the delay between two ultrashort laser pulses, we induce unidirectional molecular rotation, thereby forcing the molecules to rotate clockwise/counterclockwise under field-free conditions. We show that unidirectionally rotating molecules are confined to the plane defined by the two polarization vectors of the pulses, which leads to a permanent anisotropy in the molecular angular distribution. The latter may be useful for controlling collisional cross-sections and optical and kinetic processes in molecular gases. We discuss the application of this control scheme to individual components within a molecular mixture in a selective manner.

id: 0907.5313
title: Spin and Statistics and First Principles
authors: Sergio Doplicher
comments: Survey based on a talk given at the Meeting on "Theoretical and experimental aspects of the spin - statistics connection and related symmetries", Trieste, Italy - October 21-25, 2008
journal: Found.Phys.40:719-732,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5313
abstract: It was shown in the early Seventies that, in Local Quantum Theory (that is the most general formulation of Quantum Field Theory, if we leave out only the unknown scenario of Quantum Gravity) the notion of Statistics can be grounded solely on the local observable quantities (without assuming neither the commutation relations nor even the existence of unobservable charged field operators); one finds that only the well known (para)statistics of Bose/Fermi type are allowed by the key principle of local commutativity of observables. In this frame it was possible to formulate and prove the Spin and Statistics Theorem purely on the basis of First Principles. In a subsequent stage it has been possible to prove the existence of a unique, canonical algebra of local field operators obeying ordinary Bose/Fermi commutation relations at spacelike separations. In this general guise the Spin - Statistics Theorem applies to Theories (on the four dimensional Minkowski space) where only massive particles with finite mass degeneracy can occur. Here we describe the underlying simple basic ideas, and briefly mention the subsequent generalisations; eventually we comment on the possible validity of the Spin - Statistics Theorem in presence of massless particles, or of violations of locality as expected in Quantum Gravity.

id: 0907.5345
title: Robust stationary entanglement of two coupled qubits in independent environments
authors: M. Scala, R. Migliore, A. Messina, L.L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures; version accepted for publication on Eur. Phys. J. D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5345
abstract: The dissipative dynamics of two interacting qubits coupled to independent reservoirs at nonzero temperatures is investigated, paying special attention to the entanglement evolution. The counter-rotating terms in the qubit-qubit interaction give rise to stationary entanglement, traceable back to the ground state structure. The robustness of this entanglement against thermal noise is thoroughly analyzed, establishing that it can be detected at reasonable experimental temperatures. Some effects linked to a possible reservoir asymmetry are brought to light.

id: 0907.5357
title: Quantum logic as superbraids of entangled qubit world lines
authors: Jeffrey Yepez
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5357
abstract: Presented is a topological representation of quantum logic that views entangled qubit spacetime histories (or qubit world lines) as a generalized braid, referred to as a superbraid. The crossing of world lines is purely quantum in nature, most conveniently expressed analytically with ladder-operator-based quantum gates. At a crossing, independent world lines can become entangled. Complicated superbraids are systematically reduced by recursively applying novel quantum skein relations. If the superbraid is closed (e.g. representing quantum circuits with closed-loop feedback, quantum lattice gas algorithms, loop or vacuum diagrams in quantum field theory), then one can decompose the resulting superlink into an entangled superposition of classical links. In turn, for each member link, one can compute a link invariant, e.g. the Jones polynomial. Thus, a superlink possesses a unique link invariant expressed as an entangled superposition of classical link invariants.

id: 0907.5370
title: State Tomography of a Qubit through Scattering of a Probe Qubit
authors: Antonella De Pasquale, Kazuya Yuasa, Hiromichi Nakazato
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 (2009) 052111
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5370
abstract: We discuss the state tomography of a fixed qubit (a spin-1/2 target particle), which is in general in a mixed state, through 1D scattering of a probe qubit off the target. Two strategies are presented, by making use of different degrees of freedom of the probe, spin and momentum. Remarkably, the spatial degree of freedom of the probe can be useful for the tomography of the qubit.

id: 0907.5373
title: On Epstein's trajectory model of non-relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Ward Struyve
comments: 12 pages, no figures, LaTex; v2 minor improvements
journal: Found. Phys. 40, 1700-1711 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5373
abstract: In 1952 Bohm presented a theory about non-relativistic point-particles moving along deterministic trajectories and showed how it reproduces the predictions of standard quantum theory. This theory was actually presented before by de Broglie in 1926, but Bohm's particular formulation of the theory inspired Epstein to come up with a different trajectory model. The aim of this paper is to examine the empirical predictions of this model. It is found that the trajectories in this model are in general very different from those in the de Broglie-Bohm theory. In certain cases they even seem bizarre and rather unphysical. Nevertheless, it is argued that the model seems to reproduce the predictions of standard quantum theory (just as the de Broglie-Bohm theory).

id: 0907.5391
title: General conditions for approximate quantum error correction and near-optimal recovery channels
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny, Ognyan Oreshkov
comments: minor clarifications, typos edited, references added.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 120501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5391
abstract: We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for the approximate correctability of a quantum code, generalizing the Knill-Laflamme conditions for exact error correction. Our measure of success of the recovery operation is the worst-case entanglement fidelity of the overall process. We show that the optimal recovery fidelity can be predicted exactly from a dual optimization problem on the environment causing the noise. We use this result to obtain an easy-to-calculate estimate of the optimal recovery fidelity as well as a way of constructing a class of near-optimal recovery channels that work within twice the minimal error. In addition to standard subspace codes, our results hold for subsystem codes and hybrid quantum-classical codes.

id: 0907.5404
title: Natural mode entanglement as a resource for quantum communication
authors: Libby Heaney, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 200502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5404
abstract: Natural particle-number entanglement resides between spatial modes in coherent ultra-cold atomic gases. However, operations on the modes are restricted by a superselection rule that forbids coherent superpositions of different particle numbers. This seemingly prevents mode entanglement being used as a resource for quantum communication. In this paper, we demonstrate that mode entanglement of a single massive particle can be used for dense coding and quantum teleportation despite the superselection rule. In particular, we provide schemes where the dense coding linear photonic channel capacity is reached without a shared reservoir and where the full quantum channel capacity is achieved if both parties share a coherent particle reservoir.

id: 0907.5437
title: Order Symmetry of Weak Measurements
authors: Lars M. Johansen, Pier A. Mello
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5437
abstract: Weak values are usually associated with weak measurements of an observable on a pre- and post-selected ensemble. We show that more generally, weak values are proportional to the correlation between two pointers in a successive measurement. We show that this generalized concept of weak measurements displays a symmetry under reversal of measurement order. We show that the conditions for order symmetry are the same as in classical mechanics. We also find that the imaginary part of the weak value has a counterpart in classical mechanics. This scheme suggests new experimental possibilities.

id: 0907.5446
title: Entanglement of random subspaces via the Hastings bound
authors: Motohisa Fukuda, Christopher King
comments: 25 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 042201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5446
abstract: Recently Hastings proved the existence of random unitary channels which violate the additivity conjecture. In this paper we use Hastings' method to derive new bounds for the entanglement of random subspaces of bipartite systems. As an application we use these bounds to prove the existence of non-unital channels which violate additivity of minimal output entropy.

id: 0907.5449
title: Contextuality in Measurement-based Quantum Computation
authors: Robert Raussendorf
comments: Version 3: probabilistic version of Theorem 1 added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5449
abstract: We show, under natural assumptions for qubit systems, that measurement-based quantum computations (MBQCs) which compute a non-linear Boolean function with high probability are contextual. The class of contextual MBQCs includes an example which is of practical interest and has a super-polynomial speedup over the best known classical algorithm, namely the quantum algorithm that solves the Discrete Log problem.

id: 0907.5519
title: Classification of nonlocal two-qubit gates using Schmidt number
authors: S Balakrishnan, Leona J Felicia, R Sankaranarayanan
comments: This paper has been withdrawn due to major revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5519
abstract: It is known from Schmidt decomposition that Schmidt number of nonlocal two-qubit quantum gates is 2 or 4. We identify conditions on geometrical points of a gate to have Schmidt number 2. A simple analysis reveals that Schmidt number 2 corresponds to controlled unitary gates with CNOT being the only perfect entangler. Further, it is shown that Schmidt strength and entangling power are maximum only for CNOT in the controlled unitary family.

id: 0907.5521
title: Quantum Finite-Depth Memory Channels: Case Study
authors: M¨¢rio Ziman, Tom¨¢? Ryb¨¢r
comments: 7 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5521
abstract: We analyze the depth of the memory of quantum memory channels generated by a fixed unitary transformation describing the interaction between the principal system and internal degrees of freedom of the process device. We investigate the simplest case of a qubit memory channel with a two-level memory system. In particular, we explicitly characterize all interactions for which the memory depth is finite. We show that the memory effects are either infinite, or they disappear after at most two uses of the channel. Memory channels of finite depth can be to some extent controlled and manipulated by so-called reset sequences. We show that actions separated by the sequences of inputs of the length of the memory depth are independent and constitute memoryless channels.

id: 0907.5525
title: Semiclassical Dynamics from Zeno-Like measurements
authors: R.Rossi Jr., K.M. Fonseca, Romero M.C.Nemes
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters. A , v. 374, p. 158-160, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5525
abstract: The usual semiclassical approximation for atom-field dynamics consists in substituting the field operators by complex numbers related to the (supposedly large enough) intensity of the field. We show that a semiclassical evolution for coupled systems can always be obtained by frequent Zeno-like measurements on the state of one subsystems, independently of the field intensity in the example given. We study the Jaynes Cummings model from this perspective.

id: 0907.5535
title: Dissipative dynamics of a qubit coupled to a nonlinear oscillator
authors: Carmen Vierheilig, Johannes Hausinger, Milena Grifoni
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures, 1 table; in the text between Eq. (8) and (9) there were misprints in the published version until 3rd Dec 2009: in the second order correction for the nonlinear oscillator and in the corresponding relative error. The correct expressions are given here. The results of the paper are not changed, as we consider the nonlinearity up to first order perturbation theory
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052331 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5535
abstract: We consider the dissipative dynamics of a qubit coupled to a nonlinear oscillator (NO) embedded in an Ohmic environment. By treating the nonlinearity up to first order and applying Van Vleck perturbation theory up to second order in the qubit-NO coupling, we derive an analytical expression for the eigenstates and eigenfunctions of the coupled qubit-NO system beyond the rotating wave approximation. In the regime of weak coupling to the thermal bath, analytical expressions for the time evolution of the qubit's populations are derived: they describe a multiplicity of damped oscillations superposed to a complex relaxation part toward thermal equilibrium. The long time dynamics is characterized by a single relaxation rate, which is maximal when the qubit is tuned to one of the resonances with the nonlinear oscillator.

id: 0907.5550
title: Deterministically entangling distant nitrogen-vacancy centers by a nanomechanical cantilever
authors: Z. Y. Xu, Y. M. Hu, W. L. Yang, M. Feng, J. F. Du
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022335 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5550
abstract: We present a practical scheme by global addressing to deterministically entangle negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (N-V) centers in distant diamonds using a nano-mechanical cantilever with the magnetic tips strongly coupled to the N-V electron spins. Symmetric Dicke states are generated as an example, and the experimental feasibility and challenge of our scheme are discussed.

id: 0907.5552
title: Demonstration of a neutral atom controlled-NOT quantum gate
authors: L. Isenhower, E. Urban, X. L. Zhang, A. T. Gill, T. Henage, T. A. Johnson, T. G. Walker, M. Saffman
comments: text revised, with additional references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 010503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5552
abstract: We present the first demonstration of a CNOT gate using neutral atoms. Our implementation of the CNOT uses Rydberg blockade interactions between neutral atoms held in optical traps separated by >8 \mu\rm m. We measure CNOT fidelities of F=0.73 and 0.72 using two different gate protocols, and show by measurement of parity oscillations that the gate can be used to generate two-atom states with fidelity at the threshold for entanglement. We anticipate that the long range nature of the Rydberg interaction will be attractive for future extensions of this work to multi-qubit systems.

id: 0907.5557
title: Average transmission probability of a random stack
authors: Yin Lu, Christian Miniatura, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: European Journal of Physics 31 (2010) 47-55
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5557
abstract: The transmission through a stack of identical slabs that are separated by gaps with random widths is usually treated by calculating the average of the logarithm of the transmission probability. We show how to calculate the average of the transmission probability itself with the aid of a recurrence relation and derive analytical upper and lower bounds. The upper bound, when used as an approximation for the transmission probability, is unreasonably good and we conjecture that it is asymptotically exact.

id: 0907.5582
title: Exact matrix product solutions in the Heisenberg picture of an open quantum spin chain
authors: S. R. Clark, J. Prior, M. J. Hartmann, D. Jaksch, M. B. Plenio
comments: 22 pages and 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 025005 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5582
abstract: In recent work Hartmann et al [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 057202 (2009)] demonstrated that the classical simulation of the dynamics of open 1D quantum systems with matrix product algorithms can often be dramatically improved by performing time evolution in the Heisenberg picture. For a closed system this was exemplified by an exact matrix product operator solution of the time-evolved creation operator of a quadratic fermi chain with a matrix dimension of just two. In this work we show that this exact solution can be significantly generalized to include the case of an open quadratic fermi chain subjected to master equation evolution with Lindblad operators that are linear in the fermionic operators. Remarkably even in this open system the time-evolution of operators continues to be described by matrix product operators with the same fixed dimension as that required by the solution of a coherent quadratic fermi chain for all times. Through the use of matrix product algorithms the dynamical behaviour of operators in this non-equilibrium open quantum system can be computed with a cost that is linear in the system size. We present some simple numerical examples which highlight how useful this might be for the more detailed study of open system dynamics. Given that Heisenberg picture simulations have been demonstrated to offer significant accuracy improvements for other open systems that are not exactly solvable our work also provides further insight into how and why this advantage arises.

id: 0907.5586
title: Robust and optimal laser cooling of trapped ions
authors: J. Cerrillo, A. Retzker, M. B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 043003 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5586
abstract: We present a robust and fast laser cooling scheme suitable for trapped atoms and ions. Based on quantum interference, generated by a special laser configuration, it is able to rapidly cool the system such that the final phonon occupation vanishes to zeroth order in the Lamb-Dicke parameter in contrast to existing cooling schemes. Furthermore, it is robust under conditions of fluctuating laser intensity and frequency, thus making it a viable candidate for experimental applications.

id: 0907.5588
title: Resolution of the Klein Paradox
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 83, 025001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5588
abstract: We present a resolution of the Klein paradox within the framework of one-particle relativistic quantum mechanics. Not only reflection becomes total but the vacuum remains neutral as well. This is accomplished by replacing the pair production process with virtual negative energy "incidence" within the barrier in a similar manner to what is done with image charges in electrostatic and virtual sources in optics.

id: 0907.0045
title: Rigorous bounds on Transmission, Reflection, and Bogoliubov coefficients
authors: Petarpa Boonserm
comments: 263 pages; 5 figures; PhD Thesis (Victoria University of Wellington, June 2009)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0045
abstract: This thesis describes the development of some basic mathematical tools of wide relevance to mathematical physics. Transmission and reflection coefficients are associated with quantum tunneling phenomena, while Bogoliubov coefficients are associated with the mathematically related problem of excitations of a parametric oscillator. While many approximation techniques for these quantities are known, very little is known about rigorous upper and lower bounds. In this thesis four separate problems relating to rigorous bounds on transmission, reflection and Bogoliubov coefficients are considered, divided into four separate themes: 1) Bounding the Bogoliubov coefficients; 2) Bounding the greybody factors for Schwarzschild black holes; 3) Transformation probabilities and the Miller--Good transformation; 4) Analytic bounds on transmission probabilities.

id: 0907.0191
title: Quantum Monte Carlo simulations of fidelity at magnetic quantum phase transitions
authors: David Schwandt, Fabien Alet, Sylvain Capponi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; v2: added scaling theory; v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 103, 170501 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0191
abstract: When a system undergoes a quantum phase transition, the ground-state wave-function shows a change of nature, which can be monitored using the fidelity concept. We introduce two Quantum Monte Carlo schemes that allow the computation of fidelity and its susceptibility for large interacting many-body systems. These methods are illustrated on a two-dimensional Heisenberg model, where fidelity estimators show marked behaviours at two successive quantum phase transitions. We also develop a scaling theory which relates the divergence of the fidelity susceptibility to the critical exponent of the correlation length. A good agreement is found with the numerical results.

id: 0907.0264
title: Topics in Quantum Dynamics and Coherence for Quantum Information Processing
authors: Vladimir Privman
comments: 
journal: J. Comput. Theor. Nanosci. 7, 1635-1641 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0264
abstract: We outline selected trends and results in theoretical modeling of quantum systems in support of the developing research field of quantum information processing. The resulting modeling tools have been applied to semiconductor materials and nanostructures that show promise for implementation of coherent, controlled quantum dynamics at the level of registers of several quantum bits (qubits), such as spins. Many-body field-theoretical techniques have been utilized to address a spectrum of diverse research topics. Specifically, the theory of decoherence and more generally the origin and effects of quantum noise and the loss of entanglement in quantum dynamics of qubits and several-qubit registers has been advanced. Qubit coupling mechanisms via the indirect exchange interaction have been investigated, and quantum computing designs have been evaluated for scalability. We outline general and specific research challenges, the solution of which will advance the field of modeling "open quantum systems" to further our understanding of how environmental influences affect quantum coherence and its loss during quantum dynamics.

id: 0907.0431
title: Damping and decoherence of a nanomechanical resonator due to a few two level systems
authors: L. G. Remus, M. P. Blencowe, Y. Tanaka
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 174103 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0431
abstract: We consider a quantum model of a nanomechanical flexing beam resonator interacting with a bath comprising a few damped tunneling two level systems (TLS's). In contrast with a resonator interacting bilinearly with an ohmic free oscillator bath (modeling clamping loss, for example), the mechanical resonator damping is amplitude dependent, while the decoherence of quantum superpositions of mechanical position states depends only weakly on their spatial separation.

id: 0907.0437
title: Entangled photons on demand: Erasing which-path information with sidebands
authors: W. A. Coish, J. M. Gambetta
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; New title, discussion of dephasing added, version published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 241303(R) (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0437
abstract: The biexciton cascade in a quantum dot can be used to generate entangled-photon pairs rapidly and deterministically (on demand). However, due to a large fine-structure splitting between intermediate exciton energy levels, which-path information encoded in the frequencies of emitted photon pairs leads to a small degree of entanglement. Here we show that this information can be efficiently erased by modulating the exciton and biexciton energy levels, giving rise to new decay paths through additional sidebands. The resulting degree of entanglement is substantial, and can be made maximal through spectral filtering, with only a nominal reduction in collection efficiency.

id: 0907.0485
title: Sudden death of entanglement and teleportation fidelity loss via the Unruh effect
authors: Andre G. S. Landulfo, George E. A. Matsas
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:032315,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0485
abstract: We use the Unruh effect to investigate how the teleportation of quantum states is affected when one of the entangled qubits used in the process is under the influence of some external force. In order to reach a comprehensive understanding, a detailed analysis of the acceleration effect on such entangled qubit system is performed. In particular, we calculate the mutual information and concurrence between the two qubits and show that the latter has a ``sudden death" at a finite acceleration, whose value will depend on the time interval along which the detector is accelerated.

id: 0907.0562
title: Geometric imprint of CP violation in two flavor neutrino oscillations
authors: Poonam Mehta
comments: v2 : modified version with new references
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0562
abstract: In vacuum or constant density matter, the two flavor neutrino oscillation formulae are insensitive to the presence of CP violating phases owing to the fact that the CP phase can be gauged away. In sharp contrast to the above case, we show that the CP violating phases can not be gauged away in presence of adiabatically changing background density accompanied by varying CP phases. We present a pure geometric visualization of this fact by exploiting Pancharatnam's prescription of cyclic quantum projections. Consequently the topological phase obtained in Phys. Rev. D 79, 096013 (2009) can become geometric if CP violation occurs in a varying density medium.

id: 0907.0625
title: Dark solitons near the Mott-insulator--superfluid phase transition
authors: K.V.Krutitsky, J.Larson, M.Lewenstein
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033618 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0625
abstract: Dark solitons of ultracold bosons in the vicinity of the Mott-insulator--superfluid phase transition are studied. Making use of the Gutzwiller ansatz we have found antisymmetric eigenstates corresponding to standing solitons, as well as propagating solitons created by phase imprinting. Near the phase boundary, superfluidity has either a particle or a hole character depending on the system parameters, which greatly affects the characteristics of both types of solitons. Within the insulating Mott regions, soliton solutions are prohibited by lack of phase coherence between the lattice sites. Linear and modulational stability show that the soliton solutions are sensitive to small perturbations and, therefore, unstable. In general, their lifetimes differ for on-site and off-site modes. For the on-site modes, there are small areas between the Mott-insulator regions where the lifetime is very large, and in particular much larger than that for the off-site modes.

id: 0907.0720
title: Semiclassical dynamics of atomic Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: S. Choi, B. Sundaram
comments: 4 figures. Submitted for publication. v2: includes a couple of new references and some additional sentences
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0720
abstract: An atomic Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) is often described as a macroscopic object which can be approximated by a coherent state. This, on the surface, would appear to indicate that its behavior should be close to being classical. In this paper, we clarify the extent of how "classical" a BEC is by exploring the semiclassical equations for BECs under the mean field Gaussian approximation. Such equations describe the dynamics of a condensate in the classical limit in terms of the variables < x > and < p > as well as their respective variances. We compare the semiclassical solution with the full quantum solution based on the Gross-Pitaevskii Equation (GPE) and find that the interatomic interactions which generate nonlinearity make the system less "classical." On the other hand, many qualitative features are captured by the semiclassical equations, and the equations to be solved are far less computationally intensive than solving the GPE which make them ideal for providing quick diagnostics, and for obtaining new intuitive insight.

id: 0907.0733
title: Unified approach to Quantum and Classical Dualities
authors: E. Cobanera, G. Ortiz, Z. Nussinov
comments: 4+3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104:020402,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0733
abstract: We show how classical and quantum dualities, as well as duality relations that appear only in a sector of certain theories ("emergent dualities"), can be unveiled, and systematically established. Our method relies on the use of morphisms of the "bond algebra" of a quantum Hamiltonian. Dualities are characterized as unitary mappings implementing such morphisms, whose even powers become symmetries of the quantum problem. Dual variables -which were guessed in the past- can be derived in our formalism. We obtain new self-dualities for four-dimensional Abelian gauge field theories.

id: 0907.0867
title: Cauchy flights in confining potentials
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: revised, title and abstract modified
journal: Physica A 389, (2010), 936-944
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0867
abstract: We analyze confining mechanisms for L\'evy flights evolving under an influence of external potentials. Given a stationary probability density function (pdf), we address the reverse engineering problem: design a jump-type stochastic process whose target pdf (eventually asymptotic) equals the preselected one. To this end, dynamically distinct jump-type processes can be employed. We demonstrate that one "targeted stochasticity" scenario involves Langevin systems with a symmetric stable noise. Another derives from the L\'evy-Schr\"odinger semigroup dynamics (closely linked with topologically induced super-diffusions), which has no standard Langevin representation. For computational and visualization purposes, the Cauchy driver is employed to exemplify our considerations.

id: 0907.0964
title: The Hamilton--Jacobi Theory and the Analogy between Classical and Quantum Mechanics
authors: G. Marmo, G. Morandi, N. Mukunda
comments: 42 pages, LaTeX with AIMS class
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0964
abstract: We review here some conventional as well as less conventional aspects of the time-independent and time-dependent Hamilton-Jacobi (HJ) theory and of its connections with Quantum Mechanics. Less conventional aspects involve the HJ theory on the tangent bundle of a configuration manifold, the quantum HJ theory, HJ problems for general differential operators and the HJ problem for Lie groups.

id: 0907.1058
title: Casimir type effects for scalar fields interacting with material slabs
authors: Ignat V. Fialkovsky, Vladimir N. Markov, Yuriy M. Pis'mak
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures, published version, significant changes in Section 4.5
journal: J.Phys.A43:365401,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1058
abstract: We study the field theoretical model of a scalar field in presence of spacial inhomogeneities in form of one and two finite width mirrors (material slabs). The interaction of the scalar field with the defect is described with position-dependent mass term. For the single layer system we develop a rigorous calculation method and derive explicitly the propagator of the theory, S-matrix elements and the Casimir self-energy of the slab. Detailed investigation of particular limits of self-energy is presented, and connection to know cases is discussed. The calculation method is found applicable to the two mirrors case as well. By means of it we derive the corresponding Casimir energy and analyze it. For particular values of the parameters of the model the obtained results recover the Lifshitz formula. We also propose a procedure to obtain unambiguously the finite Casimir \textit{self}-energy of a single slab without reference to any renormalizations. We hope that our approach can be applied to calculation of Casimir self-energies in other demanded cases (such as dielectric ball, etc.)

id: 0907.1149
title: Casimir densities for a plate in de Sitter spacetime
authors: A. A. Saharian, T. A. Vardanyan
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, figure 1 changed, figure 3 and references added, to appear in Class. Quantum Grav
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.26:195004,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1149
abstract: Wightman function, the vacuum expectation values of the field squared and the energy-momentum tensor are investigated for a scalar field with general curvature coupling parameter in the geometry of a plate in the de Sitter spacetime. Robin boundary condition for the field operator is assumed on the plate. The vacuum expectation values are presented as the sum of two terms. The first one corresponds to the geometry of de Sitter bulk without boundaries and the second one is induced by the presence of the plate. We show that for non-conformal fields the vacuum energy-momentum tensor is non-diagonal with the off-diagonal component corresponding to the energy flux along the direction perpendicular to the plate. In dependence of the parameters, this flux can be either positive or negative. The asymptotic behavior of the field squared, vacuum energy density and stresses near the plate and at large distances is investigated.

id: 0907.1200
title: Probing the quantum ground state of a spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate with cavity transmission spectra
authors: J. M. Zhang, S. Cui, H. Jing, D. L. Zhou, W. M. Liu
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.A 80, 043623 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1200
abstract: We propose to probe the quantum ground state of a spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate with the transmission spectra of an optical cavity. By choosing a circularly polarized cavity mode with an appropriate frequency, we can realize coupling between the cavity mode and the magnetization of the condensate. The cavity transmission spectra then contain information of the magnetization statistics of the condensate and thus can be used to distinguish the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic quantum ground states. This technique may also be useful for continuous observation of the spin dynamics of a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate.

id: 0907.1231
title: Generalized composition law from 2x2 matrices
authors: R. Giust, J.-M. Vigoureux, J. Lages
comments: Accepted for publication in Am. J. Phys
journal: Am. J. Phys. 77, 1068-1073 (2009)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1231
abstract: Many results that are difficult can be found more easily by using a generalization in the complex plane of Einstein's addition law of parallel velocities. Such a generalization is a natural way to add quantities that are limited to bounded values. We show how this generalization directly provides phase factors such as the Wigner angle in special relativity and how this generalization is connected in the simplest case with the composition of 2x2 S matrices.

id: 0907.1706
title: Solutions of Podolsky's Electrodynamics Equation in the First-Order Formalism
authors: S. I. Kruglov
comments: 17 pages, minor corrections, published version
journal: J. Phys. A 43:245403, 2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1706
abstract: The Podolsky generalized electrodynamics with higher derivatives is formulated in the first-order formalism. The first-order relativistic wave equation in the 20-dimensional matrix form is derived. We prove that the matrices of the equation obey the Petiau-Duffin-Kemmer algebra. The Hermitianizing matrix and Lagrangian in the first-order formalism are given. The projection operators extracting solutions of field equations for states with definite energy-momentum and spin projections are obtained, and we find the density matrix for the massive state. The $13\times 13$-matrix Schrodinger form of the equation is derived, and the Hamiltonian is obtained. Projection operators extracting the physical eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian are found.

id: 0907.1824
title: Generalization of Hypervirial and Feynman-Hellmann Theorems for Singular Potentials
authors: T. Nadareishvili, A. Khelashvili
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1824
abstract: Using well-known methods we generalize (hyper)virial theorems to case of singular potential. Discussion is performed for most general second order differential equation, which involves all physically interesting cases, as Schrodinger and Klein-Gordon equations with singular potentials. Some physical consequences are discussed. The connection with Feynman-Hellmann like theorems are also considered and some relevant differences are underlined.

id: 0907.1854
title: QCD's Partner needed for Mass Spectra and Parton Structure Functions
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, presented at the "Excited QCD" (Zakopane, Poland, February 2009)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1854
abstract: As in the case of the hydrogen atom, bound-state wave functions are needed to generate hadronic spectra. For this purpose, in 1971, Feynman and his students wrote down a Lorentz-invariant harmonic oscillator equation. This differential equation has one set of solutions satisfying the Lorentz-covariant boundary condition. This covariant set generates Lorentz-invariant mass spectra with their degeneracies. Furthermore, the Lorentz-covariant wave functions allow us to calculate the valence parton distribution by Lorentz-boosting the quark-model wave function from the hadronic rest frame. However, this boosted wave function does not give an accurate parton distribution. The wave function needs QCD corrections to make a contact with the real world. Likewise QCD needs the wave function as a starting point for calculating the parton structure function.

id: 0907.1861
title: Two-photon lasing by a single quantum dot in a high-Q microcavity
authors: Elena del Valle, Stefano Zippilli, Fabrice P. Laussy, Alejandro Gonzalez-Tudela, Giovanna Morigi, Carlos Tejedor
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures; one appendix added; version published in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 035302 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1861
abstract: We investigate theoretically two-photon processes in a microcavity containing one quantum dot in the strong coupling regime. The cavity mode can be tuned to resonantly drive the two-photon transition between the ground and the biexciton states, while the exciton states are far-off resonance due to the biexciton binding energy. We study the steady state of the quantum dot and cavity field in presence of a continuous incoherent pumping. We identify the regime where the system acts as two-photon emitter and discuss the feasibility and performance of realistic single quantum dot devices for two-photon lasing.

id: 0907.1985
title: Casimir-Polder effect for a plane with Chern-Simons interaction
authors: Valery N. Marachevsky, Yury M. Pis'mak
comments: 14 pages, latex2e, new results and references are added
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:065005,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1985
abstract: A novel formalism for the evaluation of the Casimir-Polder potential in an arbitrary gauge of vector potentials is introduced. The ground state energy of a neutral atom in the presence of an infinite two-dimensional plane with Chern-Simons interaction is derived at zero temperature. The essential feature of the result is its dependence on the antisymmetric part of a dipole moment correlation function.

id: 0907.2085
title: One Hair Postulate for Hawking Radiation as Tunneling Process
authors: H.Dong, Qing-yu Cai, X.F. Liu, C.P.Sun
comments: 4pages,1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2085
abstract: For Hawking radiation, treated as a tunneling process, the no-hair theorem of black hole together with the law of energy conservation is utilized to postulate that the tunneling rate only depends on the external qualities (e.g., the mass for the Schwarzschild black hole) and the energy of the radiated particle. This postulate is justified by the WKB approximation for calculating the tunneling probability. Based on this postulate, a general formula for the tunneling probability is derived without referring to the concrete form of black hole metric. This formula implies an intrinsic correlation between the successive processes of the black hole radiation of two or more particles. It also suggests a kind of entropy conservation and thus resolves the puzzle of black hole information loss in some sense.

id: 0907.2193
title: Functional renormalization group approach to the BCS-BEC crossover
authors: S. Diehl, S. Floerchinger, H. Gies, J. M. Pawlowski, C. Wetterich
comments: 30 pages, 13 figures
journal: Annalen Phys.522:615-656,2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2193
abstract: The phase transition to superfluidity and the BCS-BEC crossover for an ultracold gas of fermionic atoms is discussed within a functional renormalization group approach. Non-perturbative flow equations, based on an exact renormalization group equation, describe the scale dependence of the flowing or average action. They interpolate continuously from the microphysics at atomic or molecular distance scales to the macroscopic physics at much larger length scales, as given by the interparticle distance, the correlation length, or the size of the experimental probe. We discuss the phase diagram as a function of the scattering length and the temperature and compute the gap, the correlation length and the scattering length for molecules. Close to the critical temperature, we find the expected universal behavior. Our approach allows for a description of the few-body physics (scattering and molecular binding) and the many-body physics within the same formalism.

id: 0907.2239
title: A generic new platform for topological quantum computation using semiconductor heterostructures
authors: Jay D. Sau, Roman M. Lutchyn, Sumanta Tewari, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 3 eps figures; accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 040502 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2239
abstract: We show that a film of a semiconductor such as GaAs, in which s-wave superconductivity and a Zeeman splitting are induced by proximity effect, supports zero-energy Majorana fermion modes in the ordinary vortex excitations. The key to the topological order is the existence of spin-orbit coupling, coexisting with proximity-induced s-wave superconductivity. Since time reversal symmetry is explicitly broken, the edge of the film constitutes a chiral Majorana wire. The heterostructure we propose -- a semiconducting thin film sandwiched between an s-wave superconductor and a magnetic insulator -- is a generic system which can be used as the platform for topological quantum computation by virtue of the existence of non-Abelian Majorana fermions.

id: 0907.2245
title: Many-body treatment of the collisional frequency shift in fermionic atoms
authors: A. M. Rey, A. V. Gorshkov, C. Rubbo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. V2: added 1 reference
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 260402 (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2245
abstract: Recent clock experiments have measured density-dependent frequency shifts in polarized fermionic alkaline-earth atoms using 1S0-3P0 Rabi spectroscopy. Here we provide a first-principles non-equilibrium theoretical description of the interaction frequency shifts starting from the microscopic many-body Hamiltonian. Our formalism describes the dependence of the frequency shift on excitation inhomogeneity, interactions, and many-body dynamics, provides a fundamental understanding of the effects of the measurement process, and explains the observed density shift data. We also propose a method to measure the second of the two 1S0-3P0 scattering lengths, whose knowledge is essential for quantum information processing and quantum simulation applications.

id: 0907.2292
title: Sensing of Fluctuating Nanoscale Magnetic Fields Using NV Centres in Diamond
authors: Liam T. Hall, Charles D. Hill, Jared H. Cole, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 220802 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2292
abstract: New magnetometry techniques based on Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) defects in diamond allow for the imaging of static (DC) and oscillatory (AC) nanoscopic magnetic systems. However, these techniques require accurate knowledge and control of the sample dynamics, and are thus limited in their ability to image fields arising from rapidly fluctuating (FC) environments. We show here that FC fields place restrictions on the DC field sensitivity of an NV qubit magnetometer, and that by probing the dephasing rate of the qubit in a magnetic FC environment, we are able to measure fluctuation rates and RMS field strengths that would be otherwise inaccessible with the use of DC and AC magnetometry techniques. FC sensitivities are shown to be comparable to those of AC fields, whilst requiring no additional experimental overheads or control over the sample.

id: 0907.2514
title: A new formalism for the estimation of the CP-violation parameters
authors: Maurice M. Courbage, Thomas T. Durt, Seyed Majid S.M. Saberi Fathi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2514
abstract: In this paper, we use the time super-operator formalism in the 2-level Friedrichs model \cite{fried} to obtain a phenomenological model of mesons decay. Our approach provides a fairly good estimation of the CP symmetry violation parameter in the case of K, B and D mesons. We also propose a crucial test aimed at discriminating between the standard approach and the time super-operator approach developed throughout the paper.

id: 0907.2549
title: Dynamics of dispersive single qubit read-out in circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: R. Bianchetti, S. Filipp, M. Baur, J. M. Fink, M. G?ppl, P. J. Leek, L. Steffen, A. Blais, A. Wallraff
comments: Revised version: corrected typos, 8 pages, 6 figures, version with high resolution figures available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 043840 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2549
abstract: The quantum state of a superconducting qubit nonresonantly coupled to a transmission line resonator can be determined by measuring the quadrature amplitudes of an electromagnetic field transmitted through the resonator. We present experiments in which we analyze in detail the dynamics of the transmitted field as a function of the measurement frequency for both weak continuous and pulsed measurements. We find excellent agreement between our data and calculations based on a set of Bloch-type differential equations for the cavity field derived from the dispersive Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian including dissipation. We show that the measured system response can be used to construct a measurement operator from which the qubit population can be inferred accurately. Such a measurement operator can be used in tomographic methods to reconstruct single and multiqubit states in ensemble-averaged measurements.

id: 0907.2584
title: On Linear Differential Equations Involving a Para-Grassmann Variable
authors: Toufik Mansour, Matthias Schork
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 073, 26 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2584
abstract: As a first step towards a theory of differential equations involving para-Grassmann variables the linear equations with constant coefficients are discussed and solutions for equations of low order are given explicitly. A connection to n-generalized Fibonacci numbers is established. Several other classes of differential equations (systems of first order, equations with variable coefficients, nonlinear equations) are also considered and the analogies or differences to the usual (''bosonic'') differential equations discussed.

id: 0907.2660
title: Semiclassical gaps in the density of states of chaotic Andreev billiards
authors: Jack Kuipers, Daniel Waltner, Cyril Petitjean, Gregory Berkolaiko, Klaus Richter
comments: Refereed version. 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys Rev Lett 104 (2010) 027001
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2660
abstract: The connection of a superconductor to a chaotic ballistic quantum dot leads to interesting phenomena, most notably the appearance of a hard gap in its excitation spectrum. Here we treat such an Andreev billiard semiclassically where the density of states is expressed in terms of the classical trajectories of electrons (and holes) that leave and return to the superconductor. We show how classical orbit correlations lead to the formation of the hard gap, as predicted by random matrix theory in the limit of negligible Ehrenfest time $\tE$, and how the influence of a finite $\tE$ causes the gap to shrink. Furthermore, for intermediate $\tE$ we predict a second gap below $E=\pi\hbar /2\tE$ which would presumably be the clearest signature yet of $\tE$-effects.

id: 0907.2670
title: Mapping Kitaev's quantum double lattice models to Levin and Wen's string-net models
authors: Oliver Buerschaper, Miguel Aguado
comments: 8 pages, 6 eps figures; v2: matches published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 155136 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2670
abstract: We exhibit a mapping identifying Kitaev's quantum double lattice models explicitly as a subclass of Levin and Wen's string net models via a completion of the local Hilbert spaces with auxiliary degrees of freedom. This identification allows to carry over to these string net models the representation-theoretic classification of the excitations in quantum double models, as well as define them in arbitrary lattices, and provides an illustration of the abstract notion of Morita equivalence. The possibility of generalising the map to broader classes of string nets is considered.

id: 0907.2699
title: Weyl Quantization of Fractional Derivatives
authors: Vasily E. Tarasov
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 49 (2008) 102112
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2699
abstract: The quantum analogs of the derivatives with respect to coordinates q_k and momenta p_k are commutators with operators P_k and $Q_k. We consider quantum analogs of fractional Riemann-Liouville and Liouville derivatives. To obtain the quantum analogs of fractional Riemann-Liouville derivatives, which are defined on a finite interval of the real axis, we use a representation of these derivatives for analytic functions. To define a quantum analog of the fractional Liouville derivative, which is defined on the real axis, we can use the representation of the Weyl quantization by the Fourier transformation.

id: 0907.2939
title: Comments on quantum gravity and entanglement
authors: Mark Van Raamsdonk
comments: 28 pages, 13 figures, v2: minor changes, reference added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2939
abstract: In this note, we attempt to provide some insights into the structure of non-perturbative descriptions of quantum gravity using known examples of gauge-theory / gravity duality. We argue that in familiar examples, a quantum description of spacetime can be associated with a manifold-like structure in which particular patches of spacetime are associated with states or density matrices in specific quantum systems. We argue that quantum entanglement between microscopic degrees of freedom plays an essential role in the emergence of a dual spacetime from the nonperturbative degrees of freedom. In particular, in at least some cases, classically connected spacetimes may be understood as particular quantum superpositions of disconnected spacetimes.

id: 0907.3134
title: Dynamical delocalization of Majorana edge states by sweeping across a quantum critical point
authors: A. Bermudez, L. Amico, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Submitted to the Special Issue on "Dynamics and Thermalization in Isolated Quantum Many-Body Systems" in New Journal of Physics. Editors:M. Cazalilla, M. Rigol. New references and some typos corrected
journal: New J. Phys.12:055014, 2010
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3134
abstract: We study the adiabatic dynamics of Majorana fermions across a quantum phase transition. We show that the Kibble-Zurek scaling, which describes the density of bulk defects produced during the critical point crossing, is not valid for edge Majorana fermions. Therefore, the dynamics governing an edge state quench is nonuniversal and depends on the topological features of the system. Besides, we show that the localization of Majorana fermions is a necessary ingredient to guaranty robustness against defect production.

id: 0907.3242
title: Casimir interaction between a perfect conductor and graphene described by the Dirac model
authors: M. Bordag, I. V. Fialkovsky, D. M. Gitman, D. V. Vassilevich
comments: 5pp, v2: improved version, to appear in PRB
journal: Phys.Rev.B80:245406,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3242
abstract: We adopt the Dirac model for graphene and calculate the Casimir interaction energy between a plane suspended graphene sample and a parallel plane perfect conductor. This is done in two ways. First, we use the Quantum Field Theory (QFT) approach and evaluate the leading order diagram in a theory with 2+1 dimensional fermions interacting with 3+1 dimensional photons. Next, we consider an effective theory for the electromagnetic field with matching conditions induced by quantum quasi-particles in graphene. The first approach turns out to be the leading order in the coupling constant of the second one. The Casimir interaction for this system appears to be rather weak. It exhibits a strong dependence on the mass of the quasi-particles in graphene.

id: 0907.3557
title: Symmetries and Supersymmetries of the Dirac Hamiltonian with Axially-Deformed Scalar and Vector Potentials
authors: A. Leviatan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Phys. Rev. Lett. in press
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:042502,2009
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3557
abstract: We consider several classes of symmetries of the Dirac Hamiltonian in 3+1 dimensions, with axially-deformed scalar and vector potentials. The symmetries include the known pseudospin and spin limits and additional symmetries which occur when the potentials depend on different variables. Supersymmetries are observed within each class and the corresponding charges are identified.

id: 0907.3673
title: PT symmetry breaking and exceptional points for a class of inhomogeneous complex potentials
authors: Patrick Dorey, Clare Dunning, Anna Lishman, Roberto Tateo
comments: 42 pages, many figures
journal: J.Phys.A42:465302,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3673
abstract: We study a three-parameter family of PT-symmetric Hamiltonians, related via the ODE/IM correspondence to the Perk-Schultz models. We show that real eigenvalues merge and become complex at quadratic and cubic exceptional points, and explore the corresponding Jordon block structures by exploiting the quasi-exact solvability of a subset of the models. The mapping of the phase diagram is completed using a combination of numerical, analytical and perturbative approaches. Among other things this reveals some novel properties of the Bender-Dunne polynomials, and gives a new insight into a phase transition to infinitely-many complex eigenvalues that was first observed by Bender and Boettcher. A new exactly-solvable limit, the inhomogeneous complex square well, is also identified.

id: 0907.3689
title: Contraction of fermionic operator circuits and the simulation of strongly correlated fermions
authors: Thomas Barthel, Carlos Pineda, Jens Eisert
comments: 12 pages, 9 pdf figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042333 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3689
abstract: A fermionic operator circuit is a product of fermionic operators of usually different and partially overlapping support. Further elements of fermionic operator circuits (FOCs) are partial traces and partial projections. The presented framework allows for the introduction of fermionic versions of known qudit operator circuits (QUOC), important for the simulation of strongly correlated d-dimensional systems: The multiscale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA), tree tensor networks (TTN), projected entangled pair states (PEPS), or their infinite-size versions (iPEPS etc.). After the definition of a FOC, we present a method to contract it with the same computation and memory requirements as a corresponding QUOC, for which all fermionic operators are replaced by qudit operators of identical dimension. A given scheme for contracting the QUOC relates to an analogous scheme for the corresponding fermionic circuit, where additional marginal computational costs arise only from reordering of modes for operators occurring in intermediate stages of the contraction. Our result hence generalizes efficient schemes for the simulation of d-dimensional spin systems, as MERA, TTN, or PEPS to the fermionic case.

id: 0907.3775
title: Optical BCS conductivity at imaginary frequencies and dispersion energies of superconductors
authors: G. Bimonte, H. Haakh, C. Henkel, F. Intravaia
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures, calculation of Casimir energy added
journal: J. Phys. A 43:145304, 2010
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3775
abstract: We present an efficient expression for the analytic continuation to arbitrary complex frequencies of the complex optical and AC conductivity of a homogeneous superconductor with arbitrary mean free path. Knowledge of this quantity is fundamental in the calculation of thermodynamic potentials and dispersion energies involving type-I superconducting bodies. When considered for imaginary frequencies, our formula evaluates faster than previous schemes involving Kramers--Kronig transforms. A number of applications illustrates its efficiency: a simplified low-frequency expansion of the conductivity, the electromagnetic bulk self-energy due to longitudinal plasma oscillations, and the Casimir free energy of a superconducting cavity.

id: 0907.3996
title: Diffusion Approximation of Stochastic Master Equations with Jumps
authors: Clement Pellegrini, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3996
abstract: In the presence of quantum measurements with direct photon detection the evolution of open quantum systems is usually described by stochastic master equations with jumps. Heuristically, from these equations one can obtain diffusion models as approximation. A necessary condition for a general diffusion approximation for jump master equations is presented. This approximation is rigorously proved by using techniques for Markov process which are based upon the convergence of Markov generators and martingale problems. This result is illustrated by rigorously obtaining the diffusion approximation for homodyne and heterodyne detection.

id: 0907.4097
title: All Mutually Unbiased Bases in Dimensions Two to Five
authors: Stephen Brierley, Stefan Weigert, Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: As the published version with minor changes
journal: Quantum Info. & Comp. Vol 10, pages 0803-0820, 2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4097
abstract: All complex Hadamard matrices in dimensions two to five are known. We use this fact to derive all inequivalent sets of mutually unbiased (MU) bases in low dimensions. We find a three-parameter family of triples of MU bases in dimension four and two inequivalent classes of MU triples in dimension five. We confirm that the complete sets of (d+1) MU bases are unique (up to equivalence) in dimensions below six, using only elementary arguments for d less than five.

id: 0907.4152
title: Born Again
authors: Don N. Page
comments: 4 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4152
abstract: A simple proof is given that the probabilities of observations in a large universe are not given directly by Born's rule as the expectation values of projection operators in a global quantum state of the entire universe. An alternative procedure is proposed for constructing an averaged density matrix for a random small region of the universe and then calculating observational probabilities indirectly by Born's rule as conditional probabilities, conditioned upon the existence of an observation.

id: 0907.4431
title: An example of double confluent Heun equation: Schroedinger equation with supersingular plus Coulomb potential
authors: Julio Abad, Javier Sesma
comments: 11 pages
journal: In "Mathematical Physics and Field Theory", Prensas Universitarias de Zaragoza, Zaragoza 2009, ISBN 978-84-92774-04-3, pp. 25-34
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4431
abstract: A recently proposed algorithm to obtain global solutions of the double confluent Heun equation is applied to solve the quantum mechanical problem of finding the energies and wave functions of a particle bound in a potential sum of a repulsive supersingular term, Ar(-4), plus an attractive Coulombian one, -Zr(-1). The existence of exact algebraic solutions for certain values of A is discussed.

id: 0907.4485
title: Double Well Potential: Perturbation Theory, Tunneling, WKB (beyond instantons)
authors: Alexander V Turbiner
comments: 13 pages, invited talk at "Crossing the boundaries: Gauge dynamics at strong coupling (Shifmania)", Minneapolis, May 14-17, 2009
journal: Intern.Journ.Mod.Phys. A 25 (2010) 647-658
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4485
abstract: A simple approximate solution for the quantum-mechanical quartic oscillator $V= m^2 x^2+g x^4$ in the double-well regime $m^2<0$ at arbitrary $g \geq 0$ is presented. It is based on a combining of perturbation theory near true minima of the potential, semi-classical approximation at large distances and a description of tunneling under the barrier. It provides 9-10 significant digits in energies and gives for wavefunctions the relative deviation in real $x$-space less than $\lesssim 10^{-3}$.

id: 0907.4510
title: Observation of an Efimov resonance in an ultracold mixture of atoms and weakly bound dimers
authors: S. Knoop, F. Ferlaino, M. Berninger, M. Mark, H.-C. N?gerl, R. Grimm
comments: Conference Proceeding ICPEAC 2009 Kalamazoo, to appear in Journal of Physics: Conference Series
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 194, 012064 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4510
abstract: We discuss our recent observation of an atom-dimer Efimov resonance in an ultracold mixture of Cs atoms and Cs_2 Feshbach molecules [Nature Phys. 5, 227 (2009)]. We review our experimental procedure and present additional data involving a non-universal g-wave dimer state, to contrast our previous results on the universal s-wave dimer. We resolve a seeming discrepancy when quantitatively comparing our experimental findings with theoretical results from effective field theory.

id: 0907.4613
title: Dark gamma-ray bursts: possible role of multiphoton processes
authors: Mark E. Perel'man
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4613
abstract: The absence of optical afterglow at some gamma-ray bursts (so called dark bursts) requires analyses of physical features of this phenomenon. It is shown that such singularity can be connected with multiphoton processes of frequencies summation in the Rayleigh- Jeans part of spectra, their pumping into higher frequencies. It can be registered most probably on young objects with still thin plasma coating, without further thermalization, i.e. soon after a prompt beginning of the explosive activity.

id: 0907.4736
title: On Hierarchy and Equivalence of Relativistic Equations for Massive Fields
authors: Vladimir V. Kassandrov
comments: 7 pages, twocolumn. Problem of construction the hierarchy of solutions in the massive case reformulated
journal: Grav.Cosmol.14:53-59,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4736
abstract: A non-canonical correspondence of the complete sets of solutions to the Dirac and Klein-Gordon free equations in Minkowski space-time is established. This allows for a novel viewpoint on the relationship of relativistic equations for different spins and on the origin of spinor transformations. In particular, starting from a solution to the Dirac equation, one obtains a chain of other solutions to both Dirac and Klein-Gordon equations. A comparison with the massless case is performed, and examples of non-trivial singular solutions are presented. A generalization to Riemannian space-time and inclusion of interactions are briefly discussed.

id: 0907.4751
title: Do Our Observations Depend upon the Quantum State of the Universe?
authors: Don N. Page
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX, quantum axioms and more references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4751
abstract: Generically the probabilities of observational results depend upon both the quantum state and the rules for extracting the probabilities from it. It is often argued that inflation may make our observations independent of the quantum state. In a framework in which one considers the state and the rules as logically separate, it is shown how it is possible that the probabilities are indeed independent of the state, but the rules for achieving this seem somewhat implausible.

id: 0907.5069
title: Potential algebra approach to position dependent mass Schroedinger equation
authors: T.K. Jana, P. Roy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5069
abstract: It is shown that for a class of position dependent mass Schroedinger equation the shape invariance condition is equivalent to a potential symmetry algebra. Explicit realization of such algebras have been obtained for some shape invariant potentials.

id: 0907.5161
title: Interference of Cooper Pairs Emitted from Independent Superconductors
authors: Mauro Iazzi, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 172501 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5161
abstract: We discuss the interference in the two-particle distribution of the electrons emitted from two independent superconductors. It is clarified that, while the interference appearing in the antibunching correlation is due to the Hanbury Brown and Twiss effect, that in the positive correlation due to superconductivity is intrinsically different and is nothing but the first-order interference of Cooper pairs emitted from different sources. This is the equivalent of the interference of two independent Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 0907.5162
title: Programming with Quantum Communication
authors: Anya Tafliovich, Eric C. R. Hehner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5162
abstract: This work develops a formal framework for specifying, implementing, and analysing quantum communication protocols. We provide tools for developing simple proofs and analysing programs which involve communication, both via quantum channels and exhibiting the LOCC (local operations, classical communication) paradigm.

id: 0907.5166
title: Influence of low energy scattering on loosely bound states
authors: Jean-Marc Sparenberg, Pierre Capel, Daniel Baye
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.C81:011601,2010
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5166
abstract: Compact algebraic equations are derived, which connect the binding energy and the asymptotic normalization constant (ANC) of a subthreshold bound state with the effective-range expansion of the corresponding partial wave. These relations are established for positively-charged and neutral particles, using the analytic continuation of the scattering (S) matrix in the complex wave-number plane. Their accuracy is checked on simple local potential models for the 16O+n, 16O+p and 12C+alpha nuclear systems, with exotic nuclei and nuclear astrophysics applications in mind.

id: 0907.5216
title: Interpretation of the neutron quantum gravitational states in terms of isospectral potentials
authors: S. Kondratyuk, P. G. Blunden
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, 1 table. Using RevTeX4. Excited state contributions included, more extensive discussion, added references
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5216
abstract: The recently observed quantum states of neutrons bound in a gravitational field are analyzed in the framework of one-parameter isospectral hamiltonians. Potentials isospectral to the usual Newton potential are explicitly constructed for the first time, then constrained using measured properties of the neutron gravitational states. The corresponding wave functions and the neutron fluxes are also calculated and analyzed in a simple model, including the ground state and the excited state contributions. The constructed isospectral potentials are discussed as candidates for a possible modification of Newton's law at a submillimetre scale. Our results indicate that significant deviations from the Newtonian gravity at submillimetre distances could be compatible with experiment.

id: 0907.5354
title: Minimal length in Quantum Mechanics and non-Hermitian Hamiltonian systems
authors: Bijan Bagchi, Andreas Fring
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:4307-4310,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5354
abstract: Deformations of the canonical commutation relations lead to non-Hermitian momentum and position operators and therefore almost inevitably to non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. We demonstrate that such type of deformed quantum mechanical systems may be treated in a similar framework as quasi/pseudo and/or PT-symmetric systems, which have recently attracted much attention. For a newly proposed deformation of exponential type we compute the minimal uncertainty and minimal length, which are essential in almost all approaches to quantum gravity.

id: 0907.5503
title: A time-dependent perturbative analysis for a quantum particle in a cloud chamber
authors: G. Dell'Antonio, R. Figari, A. Teta
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5503
abstract: We consider a simple model of a cloud chamber consisting of a test particle (the alpha-particle) interacting with two other particles (the atoms of the vapour) subject to attractive potentials centered in $a_1, a_2 \in \mathbb{R}^3$. At time zero the alpha-particle is described by an outgoing spherical wave centered in the origin and the atoms are in their ground state. We show that, under suitable assumptions on the physical parameters of the system and up to second order in perturbation theory, the probability that both atoms are ionized is negligible unless $a_2$ lies on the line joining the origin with $a_1$. The work is a fully time-dependent version of the original analysis proposed by Mott in 1929.

id: 0907.1631
title: Electron transport and Goos-Hanchen shift in graphene with electric and magnetic barriers: optical analogy and band structure
authors: Manish Sharma, Sankalpa Ghosh
comments: 13 figures, Accepted version in J. Phys. Cond. Matt
journal: Journal of Physics : Condensed Matter, Vol 23, 055501 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1631
abstract: Transport of massless Dirac fermions in graphene monolayers is analyzed in the presence of a combination of singular magnetic barriers and applied electrostatic potential. Extending a recently proposed (J Phys. Cond. Matt. Vol 21, 292204 (2009)) analogy between the transmission of light through a medium with modulated refractive index and electron transmission in graphene through singular magnetic barriers to the present case, we find the addition of a scalar potential profoundly changes the transmission. We calculate the quantum version of the Goos-H\"anchen shift that the electron wave suffers upon being totally reflected by such barriers. The combined electric and magnetic barriers substantially modify the band structure near the Dirac point. This affects transport near the Dirac point significantly and has important consequences for graphene-based electronics.

id: 0907.4544
title: Dirac oscillator in an external magnetic field
authors: Bhabani Prasad Mandal, Shweta Verma
comments: Revised Version, Latex, 9 pages, No figs, To appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:1021-1023,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4544
abstract: We show that 2+1 dimensional Dirac oscillators in an external magnetic field is mapped onto the same with reduced angular frequency in absence of magnetic field. This can be used to study the atomic transitions in a radiation field. Relativistic Landau levels are constructed explicitly. Several interesting features of this system are discussed.

id: 0907.1378
title: Controlled Hawking Process by Quantum Energy Teleportation
authors: Masahiro Hotta
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures, to be published in Physical Review D with title change, and some typos are corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:044025,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1378
abstract: In this paper, a new quantum mechanical method to extract energy from black holes with contracting horizons is proposed. The method is based on a gedanken experiment on quantum energy teleportation (QET), which has been recently proposed in quantum information theory. We consider this QET protocol for N massless fields in near-horizon regions of large-mass black holes with near-horizon geometry described by the Minkowski metric. For each field, a two-level spin is strongly coupled with the local quantum fluctuation outside the horizon during a short time period. After the measurement of N fields, N-bit information is obtained. During the measurement, positive-energy wave packets of the fields form and then fall into the black hole. The amount of excitation energy is independent of the measurement result. After absorption of the wave packets and increase of the black hole mass, a measurement-result-dependent local operation of the N fields is performed outside the horizon. Then, accompanying the extraction of positive energy from the quantum fluctuation by the operation, negative-energy wave packets of the fields form and then fall into the black hole, decreasing the black hole mass. This implies that a part of the absorbed positive energy emitted from the measurement devices is effectively retrieved from the black hole via the measurement results.

