id: 0908.0006
title: Harmonic oscillator in a one-dimensional box
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fernandez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0006
abstract: We study a harmonic molecule confined to a one--dimensional box with impenetrable walls. We explicitly consider the symmetry of the problem for the cases of different and equal masses. We propose suitable variational functions and compare the approximate energies given by the variation method and perturbation theory with accurate numerical ones for a wide range of values of the box length. We analyze the limits of small and large box size.

id: 0908.0009
title: On nonadiabatic SCF calculations of molecular properties
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0009
abstract: We argue that the dynamic extended molecular orbital (DEMO) method may be less accurate than expected because the motion of the center of mass was not properly removed prior to the SCF calculation. Under such conditions the virial theorem is a misleading indication of the accuracy of the wavefunction.

id: 0908.0019
title: Driving quantum walk spreading with the coin operator
authors: Alejandro Romanelli
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, appendix added. to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0019
abstract: We generalize the discrete quantum walk on the line using a time dependent unitary coin operator. We find an analytical relation between the long-time behaviors of the standard deviation and the coin operator. Selecting the coin time sequence allows to obtain a variety of predetermined asymptotic wave-function spreadings: ballistic, sub-ballistic, diffusive, sub-diffusive and localized.

id: 0908.0022
title: Efficient quantum processing of ideals in finite rings
authors: Pawel M. Wocjan, Stephen P. Jordan, Hamed Ahmadi, Joseph P. Brennan
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0022
abstract: Suppose we are given black-box access to a finite ring R, and a list of generators for an ideal I in R. We show how to find an additive basis representation for I in poly(log |R|) time. This generalizes a recent quantum algorithm of Arvind et al. which finds a basis representation for R itself. We then show that our algorithm is a useful primitive allowing quantum computers to rapidly solve a wide variety of problems regarding finite rings. In particular we show how to test whether two ideals are identical, find their intersection, find their quotient, prove whether a given ring element belongs to a given ideal, prove whether a given element is a unit, and if so find its inverse, find the additive and multiplicative identities, compute the order of an ideal, solve linear equations over rings, decide whether an ideal is maximal, find annihilators, and test the injectivity and surjectivity of ring homomorphisms. These problems appear to be hard classically.

id: 0908.0035
title: What do quantum "weak" measurements actually measure?
authors: Stephen Parrott
comments: LaTex, 47 pages. Version 3: One significant misstatement is corrected along with a few minor errors. The main results are unaffected. A new section shows how arbitrary "weak values" can be obtained *rigorously* in a framework very similar to that used in the seminal paper of Aharonov, Albert, and Vaidman
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0035
abstract: A precise definition of "weak [quantum] measurements" and "weak value" (of a quantum observable) is offered, and simple finite dimensional examples are given showing that weak values are not unique and therefore probably do not correspond to any physical attribute of the system being "weakly" measured, contrary to impressions given by most of the literature on weak measurements. A possible mathematical error in the seminal paper introducing "weak values" is explicitly identified. A mathematically rigorous argument obtains results similar to, and more general than, the main result of that paper and concludes that even in the infinite-dimensional context of that paper, weak values are not unique. This implies that the "usual" formula for weak values is not universal, but can apply only to specific physical situations. The paper is written in a more pedagogical and informal style than is usual in the research literature in the hope that it might serve as an introduction to weak values.

id: 0908.0084
title: Genuine (k, m)-threshold controlled teleportation and its security
authors: Xin-Wen Wang, Da-Chuang Li, Guo-Jian Yang
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 55 (2011) 977-983 (minor revisions are made in the published version)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0084
abstract: We propose genuine ($k$, $m$)-threshold controlling schemes for controlled teleportation via multi-particle entangled states, where the teleportation of a quantum state from a sender (Alice) to a receiver (Bob) is under the control of $m$ supervisors such that $k$ ($k\leq m$) or more of these supervisors can help Bob recover the transferred state. By construction, anyone of our quantum channels is a genuine multipartite entangled state of which any two parts are inseparable. Their properties are compared and contrasted with those of the well-known Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger, W, and linear cluster states, and also several other genuine multipartite entangled states recently introduced in literature. We show that our schemes are secure against both Bob's dishonesty and supervisors' treacheries. For the latter case, the game theory is utilized to prove that supervisors' cheats can be well prevented. In addition to their practical importance, our schemes are also useful in seeking and exploring genuine multipartite entangled states and opening another perspective for the applications of the game theory in quantum information science.

id: 0908.0101
title: Storage of multiple coherent microwave excitations in an electron spin ensemble
authors: Hua Wu, Richard E. George, Arzhang Ardavan, Janus H. Wesenberg, Klaus M?lmer, David I. Schuster, Robert J. Schoelkopf, Kohei M. Itoh, John J. L. Morton, G. Andrew D. Briggs
comments: Corrected reference and typos
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 140503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0101
abstract: Electron and nuclear spins have good coherence times and an ensemble of spins is a promising candidate for a quantum memory. By employing holographic techniques via field gradients a single ensemble may be used to store many bits of information. Here we present a coherent memory using a pulsed magnetic field gradient, and demonstrate the storage and retrieval of up to 100 weak 10 GHz coherent excitations in collective states of an electron spin ensemble. We further show that such collective excitations in the electron spin can then be stored in nuclear spin states, which offer coherence times in excess of seconds.

id: 0908.0114
title: Gaussian maximally multipartite entangled states
authors: Paolo Facchi, Giuseppe Florio, Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Mancini, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0114
abstract: We study maximally multipartite entangled states in the context of Gaussian continuous variable quantum systems. By considering multimode Gaussian states with constrained energy, we show that perfect maximally multipartite entangled states, which exhibit the maximum amount of bipartite entanglement for all bipartitions, only exist for systems containing n=2 or 3 modes. We further numerically investigate the structure of these states and their frustration for n<=7.

id: 0908.0119
title: The Perfect Distinguishability of Quantum Operations
authors: Runyao Duan, Yuan Feng, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 6.25 pages (Revtex 4), a preliminary version. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0119
abstract: We provide a feasible necessary and sufficient condition for when an unknown quantum operation (quantum device) secretely selected from a set of known quantum operations can be identified perfectly within a finite number of queries, and thus complete the characterization of the perfect distinguishability of quantum operations. We further design an optimal protocol which can achieve the perfect discrimination between two quantum operations by a minimal number of queries. Interestingly, employing the techniques from the theory of $q$-numerical range we find that an optimal perfect discrimination between two isometries is always achievable without using auxiliary systems or entanglement.

id: 0908.0185
title: Imaging in scattering media via the second-order correlation of light field
authors: Wenlin Gong, Pengli Zhang, Xia Shen, Shensheng Han
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, 36(3), 394-396 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0185
abstract: Imaging with the second-order correlation of two light fields is a method to image an object by two-photon interference involving a joint detection of two photons at distant space-time points. We demonstrate for the first time that an image with high quality can still be obtained in the scattering media by applying the second-order correlation of illuminating light field. The scattering effect on the visibility of images is analyzed both theoretically and experimentally. Potential applications and the methods to further improve the visibility of the images in scattering media are also discussed.

id: 0908.0187
title: Quantum statistical properties of some new classes of intelligent states associated with special quantum systems
authors: M. K. Tavassoly, A. Parsaiean
comments: 13pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2007) 9905 (13pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0187
abstract: Based on the {\it nonlinear coherent states} method, a general and simple algebraic formalism for the construction of \textit{`$f$-deformed intelligent states'} has been introduced. The structure has the potentiality to apply to systems with a known discrete spectrum as well as the generalized coherent states with known nonlinearity function $f (n)$. As some physical appearance of the proposed formalism, a few new classes of intelligent states associated with \textit{`center of-mass motion of a trapped ion'}, \textit{`harmonious states'} and \textit{`hydrogen-like spectrum'} have been realized. Finally, the nonclassicality of the obtained states has been investigated. To achieve this purpose the quantum statistical properties using the Mandel parameter and the squeezing of the quadratures of the radiation field corresponding to the introduced states have been established numerically.

id: 0908.0198
title: Replacing Quantum Feedback with Open-Loop Control and Quantum Filtering
authors: Joshua Combes, Howard M. Wiseman, A. J. Scott
comments: 5 pages, revtex4, 3 eps figures. Comments welcome. V2 minor corrections, published version.
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 020301(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0198
abstract: Feedback control protocols can stabilize and enhance the operation of quantum devices, however, unavoidable delays in the feedback loop adversely affect their performance. We introduce a quantum control methodology, combining open-loop control with quantum filtering, which is not constrained by feedback delays. For the problems studied (rapid purification and rapid measurement) we analytically derive lower bounds on the control performance that are comparable with the best corresponding bounds for feedback protocols.

id: 0908.0233
title: A Diamond Nanowire Single Photon Antenna
authors: Tom Babinec, Birgit J. M. Hausmann, Mughees Khan, Yinan Zhang, Jero Maze, Philip R. Hemmer, Marko Loncar
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, v2: Includes improved reference list; modified figure 1 to show a large array of NW and FDTD simulation of field profile; direct experimental comparsion of several bulk/NW devices in figure 4
journal: Nature Nanotechnology, Vol 5, pg. 195-199 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0233
abstract: The development of a robust light source that emits one photon at a time is an outstanding challenge in quantum science and technology. Here, at the transition from many to single photon optical communication systems, fully quantum mechanical effects may be utilized to achieve new capabilities, most notably perfectly secure communication via quantum cryptography. Practical implementations place stringent requirements on the device properties, including stable photon generation, room temperature operation, and efficient extraction of many photons. Single photon light emitting devices based on fluorescent dye molecules, quantum dots, and carbon nanotube material systems have all been explored, but none have simultaneously demonstrated all criteria. Here, we describe the design, fabrication, and characterization of a bright source of single photons consisting of an individual Nitrogen-vacancy color center (NV center) in a diamond nanowire operating in ambient conditions. The nanowire plays a positive role in increasing the number of single photons collected from the NV center by an order of magnitude over devices based on bulk diamond crystals, and allows operation at an order of magnitude lower power levels. This result enables a new class of nanostructured diamond devices for room temperature photonic and quantum information processing applications, and will also impact fields as diverse as biological and chemical sensing, opto-mechanics, and scanning-probe microscopy.

id: 0908.0238
title: Measure for the Degree of Non-Markovian Behavior of Quantum Processes in Open Systems
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer, Elsi-Mari Laine, Jyrki Piilo
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 210401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0238
abstract: We construct a general measure for the degree of non-Markovian behavior in open quantum systems. This measure is based on the trace distance which quantifies the distinguishability of quantum states. It represents a functional of the dynamical map describing the time evolution of physical states, and can be interpreted in terms of the information flow between the open system and its environment. The measure takes on nonzero values whenever there is a flow of information from the environment back to the open system, which is the key feature of non-Markovian dynamics.

id: 0908.0243
title: Photon Wave-packet Manipulation via Dynamic Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in Multilayer Structures
authors: Francesco Bariani, Iacopo Carusotto
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 013836 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0243
abstract: We present a Maxwell-Bloch description of the dynamics of a light pulse propagating through a spatially inhomogeneous system consisting of alternating layers of EIT media and vacuum. We study the effect of a dynamical modulation of the EIT control field on the shape of the wave packet: interesting effects due to the presence of interfaces with group velocity mismatch are found. An effective description based on a continuity equation is developed. Modulation schemes that can be realized in ultracold atomic samples with standard experimental techniques are proposed and discussed.

id: 0908.0256
title: High-concurrence steady-state entanglement of two hole spins in a quantum dot molecular
authors: Song Yang, Ming Gong, ChuanFeng Li, XuBo Zou, GuangCan Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0256
abstract: Entanglement, a non-trivial phenomena manifested in composite quantum system, can be served as a new type of physical resource in the emerging technology of quantum information and quantum computation. However, a quantum entanglement is fragile to the environmental-induced decoherence. Here, we present a novel way to prepare a high-concurrence steady-state entanglement of two hole spins in a quantum dot molecular via optical pumping of trion levels. In this scheme, the spontaneous dispassion is used to induce and stabilize the entanglement with rapid rate. It is firstly shown that under certain conditions, two-qubit singlet state can be generated without requiring the state initialization. Then we study the effect of acoustic phonons and electron tunnelings on the scheme, and show that the concurrence of entangled state can be over 0.95 at temperature $T = 1 $K.

id: 0908.0263
title: Imaging-based Parametric Resonance in an Optical Dipole Atom Trap
authors: S. Balik, A.L. Win, M.D. Havey
comments: 
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 80, 023404 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0263
abstract: We report sensitive detection of parametric resonances in a high-density sample of ultracold $^{87}Rb$ atoms confined to a far-off-resonance optical dipole trap. Fluorescence imaging of the expanded ultracold atom cloud after a period of parametric excitation shows significant modification of the atomic spatial distribution and has high sensitivity compared with traditional measurements of parametrically-driven trap loss. Using this approach, a significant shift of the parametric resonance frequency is observed, and attributed to the anharmonic shape of the dipole trap potential.

id: 0908.0265
title: Characterizing Entanglement Sources
authors: Pavel Lougovski, S.J. van Enk
comments: This submission, together with the next one, supersedes arXiv:0806.4165
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052324 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0265
abstract: We discuss how to characterize entanglement sources with finite sets of measurements. The measurements do not have to be tomographically complete, and may consist of POVMs rather than von Neumann measurements. Our method yields a probability that the source generates an entangled state as well as estimates of any desired calculable entanglement measures, including their error bars. We apply two criteria, namely Akaike's information criterion and the Bayesian information criterion, to compare and assess different models (with different numbers of parameters) describing entanglement-generating devices. We discuss differences between standard entanglement-verificaton methods and our present method of characterizing an entanglement source.

id: 0908.0267
title: Strengthened Bell Inequalities for Entanglement Verification
authors: Pavel Lougovski, S.J. van Enk
comments: This submission, together with the previous one, supersedes arXiv:0806.4165
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 034302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0267
abstract: Bell inequalities were meant to test quantum mechanics vs local hidden variable models, but can also be used to verify entanglement. For entanglement verification purposes one assumes the validity of quantum mechanics as well as quantum descriptions of one's measurements. With the help of these assumptions it is possible to derive a strengthened Bell inequality whose violation implies entanglement. We generalize known examples of such inequalities by relating the expectation value of the Bell operator to a particular quantitative measure of entanglement, namely the negativity. Moreover, we obtain statistics illustrating the fact that violating a given (strengthened or not) Bell inequality is a much more rare feat for a quantum state of two qubits than it is to be entangled.

id: 0908.0270
title: Density Relaxation in de Broglie-Bohm Mechanics
authors: A F Bennett
comments: 6 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0270
abstract: A Lagrangian analysis explains the numerical results of Valentini and Westman (2005) which demonstrate that an initially arbitrary particle density, stirred by the field of de Broglie velocities associated with a Schrodinger wave function, relaxes to the Born probability density provided both densities are coarse-grained.

id: 0908.0275
title: Coherent Excitation of Rydberg Atoms in Thermal Vapor Microcells
authors: H. K¨¹bler, J. P. Shaffer, T. Baluktsian, R. L?w, T. Pfau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0275
abstract: The coherent control of mesoscopic ensembles of atoms and Rydberg atom blockade are the basis for proposed quantum devices such as integrable gates and single photon sources. So far, experimental progress has been limited to complex experimental setups that use ultracold atoms. Here, we show that coherence times of ~100ns are achievable with coherent Rydberg atom spectroscopy in um sized thermal vapor cells. We investigated states with principle quantum numbers between 30 and 50. Our results demonstrate that microcells with a size on the order of the blockade radius, ~2um, at temperatures of 100-300C are robust, promising candidates to investigate low dimensional strongly interacting Rydberg gases, construct quantum gates and build single photon sources.

id: 0908.0291
title: Probabilistic growth of large entangled states with low error accumulation
authors: Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Simon C Benjamin, Joseph Fitzsimons
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0291
abstract: The creation of complex entangled states, resources that enable quantum computation, can be achieved via simple 'probabilistic' operations which are individually likely to fail. However, typical proposals exploiting this idea carry a severe overhead in terms of the accumulation of errors. Here we describe an method that can rapidly generate large entangled states with an error accumulation that depends only logarithmically on the failure probability. We find that the approach may be practical for success rates in the sub-10% range, while ultimately becoming unfeasible at lower rates. The assumptions that we make, including parallelism and high connectivity, are appropriate for real systems including measurement-induced entanglement. This result therefore shows the feasibility for real devices based on such an approach.

id: 0908.0316
title: A quantum spin transducer based on nano electro-mechancial resonator arrays
authors: P. Rabl, S. J. Kolkowitz, F. H. Koppens, J. G. E. Harris, P. Zoller, M. D. Lukin
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 6, 602-608 (30 May 2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0316
abstract: Implementation of quantum information processing faces the contradicting requirements of combining excellent isolation to avoid decoherence with the ability to control coherent interactions in a many-body quantum system. For example, spin degrees of freedom of electrons and nuclei provide a good quantum memory due to their weak magnetic interactions with the environment. However, for the same reason it is difficult to achieve controlled entanglement of spins over distances larger than tens of nanometers. Here we propose a universal realization of a quantum data bus for electronic spin qubits where spins are coupled to the motion of magnetized mechanical resonators via magnetic field gradients. Provided that the mechanical system is charged, the magnetic moments associated with spin qubits can be effectively amplified to enable a coherent spin-spin coupling over long distances via Coulomb forces. Our approach is applicable to a wide class of electronic spin qubits which can be localized near the magnetized tips and can be used for the implementation of hybrid quantum computing architectures.

id: 0908.0322
title: Conscious observers clarify many worlds
authors: Christoph Simon
comments: 2 pages plus a few lines; questions and comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0322
abstract: In this brief note I argue that putting conscious observers at the center of the considerations clarifies and strengthens the many-worlds interpretation. The basic assumption, which seems extremely plausible based on our current understanding of the brain and of decoherence, is that quantum states corresponding to distinct conscious experiences have to be orthogonal. I show that, once this is accepted, probabilistic measurement outcomes corresponding to basis elements and following Born's rule emerge naturally from global unitary dynamics.

id: 0908.0352
title: Fabrication of Diamond Nanowires for Quantum Information Processing Applications
authors: Birgit Hausmann, Mughees Khan, Tom Babinec, Yinan Zhang, Katie Martinick, Murray McCutcheon, Phil Hemmer, Marko Loncar
comments: 11 pages, 26 figures, submitted to Diamond and related Materials; this http URL&_udi=B6TWV-4Y7MM1M-1&_user=10&_coverDate=01%2F25%2F2010&_rdoc=1&_fmt=high&_orig=search&_sort=d&_docanchor=&view=c&_acct=C000050221&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=10&md5=6dc58b30f4773a710c667306fc541cca
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0352
abstract: We present a design and a top-down fabrication method for realizing diamond nanowires in both bulk single crystal and polycrystalline diamond. Numerical modeling was used to study coupling between a Nitrogen Vacancy (NV) color center and optical modes of a nanowire, and to find an optimal range of nanowire diameters that allows for large collection efficiency of emitted photons. Inductively coupled plasma (ICP) reactive ion etching (RIE) with oxygen is used to fabricate the nanowires. Drop-casted nanoparticles (including $\mathrm{Au}$, $\mathrm{SiO_{2}}$ and $\mathrm{Al_2O_3}$) as well as electron beam lithography defined spin-on glass and evaporated $\mathrm{Au}$ have been used as an etch mask. We found $\mathrm{Al_2O_3}$ nanoparticles to be the most etch resistant. At the same time FOx e-beam resist (spin-on glass) proved to be a suitable etch mask for fabrication of ordered arrays of diamond nanowires. We were able to obtain nanowires with near vertical sidewalls in both polycrystalline and single crystal diamond. The heights and diameters of the polycrystalline nanowires presented in this paper are $\unit[\approx1]{\mu m}$ and $\unit[120-340]{nm}$, respectively, having a $\unit[200]{nm/min}$ etch rate. In the case of single crystal diamond (types Ib and IIa) nanowires the height and diameter for different diamonds and masks shown in this paper were $\unit[1-2.4]{\mu m}$ and $\unit[120-490]{nm}$ with etch rates between $\unit[190-240]{nm/min}$.

id: 0908.0367
title: Orthomodular-valued models for quantum set theory
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0367
abstract: Orthomodular logic represented by a complete orthomodular lattice has been studied as a pertinent generalization of the two-valued logic, Boolean-valued logic, and quantum logic. In this paper, we introduce orthomodular logic valued models for set theory generalizing quantum logic valued models introduced by Takeuti as well as Boolean-valued models introduced by Scott and Solovay, and prove a general transfer principle that states that every theorem of ZFC set theory without free variable is, if modified by restricting every unbounded quantifier appropriately with the notion of commutators, valid in any orthomodular logic valued models for set theory. This extends the well-known transfer principle for Boolean-valued models. In order to overcome an unsolved problem on the implication in quantum logic, we introduce the notion of generalized implications in orthomodular logic by simple requirements satisfied by the well-known six polynomial implication candidates, and show that for every choice from generalized implications the above transfer principle holds. In view of the close connection between interpretations of quantum mechanics and quantum set theory, this opens an interesting problem as to how the choice of implication affects the interpretation of quantum mechanics.

id: 0908.0377
title: Ultrafast stimulated Raman parallel adiabatic passage by shaped pulses
authors: G. Dridi, S. Guerin, V. Hakobyan, H.R. Jauslin, H. Eleuch
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0377
abstract: We present a general and versatile technique of population transfer based on {\it parallel adiabatic passage} by femtosecond shaped pulses. Their amplitude and phase are specifically designed to optimize the adiabatic passage corresponding to parallel eigenvalues at all times. We show that this technique allows the robust adiabatic population transfer in a Raman system with the total pulse area as low as 3 $\pi$, corresponding to a fluence of one order of magnitude below the conventional stimulated Raman adiabatic passage process. This process of short duration, typically pico- and subpicosecond, is easily implementable with the modern pulse shaper technology and opens the possibility of ultrafast robust population transfer with interesting applications in quantum information processing.

id: 0908.0381
title: Single mode quantum properties of the codirectional Kerr nonlinear coupler: frequency mismatch and exact solution
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, M. Sebawe Abdalla, J. Perina
comments: 26 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quant. Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004) 460-471
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0381
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the single mode quantum properties of the codirectional Kerr nonlinear coupler when the frequency mismatch is involved and a condition for an exact solution of equations of motion is fulfilled. Particularly, we investigate quadrature and principal squeezing, Wigner function, quadrature distribution, phase distribution and phase variance. We show that the quadrature squeezing and the phase variance can exhibit collapse-revival and collapse-revival-subrevival phenomena, respectively, based on the values of the detuning parameter. Furthermore, we analytically demonstrate that the system can generate cat states, in particular, Yurke-Stoler states.

id: 0908.0421
title: Depolarization for quantum channels with higher symmetries
authors: A. B. Klimov, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 6 pages. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0421
abstract: The depolarization channel is usually modelled as a quantum operation that destroys all input information, replacing it by a completely chaotic state. For qubits this has a quite intuitive interpretation as a shrinking of the Bloch sphere. We propose a way to deal with depolarizing dynamics (in the Markov approximation) for systems with arbitrary symmetries.

id: 0908.0424
title: The work value of information
authors: Oscar C. O. Dahlsten, Renato Renner, Elisabeth Rieper, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 053015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0424
abstract: We present quantitative relations between work and information that are valid both for finite sized and internally correlated systems as well in the thermodynamical limit. We suggest work extraction should be viewed as a game where the amount of work an agent can extract depends on how well it can guess the micro-state of the system. In general it depends both on the agent's knowledge and risk-tolerance, because the agent can bet on facts that are not certain and thereby risk failure of the work extraction. We derive strikingly simple expressions for the extractable work in the extreme cases of effectively zero- and arbitrary risk tolerance respectively, thereby enveloping all cases. Our derivation makes a connection between heat engines and the smooth entropy approach. The latter has recently extended Shannon theory to encompass finite sized and internally correlated bit strings, and our analysis points the way to an analogous extension of statistical mechanics.

id: 0908.0440
title: Tripartite to Bipartite Entanglement Transformations and Polynomial Identity Testing
authors: Eric Chitambar, Runyao Duan, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052310 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0440
abstract: We consider the problem of deciding if a given three-party entangled pure state can be converted, with a non-zero success probability, into a given two-party pure state through local quantum operations and classical communication. We show that this question is equivalent to the well-known computational problem of deciding if a multivariate polynomial is identically zero. Efficient randomized algorithms developed to study the latter can thus be applied to the question of tripartite to bipartite entanglement transformations.

id: 0908.0454
title: Entanglement of two individual neutral atoms using Rydberg blockade
authors: T. Wilk, A. Ga?tan, C. Evellin, J. Wolters, Y. Miroshnychenko, P. Grangier, A. Browaeys
comments: text revised, with additional references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 010502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0454
abstract: We report the generation of entanglement between two individual $^{87}$Rb atoms in hyperfine ground states $|F=1,M=1>$ and $|F=2,M=2>$ which are held in two optical tweezers separated by 4 $\mu$m. Our scheme relies on the Rydberg blockade effect which prevents the simultaneous excitation of the two atoms to a Rydberg state. The entangled state is generated in about 200 ns using pulsed two-photon excitation. We quantify the entanglement by applying global Raman rotations on both atoms. We measure that 61% of the initial pairs of atoms are still present at the end of the entangling sequence. These pairs are in the target entangled state with a fidelity of 0.75.

id: 0908.0480
title: The Measurement Process in Local Quantum Theory and the EPR Paradox
authors: Sergio Doplicher
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0480
abstract: We describe in a qualitative way a possible picture of the Measurement Process in Quantum Mechanics, which takes into account: 1. the finite and non zero time duration T of the interaction between the observed system and the microscopic part of the measurement apparatus; 2. the finite space size R of that apparatus; 3. the fact that the macroscopic part of the measurement apparatus, having the role of amplifying the effect of that interaction to a macroscopic scale, is composed by a very large but finite number N of particles. The conventional picture of the measurement, as an instantaneous action turning a pure state into a mixture, arises only in the limit in which N and R tend to infinity, and T tends to 0. We sketch here a proposed scheme, which still ought to be made mathematically precise in order to analyse its implications and to test it in specific models, where we argue that in Quantum Field Theory this picture should apply to the unique time evolution expressing the dynamics of a given theory, and should comply with the Principle of Locality. We comment on the Einstein Podolski Rosen thought experiment (partly modifying the discussion on this point in an earlier version of this note), reformulated here only in terms of local observables (rather than global ones, as one particle or polarisation observables). The local picture of the measurement process helps to make it clear that there is no conflict with the Principle of Locality.

id: 0908.0503
title: Device independent quantum key distribution secure against coherent attacks with memoryless measurement devices
authors: Matthew McKague
comments: 13 pages. Expanded main proofs with more detail, miscellaneous edits for clarity
journal: New Journal of Physics, 11(10): 103037 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0503
abstract: Device independent quantum key distribution aims to provide a higher degree of security than traditional QKD schemes by reducing the number of assumptions that need to be made about the physical devices used. The previous proof of security by Pironio et al. applies only to collective attacks where the state is identical and independent and the measurement devices operate identically for each trial in the protocol. We extend this result to a more general class of attacks where the state is arbitrary and the measurement devices have no memory. We accomplish this by a reduction of arbitrary adversary strategies to qubit strategies and a proof of security for qubit strategies based on the previous proof by Pironio et al. and techniques adapted from Renner.

id: 0908.0512
title: How hard is it to approximate the Jones polynomial?
authors: Greg Kuperberg
comments: 19 pages. Don't miss this major revision! Includes more complete explanations of all results, and refinements of both Aaronson's theorem and the Solovay-Kitaev theorem. To appear in ToC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0512
abstract: Freedman, Kitaev, and Wang [arXiv:quant-ph/0001071], and later Aharonov, Jones, and Landau [arXiv:quant-ph/0511096], established a quantum algorithm to "additively" approximate the Jones polynomial V(L,t) at any principal root of unity t. The strength of this additive approximation depends exponentially on the bridge number of the link presentation. Freedman, Larsen, and Wang [arXiv:math/0103200] established that the approximation is universal for quantum computation at a non-lattice, principal root of unity; and Aharonov and Arad [arXiv:quant-ph/0605181] established a uniform version of this result. In this article, we show that any value-dependent approximation of the Jones polynomial at these non-lattice roots of unity is #P-hard. If given the power to decide whether |V(L,t)| > a or |V(L,t)| < b for fixed constants a > b > 0, there is a polynomial-time algorithm to exactly count the solutions to arbitrary combinatorial equations. In our argument, the result follows fairly directly from the universality result and Aaronson's theorem that PostBQP = PP [arXiv:quant-ph/0412187].

id: 0908.0541
title: Testing quantum nonlocality by generalized quasiprobability functions
authors: Seung-Woo Lee, Hyunseok Jeong, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022104 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0541
abstract: We derive a Bell inequality based on a generalized quasiprobability function which is parameterized by one non-positive real value. Two types of known Bell inequalities formulated in terms of the Wigner and Q functions are included as limiting cases. We investigate violations of our Bell inequalities for single photon entangled states and two-mode squeezed vacuum states when varying the detector efficiency. We show that the Bell inequality for the Q function allows the lowest detection efficiency for violations of local realism.

id: 0908.0592
title: Nonequilibrium thermal entanglement in three-qubit $XX$ model
authors: X. L. Huang, J. L. Guo, X. X. Yi
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 054301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0592
abstract: Making use of the master equation and effective Hamiltonian approach, we investigate the steady state entanglement in a three-qubit $XX$ model. Both symmetric and nonsymmetric qubit-qubit couplings are considered. The system (the three qubits) is coupled to two bosonic baths at different temperatures. We calculate the steady state by the effective Hamiltonian approach and discuss the dependence of the steady state entanglement on the temperatures and couplings. The results show that for symmetric qubit-qubit couplings, the entanglements between the nearest neighbor are equal, independent of the temperatures of the two baths. The maximum of the entanglement arrives at $T_L=T_R$. For nonsymmetric qubit-qubit couplings, however, the situation is totally different. The baths at different temperatures would benefit the entanglement and the entanglements between the nearest neighbors are no longer equal. By examining the probability distribution of each eigenstate in the steady state, we present an explanation for these observations. These results suggest that the steady entanglement can be controlled by the temperature of the two baths.

id: 0908.0611
title: Tunable Entanglement, Antibunching and Saturation effects in Dipole Blockade
authors: J. Gillet, G. S. Agarwal, T. Bastin
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 013837 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0611
abstract: We report a model that makes it possible to analyze quantitatively the dipole blockade effect on the dynamical evolution of a two two-level atom system driven by an external laser field. The multiple excitations of the atomic sample are taken into account. We find very large concurrence in the dipole blockade regime. We further find that entanglement can be tuned by changing the intensity of the exciting laser. We also report a way to lift the dipole blockade paving the way to manipulate in a controllable way the blockade effects. We finally report how a continuous monitoring of the dipole blockade would be possible using photon-photon correlations of the scattered light in a regime where the spontaneous emission would dominate dissipation in the sample.

id: 0908.0623
title: Engineering of triply entangled states in a single-neutron system
authors: Yuji Hasegawa, Rudolf Loidl, Gerald Badurek, Stephan Sponar, Helmut Rauch
comments: 4 pages, 2figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0623
abstract: We implemented a triply entangled Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger(GHZ)-like state and coherently manipulated the spin, path, and energy degrees of freedom in a single neutron system. The GHZ-like state was analyzed with an inequality derived by Mermin: we determined the four expectation values and finally obtained M = 2.558 +/- 0.004 > 2, which exhibits a clear violation of the noncontextual assumption and confirms quantum contextuality.

id: 0908.0636
title: Entanglement at the quantum phase transition in a harmonic lattice
authors: Elisabeth Rieper, Janet Anders, Vlatko Vedral
comments: extended published version
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 025016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0636
abstract: The entanglement properties of the phase transition in a two dimensional harmonic lattice, similar to the one observed in recent ion trap experiments, are discussed both, for finite number of particles and thermodynamical limit. We show that for the ground state at the critical value of the trapping potential two entanglement measures, the negativity between two neighbouring sites and the block entropy for blocks of size 1, 2 and 3, change abruptly. Entanglement thus indicates quantum phase transitions in general; not only in the finite dimensional case considered in [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 93}, 250404 (2004)]. Finally, we consider the thermal state and compare its exact entanglement with a temperature entanglement witness introduced in [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 77} 062102 (2008)].

id: 0908.0639
title: Decoherence induced spontaneous symmetry breaking
authors: G. Karpat, Z. Gedik
comments: 12 pages
journal: Optics Communications 282, 4460 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0639
abstract: We study time dependence of exchange symmetry properties of Bell states when two qubits interact with local baths having identical parameters. In case of classical noise, we consider a decoherence Hamiltonian which is invariant under swapping the first and second qubits. We find that as the system evolves in time, two of the three symmetric Bell states preserve their qubit exchange symmetry with unit probability, whereas the symmetry of the remaining state survives with a maximum probability of 0.5 at the asymptotic limit. Next, we examine the exchange symmetry properties of the same states under local, quantum mechanical noise which is modeled by two identical spin baths. Results turn out to be very similar to the classical case. We identify decoherence as the main mechanism leading to breaking of qubit exchange symmetry.

id: 0908.0702
title: Loschmidt Echo and the Local Density of States
authors: Natalia Ares, Diego A. Wisniacki
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: PRE 80, 04621 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0702
abstract: Loschmidt echo (LE) is a measure of reversibility and sensitivity to perturbations of quantum evolutions. For weak perturbations its decay rate is given by the width of the local density of states (LDOS). When the perturbation is strong enough, it has been shown in chaotic systems that its decay is dictated by the classical Lyapunov exponent. However, several recent studies have shown an unexpected non-uniform decay rate as a function of the perturbation strength instead of that Lyapunov decay. Here we study the systematic behavior of this regime in perturbed cat maps. We show that some perturbations produce coherent oscillations in the width of LDOS that imprint clear signals of the perturbation in LE decay. We also show that if the perturbation acts in a small region of phase space (local perturbation) the effect is magnified and the decay is given by the width of the LDOS.

id: 0908.0706
title: Superqubits
authors: L. Borsten, D. Dahanayake, M. J. Duff, W. Rubens
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, 4 tables, revtex; minor corrections, version appearing in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:105023,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0706
abstract: We provide a supersymmetric generalization of n quantum bits by extending the local operations and classical communication entanglement equivalence group [SU(2)]^n to the supergroup [uOSp(1|2)]^n and the stochastic local operations and classical communication equivalence group [SL(2,C)]^n to the supergroup [OSp(1|2)]^n. We introduce the appropriate supersymmetric generalizations of the conventional entanglement measures for the cases of $n=2$ and $n=3$. In particular, super-Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states are characterized by a nonvanishing superhyperdeterminant.

id: 0908.0708
title: Engineering complex topological memories from simple Abelian models
authors: James R. Wootton, Ville Lahtinen, Benoit Doucot, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Ann. Phys. 326, 2307 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0708
abstract: In three spatial dimensions, particles are limited to either bosonic or fermionic statistics. Two-dimensional systems, on the other hand, can support anyonic quasiparticles exhibiting richer statistical behaviours. An exciting proposal for quantum computation is to employ anyonic statistics to manipulate information. Since such statistical evolutions depend only on topological characteristics, the resulting computation is intrinsically resilient to errors. So-called non-Abelian anyons are most promising for quantum computation, but their physical realization may prove to be complex. Abelian anyons, however, are easier to understand theoretically and realize experimentally. Here we show that complex topological memories inspired by non-Abelian anyons can be engineered in Abelian models. We explicitly demonstrate the control procedures for the encoding and manipulation of quantum information in specific lattice models that can be implemented in the laboratory. This bridges the gap between requirements for anyonic quantum computation and the potential of state-of-the-art technology.

id: 0908.0763
title: The Quantum Zeno Effect Immunizes the Avian Compass Against the Deleterious Effects of Exchange and Dipolar Interactions
authors: A.T. Dellis, I. K. Kominis
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Biosystems 107, 153 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0763
abstract: Magnetic-sensitive radical-ion-pair reactions are understood to underlie the biochemical magnetic compass used by avian species for navigation. Recent experiments have provided growing evidence for the radical-ion-pair magnetoreception mechanism, while recent theoretical advances have unravelled the quantum nature of radical-ion-pair reactions, which were shown to manifest a host of quantum-information-science concepts and effects, like quantum measurement, quantum jumps and the quantum Zeno effect. We here show that the quantum Zeno effect provides for the robustness of the avian compass mechanism, and immunizes it's magnetic and angular sensitivity against the deleterious and molecule-specific exchange and dipolar interactions.

id: 0908.0768
title: Error-correcting one-way quantum computation with global entangling gates
authors: Jaewoo Joo, David L. Feder
comments: Submitted to PRA
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 80, 032312 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0768
abstract: We present an approach to one-way quantum computation (1WQC) that can compensate for single-qubit errors, by encoding the logical information residing on physical qubits into five-qubit error-correcting code states. A logical two-qubit cluster state that is the fundamental resource for encoded quantum teleportation is then described by a graph state containing ten vertices with constant degree seven. Universal 1WQC that incorporates error correction requires only multiple copies of this logical two-qubit state and a logical four-qubit linear cluster state, which are prepared only just in advance of their use in order to minimize the accumulation of errors. We suggest how to implement this approach in systems characterized by qubits in regular two-dimensional lattices for which entangling gates are generically global operations, such as atoms in optical lattices, quantum dots, or superconducting qubits.

id: 0908.0769
title: Non-Markovian non-stationary completely positive open quantum system dynamics
authors: Adrian A. Budini Paolo Grigolini
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0769
abstract: By modeling the interaction of a system with an environment through a renewal approach, we demonstrate that completely positive non-Markovian dynamics may develop some unexplored non-standard statistical properties. The renewal approach is defined by a set of disruptive events, consisting in the action of a completely positive superoperator over the system density matrix. The random time intervals between events are described by an arbitrary waiting-time distribution. We show that, in contrast to the Markovian case, if one performs a system-preparation (measurement) at an arbitrary time, the subsequent evolution of the density matrix evolution is modified. The non-stationary character refers to the absence of an asymptotic master equation even when the preparation is performed at arbitrary long times. In spite of this property, we demonstrate that operator expectation values and operators correlations have the same dynamical structure, establishing the validity of a non-stationary quantum regression hypothesis. The non-stationary property of the dynamic is also analyzed through the response of the system to an external weak perturbation.

id: 0908.0785
title: Contribution of adiabatic phases to noncyclic evolution
authors: M.T. Thomaz, A.C. Aguiar Pinto, M. Moutinho
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0785
abstract: We show that the difference of adiabatic phases, that are basis-dependent, in noncyclic evolution of non-degenerate quantum systems have to be taken into account to give the correct interference result in the calculation of physical quantities in states that are a superposition of instantaneous eigenstates of energy. To verify the contribution of those adiabatic phases in the interference phenomena, we consider the spin-1/2 model coupled to a precessing external magnetic field. In the model, the adiabatic phase increases in time up to reach the difference of the Berry's phases of the model when the external magnetic field completes a period.

id: 0908.0789
title: Evidence for Ground- and Excited-State Efimov Trimers in a Three-State Fermi Gas
authors: J. R. Williams, E. L. Hazlett, J. H. Huckans, R. W. Stites, Y. Zhang, K. M. O'Hara
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0789
abstract: We observe enhanced three-body recombination in an ultracold three-component $^6$Li Fermi gas with large but unequal scattering lengths attributable to an excited Efimov trimer state near the three-atom scattering threshold. We find excellent agreement between the measured three-body recombination rate and the recombination rate calculated in the zero-range approximation where the only free parameters are the Efimov parameters $\kappa_*$ and $\eta_*$. The value of $\kappa_*$ determined by the location of the Efimov resonance we observe at 895 G also predicts the locations of loss features previously observed near 130 and 500 G \cite{Jochim08,OHara09} suggesting that all three features are associated with universal Efimov trimer states. We also report on the first realization of a quantum degenerate three-state Fermi gas with approximate SU(3) symmetry.

id: 0908.0807
title: An effective spin-1 Heisenberg chain in coupled cavities
authors: Ling Zhou, Wei Bin Yan, Xin Yu Zhao
comments: 
journal: J Phys. B 42,065502(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0807
abstract: A coupled array of $N$ identical cavities, each of which contains a five-level atom is investigated. The results show that the atoms via the exchange of virtual photons can be effectively equal to spin 1 Heisenberg model under certain conditions. By tuning the laser fields, the parameters of the effective Hamiltonian can be controlled individually.

id: 0908.0817
title: Fighting decoherence in a continuous two-qubit odd or even parity measurement with a closed-loop setup
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, v2:~accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012307 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0817
abstract: A parity measurement on two qubits, each consisting of a single atom in a cavity, can be realized by measuring the phase shift of a probe beam, which interacts sequentially with the two qubits, but imperfections lead to decoherence within the subspaces of a given parity. We demonstrate that a different setup, where the probe light interacts repeatedly with the qubits, can reduce the rate of decoherence within the odd or the even parity subspace significantly. We consider both the case of a resonant and the case of a nonresonant light-atom interaction and find that the performance is comparable if the parameters are chosen appropriately.

id: 0908.0827
title: Output entanglement and squeezing of two-mode fields generated by a single atom
authors: Ling Zhou, Qing-Xia Mu, Zhong-Ju Liu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, 2107 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0827
abstract: A single four-level atom interacting with two-mode cavities is investigated. Under large detuning condition, we obtain the effective Hamiltonian which is unitary squeezing operator of two-mode fields. Employing the input-output theory, we find that the entanglement and squeezing of the output fields can be achieved. By analyzing the squeezing spectrum, we show that asymmetric detuning and asymmetric atomic initial state split the squeezing spectrum from one valley into two minimum values, and appropriate leakage of the cavity is needed for obtaining output entangled fields.

id: 0908.0829
title: Revival-collapse phenomenon in the fluctuations of quadrature field components of the multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 9023-9036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0829
abstract: In this paper we consider a system consisting of a two-level atom, initially prepared in a coherent superposition of upper and lower levels, interacting with a radiation field prepared in generalized quantum states in the framework of multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model. For this system we show that there is a class of states for which the fluctuation factors can exhibit revival-collapse phenomenon (RCP) similar to that exhibited in the corresponding atomic inversion. This is shown not only for normal fluctuations but also for amplitude-squared fluctuations. Furthermore, apart from this class of states we generally demonstrate that the fluctuation factors associated with three-photon transition can provide RCP similar to that occurring in the atomic inversion of the one-photon transition. These are novel results and their consequence is that RCP occurred in the atomic inversion can be measured via a homodyne detector. Furthermore, we discuss the influence of the atomic relative phases on such phenomenon.

id: 0908.0831
title: Spontaneously generated atomic entanglement in free space: reinforced by incoherent pumping
authors: Ling Zhou, Guo Hui Yang, Anil K. Patnaik
comments: have some difference with published version (please see PRA)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0831
abstract: We study spontaneously generated entanglement (SGE) between two identical multilevel atoms in free space via vacuum-induced radiative coupling. We show that the SGE in two-atom systems may initially increase with time but eventually vanishes in the time scale determined by the excited state lifetime and radiative coupling strength between the two atoms. We demonstrate that a steady-state SGE can be established by incoherently pumping the excited states of the two-atom system. We have shown that an appropriate rate of incoherent pump can help producing optimal SGE. The multilevel systems offer us more chanel to establish entanglement. The system under consideration could be realized in a tight trap or atoms/ions doped in a solid substrate.

id: 0908.0832
title: Time-dependent Generalized SIC-OEP formalism and Generalized SIC-Slater approximation
authors: J. Messud, P. M. Dinh, P.-G. Reinhard, E. Suraud
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 (2009) 044503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0832
abstract: We propose a simplification of the full "2 sets" Time dependent Self Interaction Correction (TD-SIC) method, applying the Optimized Effective Potential (OEP) method. The new resulting scheme is called time-dependent "Generalized SIC-OEP". A straightforward approximation, using the spatial localization of one set of orbitals, leads to the "Generalized SIC-Slater" formalism. We show that it represents a great improvement compared to the traditional SIC-Slater/KLI formalisms.

id: 0908.0836
title: Bound States for Magic State Distillation in Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation
authors: Earl T. Campbell, Dan E. Browne
comments: Published version. This paper builds on a theorem proven in "On the Structure of Protocols for Magic State Distillation", arXiv:0908.0838. These two papers jointly form the content of a talk entitled "Neither Magical nor Classical?", which was presented at TQC 2009, Waterloo
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 030503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0836
abstract: Magic state distillation is an important primitive in fault-tolerant quantum computation. The magic states are pure non-stabilizer states which can be distilled from certain mixed non-stabilizer states via Clifford group operations alone. Because of the Gottesman-Knill theorem, mixtures of Pauli eigenstates are not expected to be magic state distillable, but it has been an open question whether all mixed states outside this set may be distilled. In this Letter we show that, when resources are finitely limited, non-distillable states exist outside the stabilizer octahedron. In analogy with the bound entangled states, which arise in entanglement theory, we call such states bound states for magic state distillation.

id: 0908.0838
title: On the Structure of Protocols for Magic State Distillation
authors: Earl T. Campbell, Dan E. Browne
comments: This paper provides a theorem that is applied in "Bound States for Magic State Distillation", arXiv:0908.0836. These two papers jointly form the content of a talk entitled "Neither Magical nor Classical?", which was presented at TQC 2009, Waterloo. In press at L.N.C.S as a conference post-proceedings
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science 5906 Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography 4th Workshop, TQC 2009, Waterloo, Canada, May 11-13. Page 20
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0838
abstract: We present a theorem that shows that all useful protocols for magic state distillation output states with a fidelity that is upper-bounded by those generated by a much smaller class of protocols. This reduced class consists of the protocols where multiple copies of a state are projected onto a stabilizer codespace and the logical qubit is then decoded.

id: 0908.0886
title: Entanglement Equivalence of $N$-qubit Symmetric States
authors: P. Mathonet, S. Krins, M. Godefroid, L. Lamata, E. Solano, T. Bastin
comments: Minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052315 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0886
abstract: We study the interconversion of multipartite symmetric $N$-qubit states under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). We demonstrate that if two symmetric states can be connected with a nonsymmetric invertible local operation (ILO), then they belong necessarily to the separable, W, or GHZ entanglement class, establishing a practical method of discriminating subsets of entanglement classes. Furthermore, we prove that there always exists a symmetric ILO connecting any pair of symmetric $N$-qubit states equivalent under SLOCC, simplifying the requirements for experimental implementations of local interconversion of those states.

id: 0908.0957
title: A new interpretation of superposition, entanglement, and measurement in quantum mechanics
authors: Rajendra K Bera, Vikram Menon
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0957
abstract: We present a new interpretation of the terms superposition, entanglement, and measurement that appear in quantum mechanics. We hypothesize that the structure of the wave function for a quantum system at the sub-Planck scale has a deterministic cyclic structure. Each cycle comprises a sequential succession of the eigenstates that comprise a given wave function. Between unitary operations or measurements on the wave function, the sequential arrangement of the current eigenstates chosen by the system is immaterial, but once chosen it remains fixed until another unitary operation or measurement changes the wave function. The probabilistic aspect of quantum mechanics is interpreted by hypothesizing a measurement mechanism which acts instantaneously but the instant of measurement is chosen randomly by the classical measuring apparatus over a small but finite interval from the time the measurement apparatus is activated. At the instant the measurement is made, the wave function irrevocably collapses to a new state (erasing some of the past quantum information) and continues from thereon in that state till changed by a unitary operation or a new measurement.

id: 0908.0958
title: Decoherence suppression via environment preparation
authors: Olivier Landon-Cardinal, Richard MacKenzie
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062319 (2009) [6 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0958
abstract: To protect a quantum system from decoherence due to interaction with its environment, we investigate the existence of initial states of the environment allowing for decoherence-free evolution of the system. For models in which a two-state system interacts with a dynamical environment, we prove that such states exist if and only if the interaction and self-evolution Hamiltonians share an eigenstate. If decoherence by state preparation is not possible, we show that initial states minimizing decoherence result from a delicate compromise between the environment and interaction dynamics.

id: 0908.0965
title: Nonextensive Quantum H-Theorem
authors: R. Silva, D. H. A. L. Anselmo, J. S. Alcaniz
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0965
abstract: A proof of the quantum $H$-theorem taking into account nonextensive effects on the quantum entropy $S^Q_q$ is shown. The positiveness of the time variation of $S^Q_q$ combined with a duality transformation implies that the nonextensive parameter $q$ lies in the interval [0,2]. It is also shown that the equilibrium states are described by quantum $q$-power law extensions of the Fermi-Dirac and Bose-Einstein distributions. Such results reduce to the standard ones in the extensive limit, thereby showing that the nonextensive entropic framework can be harmonized with the quantum distributions contained in the quantum statistics theory.

id: 0908.0967
title: Generators of KMS Symmetric Markov Semigroups on B(h) Symmetry and Quantum Detailed Balance
authors: F. Fagnola, V. Umanit¨¢
comments: 
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 298 (2), (2010), 523-547
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0967
abstract: We find the structure of generators of norm continuous quantum Markov semigroups on B(h) that are symmetric with respect to the scalar product tr(\rho^{1/2}x\rho^{1/2}y) induced by a faithful normal invariant state invariant state \rho and satisfy two quantum generalisations of the classical detailed balance condition related with this non-commutative notion of symmetry: the so-called standard detailed balance condition and the standard detailed balance condition with an antiunitary time reversal.

id: 0908.1026
title: The speed of Markovian relaxation towards the ground state
authors: Malte Vogl, Gernot Schaller, Tobias Brandes
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, reviewer suggestions included, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1026
abstract: For sufficiently low reservoir temperatures, it is known that open quantum systems subject to decoherent interactions with the reservoir relax towards their ground state in the weak coupling limit. Within the framework of quantum master equations, this is formalized by the Born-Markov-secular (BMS) approximation, where one obtains the system Gibbs state with the reservoir temperature as a stationary state. When the solution to some problem is encoded in the (isolated) ground state of a system Hamiltonian, decoherence can therefore be exploited for computation. The computational complexity is then given by the scaling of the relaxation time with the system size $n$. We study the relaxation behavior for local and non-local Hamiltonians that are coupled dissipatively with local and non-local operators to a bosonic bath in thermal equilibrium. We find that relaxation is generally more efficient when coherences of the density matrix in the system energy eigenbasis are taken into account. In addition, the relaxation speed strongly depends on the matrix elements of the coupling operators between initial state and ground state. We show that Dicke superradiance is a special case of our relaxation models and can thus be understood as a coherence-assisted relaxation speedup.

id: 0908.1027
title: On exponential polynomials and quantum computing
authors: Yasuo Ohno, Yoshitaka Sasaki, Chika Yamazaki
comments: 7pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1027
abstract: We calculate the zeros of an exponential polynomial of three variables by a classical algorithm and quantum algorithms which are based on the method of van Dam and Shparlinski, they treated the case of two variables, and compare with the time complexity of those cases. Further we compare the case of van Dam and Shparlinski with our case by considering the ratio (classical/quantum) of the time complexity. Then we can observe the ratio decreases.

id: 0908.1030
title: Entanglement entropy of a simple quantum system
authors: Maurizio Melis
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1030
abstract: We propose a simple approach to the calculation of the entanglement entropy of a spherically symmetric quantum system composed of two separate regions. We consider bound states of the system described by a wave function that is scale invariant and vanishes exponentially at infinity. Our result is in accordance with the holographic bound on entropy and shows that entanglement entropy scales with the area of the boundary.

id: 0908.1032
title: Coexistence of full which-path information and interference in Wheelers delayed choice experiment with photons
authors: K. Michielsen, S. Yuan, S. Zhao, F. Jin, H. De Raedt
comments: Physica E, in press; see also this http URL
journal: Physica E 42, 348 - 353 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1032
abstract: We present a computer simulation model that is a one-to-one copy of an experimental realization of Wheeler's delayed choice experiment that employs a single photon source and a Mach-Zehnder interferometer composed of a 50/50 input beam splitter and a variable output beam splitter with adjustable reflection coefficient $R$ (V. Jacques {\sl et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 220402 (2008)). For $0\le R\le 0.5$, experimentally measured values of the interference visibility $V$ and the path distinguishability $D$, a parameter quantifying the which-path information WPI, are found to fulfill the complementary relation $V^2+D^2\le 1$, thereby allowing to obtain partial WPI while keeping interference with limited visibility. The simulation model that is solely based on experimental facts, that satisfies Einstein's criterion of local causality and that does not rely on any concept of quantum theory or of probability theory, reproduces quantitatively the averages calculated from quantum theory. Our results prove that it is possible to give a particle-only description of the experiment, that one can have full WPI even if D=0, V=1 and therefore that the relation $V^2+D^2\le 1$ cannot be regarded as quantifying the notion of complementarity.

id: 0908.1034
title: Event-by-event simulation of quantum phenomena
authors: H. De Raedt, S. Zhao, S. Yuan, F. Jin, K. Michielsen, S. Miyashita
comments: Physica E in press; see also this http URL
journal: Physica E 42, 298 - 302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1034
abstract: We discuss recent progress in the development of simulation algorithms that do not rely on any concept of quantum theory but are nevertheless capable of reproducing the averages computed from quantum theory through an event-by-event simulation. The simulation approach is illustrated by applications to Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiments with photons.

id: 0908.1036
title: Event-by-event simulation of quantum eraser experiments with single photons
authors: F. Jin, S. Yuan, H. De Raedt, K. Michielsen
comments: J. Comp. Theor. Nanosci., in press; see also this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1036
abstract: We present a computer simulation model that is a one-to-one copy of a quantum eraser experiment with photons (P. D. D. Schwindt {\sl et al.}, Phys. Rev. A 60, 4285 (1999)). The model is solely based on experimental facts, satisfies Einstein's criterion of local causality and does not require knowledge of the solution of a wave equation. Nevertheless, the simulation model reproduces the averages as obtained from the wave mechanical description of the quantum eraser experiment, proving that it is possible to give a particle-only description of quantum eraser experiments with photons. We demonstrate that although the visibility can be used as a measure for the interference, it cannot be used to quantify the wave character of a photon. The classical particle-like simulation model renders the concept of wave-particle duality, used to explain the outcome of the quantum eraser experiment with photons, superfluous.

id: 0908.1040
title: Event-by-event simulation of the Hanbury Brown-Twiss experiment with coherent light
authors: F. Jin, H. De Raedt, K. Michielsen
comments: Submitted to Commmun. Comput. Phys
journal: Commun. Comput. Phys. 7, 813-830 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1040
abstract: We present a computer simulation model for the Hanbury Brown-Twiss experiment that is entirely particle-based and reproduces the results of wave theory. The model is solely based on experimental facts, satisfies Einstein's criterion of local causality and does not require knowledge of the solution of a wave equation. The simulation model is fully consistent with earlier work and provides another demonstration that it is possible to give a particle-only description of wave phenomena, rendering the concept of wave-particle duality superfluous.

id: 0908.1048
title: Driving Quantum System into Decoherence-free Subspaces by Lyapunov Control
authors: X. X. Yi, X. L. Huang, Chunfeng Wu, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 80,052316(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1048
abstract: We present a scheme to drive a finite-dimensional quantum system into the decoherence-free subspaces(DFS) by Lyapunov control. Control fields are established by Lyapunov function. This proposal works well for both closed and open quantum systems, with replacing the DFS by desired subspaces for closed systems. An example which consists of a four-level system with three degenerate states driven by three lasers is presented to gain further insight of the scheme, numerical simulations for the dynamics of the system are performed and the results are good.

id: 0908.1053
title: Universal Quantum Entanglement between an Oscillator and Continuous Fields
authors: Haixing Miao, Stefan Danilishin, Yanbei Chen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, comments are welcomed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1053
abstract: Quantum entanglement has been actively sought for in optomechanical and electromechanical systems. The simplest such system is a mechanical oscillator interacting with a coherent beam, while the oscillator also suffers from thermal decoherence. For this system, we show that quantum entanglement is always present between the oscillator and continuous outgoing fields -- even when the environmental temperature is high and the oscillator is highly classical. Such universal entanglement is also shown to be able to survive more than one oscillation cycle if characteristic frequency of the optomechanical interaction is larger than that of the thermal noise. Furthermore, we derive the effective optical mode that is maximally entangled with the oscillator, which will be useful for future quantum computing and encoding information into mechanical degrees of freedom.

id: 0908.1096
title: Entanglement and Composite Bosons
authors: Christopher Chudzicki, Olufolajimi Oke, William K. Wootters
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 070402 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1096
abstract: We build upon work by C. K. Law [Phys. Rev. A 71, 034306 (2005)] to show in general that the entanglement between two fermions largely determines the extent to which the pair behaves like an elementary boson. Specifically, we derive upper and lower bounds on a quantity that governs the bosonic character of a pair of fermions when N such pairs approximately share the same wavefunction. Our bounds depend on the purity of the single-particle density matrix, an indicator of entanglement, and demonstrate that if the entanglement is sufficiently strong, the quantity in question approaches its ideal bosonic value.

id: 0908.1132
title: Correlative Capacity of Composite Quantum States
authors: M. Hossein Partovi
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 230502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1132
abstract: We characterize the optimal correlative capacity of entangled, separable, and classically correlated states. Introducing the notions of the infimum and supremum within majorization theory, we construct the least disordered separable state compatible with a set of marginals. The maximum separable correlation information supportable by the marginals of a multi-qubit pure state is shown to be an LOCC monotone. The least disordered composite of a pair of qubits is found for the above classes, with classically correlated states defined as diagonal in the product of marginal bases.

id: 0908.1134
title: Decoherence suppression by uncollapsing
authors: Alexander N. Korotkov, Kyle Keane
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 040103(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1134
abstract: We show that the qubit decoherence due to zero-temperature energy relaxation can be almost completely suppressed by using the quantum uncollapsing procedure. To protect a qubit state, a partial quantum measurement moves it towards the ground state, where it is kept during the storage period, while the second partial measurement restores the initial state. This procedure preferentially selects the cases without energy decay events. Stronger decoherence suppression requires smaller selection probability; a desired point in this trade-off can be chosen by varying the measurement strength. The experiment can be realized in a straightforward way using the superconducting phase qubit.

id: 0908.1148
title: The double slit experiment and the time reversed fire alarm
authors: Tarek Halabi
comments: Last two paragraphs of Discussion section are an addendum to the version accepted at Il Nuovo Cimento B.
journal: Il Nuovo Cimento B 125 (2010) 163-171
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1148
abstract: When both slits of the double slit experiment are open, closing one paradoxically increases the detection rate at some points on the detection screen. Feynman famously warned that temptation to "understand" such a puzzling feature only draws us into blind alleys. Nevertheless, we gain insight into this feature by drawing an analogy between the double slit experiment and a time reversed fire alarm. Much as closing the slit increases probability of a future detection, ruling out fire drill scenarios, having heard the fire alarm, increases probability of a past fire (using Bayesian inference). Classically, Bayesian inference is associated with computing probabilities of past events. We therefore identify this feature of the double slit experiment with a time reversed thermodynamic arrow. We believe that much of the enigma of quantum mechanics is simply due to some variation of time's arrow. In further support of this, we employ a plausible formulation of the thermodynamic arrow to derive an uncertainty in classical mechanics that is reminiscent of quantum uncertainty.

id: 0908.1200
title: Parameter Estimation, Model Reduction and Quantum Filtering
authors: Bradley A. Chase
comments: 254 pages, dissertation as submitted to the University of New Mexico, August 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1200
abstract: This dissertation explores the topics of parameter estimation and model reduction in the context of quantum filtering. Chapters 2 and 3 provide a review of classical and quantum probability theory, stochastic calculus and filtering. Chapter 4 studies the problem of quantum parameter estimation and introduces the quantum particle filter as a practical computational method for parameter estimation via continuous measurement. Chapter 5 applies these techniques in magnetometry and studies the estimator's uncertainty scalings in a double-pass atomic magnetometer. Chapter 6 presents an efficient feedback controller for continuous-time quantum error correction. Chapter 7 presents an exact model of symmetric processes of collective qubit systems.

id: 0908.1231
title: Information contents and architectural requirements of observer "ready" states
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 17 pages, supports principal claim of arXiv:0906.2306; v2 complete re-write to improve notation, emphasize architectural issues, define POVMs and improve proof of Born rule; v3 revisions to improve clarity; result that observational outcomes are virtual-machine states not physical states made more explicit
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1231
abstract: A functional analysis of the task of observing multiple macroscopic quantum systems over an extended period of time and then reporting the accumulated results is used to investigate the information that must be encoded in the "ready" state |O^r> of any finite, macroscopic observer O capable of performing this task. Decoherence considerations show that this task can be considered as involving local observations under classical conditions (LOCC), allowing the use of classical automata theory to define a minimal observer. It is shown that such a minimal observer must implement a functional architecture equivalent to a classical Turing machine and must encode in |O^r> a classical specification of the complete set of reportable apparatus states. The observation task is then re-characterized employing an explicit model of such a minimal observer, and it is shown that both the assumption that external systems have well-defined boundaries against the environment and the assumption of decoherence are unnecessary for the characterization of measurements made by a minimal observer. It is shown that the observables available to a minimal observer are positive operator-valued measures (POVMs) and that the measurement results reported by a minimal observer comply with the Born rule. The differences in underlying physical assumptions between this "systems-free" treatment of observation and that traditionally employed in analyses of quantum measurement and quantum communication are discussed.

id: 0908.1262
title: Using the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm to determine parts of an array and apply a specified function to each independent part
authors: Samir Lipovaca
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1262
abstract: Using the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, we will develop a method for solving a class of problems in which we need to determine parts of an array and then apply a specified function to each independent part. Since present quantum computers are not robust enough for code writing and execution, we will build a model of a vector quantum computer that implements the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm from a machine language view using the APL2 programming language. The core of the method is an operator (DJBOX) which allows evaluation of an arbitrary function f by the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm. Two key functions of the method are GET_PARTITION and CALC_WITH_PARTITIONS. The GET_PARTITION function determines parts of an array based on the function f. The CALC_WITH_PARTITIONS function determines parts of an array based on the function f and then applies another function to each independent part. We will imagine the method is implemented on the above vector quantum computer. We will show that the method can be successfully executed.

id: 0908.1276
title: Gauge transformation through an accelerated frame of reference
authors: Ashish Shukla, Kaushik Bhattacharya
comments: 7 Pages, Latex file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1276
abstract: The Schr\"{o}dinger equation of a charged particle in a uniform electric field can be specified in either a time-independent or a time-dependent gauge. The wave-function solutions in these two gauges are related by a phase-factor reflecting the gauge symmetry of the problem. In this article we show that the effect of such a gauge transformation connecting the two wave-functions can be mimicked by the effect of two successive extended Galilean transformations connecting the two wave-function. An extended Galilean transformation connects two reference frames out of which one is accelerating with respect to the other.

id: 0908.1277
title: 1.5um Polarization-Entangled Bell States Generation Based on Birefringence in High Nonlinear Microstructure Fiber
authors: Qiang Zhou, Wei Zhang, Jierong Cheng, Yidong Huang, Jiangde Peng
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, accepted by optics letter
journal: Optics Letters, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1277
abstract: Polarization-entangled photon pair generation based on two scalar scattering processes of the vector four photon scattering has been demonstrated experimentally in high nonlinear microstructure fiber with birefringence. By controlling the pump polarization state, polarization-entangled Bell states can be realized. It is provides a simple way to realize efficient and compact fiber based polarization-entangled photon pair sources.

id: 0908.1288
title: Quantum phase properties of two-mode Jaynes-Cummings model for Schr?dinger-cat states: interference and entanglement
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, M. H. Mahran, M. R. B. Wahiddin, A. M. Hashim
comments: 23, 8 figures
journal: Opt. Commun. 6 (2004) 169-184
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1288
abstract: In this paper we investigate the quantum phase properties for the coherent superposition states (Schr\"odinger-cat states) for two-mode multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model in the framework of the Pegg-Barnett formalism. We also demonstrate the behavior of the Wigner ($W$) function at the phase space origin. We obtain many interesting results such as there is a clear relationship between the revival-collapse phenomenon occurring in the atomic inversion (as well as in the evolution of the $W$ function) and the behavior of the phase distribution of both the single-mode and two-mode cases. Furthermore, we find that the phase variances of the single-mode case can exhibit revival-collapse phenomenon about the long-time behavior. We show that such behavior occurs for interaction time several times smaller than that of the single-mode Jaynes-Cummings model.

id: 0908.1290
title: Exact Solutions of Effective Mass Dirac Equation with non-PT-Symmetric and non-Hermitian Exponential-type Potentials
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 10 pages
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 26, 090305(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1290
abstract: By using two-component approach to the one-dimensional effective mass Dirac equation bound states are investigated under the effect of two new non-PT-symmetric, and non-Hermitian, exponential type potentials. It is observed that the Dirac equation can be mapped into a Schr\"{o}dinger-like equation by rescaling one of the two Dirac wave functions in the case of the position dependent mass. The energy levels, and the corresponding Dirac eigenfunctions are found analytically.

id: 0908.1291
title: Entanglement criterion based on skew information
authors: Zhihao Ma
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1291
abstract: we can establish an entanglement criteria from skew information. our criterion is independent of Local Uncertainty Relations.

id: 0908.1301
title: Quantum Hamlet Effect- a New Example
authors: Vladan Pankovi?
comments: 4 pages no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1301
abstract: In this work we consider a new example of the recently introduced quantum Hamlet effect. We consider an especial, abstract, "unstable" quantum system whose dynamical evolution during a small time interval is interrupted by frequent measurements. Here three different final situations exist. First one corresponds to quantum Zeno effect, second one - to quantum anti-Zeno effect and third one - to so-called quantum Hamlet effect. By quantum Zeno effect final "non-decay" probability is function of number of the decay measurements variable and "dynamical degree" parameter equivalent to two. When measurements number tends toward infinity "non-decay" probability has the one limit, or, it tends analytically toward one and system stands "non-decayed". By quantum anti-Zeno effect final "non-decay" probability is function of number of the decay measurements variable and "dynamical degree" parameter equivalent to one. When measurements number tends toward infinity "non-decay" probability has the zero limit, or, it tends analytically toward zero and system becomes "decayed". By quantum Hamlet effect, final "non-decay" probability is function of two variable, number of the decay measurements and "dynamical degree". When measurements number tends toward infinity and "dynamical degree" toward one, final "non-decay" probability depends not only of final value of given variables, but, also, on the ways on which given variables tends toward their final values. It means that final "no-decay" probability has not (analytical) limit, or that there is no {\it analytical} prediction on the final "no-decay" probability. To be "decayed" or "no-decayed" that is analytically unsolvable question for given quantum system.

id: 0908.1321
title: On the construction of pseudo-hermitian quantum system with a pre-determined metric in the Hilbert space
authors: Pijush K. Ghosh
comments: 29 pages, revtex, minor changes, version to appear in Journal of Physics A(v3)
journal: J. Phys. A:Math. Theor. 43(2010)125203
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1321
abstract: A class of pseudo-hermitian quantum system with an explicit form of the positive-definite metric in the Hilbert space is presented. The general method involves a realization of the basic canonical commutation relations defining the quantum system in terms of operators those are hermitian with respect to a pre-determined positive definite metric in the Hilbert space. Appropriate combinations of these operators result in a large number of pseudo-hermitian quantum systems admitting entirely real spectra and unitary time evolution. The examples considered include simple harmonic oscillators with complex angular frequencies, Stark(Zeeman) effect with complex electric(magnetic) field, non-hermitian general quadratic form of N boson(fermion) operators, symmetric and asymmetric XXZ spin-chain in complex magnetic field, non-hermitian Haldane-Shastry spin-chain and Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model.

id: 0908.1370
title: Optimizing the Multi-Photon Absorption Properties of N00N States
authors: William N. Plick, Christoph F. Wildfeuer, Petr M. Anisimov, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1370
abstract: In this paper we examine the N-photon absorption properties of "N00N" states, a subclass of path entangled number states. We consider two cases. The first involves the N-photon absorption properties of the ideal N00N state, one that does not include spectral information. We study how the N-photon absorption probability of this state scales with N. We compare this to the absorption probability of various other states. The second case is that of two-photon absorption for an N = 2 N00N state generated from a type II spontaneous down conversion event. In this situation we find that the absorption probability is both better than analogous coherent light (due to frequency entanglement) and highly dependent on the optical setup. We show that the poor production rates of quantum states of light may be partially mitigated by adjusting the spectral parameters to improve their two-photon absorption rates. This work has application to quantum imaging, particularly quantum lithography, where the N-photon absorbing process in the lithographic resist must be optimized for practical applications.

id: 0908.1415
title: Measuring the quantum state of a nanomechanical oscillator
authors: Swati Singh, Pierre Meystre
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1415
abstract: We propose a scheme to measure the quantum state of a nanomechanical oscillator cooled near its ground state of vibrational motion. This is an extension of the nonlinear atomic homodyning technique scheme first developed to measure the intracavity field in a micromaser. It involves the use of a detector-atom that is simultaneously coupled to the cantilever via a magnetic interaction and to (classical) optical fields via a Raman transition. We show that the probability for the atom to be found in the excited state is a direct measure of the Wigner characteristic function of the nanomechanical oscillator. We also investigate the backaction effect of this destructive measurement on the state of the cantilever.

id: 0908.1445
title: Entangling nanomechanical oscillators in a ring cavity by feeding squeezed light
authors: Sumei Huang, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 13 pages,5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 103044
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1445
abstract: A scheme is presented for entangling two separated nanomechanical oscillators by injecting broad band squeezed vacuum light and laser light into the ring cavity. We work in the resolved sideband regime. We find that in order to obtain the maximum entanglement of the two oscillators, the squeezing parameter of the input light should be about 1. We report significant entanglement over a very wide range of power levels of the pump and temperatures of the environment.

id: 0908.1454
title: Effect of bath temperature on the quantum decoherence
authors: Peihao Huang, Hang Zheng
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Chemical Physics Letters 500, 256 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1454
abstract: The dynamics of a qubit in two different environments are investigated theoretically. The first environment is a two level system coupled to a bosonic bath. And the second one is a damped harmonic oscillator. Based on a unitary transformation, we find that the decoherence of the qubit can be reduced with increasing temperature $T$ in the first case, which agree with the results in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 120401], whereas, it can not be reduced with $T$ in the second case. In both cases, the qubit dynamics are changed substantially as the coupling increases or finite detuning appears.

id: 0908.1456
title: The high probability state transfers and entanglements between different nodes of the homogeneous spin 1/2 chain in inhomogeneous external magnetic field
authors: S.I. Doronin, A.I. Zenchuk
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 81, 022321 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1456
abstract: We consider the high probability state transfers and entanglements between different nodes of the spin-1/2 chains governed by the XXZ-Hamiltonian using the inhomogeneous stationary external magnetic field. Examples of three-, four-, ten- and twenty-node chains are represented. A variant of realization of the proper inhomogeneous magnetic field is discussed.

id: 0908.1457
title: General Scheme for Perfect Quantum Network Coding with Free Classical Communication
authors: Hirotada Kobayashi, Fran?ois Le Gall, Harumichi Nishimura, Martin Roetteler
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, generalizes some of the results in arXiv:0902.1299 to the k-pair problem and codes over rings. Appeared in the Proceedings of the 36th International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming (ICALP'09), LNCS 5555, pp. 622-633, 2009
journal: Proceedings of the 36th International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming (ICALP'09), LNCS 5555, pp. 622-633, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1457
abstract: This paper considers the problem of efficiently transmitting quantum states through a network. It has been known for some time that without additional assumptions it is impossible to achieve this task perfectly in general -- indeed, it is impossible even for the simple butterfly network. As additional resource we allow free classical communication between any pair of network nodes. It is shown that perfect quantum network coding is achievable in this model whenever classical network coding is possible over the same network when replacing all quantum capacities by classical capacities. More precisely, it is proved that perfect quantum network coding using free classical communication is possible over a network with $k$ source-target pairs if there exists a classical linear (or even vector linear) coding scheme over a finite ring. Our proof is constructive in that we give explicit quantum coding operations for each network node. This paper also gives an upper bound on the number of classical communication required in terms of $k$, the maximal fan-in of any network node, and the size of the network.

id: 0908.1467
title: Matchgate and space-bounded quantum computations are equivalent
authors: Richard Jozsa, Barbara Kraus, Akimasa Miyake, John Watrous
comments: 22 pages
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 466, 809-830 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1467
abstract: Matchgates are an especially multiflorous class of two-qubit nearest neighbour quantum gates, defined by a set of algebraic constraints. They occur for example in the theory of perfect matchings of graphs, non-interacting fermions, and one-dimensional spin chains. We show that the computational power of circuits of matchgates is equivalent to that of space-bounded quantum computation with unitary gates, with space restricted to being logarithmic in the width of the matchgate circuit. In particular, for the conventional setting of polynomial-sized (logarithmic-space generated) families of matchgate circuits, known to be classically simulatable, we characterise their power as coinciding with polynomial-time and logarithmic-space bounded universal unitary quantum computation.

id: 0908.1476
title: Resources for universal quantum state manipulation and engineering
authors: Petr Marek, Jarom¨ªr Fiur¨¢?ek
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 062321 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1476
abstract: We investigate which non-Gaussian resources are needed, in addition to Gaussian operations and measurements, for implementation of arbitrary quantum gates on multimode quantum states of light. We show that an arbitrary set of states with finite expansion in Fock basis is sufficient for this task. As an illustration we present an explicit scheme for probabilistic implementation of the nonlinear sign gate using resource non-Gaussian states and Gaussian operations.

id: 0908.1483
title: Atom cooling by non-adiabatic expansion
authors: Xi Chen, J. G. Muga, A. del Campo, A. Ruschhaupt
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 063421 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1483
abstract: Motivated by the recent discovery that a reflecting wall moving with a square-root in time trajectory behaves as a universal stopper of classical particles regardless of their initial velocities, we compare linear in time and square-root in time expansions of a box to achieve efficient atom cooling. For the quantum single-atom wavefunctions studied the square-root in time expansion presents important advantages: asymptotically it leads to zero average energy whereas any linear in time (constant box-wall velocity) expansion leaves a non-zero residual energy, except in the limit of an infinitely slow expansion. For finite final times and box lengths we set a number of bounds and cooling principles which again confirm the superior performance of the square-root in time expansion, even more clearly for increasing excitation of the initial state. Breakdown of adiabaticity is generally fatal for cooling with the linear expansion but not so with the square-root expansion.

id: 0908.1491
title: Entanglement evolution in a cascaded system with losses
authors: Christian Di Fidio, Werner Vogel
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1491
abstract: The dynamics of a cascaded system that consists of two atom-cavity subsystems is studied by using the quantum trajectory method. Unwanted losses are included, such as photon absorption and scattering by the cavity mirrors and spontaneous emission of the atoms. Considering an initially excited two-level atom in the source subsystem, analytical solutions are obtained. The entanglement evolution is studied for the two atoms and for the two intracavity fields.

id: 0908.1496
title: Closed sets of non-local correlations
authors: Jonathan Allcock, Nicolas Brunner, Noah Linden, Sandu Popescu, Paul Skrzypczyk, Tamas Vertesi
comments: 4+2 pages, new introduction and discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062107 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1496
abstract: We introduce a fundamental concept -- closed sets of correlations -- for studying non-local correlations. We argue that sets of correlations corresponding to information-theoretic principles, or more generally to consistent physical theories, must be closed under a natural set of operations. Hence, studying the closure of sets of correlations gives insight into which information-theoretic principles are genuinely different, and which are ultimately equivalent. This concept also has implications for understanding why quantum non-locality is limited, and for finding constraints on physical theories beyond quantum mechanics.

id: 0908.1522
title: Phase Reversal Diffraction in incoherent light
authors: Su-Heng Zhang, Shu Gan, De-Zhong Cao, Jun Xiong, Xiangdong Zhang, Kaige Wang
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1522
abstract: Phase reversal occurs in the propagation of an electromagnetic wave in a negatively refracting medium or a phase-conjugate interface. Here we report the experimental observation of phase reversal diffraction without the above devices. Our experimental results and theoretical analysis demonstrate that phase reversal diffraction can be formed through the first-order field correlation of chaotic light. The experimental realization is similar to phase reversal behavior in negatively refracting media.

id: 0908.1524
title: Quantum random walks on the $N$-cycle subject to decoherence on the coin degree of freedom
authors: Chaobin Liu, Nelson Petulante
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 031113 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1524
abstract: For a discrete time quantum walk (QW) on the $N$-cycle, allowing for decoherence on the coin, we derive a number of new results, including an explicit formula for the position probability distribution. For a QW of this type, we show that the mixing behavior tends, in the long-run, to a uniform distribution, regardless of the initial state of the system and irrespective of the parity of the number of nodes $N$. These results confirm the findings of previous authors who arrived at similar conclusions through extensive numerical simulations. In particular, we infer that the mixing time $\bar{M(\epsilon)}$ for the time-everaged probability distribution is of order no greater than $O(N^2/\epsilon)$.

id: 0908.1526
title: Arbitrarily Accurate Dynamical Control in Open Quantum Systems
authors: Kaveh Khodjasteh, Daniel A. Lidar, Lorenza Viola
comments: 4 pages and 20 characters, 1 figure [improvements and fixes, PRL version]
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 090501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1526
abstract: We show that open-loop dynamical control techniques may be used to synthesize unitary transformations in open quantum systems in such a way that decoherence is perturbatively compensated for to a desired (in principle arbitrarily high) level of accuracy, which depends only on the strength of the relevant errors and the achievable rate of control modulation. Our constructive and fully analytical solution employs concatenated dynamically corrected gates, and is applicable independently of detailed knowledge of the system-environment interactions and environment dynamics. Explicit implications for boosting quantum gate fidelities in realistic scenarios are addressed.

id: 0908.1560
title: Steady-State Two Atom Entanglement in a Pumped Cavity
authors: Hideomi Nihira, C. R. Stroud Jr
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1560
abstract: In this paper we explore the possibility of a steady-state entanglement of two two-level atoms inside a pumped cavity by taking into account cavity leakage and the spontaneous emission of photons by the atoms. We describe the system in the dressed state picture in which the coherence is built into the dressed states while transitions between the dressed states are incoherent. Our model assumes the vacuum Rabi splitting of the dressed states to be much larger than any of the decay parameters of the system which allows atom-field coherence to build up before any decay process takes over. We show that, under our model, a pumping field cannot entangle two closed two-level atoms inside the cavity in the steady-state, but a steady-state entanglement can be achieved with two open two-level atoms.

id: 0908.1583
title: Probabilistic theories with purification
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti
comments: Differing from the journal version, this version includes a table of contents and makes extensive use of boldface type to highlight the contents of the main theorems. It includes a self-contained introduction to the framework of general probabilistic theories and a discussion about the role of causality and local discriminability
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062348 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1583
abstract: We investigate general probabilistic theories in which every mixed state has a purification, unique up to reversible channels on the purifying system. We show that the purification principle is equivalent to the existence of a reversible realization of every physical process, namely that every physical process can be regarded as arising from a reversible interaction of the system with an environment, which is eventually discarded. From the purification principle we also construct an isomorphism between transformations and bipartite states that possesses all structural properties of the Choi-Jamiolkowski isomorphism in quantum mechanics. Such an isomorphism allows one to prove most of the basic features of quantum mechanics, like e.g. existence of pure bipartite states giving perfect correlations in independent experiments, no information without disturbance, no joint discrimination of all pure states, no cloning, teleportation, no programming, no bit commitment, complementarity between correctable channels and deletion channels, characterization of entanglement-breaking channels as measure-and-prepare channels, and others, without resorting to the mathematical framework of Hilbert spaces.

id: 0908.1591
title: Scalable arrays of RF Paul traps in degenerate Si
authors: J. Britton, D. Leibfried, J. Beall, R. B. Blakestad, J. H. Wesenberg, D. J. Wineland
comments: 3 pages; 2 figures; v2: fix heating rate typo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1591
abstract: We report techniques for the fabrication of multi-zone linear RF Paul traps that exploit the machinability and electrical conductivity of degenerate silicon. The approach was tested by trapping and laser cooling 24Mg+ ions in two trap geometries: a single-zone two-layer trap and a multi-zone surface-electrode trap. From the measured ion motional heating rate we determine an electric field spectral density at the ion's position of approximately 1E-10 (V/m)^2/Hz at a frequency of 1.125 MHz when the ion lies 40 micron above the trap surface. One application of these devices is controlled manipulation of atomic ion qubits, the basis of one form of quantum information processing.

id: 0908.1604
title: Reconstruction of spatial qutrit states based on realistic measurement operators
authors: Gen Taguchi, Tatsuo Dougakiuchi, Masataka Iinuma, Holger F. Hofmann, Yutaka Kadoya
comments: 15 pages, including 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1604
abstract: Spatial qudit states can be realized by using multi-slits to discretize the transverse momentum of a photon. The merit of this kind of spatial qudit states is that the implementation of higher dimensional qudits is relatively easy. As we have recently shown, the quantum states of these spatial qudits can be analyzed by scanning a single interference pattern. This method of single scan tomography can also be applied at higher dimensions, but the reconstruction becomes more sensitive to smaller details of the scanned patterns as the dimensions increase. In this paper, we investigate the effect of finite measurement resolution on the single scan tomography of spatial qutrits. Realistic measurement operators describing the spatial resolution of the measurement are introduced and the corresponding pattern functions for quantum state reconstruction are derived. We use the pattern functions to analyze experimental results for entangled pairs of spatial qutrits generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC). It is shown that a reliable reconstruction of the quantum state can be achieved with finite measurement resolution if this limitation of the measurement is included in the pattern functions of single scan tomography.

id: 0908.1620
title: New designs of reversible sequential devices
authors: Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1620
abstract: A clear protocol for synthesis of sequential reversible circuits from any particular gate library has been provided. Using that protocol, reversible circuits for SR latch, D latch, JK latch and T latch are designed from NCT gate library. All the circuits have been optimized with the help of existing local optimization algorithms (e.g. template matching, moving rule and deletion rule). It has been shown that the present proposals have lower gate complexities, lower number of garbage bits, lower quantum cost and lower number of feedback loops compared to the earlier proposals. For a fair comparison, the optimized sequential circuits have been compared with the earlier proposals for the same after converting the earlier proposed circuits into equivalent NCT circuits. Further, we have shown that the advantage in gate count obtained in some of the earlier proposals by introduction of New gates is an artifact and if it is allowed then every reversible circuit block can be reduced to a single gate. In this context, some important conceptual issues related to the designing and optimization of sequential reversible circuits have been addressed. A protocol for minimization of quantum cost of reversible circuit has also been proposed here.

id: 0908.1633
title: Code Generator for Quantum Simulated Annealing
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 33 pages (files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 19 .pdf)-v.2 improved appendix about szegedy ops
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1633
abstract: This paper introduces QuSAnn v1.2 and Multiplexor Expander v1.2, two Java applications available for free. (Source code included in the distribution.) QuSAnn is a "code generator" for quantum simulated annealing: after the user inputs some parameters, it outputs a quantum circuit for performing simulated annealing on a quantum computer. The quantum circuit implements the algorithm of Wocjan et al. (arXiv:0804.4259), which improves on the original algorithm of Somma et al. (arXiv:0712.1008). The quantum circuit generated by QuSAnn includes some quantum multiplexors. The application Multiplexor Expander allows the user to replace each of those multiplexors by a sequence of more elementary gates such as multiply controlled NOTs and qubit rotations.

id: 0908.1641
title: Passive-scheme analysis for solving untrusted source problem in quantum key distribution
authors: Xiang Peng, Bingjie Xu, Hong Guo
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 81, 042320 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1641
abstract: As a practical method, the passive scheme is useful to monitor the photon statistics of an untrusted source in a "Plug & Play" quantum key distribution (QKD) system. In a passive scheme, three kinds of monitor mode can be adopted: average photon number (APN) monitor, photon number analyzer (PNA) and photon number distribution (PND) monitor. In this paper, the security analysis is rigorously given for APN monitor, while for PNA, the analysis including statistical fluctuation and random noise, is addressed with a confidence level. The results show that the PNA can achieve better performance than the APN monitor and can asymptotically approach the theoretical limit of the PND monitor. Also, the passive scheme with the PNA works efficiently when the signal-to-noise ratio ($R^{SN}$) is not too low and so is highly applicable to solve the untrusted source problem in the QKD system.

id: 0908.1657
title: On zeros of exponential polynomials and quantum algorithms
authors: Yoshitaka Sasaki
comments: 8 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1657
abstract: We calculate the zeros of an exponential polynomial of some variables by a classical algorithm and quantum algorithms which are based on the method of van Dam and Shparlinski, they treated the case of two variables, and compare with the complexity of those cases. Further we consider the ratio (classical/quantum) of the complexity. Then we can observe the ratio is virtually 2 when the number of the variables is sufficiently large.

id: 0908.1662
title: Measuring arbitrary-order coherences: Tomography of single-mode multiphoton polarization-entangled states
authors: Uwe Schilling, Joachim von Zanthier, Girish S. Agarwal
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, 1 table, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 013826 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1662
abstract: A scheme is discussed for measuring Nth-order coherences of two orthogonally polarized light fields in a single spatial mode at very limited experimental cost. To implement the scheme, the only measurements needed are the Nth-order intensity moments after the light beam has passed through two quarter-wave plates, one half-wave plate, and a polarizing beam splitter for specific settings of the wave plates. It is shown that this method can be applied for arbitrarily large N. A set of explicit values is given for the settings of the wave plates, constituting an optimal measurement of the Nth-order coherences for any N. For Fock states the method introduced here corresponds to a full state tomography. Applications of the scheme to systems other than polarization optics are discussed.

id: 0908.1668
title: A note on general no-cloning theorem for black boxes
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1668
abstract: The paper has been withdrawn by the author due to unhappy mistake in the initial scope of the work.

id: 0908.1674
title: A canonical form for Projected Entangled Pair States and applications
authors: D. Perez-Garcia, M. Sanz, C.E. Gonzalez-Guillen, M.M. Wolf, J.I. Cirac
comments: 10 pages, 16 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 025010. The title of the journal version is "Characterizing symmetries in a projected entangled pair state"
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1674
abstract: We show that two different tensors defining the same translational invariant injective Projected Entangled Pair State (PEPS) in a square lattice must be the same up to a trivial gauge freedom. This allows us to characterize the existence of any local or spatial symmetry in the state. As an application of these results we prove that a SU(2) invariant PEPS with half-integer spin cannot be injective, which can be seen as a Lieb-Shultz-Mattis theorem in this context. We also give the natural generalization for U(1) symmetry in the spirit of Oshikawa-Yamanaka-Affleck, and show that a PEPS with Wilson loops cannot be injective.

id: 0908.1682
title: Quantum dice rolling
authors: N. Aharon, J. Silman
comments: Discussion expanded, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1682
abstract: A coin is just a two sided dice. Recently, Mochon proved that quantum weak coin flipping with an arbitrarily small bias is possible. However, the use of quantum resources to allow N remote distrustful parties to roll an N-sided dice has yet to be addressed. In this paper we show that contrary to the classical case, N-sided dice rolling with arbitrarily small bias is possible for any N. In addition, we present a six-round three-sided dice rolling protocol, achieving a bias of 0.181, which incorporates weak imbalanced coin flipping.

id: 0908.1686
title: Conclusive inner product modification
authors: Luis Roa, A. Delgado, M. L. Ladron de Guevara
comments: 7 pages, 4 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1686
abstract: The task of changing the overlap between two quantum states can not be performed by making use of a unitary evolution only. However, by means of a unitary-reduction process it can be probabilistically modified. Here we study in detail the problem of mapping two known pure states onto other two states in such a way that the final inner product between the outcome states is different from the inner product of the initial states. In this way we design an optimal non-orthogonal quantum state preparation scheme by starting from an orthonormal basis. In this scheme the absolute value of the inner product can be reduced only probabilistically whereas it can be increased deterministically. Our analysis shows that the phases of the involved inner products play an important role in the increase of the success probability of the desired process.

id: 0908.1713
title: Resonance Phenomenon Related to Spectral Singularities, Complex Barrier Potential, and Resonating Waveguides
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Published version, 20 pages, 2 tables, 7 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:032711,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1713
abstract: A peculiar property of complex scattering potentials is the appearance of spectral singularities. These are energy eigenvalues for certain scattering states that similarly to resonance states have infinite reflection and transmission coefficients. This property reveals an interesting resonance effect with possible applications in waveguide physics. We study the spectral singularities of a complex barrier potential and explore their application in designing a waveguide that functions as a resonator. We show that for the easily accessible sizes of the waveguide and its gain region, we can realize the spectral singularity-related resonance phenomenon at almost every wavelength within the visible spectrum or outside it.

id: 0908.1717
title: Travelling to exotic places with cavity QED systems
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T140, 014025 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1717
abstract: Recent theoretical schemes for utilizing cavity QED models as quantum simulators are reviewed. By considering a quadrature representation for the fields, it is shown how Jahn-Teller models, effective Abelian or non-Abelian gauge potentials, transverse Hall currents, and relativistic effects naturally arise in these systems. Some of the analytical predictions are verified numerically using realistic experimental parameters taking into account for system losses. Thereby demonstrating their feasibility with current experimental setups.

id: 0908.1727
title: Polynomial method to study the entanglement of pure N-qubit states
authors: H. M?kel?, A. Messina
comments: 7 pages. Extensively revised and shortened
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012326 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1727
abstract: We present a mapping which associates pure N-qubit states with a polynomial. The roots of the polynomial characterize the state completely. Using the properties of the polynomial we construct a way to determine the separability and the number of unentangled qubits of pure N-qubit states.

id: 0908.1755
title: Non-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics with Minimal Length Uncertainty
authors: T.K. Jana, P. Roy
comments: 
journal: SIGMA.5:083,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1755
abstract: We study non-Hermitian quantum mechanics in the presence of a minimal length. In particular we obtain exact solutions of a non-Hermitian displaced harmonic oscillator and the Swanson model with minimal length uncertainty. The spectrum in both the cases are found to be real. It is also shown that the models are $\eta$ pseudo-Hermitian and the metric operator is found explicitly in both the cases.

id: 0908.1787
title: Quantum Picturalism
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: Commissioned paper for Contemporary Physics, 31 pages, 84 pictures, some color
journal: Contemporary Physics 51, 59-83, 2010.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1787
abstract: The quantum mechanical formalism doesn't support our intuition, nor does it elucidate the key concepts that govern the behaviour of the entities that are subject to the laws of quantum physics. The arrays of complex numbers are kin to the arrays of 0s and 1s of the early days of computer programming practice. In this review we present steps towards a diagrammatic `high-level' alternative for the Hilbert space formalism, one which appeals to our intuition. It allows for intuitive reasoning about interacting quantum systems, and trivialises many otherwise involved and tedious computations. It clearly exposes limitations such as the no-cloning theorem, and phenomena such as quantum teleportation. As a logic, it supports `automation'. It allows for a wider variety of underlying theories, and can be easily modified, having the potential to provide the required step-stone towards a deeper conceptual understanding of quantum theory, as well as its unification with other physical theories. Specific applications discussed here are purely diagrammatic proofs of several quantum computational schemes, as well as an analysis of the structural origin of quantum non-locality. The underlying mathematical foundation of this high-level diagrammatic formalism relies on so-called monoidal categories, a product of a fairly recent development in mathematics. These monoidal categories do not only provide a natural foundation for physical theories, but also for proof theory, logic, programming languages, biology, cooking, ... The challenge is to discover the necessary additional pieces of structure that allow us to predict genuine quantum phenomena.

id: 0908.1819
title: The revival-collapse phenomenon in the quadrature field components of the two-mode multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Faisal A A El-Orany
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quant. Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) 341-349
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1819
abstract: In this paper we consider a system consisting of a two-level atom in an excited state interacting with two modes of a radiation field prepared initially in $l$-photon coherent states. This system is described by two-mode multiphoton (, i.e., $k_1, k_2$) Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM). For this system we investigate the occurrence of the revival-collapse phenomenon (RCP) in the evolution of the single-mode, two-mode, sum and difference quadrature squeezing. We show that there is a class of states for which all these types of squeezing exhibit RCP similar to that involved in the corresponding atomic inversion. Also we show numerically that the single-mode squeezing of the first mode for $(k_1,k_2)=(3,1)$ provides RCP similar to that of the atomic inversion of the case $(k_1,k_2)=(1,1)$, however, sum and difference squeezing give partial information on that case. Moreover, we show that single-mode, two-mode and sum squeezing for the case $(k_1,k_2)=(2,2)$ provide information on the atomic inversion of the single-mode two-photon JCM. We derive the rescaled squeezing factors giving accurate information on the atomic inversion for all cases. The consequences of these results are that the homodyne and heterodyne detectors can be used to detect the RCP for the two-mode JCM.

id: 0908.1846
title: Spectral conditions for entanglement witnesses vs. bound entanglement
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski, Gniewomir Sarbicki
comments: new references; 4.5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev A 80, 042314 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1846
abstract: It is shown that entanglement witnesses constructed via the family of spectral conditions are decomposable, i.e. cannot be used to detect bound entanglement. It supports several observations that bound entanglement reveals highly non-spectral features.

id: 0908.1857
title: Photons with tunable spectral shapes: The transition from frequency anticorrelated to correlated photon pairs
authors: M. Hendrych, M. Mi?uda, A. Valencia, J. P. Torres
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1857
abstract: We present an experimental demonstration of the full control of the frequency correlations of entangled photon pairs. The joint spectrum of photon pairs is continuously varied from photons that exhibit anticorrelation in frequency to photons that exhibit correlation in frequency, passing through the case of uncorrelated photons. Highly entangled frequency-anticorrelated photon pairs were obtained even when an ultrafast laser was used as a pump. The different kinds of correlations are obtained without changing neither the wavelength, nor the nonlinear crystal.

id: 0908.1867
title: Monogamy of Correlations vs. Monogamy of Entanglement
authors: Michael Seevinck
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. Invited submission to a special issue of Quantum Information Processing. v2: Published version. Open access
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol. 9, 273-294 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1867
abstract: A fruitful way of studying physical theories is via the question whether the possible physical states and different kinds of correlations in each theory can be shared to different parties. Over the past few years it has become clear that both quantum entanglement and non-locality (i.e., correlations that violate Bell-type inequalities) have limited shareability properties and can sometimes even be monogamous. We give a self-contained review of these results as well as present new results on the shareability of different kinds of correlations, including local, quantum and no-signalling correlations. This includes an alternative simpler proof of the Toner-Verstraete monogamy inequality for quantum correlations, as well as a strengthening thereof. Further, the relationship between sharing non-local quantum correlations and sharing mixed entangled states is investigated, and already for the simplest case of bi-partite correlations and qubits this is shown to be non-trivial. Also, a recently proposed new interpretation of Bell's theorem by Schumacher in terms of shareability of correlations is critically assessed. Finally, the relevance of monogamy of non-local correlations for secure quantum key distribution is pointed out, although, and importantly, it is stressed that not all non-local correlations are monogamous.

id: 0908.1875
title: An Initial Value Representation with Complex Trajectories
authors: Marcus A.M. de Aguiar, Silvio A. Vitiello, Adriano Grigolo
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1875
abstract: We present an Initial Value Representation for the semiclassical coherent state propagator based on complex trajectories. We map the complex phase space into a real phase space with twice as many dimensions and use a simple procedure to automatically eliminate non-contributing trajectories. The resulting semiclassical formulas do not show divergences due to caustics and provide accurate results.

id: 0908.1921
title: Quantum Algorithm for Molecular Properties and Geometry Optimization
authors: Ivan Kassal, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 131, 224102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1921
abstract: It is known that quantum computers, if available, would allow an exponential decrease in the computational cost of quantum simulations. We extend this result to show that the computation of molecular properties (energy derivatives) could also be sped up using quantum computers. We provide a quantum algorithm for the numerical evaluation of molecular properties, whose time cost is a constant multiple of the time needed to compute the molecular energy, regardless of the size of the system. Molecular properties computed with the proposed approach could also be used for the optimization of molecular geometries or other properties. For that purpose, we discuss the benefits of quantum techniques for Newton's method and Householder methods. Finally, global minima for the proposed optimizations can be found using the quantum basin hopper algorithm, which offers an additional quadratic reduction in cost over classical multi-start techniques.

id: 0908.1961
title: Non-Markovian Quantum Jumps in Excitonic Energy Transfer
authors: Patrick Rebentrost, Rupak Chakraborty, Alan Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 131, 184102 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1961
abstract: We utilize the novel non-Markovian quantum jump (NMQJ) approach to stochastically simulate exciton dynamics derived from a time-convolutionless master equation. For relevant parameters and time scales, the time-dependent, oscillatory decoherence rates can have negative regions, a signature of non-Markovian behavior and of the revival of coherences. This can lead to non-Markovian population beatings for a dimer system at room temperature. We show that strong exciton-phonon coupling to low frequency modes can considerably modify transport properties. We observe increased exciton transport, which can be seen as an extension of recent environment-assisted quantum transport (ENAQT) concepts to the non-Markovian regime. Within the NMQJ method, the Fenna-Matthew-Olson protein is investigated as a prototype for larger photosynthetic complexes.

id: 0908.1994
title: Strong coupling cavity QED using rare-earth-ion dopants in monolithic resonators: what you can do with a weak oscillator
authors: D. L. McAuslan, J. J. Longdell, M. J. Sellars
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1994
abstract: We investigate the possibility of achieving the strong coupling regime of cavity quantum electrodynamics using rare earth ions as impurities in monolithic optical resonators. We conclude that due to the weak oscillator strengths of the rare earths, it may be possible but difficult, to reach the regime where the single photon Rabi frequency is large compared to both the cavity and atom decay rates. However reaching the regime where the saturation photon and atom numbers are less than one should be much more achievable. We show that in this `bad cavity' regime, transfer of quantum states and an optical phase shift conditional on the state of the atom is still possible, and suggest a method for coherent detection of single dopants.

id: 0908.2018
title: Quantum interference in the time-of-flight distribution
authors: Md. Manirul Ali, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: 5 figures, Accepted by Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 385303.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2018
abstract: We propose a scheme to experimentally observe matter-wave interference in the time domain, specifically in the arrival-time or the time-of-flight (TOF) distribution for atomic BEC Schrodinger-cat state represented by superposition of macroscopically separated wave packets in space. This is in contrast to interference in space at a fixed time observed in reported BEC experiments. We predict and quantify the quantum interference in the TOF distribution calculated from the modulus of the quantum probability current density (rather than the TOF distributions obtained from a purely classical or semi-classical treatment in many reported experiments). The interference and hence the coherence in the quantum TOF signal disappears in the large-mass limit. Our scheme has the potential to probe the validity of various other theoretical approaches (Phys. Rep. 338, 353 (2000)) of calculating the quantum arrival time distribution.

id: 0908.2031
title: Comment on "Groverian Entanglement Measure and Evolution of Entanglement in Search Algorithm for n(= 3, 5)-Qubit Systems with Real Coefficients" (Volume 6, Number 4, August 2007), by Arti Chamoli and C. M. Bhandari
authors: Preeti Parashar, Swapan Rana
comments: 4 pages, published online in Quantum Info. Process. on 24 July 2009
journal: Quantum Info. Process. 8, 357 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2031
abstract: We point out that the main results-the analytic expressions for the Groverian Measure of Entanglement, in the above mentioned paper are erroneous. The technical mistake of the paper is discussed. It is shown by an explicit example that the formula for calculating the Groverian measure yields G(|\psi>) = 0 for some entangled states.

id: 0908.2055
title: Dissipation induced Tonks-Girardeau gas of photons
authors: Martin Kiffner, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 021806(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2055
abstract: A scheme for the generation of a Tonks-Girardeau gas of photons with purely dissipative interaction is described. We put forward a master equation approach for the description of stationary light in atomic four-level media and show that, under suitable conditions, two particle decays are the dominant photon loss mechanism. These dissipative two-photon losses increase the interaction strength by at least one order of magnitude as compared to dispersive two-photon processes and can drive the photons into the Tonks-Girardeau regime. Different scenarios for the observation of fermionic correlations between photons in the Tonks-Girardeau gas regime are discussed.

id: 0908.2076
title: How small can thermal machines be? The smallest possible refrigerator
authors: Noah Linden, Sandu Popescu, Paul Skrzypczyk
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 130401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2076
abstract: We investigate the fundamental dimensional limits to thermodynamic machines. In particular we show that it is possible to construct self-contained refrigerators (i.e. not requiring external sources of work) consisting of only a small number of qubits and/or qutrits. We present three different models, consisting of two qubits, a qubit and a qutrit with nearest-neighbour interactions, and a single qutrit respectively. We then investigate fundamental limits to their performance; in particular we show that it is possible to cool towards absolute zero.

id: 0908.2078
title: Engineering Stable Discrete-Time Quantum Dynamics via a Canonical QR Decomposition
authors: Saverio Bolognani, Francesco Ticozzi
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, VOL. 55, NO. 12, December 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2078
abstract: We analyze the asymptotic behavior of discrete-time, Markovian quantum systems with respect to a subspace of interest. Global asymptotic stability of subspaces is relevant to quantum information processing, in particular for initializing the system in pure states or subspace codes. We provide a linear-algebraic characterization of the dynamical properties leading to invariance and attractivity of a given quantum subspace. We then construct a design algorithm for discrete-time feedback control that allows to stabilize a target subspace, proving that if the control problem is feasible, then the algorithm returns an effective control choice. In order to prove this result, a canonical QR matrix decomposition is derived, and also used to establish the control scheme potential for the simulation of open-system dynamics.

id: 0908.2134
title: Discrepancies between decoherence and the Loschmidt echo
authors: B. Casabone, I. Garcia-Mata, D. A. Wisniacki
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Changed title. Added 1 figure. Published version.
journal: Europhys. Lett. 89 50009 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2134
abstract: The Loschmidt echo and the purity are two quantities that can provide invaluable information about the evolution of a quantum system. While the Loschmidt echo characterizes instability and sensitivity to perturbations, purity measures the loss of coherence produced by an environment coupled to the system. For classically chaotic systems both quantities display a number of -- supposedly universal -- regimes that can lead on to think of them as equivalent quantities. We study the decay of the Loschmidt echo and the purity for systems with finite dimensional Hilbert space and present numerical evidence of some fundamental differences between them.

id: 0908.2142
title: Distillation of Bell states in open systems
authors: E. Isasi, D. Mundarain
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2142
abstract: In this work we review the entire classification of 2x2 distillable states for protocols with a finite numbers of copies. We show a distillation protocol that allows to distill Bell states with non zero probability at any time for an initial singlet in vacuum. It is shown that the same protocol used in non zero thermal baths yields a considerable recovering of entanglement.

id: 0908.2146
title: Quantum Key Distribution Protocol with Private-Public Key
authors: Eduin H. Serna
comments: 3 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0503027 by other authors without attribution
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2146
abstract: A quantum cryptographic protocol based in public key cryptography combinations and private key cryptography is presented. Unlike the BB84 protocol [1] and its many variants [2,3] two quantum channels are used. The present research does not make reconciliation mechanisms of information to derive the key. A three related system of key distribution are described.

id: 0908.2148
title: Chip-based microcavities coupled to NV centers in single crystal diamond
authors: Paul E. Barclay, Kai-Mei C. Fu, Charles Santori, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 95, 191115 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2148
abstract: Optical coupling of nitrogen vacancy centers in single-crystal diamond to an on-chip microcavity is demonstrated. The microcavity is fabricated from a hybrid gallium phosphide and diamond material system, and supports whispering gallery mode resonances with spectrometer resolution limited Q > 25000.

id: 0908.2181
title: Hybrid hypercomputing: towards a unification of quantum and classical computation
authors: Clare Horsman, William J. Munro
comments: To be presented at the 8th International Conference on Unconventional Computing, 2009
journal: IJUC Vol. 6, Number 5, pp 417-435 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2181
abstract: We investigate the computational power and unified resource use of hybrid quantum-classical computations, such as teleportation and measurement-based computing. We introduce a physically causal and local graphical calculus for quantum information theory, which enables high-level intuitive reasoning about quantum information processes. The graphical calculus defines a local information flow in a computation which satisfies conditions for physical causality. We show how quantum and classical processing units can now be formally integrated, and give an analysis of the joint resources used in a typical measurement-based computation. Finally, we discuss how this picture may be used to give a high-level unified model for hybrid quantum computing.

id: 0908.2205
title: Dirac particle in a square well and in a box
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Proceedings of the Fifth Saudi Physical Society Conference (SPS5), edited by A. Al-Hajry et al., AIP Conf. Proc. 1370 (American Institute of Physics, Melville, New York, 2011) pp. 21-25
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2205
abstract: We obtain an exact solution of the 1D Dirac equation for a square well potential of depth greater then twice the particle's mass. The energy spectrum formula in the Klein zone is surprisingly very simple and independent of the depth of the well. This implies that the same solution is also valid for the potential box (infinitely deep well). In the nonrelativistic limit, the well-known energy spectrum of a particle in a box is obtained. We also provide in tabular form the elements of the complete solution space of the problem for all energies.

id: 0908.2213
title: Localization of an inhomogeneous discrete-time quantum walk on the line
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, minor corrections, Journal-ref added.
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol.9, No.3, pp.405-418 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2213
abstract: We investigate a space-inhomogeneous discrete-time quantum walk in one dimension. We show that the walk exhibits localization by a path counting method.

id: 0908.2230
title: Practical fast gate rate InGaAs/InP single-photon avalanche photodiodes
authors: Jun Zhang, Rob Thew, Claudio Barreiro, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 3 pages and a few lines, 5 figures, 1 table. Accepted by Applied Physics Letters
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 95, 091103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2230
abstract: We present a practical and easy-to-implement method for high-speed near infrared single-photon detection based on InGaAs/InP single-photon avalanche photodiodes (SPADs), combining aspects of both sine gating and self-differencing techniques. At a gating frequency of 921 MHz and temperature of -30 $^{\circ}$C we achieve: a detection efficiency of 9.3 %, a dark count probability of 2.8$\times10^{-6}$ ns$^{-1}$, while the afterpulse probability is 1.6$\times10^{-4}$ ns$^{-1}$, with a 10 ns "count-off time" setting. In principle, the maximum count rate of the SPAD can approach 100 MHz, which can significantly improve the performance for diverse applications.

id: 0908.2254
title: Can Classical Linear Harmonic Oscillator Hold Chaotic (Fractal) Dynamics
authors: Vladan Pankovi?
comments: LaTeX, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2254
abstract: In this work a classical linear harmonic oscillator, evolving during a small time interval (so that simple non-linear, second order Taylor approximation of the dynamics is satisfied) and restarting (by a mechanism) in a strictly chosen series of the time moments, is considered. It is shown that given linear oscillator behaves dynamically analogously to discrete logistic equation, which, as an especial case, includes chaotic (fractal) behaviour too. (All this refers too on the analogous quantum systems, e.g. ammonia molecule with simple vibration dynamics of the atoms many times perturbed by measurements in strictly defined time moments.

id: 0908.2273
title: Entanglement criteria and nonlocality for multi-mode continuous variable systems
authors: Qingqing Sun, Hyunchul Nha, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 4 pages, published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 020101(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2273
abstract: We demonstrate how to efficiently derive a broad class of inequalities for entanglement detection in multi-mode continuous variable systems. The separability conditions are established from partial transposition (PT) in combination with several distinct necessary conditions for a quantum physical state, which include previously established inequalities as special cases. Remarkably, our method enables us to support Peres' conjecture to its full generality within the framework of Cavalcanti-Foster-Reid-Drummond multipartite Bell inequality [Phys. Rev. Lett. 99}, 210405 (2007)] that the nonlocality necessarily implies negative PT entangled states.

id: 0908.2309
title: Demonstration of atomic frequency comb memory for light with spin-wave storage
authors: Mikael Afzelius, Imam Usmani, Atia Amari, Bj?rn Lauritzen, Andreas Walther, Christoph Simon, Nicolas Sangouard, Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Hugues de Riedmatten, Nicolas Gisin, Stefan Kr?ll
comments: Final version. 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 040503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2309
abstract: We present a light-storage experiment in a praseodymium-doped crystal where the light is mapped onto an inhomogeneously broadened optical transition shaped into an atomic frequency comb. After absorption of the light the optical excitation is converted into a spin-wave excitation by a control pulse. A second control pulse reads the memory (on-demand) by reconverting the spin-wave excitation to an optical one, where the comb structure causes a photon-echo type rephasing of the dipole moments and directional retrieval of the light. This combination of photon echo and spin-wave storage allows us to store sub-microsecond (450ns) pulses for up to 20 microseconds. The scheme has a high potential for storing multiple temporal modes in the single photon regime, which is an important resource for future long-distance quantum communication based on quantum repeaters.

id: 0908.2341
title: Comment on "Non-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics with Minimal Length Uncertainty"
authors: Bijan Bagchi, Andreas Fring
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 089, 2 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2341
abstract: We demonstrate that the recent paper by Jana and Roy entitled ''Non-Hermitian quantum mechanics with minimal length uncertainty'' [SIGMA 5 (2009), 083, 7 pages, arXiv:0908.1755] contains various misconceptions. We compare with an analysis on the same topic carried out previously in our manuscript [arXiv:0907.5354]. In particular, we show that the metric operators computed for the deformed non-Hermitian Swanson models differs in both cases and is inconsistent in the former.

id: 0908.2342
title: Berry phase and fidelity susceptibility of the three-qubit Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick ground state
authors: Erik Sj?qvist, Ramij Rahaman, Urna Basu, B. Basu
comments: The title of the paper has been changed in this version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. Vol 43, 354026 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2342
abstract: Berry phases and quantum fidelities for interacting spins have attracted considerable attention, in particular in relation to entanglement properties of spin systems and quantum phase transitions. These efforts mainly focus either on spin pairs or the thermodynamic infinite spin limit, while studies of the multipartite case of a finite number of spins are rare. Here, we analyze Berry phases and quantum fidelities of the energetic ground state of a Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model consisting of three spin-1/2 particles (qubits). We find explicit expressions for the Berry phase and fidelity susceptibility of the full system as well as the mixed state Berry phase and partial-state fidelity susceptibility of its one- and two-qubit subsystems. We demonstrate a realization of a nontrivial magnetic monopole structure associated with local, coordinated rotations of the three-qubit system around the external magnetic field.

id: 0908.2345
title: Entanglement in Valence-Bond-Solid States
authors: Vladimir E. Korepin, Ying Xu
comments: Published version, 80 pages, 8 figures; references updated
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B (IJMPB), Volume 24, Issue 11 (2010), pp. 1361-1440
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2345
abstract: This article reviews the quantum entanglement in Valence-Bond-Solid (VBS) states defined on a lattice or a graph. The subject is presented in a self-contained and pedagogical way. The VBS state was first introduced in the celebrated paper by I. Affleck, T. Kennedy, E. H. Lieb and H. Tasaki (abbreviation AKLT is widely used). It became essential in condensed matter physics and quantum information (measurement-based quantum computation). Many publications have been devoted to the subject. Recently entanglement was studied in the VBS state. In this review we start with the definition of a general AKLT spin chain and the construction of VBS ground state. In order to study entanglement, a block subsystem is introduced and described by the density matrix. Density matrices of 1-dimensional models are diagonalized and the entanglement entropies (the von Neumann entropy and Renyi entropy) are calculated. In the large block limit, the entropies also approach finite limits. Study of the spectrum of the density matrix led to the discovery that the density matrix is proportional to a projector.

id: 0908.2348
title: Telecommunication-wavelength solid-state memory at the single photon level
authors: Bj?rn Lauritzen, Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Hugues de Riedmatten, Mikael Afzelius, Nicolas Sangouard, Christoph Simon, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, revised version; changed title, abstract and text passages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 080502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2348
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally the storage and retrieval of weak coherent light fields at telecommunication wavelengths in a solid. Light pulses at the single photon level are stored for a time up to 600 ns in an Erbium-doped Y$_2$SiO$_5$ crystal at 2.6 K and retrieved on demand. The memory is based on photon echoes with controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening, which is realized here for the first time at the single photon level. This is implemented with an external field gradient using the linear Stark effect. This experiment demonstrates the feasibility of a solid state quantum memory for single photons at telecommunication wavelengths, which would represent an important resource in quantum information science.

id: 0908.2351
title: Repulsive Casimir forces and the role of surface modes
authors: I. Pirozhenko, A. Lambrecht
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:042510,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2351
abstract: The Casimir repulsion between a metal and a dielectric suspended in a liquid has been thoroughly studied in recent experiments. In the present paper we consider surface modes in three layered systems modeled by dielectric functions guaranteeing repulsion. It is shown that surface modes play a decisive role in this phenomenon at short separations. For a toy plasma model we find the contribution of the surface modes at all distances.

id: 0908.2352
title: Information processing in convex operational theories
authors: Howard Barnum, Alexander Wilce
comments: 15 pages; paper for DCM/QPL (Developments in Computational Models / Quantum Programming Languages) 2008 (Oxford University)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2352
abstract: In order to understand the source and extent of the greater-than-classical information processing power of quantum systems, one wants to characterize both classical and quantum mechanics as points in a broader space of possible theories. One approach to doing this, pioneered by Abramsky and Coecke, is to abstract the essential categorical features of classical and quantum mechanics that support various information-theoretic constraints and possibilities, e.g., the impossibility of cloning in the latter, and the possibility of teleportation in both. Another approach, pursued by the authors and various collaborators, is to begin with a very conservative, and in a sense very concrete, generalization of classical probability theory--which is still sufficient to encompass quantum theory--and to ask which "quantum" informational phenomena can be reproduced in this much looser setting. In this paper, we review the progress to date in this second programme, and offer some suggestions as to how to link it with the categorical semantics for quantum processes developed by Abramsky and Coecke.

id: 0908.2354
title: Ordered linear spaces and categories as frameworks for information-processing characterizations of quantum and classical theory
authors: Howard Barnum, Alexander Wilce
comments: 18 pages, grew from presentation in special session on Information in Physics at Mathematical Foundations of Programming Semantics 2007, Tulane University, New Orleans
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2354
abstract: We review some of our recent results (with collaborators) on information processing in an ordered linear spaces framework for probabilistic theories. These include demonstrations that many "inherently quantum" phenomena are in reality quite general characteristics of non-classical theories, quantum or otherwise. As an example, a set of states in such a theory is broadcastable if, and only if, it is contained in a simplex whose vertices are cloneable, and therefore distinguishable by a single measurement. As another example, information that can be obtained about a system in this framework without causing disturbance to the system state, must be inherently classical. We also review results on teleportation protocols in the framework, and the fact that any non-classical theory without entanglement allows exponentially secure bit commitment in this framework. Finally, we sketch some ways of formulating our framework in terms of categories, and in this light consider the relation of our work to that of Abramsky, Coecke, Selinger, Baez and others on information processing and other aspects of theories formulated categorically.

id: 0908.2389
title: Stimulated Raman transitions via multiple atomic levels
authors: James Bateman, Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Tim Freegarde
comments: 8 pages, 2 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043808 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2389
abstract: We consider the stimulated Raman transition between two long-lived states via multiple intermediate states, such as between hyperfine ground states in the alkali-metal atoms. We present a concise treatment of the general, multilevel, off-resonant case, and we show how the lightshift emerges naturally in this approach. We illustrate our results by application to alkali-metal atoms and we make specific reference to cesium. We comment on some artifacts, due solely to the geometrical overlap of states, which are relevant to existing experiments.

id: 0908.2418
title: Entanglement Entropy in Many-Fermion System
authors: Wenxin Ding
comments: Dissertation tentative prospectus submitted to dissertation committee on 8/20/08; successfully defended on 8/21/08
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2418
abstract: In this four-part prospectus, we first give a brief introduction to the motivation for studying entanglement entropy and some recent development. Then follows a summary of our recent work about entanglement entropy in states with traditional long-range order. After that we demonstrate calculation of entanglement entropy in both one-dimensional spin-less fermionic systems as well as bosonic systems via different approaches, and connect them using one-dimensional bosonization. In the last part, we briefly sketch the idea of bosonization in high-dimensions, and discuss the possibility and advantage of approaching the scaling behavior of entanglement entropy of fermions in arbitrary dimensions via bosonization.

id: 0908.2439
title: An empirically equivalent random field for the quantized electromagnetic field
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: v2: 6 pages, much rewritten
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2439
abstract: A random field that is empirically equivalent to the quantized electromagnetic field is constructed. A mapping between the creation and annihilation operator algebras of a random field and of the quantized electromagnetic field provides a functor between the algebras and the Hilbert spaces generated by the vacuum states over those algebras. The functor inevitably does not extend to a functorial relationship between the local algebras generated by the random field and by the quantized electromagnetic field, but the empirical content provided by the vacuum state restores an empirical equivalence through the Hilbert spaces. The isomorphism from one creation and annihilation algebra to the other is not translation invariant because it depends on mapping positive frequency modes of one helicity to equivalent negative frequency modes, but the two theories taken independently are presented in equally well-defined and manifestly Lorentz and translation covariant ways.

id: 0908.2468
title: Average/Worst-Case Gap of Quantum Query Complexities by On-Set Size
authors: Andris Ambainis, Kazuo Iwama, Masaki Nakanishi, Harumichi Nishimura, Rudy Raymond, Seiichiro Tani, Shigeru Yamashita
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2468
abstract: This paper considers the query complexity of the functions in the family F_{N,M} of N-variable Boolean functions with onset size M, i.e., the number of inputs for which the function value is 1, where 1<= M <= 2^{N}/2 is assumed without loss of generality because of the symmetry of function values, 0 and 1. Our main results are as follows: (1) There is a super-linear gap between the average-case and worst-case quantum query complexities over F_{N,M} for a certain range of M. (2) There is no super-linear gap between the average-case and worst-case randomized query complexities over F_{N,M} for every M. (3) For every M bounded by a polynomial in N, any function in F_{N,M} has quantum query complexity Theta (sqrt{N}). (4) For every M=O(2^{cN}) with an arbitrary large constant c<1, any function in F_{N,M} has randomized query complexity Omega (N).

id: 0908.2482
title: Generic Two-Qubit Photonic Gates Implemented by Number-Resolving Photodetection
authors: Dmitry B. Uskov, A. Matthew Smith, Lev Kaplan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2482
abstract: We combine numerical optimization techniques [Uskov et al., Phys. Rev. A 79, 042326 (2009)] with symmetries of the Weyl chamber to obtain optimal implementations of generic linear-optical KLM-type two-qubit entangling gates. We find that while any two-qubit controlled-U gate, including CNOT and CS, can be implemented using only two ancilla resources with success probability S > 0.05, a generic SU(4) operation requires three unentangled ancilla photons, with success S > 0.0063. Specifically, we obtain a maximal success probability close to 0.0072 for the B gate. We show that single-shot implementation of a generic SU(4) gate offers more than an order of magnitude increase in the success probability and two-fold reduction in overhead ancilla resources compared to standard triple-CNOT and double-B gate decompositions.

id: 0908.2520
title: Effects of quantum noises and noisy quantum operations on entanglement and special dense coding
authors: Sylvanus Quek, Ziang Li, Ye Yeo
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2520
abstract: We show how, in the presence of quantum noises generated by non-commuting Lindblad operators, a maximally entangled Bell state may suffer entanglement sudden death (ESD). Similarly, ESD may occur when a Bell state is under the action of a quantum operation generated by a Hamiltonian in the presence of a quantum noise, provided that the Hamiltonian does not commute with the corresponding Lindblad operator. Practically this means noisy quantum operations could cause ESD during the encoding process in quantum communication protocols like special dense coding ($\cal S$). Next, we show how in the presence of quantum noises which cause ESD, a Bell state may lose its capacity for $\cal S$ before ESD occurs. Finally, we show that a Bell state may indeed fail to yield information transfer better than classically possible when the encoding operations of $\cal S$ are noisy, even though entanglement is not totally destroyed in the process.

id: 0908.2545
title: Configuration Complexities of Hydrogenic Atoms
authors: J.S. Dehesa, S. Lopez-Rosa, D. Manzano
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures, accepted in
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2545
abstract: The Fisher-Shannon and Cramer-Rao information measures, and the LMC-like or shape complexity (i.e., the disequilibrium times the Shannon entropic power) of hydrogenic stationary states are investigated in both position and momentum spaces. First, it is shown that not only the Fisher information and the variance (then, the Cramer-Rao measure) but also the disequilibrium associated to the quantum-mechanical probability density can be explicitly expressed in terms of the three quantum numbers (n, l, m) of the corresponding state. Second, the three composite measures mentioned above are analytically, numerically and physically discussed for both ground and excited states. It is observed, in particular, that these configuration complexities do not depend on the nuclear charge Z. Moreover, the Fisher-Shannon measure is shown to quadratically depend on the principal quantum number n. Finally, sharp upper bounds to the Fisher-Shannon measure and the shape complexity of a general hydrogenic orbital are given in terms of the quantum numbers.

id: 0908.2550
title: Theory of dissociative recombination of a linear triatomic ion with permanent electric dipole moment: Study of HCO$^{+}$
authors: Nicolas Douguet, Viatcheslav Kokoouline, Chris H. Greene
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2550
abstract: We present a theoretical description of dissociative recombination of triatomic molecular ions having large permanent dipole moments. The study has been partly motivated by a discrepancy between experimental and theoretical cross-sections for dissociative recombination of the HCO$^+$ ion. The HCO$^{+}$ ion has a considerable permanent dipole moment ($D\approx$4 debye), which has not been taken explicitly into account in previous theoretical studies. In the present study, we include explicitly the effect of the permanent electric dipole on the dynamics of the incident electron using the generalized quantum defect theory, and we present the resulting cross section obtained. This is the first application of generalized quantum defect theory to the dissociative recombination of molecular ions.

id: 0908.2559
title: On the existence of quantum representations for two dichotomic measurements
authors: Tobias Fritz
comments: 16+7 pages, presentation improved and minor errors corrected
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 052103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2559
abstract: Under which conditions do outcome probabilities of measurements possess a quantum-mechanical model? This kind of problem is solved here for the case of two dichotomic von Neumann measurements which can be applied repeatedly to a quantum system with trivial dynamics. The solution uses methods from the theory of operator algebras and the theory of moment problems. The ensuing conditions reveal surprisingly simple relations between certain quantum-mechanical probabilities. It also shown that generally, none of these relations holds in general probabilistic models. This result might facilitate further experimental discrimination between quantum mechanics and other general probabilistic theories.

id: 0908.2593
title: Multi-qubit compensation sequences
authors: Yu Tomita, J. True Merrill, Kenneth R. Brown
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures; corrected reference formatting
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2593
abstract: The Hamiltonian control of n qubits requires precision control of both the strength and timing of interactions. Compensation pulses relax the precision requirements by reducing unknown but systematic errors. Using composite pulse techniques designed for single qubits, we show that systematic errors for n qubit systems can be corrected to arbitrary accuracy given either two non-commuting control Hamiltonians with identical systematic errors or one error-free control Hamiltonian. We also examine composite pulses in the context of quantum computers controlled by two-qubit interactions. For quantum computers based on the XY interaction, single-qubit composite pulse sequences naturally correct systematic errors. For quantum computers based on the Heisenberg or exchange interaction, the composite pulse sequences reduce the logical single-qubit gate errors but increase the errors for logical two-qubit gates.

id: 0908.2632
title: Experimental demonstration of universal symmetric quantum telecloning
authors: S. Gaertner, J. Lau, N. Kiesel, M. Bourennane, H. Weinfurter
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2632
abstract: Quantum telecloning is a multiparty quantum communication protocol which allows quantum information broadcasting. It can be, therefore, seen as a generalization of quantum teleportation. However, in contrast to quantum teleportation, it requires the resource of multipartite entanglement. Here we present an experimental demonstration of universal symmetric 1->2 quantum telecloning of qubits via four-photon polarisation entanglement.

id: 0908.2640
title: Simulation of equatorial von Neumann measurements on GHZ states using nonlocal resources
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Advances in Mathematical Physics, vol. 2010, Article ID 293245, 14 pages, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2640
abstract: Reproducing with elementary resources the correlations that arise when a quantum system is measured (quantum state simulation), allows one to get insight on the operational and computational power of quantum correlations. We propose a family of models that can simulate von Neumann measurements in the x-y plane of the Bloch sphere on n-partite GHZ states using only bipartite nonlocal boxes. For the tripartite and fourpartite states, the models use only bipartite nonlocal boxes; they can be translated into classical communication schemes with finite average communication cost.

id: 0908.2649
title: Scattering Theory Approach to Electrodynamic Casimir Forces
authors: Sahand Jamal Rahi, Thorsten Emig, Noah Graham, Robert L. Jaffe, Mehran Kardar
comments: 43 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 80, 085021 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2649
abstract: We give a comprehensive presentation of methods for calculating the Casimir force to arbitrary accuracy, for any number of objects, arbitrary shapes, susceptibility functions, and separations. The technique is applicable to objects immersed in media other than vacuum, nonzero temperatures, and spatial arrangements in which one object is enclosed in another. Our method combines each object's classical electromagnetic scattering amplitude with universal translation matrices, which convert between the bases used to calculate scattering for each object, but are otherwise independent of the details of the individual objects. The method is illustrated by re-deriving the Lifshitz formula for infinite half spaces, by demonstrating the Casimir-Polder to van der Waals cross-over, and by computing the Casimir interaction energy of two infinite, parallel, perfect metal cylinders either inside or outside one another. Furthermore, it is used to obtain new results, namely the Casimir energies of a sphere or a cylinder opposite a plate, all with finite permittivity and permeability, to leading order at large separation.

id: 0908.2655
title: Discontinuous quantum evolutions in the presence of closed timelike curves
authors: Richard DeJonghe, Kimberly Frey, Tom Imbo
comments: v2: Some corrections and clarifications to the "Discontinuities" section. No results or conclusions are changed. v3: Minor changes. v4: Final version published in Phys. Rev. D.
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:087501,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2655
abstract: We consider Deutsch's computational model of a quantum system evolving in a spacetime containing closed timelike curves. Although it is known that this model predicts non-linear and non-unitary evolutions of the system, we demonstrate that it also gives rise to evolutions which are a discontinuous function of the input state. These discontinuities persist for the most natural modifications of Deutsch's approach.

id: 0908.2674
title: Quantum Energy Teleportation with Electromagnetic Field: Discrete vs. Continuous Variables
authors: Masahiro Hotta
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures, to be published in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2674
abstract: It is well known that usual quantum teleportation protocols cannot transport energy. Recently, new protocols called quantum energy teleportation (QET) have been proposed, which transport energy by local operations and classical communication with the ground states of many-body quantum systems. In this paper, we compare two different QET protocols for transporting energy with electromagnetic field. In the first protocol, a 1/2 spin (a qubit) is coupled with the quantum fluctuation in the vacuum state and measured in order to obtain one-bit information about the fluctuation for the teleportation. In the second protocol, a harmonic oscillator is coupled with the fluctuation and measured in order to obtain continuous-variable information about the fluctuation. In the spin protocol, the amount of teleported energy is suppressed by an exponential damping factor when the amount of input energy increases. This suppression factor becomes power damping in the case of the harmonic oscillator protocol. Therefore, it is concluded that obtaining more information about the quantum fluctuation leads to teleporting more energy. This result suggests a profound relationship between energy and quantum information.

id: 0908.2679
title: Approximation of a general singular vertex coupling in quantum graphs
authors: Taksu Cheon, Pavel Exner, Ondrej Turek
comments: LaTeX Elsevier format, 36 pages, 1 PDF figure
journal: Annals of Physics 325 (2010) 548-578
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2679
abstract: The longstanding open problem of approximating all singular vertex couplings in a quantum graph is solved. We present a construction in which the edges are decoupled; an each pair of their endpoints is joined by an edge carrying a $\delta$ potential and a vector potential coupled to the "loose" edges by a $\delta$ coupling. It is shown that if the lengths of the connecting edges shrink to zero and the potentials are properly scaled, the limit can yield any prescribed singular vertex coupling, and moreover, that such an approximation converges in the norm-resolvent sense.

id: 0908.2714
title: On the evolution of superposition of squeezed displaced number states with the multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Faisal A A El-Orany, A-S Obada
comments: 27 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quant. Semiclass. Optics 5 (2003) 60-72
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2714
abstract: In this paper we discuss the quantum properties for superposition of squeezed displaced number states against multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM). In particular, we investigate atomic inversion, photon-number distribution, purity, quadrature squeezing, Mandel $Q$ parameter and Wigner function. We show that the quadrature squeezing for three-photon absorption case can exhibit revivals and collapses typical to those occurring in the atomic inversion for one-photon absorption case. Also we prove that for odd number absorption parameter there is a connection between the evolution of the atomic inversion and the evolution of the Wigner function at the origin in phase space. Furthermore, we show that the nonclassical states whose the Wigner functions values at the origins are negative will be always nonclassical when they are evolving through the JCM with even absorption parameter. Also we demonstrate that various types of cat states can be generated via this system.

id: 0908.2727
title: Effect of confinement potential geometry on entanglement in quantum dot-based nanostructures
authors: S. Abdullah, J. P. Coe, I. D'Amico
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures and 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 235302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2727
abstract: We calculate the spatial entanglement between two electrons trapped in a nanostructure for a broad class of confinement potentials, including single and double quantum dots, and core-shell quantum dot structures. By using a parametrized confinement potential, we are able to switch from one structure to the others with continuity and to analyze how the entanglement is influenced by the changes in the confinement geometry. We calculate the many-body wave function by `exact' diagonalization of the time independent Schr\"odinger equation. We discuss the relationship between the entanglement and specific cuts of the wave function, and show that the wave function at a single highly symmetric point could be a good indicator for the entanglement content of the system. We analyze the counterintuitive relationship between spatial entanglement and Coulomb interaction, which connects maxima (minima) of the first to minima (maxima) of the latter. We introduce a potential quantum phase transition which relates quantum states characterized by different spatial topology. Finally we show that by varying shape, range and strength of the confinement potential, it is possible to induce strong and rapid variations of the entanglement between the two electrons. This property may be used to tailor nanostructures according to the level of entanglement required by a specific application.

id: 0908.2735
title: Tight bound on coherent-state-based entanglement generation over lossy channels
authors: Koji Azuma, Naoya Sota, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2735
abstract: The first stage of the hybrid quantum repeaters is entanglement generation based on transmission of pulses in coherent states over a lossy channel. Protocols to make entanglement with only one type of error are favorable for rendering subsequent entanglement distillation efficient. Here we provide the tight upper bound on performances of these protocols that is determined only by the channel loss. In addition, we show that this bound is achievable by utilizing a proposed protocol [arXiv:0811.3100] composed of a simple combination of linear optical elements and photon-number-resolving detectors.

id: 0908.2754
title: Quantum Trajectories in Random Environment: the Statistical Model for a Heat Bath
authors: Ion Nechita, Cl¨¦ment Pellegrini
comments: 
journal: Confluentes Mathematici 1, 2 (2009) 249-289
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2754
abstract: In this article, we derive the stochastic master equations corresponding to the statistical model of a heat bath. These stochastic differential equations are obtained as continuous time limits of discrete models of quantum repeated measurements. Physically, they describe the evolution of a small system in contact with a heat bath undergoing continuous measurement. The equations obtained in the present work are qualitatively different from the ones derived in \cite{A1P1}, where the Gibbs model of heat bath has been studied. It is shown that the statistical model of a heat bath provides clear physical interpretation in terms of emissions and absorptions of photons. Our approach yields models of random environment and unravelings of stochastic master equations. The equations are rigorously obtained as solutions of martingale problems using the convergence of Markov generators.

id: 0908.2782
title: Adiabatic quantum optimization fails for random instances of NP-complete problems
authors: Boris Altshuler, Hari Krovi, Jeremie Roland
comments: 34 pages, 5 color figures. Significant changes compared to v1, including a new section about Anderson Localization
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2782
abstract: Adiabatic quantum optimization has attracted a lot of attention because small scale simulations gave hope that it would allow to solve NP-complete problems efficiently. Later, negative results proved the existence of specifically designed hard instances where adiabatic optimization requires exponential time. In spite of this, there was still hope that this would not happen for random instances of NP-complete problems. This is an important issue since random instances are a good model for hard instances that can not be solved by current classical solvers, for which an efficient quantum algorithm would therefore be desirable. Here, we will show that because of a phenomenon similar to Anderson localization, an exponentially small eigenvalue gap appears in the spectrum of the adiabatic Hamiltonian for large random instances, very close to the end of the algorithm. This implies that unfortunately, adiabatic quantum optimization also fails for these instances by getting stuck in a local minimum, unless the computation is exponentially long.

id: 0908.2789
title: A dynamical time operator in Dirac's relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Mariano Bauer
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A 29 (2014) 1450036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2789
abstract: A self-adjoint dynamical time operator is introduced in Dirac's relativistic formulation of quantum mechanics and shown to satisfy a commutation relation with the Hamiltonian analogous to that of the position and momentum operators. The ensuing time-energy uncertainty relation involves the uncertainty in the instant of time when the wave packet passes a particular spatial position and the energy uncertainty associated with the wave packet at the same time, as envisaged originally by Bohr. The instantaneous rate of change of the position expectation value with respect to the simultaneous expectation value of the dynamical time operator is shown to be the phase velocity, in agreement with de Broglie's hypothesis of a particle associated wave whose phase velocity is larger than c. Thus, these two elements of the original basis and interpretation of quantum mechanics are integrated into its formal mathematical structure. Pauli's objection is shown to be resolved or circumvented. Possible relevance to current developments in interference in time, in Zitterbewegung like effects in spintronics, grapheme and superconducting systems and in cosmology is noted.

id: 0908.2797
title: Quantum Kinetic Equations and Evolution of Many-Particle Systems
authors: V.I. Gerasimenko
comments: 25 pages
journal: Ukr. J. Phys. 54 (8-9) (2009) 834-846
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2797
abstract: In the paper we discuss possible approaches to the problem of the rigorous derivation of quantum kinetic equations from underlying many-particle dynamics. For the description of a many-particle evolution we construct solutions of the Cauchy problems of the BBGKY hierarchy and the dual BBGKY hierarchy in suitable Banach spaces. In the framework of the conventional approach to the description of kinetic evolution the mean-field asymptotics of the quantum BBGKY hierarchy solution is constructed. We develop also alternative approaches. One method is based on the construction of the solution asymptotics of the initial-value problem of the quantum dual BBGKY hierarchy. One more approach is based on the generalized quantum kinetic equation that is a consequence of the equivalence of the Cauchy problems of such evolution equation and the BBGKY hierarchy with initial data determined by the one-particle density operator.

id: 0908.2801
title: Optimal fast single pulse readout of qubits
authors: Andrey L. Pankratov, Andrey S. Gavrilov
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2801
abstract: The computer simulations of the process of single pulse readout from the flux-biased phase qubit is performed in the frame of one-dimensional Schroedinger equation. It has been demonstrated that the readout error can be minimized by choosing the optimal pulse duration and the depth of a potential well, leading to the fidelity of 0.94 for 2ns and 0.965 for 12ns sinusoidal pulses.

id: 0908.2824
title: Quantum Energy Teleportation with Trapped Ions
authors: Masahiro Hotta
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2824
abstract: We analyse a protocol of quantum energy teleportation that transports energy from the left edge of a linear ion crystal to the right edge by local operations and classical communication at a speed considerably greater than the speed of a phonon in the crystal. A probe qubit is strongly coupled with phonon fluctuation in the ground state for a short time, and it is projectively measured in order to obtain information about this phonon fluctuation. During the measurement process, phonons are excited by the time-dependent measurement interaction, and the energy of the excited phonons must be infused from outside the system. The obtained information is transferred to the right edge of the crystal through a classical channel. Even though the phonons excited at the left edge do not arrive at the right edge at the same time as when the information arrives at the right edge, we are able to soon extract energy from the ions at the right edge by using the transferred information. Because the intermediate ions of the crystal are not excited during the execution of the protocol, energy is transmitted in the energy transfer channel without heat generation.

id: 0908.2838
title: Entanglement temperature in molecular magnets composed of S-spin dimers
authors: D. O. Soares-Pinto, A. M. Souza, R. S. Sarthour, I. S. Oliveira, M. S. Reis, P. Brandao, J. Rocha, A. M. dos Santos
comments: accepted for publication in EPL
journal: EPL 87, 40008 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2838
abstract: In the present work, we investigate the quantum thermal entanglement in molecular magnets composed of dimers of spin $S$, using an Entanglement Witness built from measurements of magnetic susceptibility. An entanglement temperature, $T_{e}$, is then obtained for some values of spin $S$. From this, it is shown that $T_{e}$ is proportional to the intradimer exchange interaction $J$ and that entanglement appears only for antiferromagnetic coupling. The results are compared to experiments carried on three isostructural materials: KNaMSi$_{4}$O$_{10}$ (M$=$Mn, Fe or Cu).

id: 0908.2867
title: Universal quantum Controlled-NOT gate
authors: Michael Siomau, Stephan Fritzsche
comments: 18 references
journal: M.Siomau and S.Fritzsche, Eur. Phys. J. D 60, 417 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2867
abstract: An investigation of an optimal universal unitary Controlled-NOT gate that performs a specific operation on two unknown states of qubits taken from a great circle of the Bloch sphere is presented. The deep analogy between the optimal universal C-NOT gate and the `equatorial' quantum cloning machine (QCM) is shown. In addition, possible applications of the universal C-NOT gate are briefly discussed.

id: 0908.2876
title: Zero width resonance (spectral singularity) in a complex PT-symmetric potential
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: No figures, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2876
abstract: We show that the complex PT-Symmetric potential, $V(x)=-V_1 {sech}^2x + iV_2 {sech}x ~\tanh x, $, entails a single zero-width resonance (spectral singularity) when $V_1+|V_2|=4n^2+4n+{3\over 4}(n=1,2,3.., |V_2|>|V_1|+ {{sgn}(V_1) \over 4})$ and the positive resonant energy is given as $E_*={1 \over 4}[|V_2|-(1/4+V_1)]$.

id: 0908.2893
title: Truly Random Number Generation Based on Measurement of Phase Noise of Laser
authors: Hong Guo, Wenzhuo Tang, Yu Liu, Wei Wei
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2893
abstract: We present a simple approach to realize truly random number generation based on measurement of the phase noise of a single mode vertical cavity surface emitting laser (VCSEL). The true randomness of the quantum phase noise originates from the spontaneous emission of photons and the random bit generation rate is ultimately limited only by the laser linewidth. With the final bit generation rate of 20 Mbit/s, the physically guaranteed truly random bit sequence passes the three standard random tests. Moreover, for the first time, a {\it continuously} generated random bit sequence up to 14 Gbit is verified by two additional criteria for its true randomness.

id: 0908.2914
title: Quantum Locality
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Introduction has been revised, references added, minor corrections elsewhere. To appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics, Vol. 41, pp. 705-733 (2011). http://www.springerlink.com/
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2914
abstract: It is argued that while quantum mechanics contains nonlocal or entangled states, the instantaneous or nonlocal influences sometimes thought to be present due to violations of Bell inequalities in fact arise from mistaken attempts to apply classical concepts and introduce probabilities in a manner inconsistent with the Hilbert space structure of standard quantum mechanics. Instead, Einstein locality is a valid quantum principle: objective properties of individual quantum systems do not change when something is done to another noninteracting system. There is no reason to suspect any conflict between quantum theory and special relativity.

id: 0908.2921
title: Einselection without pointer states
authors: Christian Gogolin
comments: published in Phys. Rev. E, 4 pages, no figures, revised introduction and conclusions, references revised and new references added, editorial changes
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 051127 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2921
abstract: We consider small subsystems of large, closed quantum systems that evolve according to the von Neumann equation. Without approximations and without making any special assumptions on the form of the interaction we prove that, for almost all initial states and almost all times, the off-diagonal elements of the density matrix of the subsystem in the eigenbasis of its local Hamiltonian must be small, whenever the energy difference of the corresponding eigenstates is larger than the interaction energy. This proves that decoherence with respect to the local energy eigenbasis is a natural property of weakly interacting quantum systems.

id: 0908.2932
title: Bridging Visible and Telecom Wavelengths with a Single-Mode Broadband Photon Pair Source
authors: Christoph S?ller, Benjamin Brecht, Peter J. Mosley, Leyun Y. Zang, Alexander Podlipensky, Nicolas Y. Joly, Philip St.J. Russell, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, revised introduction, minor text changes, refined purity calculation, two references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 031801(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2932
abstract: We present a spectrally decorrelated photon pair source bridging the visible and telecom wavelength regions. Tailored design and fabrication of a solid-core photonic crystal fiber (PCF) lead to the emission of signal and idler photons into only a single spectral and spatial mode. Thus no narrowband filtering is necessary and the heralded generation of pure photon number states in ultrafast wave packets at telecom wavelengths becomes possible.

id: 0908.2933
title: Computing the Casimir energy using the point-matching method
authors: F.C. Lombardo, F.D. Mazzitelli, M. V¨¢quez, P.I. Villar
comments: 11 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:065018,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2933
abstract: We use a point-matching approach to numerically compute the Casimir interaction energy for a two perfect-conductor waveguide of arbitrary section. We present the method and describe the procedure used to obtain the numerical results. At first, our technique is tested for geometries with known solutions, such as concentric and eccentric cylinders. Then, we apply the point-matching technique to compute the Casimir interaction energy for new geometries such as concentric corrugated cylinders and cylinders inside conductors with focal lines.

id: 0908.2964
title: Optimal Control of Finite Dimensional Quantum Systems
authors: Paulo E. M. F. Mendonca
comments: PhD Thesis, The University of Queensland, 196 pages, 29 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2964
abstract: This thesis addresses the problem of developing a quantum counter-part of the well established classical theory of control. We dwell on the fundamental fact that quantum states are generally not perfectly distinguishable, and quantum measurements typically introduce noise in the system being measured. Because of these, it is generally not clear whether the central concept of the classical control theory -- that of observing the system and then applying feedback -- is always useful in the quantum setting. We center our investigations around the problem of transforming the state of a quantum system into a given target state, when the system can be prepared in different ways, and the target state depends on the choice of preparation. We call this the "quantum tracking problem" and show how it can be formulated as an optimization problem that can be approached both numerically and analytically. This problem provides a simple route to the characterization of the quantum trade-off between information gain and disturbance, and is seen to have several applications in quantum information.

id: 0908.2970
title: Testing non-local realism with entangled coherent states
authors: M. Paternostro, H. Jeong
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2970
abstract: We investigate the violation of non-local realism using entangled coherent states (ECS) under nonlinear operations and homodyne measurements. We address recently proposed Leggett-type inequalities, including a class of optimized incompatibility ones and thoroughly assess the effects of detection inefficiency.

id: 0908.3008
title: Optimization of quantum interferometric metrological sensors in the presence of photon loss
authors: Tae-Woo Lee, Sean D. Huver, Hwang Lee, Lev Kaplan, Steven B. McCracken, Changjun Min, Dmitry B. Uskov, Christoph F. Wildfeuer, Georgios Veronis, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3008
abstract: We optimize two-mode, entangled, number states of light in the presence of loss in order to maximize the extraction of the available phase information in an interferometer. Our approach optimizes over the entire available input Hilbert space with no constraints, other than fixed total initial photon number. We optimize to maximize the Fisher information, which is equivalent to minimizing the phase uncertainty. We find that in the limit of zero loss the optimal state is the so-called N00N state, for small loss, the optimal state gradually deviates from the N00N state, and in the limit of large loss the optimal state converges to a generalized two-mode coherent state, with a finite total number of photons. The results provide a general protocol for optimizing the performance of a quantum optical interferometer in the presence of photon loss, with applications to quantum imaging, metrology, sensing, and information processing.

id: 0908.3012
title: Classical phases and quantum angles in the description of interfering Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: W. J. Mullin, F. Lalo?
comments: 35 pages, 22 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3012
abstract: The interference of two Bose-Einstein condensates, initially in Fock states, can be described in terms of their relative phase, treated as a random unknown variable. This phase can be understood, either as emerging from the measurements, or preexisting to them; in the latter case, the originating states could be phase states with unknown phases, so that an average over all their possible values is taken. Both points of view lead to a description of probabilities of results of experiments in terms of a phase angle, which plays the role of a classical variable. Nevertheless, in some situations, this description is not sufficient: another variable, which we call the "quantum angle", emerges from the theory. This article studies various manifestations of the quantum angle. We first introduce the quantum angle by expressing two Fock states crossing a beam splitter in terms of phase states, and relate the quantum angle to off-diagonal matrix elements in the phase representation. Then we consider an experiment with two beam splitters, where two experimenters make dichotomic measurements with two interferometers and detectors that are far apart; the results lead to violations of the Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality (valid for local-realistic theories, including classical descriptions of the phase). Finally, we discuss an experiment where particles from each of two sources are either deviated via a beam splitter to a side collector or proceed to the point of interference. For a given interference result, we find "population oscillations" in the distributions of the deviated particles, which are entirely controlled by the quantum angle. Various versions of population oscillation experiments are discussed, with two or three independent condensates.

id: 0908.3023
title: Can closed timelike curves or nonlinear quantum mechanics improve quantum state discrimination or help solve hard problems?
authors: Charles H. Bennett, Debbie Leung, Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Final version. Added several references, updated discussion and introduction. Figure 1(b) very much enhanced
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:170502,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3023
abstract: We study the power of closed timelike curves (CTCs) and other nonlinear extensions of quantum mechanics for distinguishing nonorthogonal states and speeding up hard computations. If a CTC-assisted computer is presented with a labeled mixture of states to be distinguished--the most natural formulation--we show that the CTC is of no use. The apparent contradiction with recent claims that CTC-assisted computers can perfectly distinguish nonorthogonal states is resolved by noting that CTC-assisted evolution is nonlinear, so the output of such a computer on a mixture of inputs is not a convex combination of its output on the mixture's pure components. Similarly, it is not clear that CTC assistance or nonlinear evolution help solve hard problems if computation is defined as we recommend, as correctly evaluating a function on a labeled mixture of orthogonal inputs.

id: 0908.3031
title: Realisation of a programmable two-qubit quantum processor
authors: D. Hanneke, J. P. Home, J. D. Jost, J. M. Amini, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 6, 13-16 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3031
abstract: The universal quantum computer is a device capable of simulating any physical system and represents a major goal for the field of quantum information science. Algorithms performed on such a device are predicted to offer significant gains for some important computational tasks. In the context of quantum information, "universal" refers to the ability to perform arbitrary unitary transformations in the system's computational space. The combination of arbitrary single-quantum-bit (qubit) gates with an entangling two-qubit gate is a gate set capable of achieving universal control of any number of qubits, provided that these gates can be performed repeatedly and between arbitrary pairs of qubits. Although gate sets have been demonstrated in several technologies, they have as yet been tailored toward specific tasks, forming a small subset of all unitary operators. Here we demonstrate a programmable quantum processor that realises arbitrary unitary transformations on two qubits, which are stored in trapped atomic ions. Using quantum state and process tomography, we characterise the fidelity of our implementation for 160 randomly chosen operations. This universal control is equivalent to simulating any pairwise interaction between spin-1/2 systems. A programmable multi-qubit register could form a core component of a large-scale quantum processor, and the methods used here are suitable for such a device.

id: 0908.3045
title: Squeezing evolution with non-dissipative SU(1,1) systems
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, S. S. Hassan, M. Sebawe Abdalla
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quant. Semiclass. Opt. 5 (2003) 396-404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3045
abstract: We investigate the squeezed regions in the phase plane for non-dissipative dynamical systems controlled by SU(1,1) Lie algebra. We analyze such study for the two SU(1,1) generalized coherent states, namely, the Perelomov coherent state (PCS) and the Barut-Girardello Coherent state (BGCS).

id: 0908.3066
title: Quantum search with advice
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: In Proc. TQC'10, pp. 77-93, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3066
abstract: We consider the problem of search of an unstructured list for a marked element, when one is given advice as to where this element might be located, in the form of a probability distribution. The goal is to minimise the expected number of queries to the list made to find the marked element, with respect to this distribution. We present a quantum algorithm which solves this problem using an optimal number of queries, up to a constant factor. For some distributions on the input, such as certain power law distributions, the algorithm can achieve exponential speed-ups over the best possible classical algorithm. We also give an efficient quantum algorithm for a variant of this task where the distribution is not known in advance, but must be queried at an additional cost. The algorithms are based on the use of Grover's quantum search algorithm and amplitude amplification as subroutines.

id: 0908.3144
title: The relativistic quantum channel of communication through field quanta
authors: Mathieu Cliche, Achim Kempf
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. v2: Section VI corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3144
abstract: Setups in which a system Alice emits field quanta which a system Bob receives are prototypical for wireless communication and have been extensively studied. In the most basic setup, Alice and Bob are modelled as Unruh-DeWitt detectors for scalar quanta and the only noise in their communication is due to quantum fluctuations. For this basic setup we here construct the corresponding information-theoretic quantum channel. We calculate the classical channel capacity as a function of the spacetime separation and we confirm that the classical as well as the quantum channel capacity are strictly zero for spacelike separations. We show that this channel can be used to entangle Alice and Bob instantaneously. Alice and Bob are shown to extract this entanglement from the vacuum through a Casimir-Polder effect.

id: 0908.3157
title: Almost all quantum states have non-classical correlations
authors: A. Ferraro, L. Aolita, D. Cavalcanti, F. M. Cucchietti, A. Acin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052318 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3157
abstract: Quantum discord quantifies non-classical correlations in a quantum system including those not captured by entanglement. Thus, only states with zero discord exhibit strictly classical correlations. We prove that these states are negligible in the whole Hilbert space: typically a state picked out at random has positive discord; and, given a state with zero discord, a generic arbitrarily small perturbation drives it to a positive-discord state. These results hold for any Hilbert-space dimension, and have direct implications on quantum computation and on the foundations of the theory of open systems. In addition, we provide a simple necessary criterion for zero quantum discord. Finally, we show that, for almost all positive-discord states, an arbitrary Markovian evolution cannot lead to a sudden, permanent vanishing of discord.

id: 0908.3204
title: Collisional decoherence of internal state superpositions in a trapped ultracold gas
authors: C. J. Hemming, R. V. Krems
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures. Changes for v.2: background discussion expanded; references to and discussion of related work added to and expanded; calculation of an additional quantity characterizing coherence added (Fig. 2 added in relation to this); Eq. (19) of v.1 was not correct
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3204
abstract: We analyze collisional decoherence of atoms or molecules prepared in a coherent superposition of nondegenerate internal states at ultralow temperatures and placed in an ultracold buffer gas. Our analysis is applicable for an arbitrary bath particle/tracer particle mass ratio. Both elastic and inelastic collisions contribute to decoherence. We obtain an expression relating the observable decoherence rate to pairwise scattering properties, specifically the low-temperature scattering amplitudes. We consider the dependence on the bath particle/tracer particle mass ratio for the case of light bath and heavy tracer particles. The expressions obtained may be useful in low-temperature applications where accurate estimates of decoherence rates are needed. The results suggest a method for determining the scattering lengths of atoms and molecules in different internal states by measuring decoherence-induced damping of coherent oscillations.

id: 0908.3208
title: Thermal decoherence of long-distance entanglement in spin-1 chains
authors: Xiang Hao
comments: 12 pages;3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 024303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3208
abstract: he thermal entanglement is generated by weakly interacting atoms with an isotropic spin-1 chain. The decoherence of the entanglement is mainly investigated. The effective Hamiltonian is analytically obtained by the approximation method of perturbation. The scaling behavior of the effective coupling is numerically illustrated by the exact diagonalization. It is found out that the decay of the entanglement is slow in the case of non interacting spins. The long-distance thermal entangled states can be used as the noisy channel for the achievement of the quantum teleportation.

id: 0908.3270
title: Casimir interactions of an object inside a spherical metal shell
authors: Saad Zaheer, Sahand Jamal Rahi, Thorsten Emig, Robert L. Jaffe
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:030502,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3270
abstract: We investigate the electromagnetic Casimir interactions of an object contained within an otherwise empty, perfectly conducting spherical shell. For a small object we present analytical calculations of the force, which is directed away from the center of the cavity, and the torque, which tends to align the object opposite to the preferred alignment outside the cavity. For a perfectly conducting sphere as the interior object, we compute the corrections to the proximity force approximation (PFA) numerically. In both cases the results for the interior configuration match smoothly onto those for the corresponding exterior configuration.

id: 0908.3299
title: Dynamics of geometric phase in the adiabatic limit of quantum phase transition
authors: B. Basu
comments: 5 pages, 1 eps fig. published version
journal: Journal Ref. Phys. Lett. A Vol 374, pp 1205 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3299
abstract: The geometric phase associated with a many body ground state exhibits a signature of quantum phase transition. In this context, we have studied the behaviour of the geometric phase during a linear quench caused by a gradual turning off of the magnetic field interacting with a spin chain.

id: 0908.3308
title: A single-interaction step implementation of a quantum search in coupled micro-cavities
authors: Elica S. Kyoseva, Dimitris G. Angelakis, Kwek Leong Chuan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, revised published version
journal: Europhys. Lett. 89, 20005 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3308
abstract: We present a method for realizing efficiently Grover's search algorithm in an array of coupled cavities doped with three-level atoms. We show that by encoding information in the lowest two ground states of the dopants and through the application of appropriately tuned global laser fields, the reflection operator needed for the quantum search algorithm can be realized in a single physical operation. Thus, the time steps in which Grover's search can be implemented become equal to the mathematical steps ~ O(\sqrt{N}), where N is the size of the register. We study the robustness of the implementation against errors due to photon losses and fluctuations in the cavity frequencies and atom-photon coupling constants.

id: 0908.3351
title: Experimental demonstration of a high speed quantum random number generation scheme based on measuring phase noise of a single mode laser
authors: Bing Qi, Yue-Meng Chi, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Li Qian
comments: Part of this work has been presented at the 9th Asian Conference on Quantum Information Science. See Proceedings of The 9th Asian Conference on Quantum Information Science,(Nanjing, China, August, 2009), pp. 64-65
journal: Optics Letters 35, 312-314 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3351
abstract: We present a high speed random number generation scheme based on measuring the quantum phase noise of a single mode diode laser operating at a low intensity level near the lasing threshold. A delayed self-heterodyning system has been developed to measure the random phase fluctuation.By actively stabilizing the phase of the fiber interferometer, a random number generation rate of 500Mbit/s has been demonstrated and the generated random numbers have passed all the DIEHARD tests.

id: 0908.3354
title: Origin of branch points in the spectrum of PT-symmetric periodic potentials
authors: Ching-Hao Chang, Shi-Ming Wang, Tzay-Ming Hong
comments: 6 pages, 5figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3354
abstract: There exists multiple branch points in the energy spectrum for some \emph{PT}-symmetric periodic potentials, where the real eigenvalues turn into complex ones. By studying the transmission amplitude for a localized complex potential, we elucidate the physical origin of the breakdown of perturbation method and Born approximation. Mostly importantly, we derive an analytic criteria to determine why, when and where the bifurcation will occur.

id: 0908.3358
title: Tunneling Qubit Operation on a Protected Josephson Junction Array
authors: Zhi Yin, Sheng-Wen Li, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. The published version in Phys. Rev., A81(2010)012327
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3358
abstract: We discuss a protected quantum computation process based on a hexagon Josephson junction array. Qubits are encoded in the punctured array, which is topologically protected. The degeneracy is related to the number of holes. The topological degeneracy is lightly shifted by tuning the flux through specific hexagons. We also show how to perform single qubit operation and basic quantum gate operations in this system.

id: 0908.3398
title: On the Electromagnetic Properties of Matter in Collapse Models
authors: Angelo Bassi, Detlef Duerr
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX, updated version with minor changes
journal: Journ. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 485302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3398
abstract: We discuss the electromagnetic properties of both a charged free particle, and a charged particle bounded by an harmonic potential, within collapse models. By choosing a particularly simple, yet physically relevant, collapse model, and under only the dipole approximation, we are able to solve the equation of motion exactly. In this way, both the finite time and large time behavior can be analyzed accurately. We discovered new features, which did not appear in previous works on the same subject. Since, so far, the spontaneous photon emission process places the strongest upper bounds on the collapse parameters, our results call for a further analysis of this process for those atomic systems which can be employed in experimental tests of collapse models, as well as of quantum mechanics.

id: 0908.3408
title: Entangled quantum states in a local deterministic theory
authors: Gerard 't Hooft
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures, 2nd Vienna Symposium on the Foundations of Modern Physics (June 2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3408
abstract: Investigating a class of models that is familiar in studies of cellular automata, we find that quantum operators can be employed to describe their long distance behavior. These operators span a Hilbert space that appears to turn such a model into a genuine quantum field theory, obeying the usual conditions of locality in terms of its quantum commutators. Entangled states can be constructed exactly as in quantum theories. This raises the question whether such models allow Bell's inequalities to be violated. Being a local, deterministic theory, one would argue that this is impossible, but since at large distance scales the model does not seem to differ from real quantum field theories, there is reason to wonder why it should not allow entangled states. The standard arguments concerning Bell's inequalities are re-examined in this light.

id: 0908.3454
title: On the consequences of the fact that atomic levels have a certain width
authors: Claude Billionnet
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3454
abstract: This note presents two ideas. The first one is that quantum theory has a fundamentally perturbative basis but leads to nonperturbative states which it would seem natural to take into account in the foundation of a theory of quantum phenomena. The second one consists in questioning the validity of the present notion of time. Both matters are related to the fact that atomic levels have a certain width. This note is presented qualitatively so as to evidence its main points, independently of the models on which these have been tested.

id: 0908.3467
title: Estimating multipartite entanglement measures
authors: A. Osterloh, P. Hyllus
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, 1 table; revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022307 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3467
abstract: We investigate the lower bound obtained from experimental data of a quantum state $\rho$, as proposed independently by G\"uhne et al. and Eisert et al. for mixed states of three qubits. The measure we consider is the convex-roof extended three-tangle. Our findings highlight an intimate relation to lower bounds obtained recently from so-called characteristic curves of a given entanglement measure. We apply the bounds to estimate the three-tangle present in recently performed experiments aimed at producing a three-qubit GHZ state. A non-vanishing lower bound is obtained if the GHZ-fidelity of the produced states is larger than 3/4.

id: 0908.3491
title: Entangled games do not require much entanglement (withdrawn)
authors: Gus Gutoski
comments: Withdrawn. I found a mistake in my proof. This one-page replacement note explains the problem in more detail. Sorry, everyone
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3491
abstract: We prove an explicit upper bound on the amount of entanglement required by any strategy in a two-player cooperative game with classical questions and quantum answers. Specifically, we show that every strategy for a game with n-bit questions and n-qubit answers can be implemented exactly by players who share an entangled state of no more than 5n qubits--a bound which is optimal to within a factor of 5/2. Previously, no upper bound at all was known on the amount of entanglement required even to approximate such a strategy. It follows that the problem of computing the value of these games is in NP, whereas previously this problem was not known to be computable.

id: 0908.3516
title: A microstructured fiber source of photon pairs at widely separated wavelengths
authors: Joshua A. Slater, Jean-Simon Corbeil, Stephane Virally, Felix Bussieres, Alexandre Kudlinski, Geraud Bouwmans, Suzanne Lacroix, Nicolas Godbout, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures. Published version
journal: Opt. Lett. 35, 499-501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3516
abstract: We demonstrate a source of photon pairs with widely separated wavelengths, 810 nm and 1548 nm, generated through spontaneous four-wave mixing in a microstructured fiber. The second-order auto-correlation function g^{(2)}(0) was measured to confirm the non-classical nature of a heralded single photon source constructed from the fiber. The microstructured fiber presented herein has the interesting property of generating photon pairs with wavelengths suitable for a quantum repeater able to link free-space channels with fiber channels, as well as for a high quality telecommunication wavelength heralded single photon source. It also has the advantage of straightforward coupling into optical fiber. These reasons make this photon pair source particularly interesting for long distance quantum communication.

id: 0908.3522
title: Modeling lossy propagation of non-classical light
authors: Ulvi Yurtsever
comments: 9 pages, 6 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3522
abstract: The lossy propagation law (generalization of Lambert-Beer's law for classical radiation loss) for non-classical, dual-mode entangled states is derived from first principles, using an infinite-series of beam splitters to model continuous photon loss. This model is general enough to accommodate stray-photon noise along the propagation, as well as amplitude attenuation. An explicit analytical expression for the density matrix as a function of propagation distance is obtained for completely general input states with bounded photon number in each mode. The result is analyzed numerically for various examples of input states. For N00N state input, the loss of coherence and entanglement is super exponential as predicted by a number of previous studies. However, for generic input states, where the coefficients are generated randomly, the decay of coherence is very different; in fact no worse than the classical Beer-Lambert law. More surprisingly, there is a plateu at a mid-range interval in propagation distance where the loss is in fact sub-classical, following which it resumes the classical rate. The qualitative behavior of the decay of entanglement for two-mode propagation is also analyzed numerically for ensembles of random states using the behavior of negativity as a function of propagation distance.

id: 0908.3548
title: Quantum and semiclassical polarization correlations
authors: Konrad Banaszek, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Michal Karpinski, Piotr Migdal, Czeslaw Radzewicz
comments: 7 pages, contribution to the special issue of Optics Communications in memory of Krzysztof Wodkiewicz
journal: Opt. Commun. 283, 713 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3548
abstract: We analyze the strength of polarization correlations between two light beams that can be achieved in the semiclassical regime using statistical mixtures of coherent states and binary on/off detectors. Under certain symmetry assumptions, the visibility of polarization correlations is shown to be bounded by 1/3, which is in a striking contrast with perfect 100% correlations exhibited by photon pairs prepared in the singlet state. The semiclassical limit is demonstrated in a measurement performed on a pair of laser beams undergoing correlated depolarization. This result illustrates the dramatic difference between predictions of quantum mechanics and the semiclassical theory of electromagnetic radiation for the polarization degree of freedom.

id: 0908.3555
title: Generation of Werner-like stationary states of two qubits in a thermal reservoir
authors: Lech Jakobczyk
comments: Published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. vol. 43, 015502(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3555
abstract: The dynamics of entanglement between two-level atoms immersed in a common photon reservoir at finite temperature is investigated. It is shown that in the regime of strong correlations there are nontrivial asymptotic states which can be interpreted in terms of thermal generalization of Werner states.

id: 0908.3583
title: Photon-pair generation in random nonlinear layered structures
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Marco Centini, Concita Sibilia, Mario Bertolotti
comments: 10 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 (2009) 033844
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3583
abstract: Nonlinearity and sharp transmission spectra of random 1D nonlinear layered structures are combined together to produce photon pairs with extremely narrow spectral bandwidths. Indistinguishable photons in a pair are nearly unentangled. Also two-photon states with coincident frequencies can be conveniently generated in these structures if photon pairs generated into a certain range of emission angles are superposed. If two photons are emitted into two different resonant peaks, the ratio of their spectral bandwidths may differ considerably from one and two photons remain nearly unentangled.

id: 0908.3679
title: Separability criteria and entanglement witnesses for symmetric quantum states
authors: Geza Toth, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 5 pages, no figures, LaTeX; v2: typos corrected, introduction extended; v3: small corrections, published version; for the proceedings of the DPG spring meeting, Hamburg, March 2009
journal: Appl. Phys. B 98, 617 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3679
abstract: We study the separability of symmetric bipartite quantum states and show that a single correlation measurement is sufficient to detect the entanglement of any bipartite symmetric state with a non-positive partial transpose. We also discuss entanglement conditions and entanglement witnesses for states with a positive partial transpose.

id: 0908.3717
title: Spectral filtering in quantum Y-junction
authors: Taksu Cheon, Pavel Exner, Ondrej Turek
comments: RevTeX JPSJ format, 7 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 78 (2009) 124004 (7 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3717
abstract: We examine scattering properties of singular vertex of degree $n=2$ and $n=3$, taking advantage of a new form of representing the vertex boundary condition, which has been devised to approximate a singular vertex with finite potentials. We show that proper identification of $\delta$ and $\delta'$ components in the connection condition between outgoing lines enables the designing of quantum spectral branch-filters.

id: 0908.3719
title: Quantum computing with semiconductor double-dot molecules on a chip
authors: Peng Xue
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, references added
journal: Physics Letters A 374, 2601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3719
abstract: We develop a scalable architecture for quantum computation using controllable electrons of double-dot molecules coupled to a microwave stripline resonator on a chip, which satisfies all Divincenzo criteria. We analyze the performance and stability of all required operations and emphasize that all techniques are feasible with current experimental technologies.

id: 0908.3720
title: Efficient, scalable generation of cluster states in charge qubits
authors: P. Xue
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3720
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author because it was a speculative investigation.

id: 0908.3755
title: Unambiguous quantization from the maximum classical correspondence that is self-consistent: the slightly stronger canonical commutation rule Dirac missed
authors: Steven Kenneth Kauffmann
comments: 12 pages, Final publication in Foundations of Physics; available online at this http URL
journal: Foundations of Physics, Volume 41, Number 5, 805-819 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3755
abstract: Dirac's identification of the quantum analog of the Poisson bracket with the commutator is reviewed, as is the threat of self-inconsistent overdetermination of the quantization of classical dynamical variables which drove him to restrict the assumption of correspondence between quantum and classical Poisson brackets to embrace only the Cartesian components of the phase space vector. Dirac's canonical commutation rule fails to determine the order of noncommuting factors within quantized classical dynamical variables, but does imply the quantum/classical correspondence of Poisson brackets between any linear function of phase space and the sum of an arbitrary function of only configuration space with one of only momentum space. Since every linear function of phase space is itself such a sum, it is worth checking whether the assumption of quantum/classical correspondence of Poisson brackets for all such sums is still self-consistent. Not only is that so, but this slightly stronger canonical commutation rule also unambiguously determines the order of noncommuting factors within quantized dynamical variables in accord with the 1925 Born-Jordan quantization surmise, thus replicating the results of the Hamiltonian path integral, a fact first realized by E. H. Kerner. Born-Jordan quantization validates the generalized Ehrenfest theorem, but has no inverse, which disallows the disturbing features of the poorly physically motivated invertible Weyl quantization, i.e., its unique deterministic classical "shadow world" which can manifest negative densities in phase space.

id: 0908.3771
title: Fluctuations of Quantum Entanglement
authors: E.B. Fel'dman, M.A. Yurishchev
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: JETP Letters, 2009, Vol.90, No.1, pp.70-74
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3771
abstract: It is emphasized that quantum entanglement determined in terms of the von Neumann entropy operator is a stochastic quantity and, therefore, can fluctuate. The rms fluctuations of the entanglement entropy of two-qubit systems in both pure and mixed states have been obtained. It has been found that entanglement fluctuations in the maximally entangled states are absent. Regions where the entanglement fluctuations are larger than the entanglement itself (strong fluctuation regions) have been revealed. It has been found that the magnitude of the relative entanglement fluctuations is divergent at the points of the transition of systems from an entangled state to a separable state. It has been shown that entanglement fluctuations vanish in the separable states.

id: 0908.3790
title: Modification of energy shifts of atoms by the presence of a boundary in a thermal bath and the Casimir-Polder force
authors: Zhiying Zhu, Hongwei Yu
comments: 29 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032902 (2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3790
abstract: We study the modification by the presence of a plane wall of energy level shifts of two-level atoms which are in multipolar coupling with quantized electromagnetic fields in a thermal bath in a formalism which separates the contributions of thermal fluctuations and radiation reaction and allows a distinct treatment to atoms in the ground and excited states. The position dependent energy shifts give rise to an induced force acting on the atoms. We are able to identify three different regimes where the force shows distinct features and examine, in all regimes, the behaviors of this force in both the low temperature limit and the high temperature limit for both the ground state and excited state atoms, thus providing some physical insights into the atom-wall interaction at finite temperature. In particular, we show that both the magnitude and the direction of the force acting on an atom may have a clear dependence on atomic the polarization directions. In certain cases, a change of relative ratio of polarizations in different directions may result in a change of direction of the force.

id: 0908.3791
title: Observation of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency and Slow Light in the Dark State - Bright State Basis of CPT
authors: T. Laupr¨ºtre, J. Ruggiero, R. Ghosh, F. Bretenaker, F. Goldfarb
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 17, 19444-19450 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3791
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) is observed in a three-level system composed of an excited state and two coherent superpositions of the two ground-state levels. This peculiar ground state basis is composed of the so-called bright and dark states of the same atomic system in a standard coherent population trapping configuration. The characteristics of EIT, namely, width of the transmission window and reduced group velocity of light, in this unusual basis, are theoretically and experimentally investigated and are shown to be essentially identical to those of standard EIT in the same system.

id: 0908.3818
title: The invariant-comb approach and its relation to the balancedness of multipartite entangled states
authors: A. Osterloh, J. Siewert
comments: 17 pages, revtex4. Substantially extended manuscript (e.g. proofs have been added); title and abstract modified.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3818
abstract: The invariant-comb approach is a method to construct entanglement measures for multipartite systems of qubits. The essential step is the construction of an antilinear operator that we call {\em comb} in reference to the {\em hairy-ball theorem}. An appealing feature of this approach is that for qubits (or spins 1/2) the combs are automatically invariant under $SL(2,\CC)$, which implies that the obtained invariants are entanglement monotones by construction. By asking which property of a state determines whether or not it is detected by a polynomial $SL(2,\CC)$ invariant we find that it is the presence of a {\em balanced part} that persists under local unitary transformations. We present a detailed analysis for the maximally entangled states detected by such polynomial invariants, which leads to the concept of {\em irreducibly balanced} states. The latter indicates a tight connection with SLOCC classifications of qubit entanglement. \\ Combs may also help to define measures for multipartite entanglement of higher-dimensional subsystems. However, for higher spins there are many independent combs such that it is non-trivial to find an invariant one. By restricting the allowed local operations to rotations of the coordinate system (i.e. again to the $SL(2,\CC)$) we manage to define a unique extension of the concurrence to general half-integer spin with an analytic convex-roof expression for mixed states.

id: 0908.3867
title: Double humped states in the nonlinear Schroedinger equation with a random potential
authors: Hagar Veksler, Yevgeny Krivolapov, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3867
abstract: The role of double humped states in spreading of wave packets for the nonlinear Schroedinger equation (NLSE) with a random potential is explored and the spreading mechanism is unraveled. Comparison with an NLSE with a double-well potential is made. There are two independent affects of the nonlinearity on the double humped states for the NLSE: coupling to other states and destruction. The interplay between these effects is discussed.

id: 0908.3877
title: Typicality in random matrix product states
authors: Silvano Garnerone, Thiago R. de Oliveira, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures; accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032336 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3877
abstract: Recent results suggest that the use of ensembles in Statistical Mechanics may not be necessary for isolated systems, since typically the states of the Hilbert space would have properties similar to the ones of the ensemble. Nevertheless, it is often argued that most of the states of the Hilbert space are non-physical and not good descriptions of realistic systems. Therefore, to better understand the actual power of typicality it is important to ask if it is also a property of a set of physically relevant states. Here we address this issue, studying if and how typicality emerges in the set of matrix product states. We show analytically that typicality occurs for the expectation value of subsystems' observables when the rank of the matrix product state scales polynomially with the size of the system with a power greater than two. We illustrate this result numerically and present some indications that typicality may appear already for a linear scaling of the rank of the matrix product state.

id: 0908.3926
title: Time evolution of spin-boson system for different effective spectral density functions
authors: Xian-Ting Liang
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures,title has been changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3926
abstract: In this paper we firstly obtain two kinds of effective spectral density functions by setting the cut-off frequencies of baths be infinite and finite. Secondly, we investigate the reduced dynamics of open qubits in four kinds of systems constructed with the basic spin-boson model. It is shown that the qubit has different dynamics governed by the two kinds of spectral density functions. In addition, we obtained that a qubit coupled to an intermediate harmonic oscillator has longer decoherence and relaxation times as they are coupled to a common bath than to their respective baths. In solving the dynamics of qubits we use a numerically exact algorithm, iterative tensor multiplication algorithm based on the quasiadiabatic propagator path integral scheme.

id: 0908.3932
title: Fault Tolerance in Parity-State Linear Optical Quantum Computing
authors: A. J. F. Hayes, H. L. Haselgrove, Alexei Gilchrist, T. C. Ralph
comments: LaTeX, 10 pages, introduction updated for journal submission
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3932
abstract: We use a combination of analytical and numerical techniques to calculate the noise threshold and resource requirements for a linear optical quantum computing scheme based on parity-state encoding. Parity-state encoding is used at the lowest level of code concatenation in order to efficiently correct errors arising from the inherent nondeterminism of two-qubit linear-optical gates. When combined with teleported error-correction (using either a Steane or Golay code) at higher levels of concatenation, the parity-state scheme is found to achieve a saving of approximately three orders of magnitude in resources when compared to a previous scheme, at a cost of a somewhat reduced noise threshold.

id: 0908.3952
title: Open system effects on slow light and electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: Jonas Tidstr?m, Marie Ericsson, Erik Sj?qvist, L. Mauritz Andersson
comments: Several changes; journal reference added
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 135501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3952
abstract: The coherence properties of a three-level $\Lambda$-system influenced by a Markovian environment are analyzed. A coherence vector formalism is used and a vector form of the Lindblad equation is derived. Together with decay channels from the upper state, open system channels acting on the subspace of the two lower states are investigated, i.e., depolarization, dephasing, and amplitude damping channels. We derive an analytic expression for the coherence vector and the concomitant optical susceptibility, and analyze how the different channels influence the optical response. This response depends non-trivially on the type of open system interaction present, and even gain can be obtained. We also present a geometrical visualization of the coherence vector as an aid to understand the system response.

id: 0908.3974
title: The Schmidt number as a universal entanglement measure
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 8 pages, Phys. Scr. in press, for previous Section IV see manuscript "Determination of the Schmidt number"
journal: Phys. Scr. 83, 045002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3974
abstract: The class of local invertible operations is defined and the invariance of entanglement under such operations is established. For the quantification of entanglement, universal entanglement measures are defined, which are invariant under local invertible transformations. They quantify entanglement in a very general sense. It is shown that the Schmidt number is a universal entanglement measure, which is most important for the general amount of entanglement. For special applications, pseudo-measures are defined to quantify the useful entanglement for a certain quantum task. The entanglement quantification is further specified by operational measures, which include the accessible observables by a given experimental setup.

id: 0908.3997
title: Thermodynamic witness of quantum probing
authors: H.Dong, X.F. Liu, C.P. Sun
comments: 5pages, 3figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3997
abstract: The thermodynamic influence of quantum probing on an object is studied. Here, quantum probing is understood as a pre-measurement based on a non-demolition interaction, which records some information of the probed object, but does not change its energy state when both the probing apparatus and the probed object are isolated from the environment. It is argued that when the probing apparatus and the probed object are immersed in a same equilibrium environment, the probing can affect the effective temperature of the object or induce a quantum isothermal process for the object to transfer its energy. This thermodynamic feature can be regarded as a witness of the existence of quantum probing even if the quantum probing would not disturb the object if the environment were not present.

id: 0908.4000
title: Direct Measurement of the Spatial-Spectral Structure of Waveguided Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: Peter J. Mosley, Andreas Christ, Andreas Eckstein, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 233901 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4000
abstract: We present a study of the propagation of higher-order spatial modes in a waveguided parametric down-conversion photon pair source. Observing the multimode photon pair spectrum from a periodically poled KTiOPO$_4$ waveguide allowed us to isolate individual spatial modes through their distinctive spectral properties. We have measured directly the spatial distribution of each mode of the photon pairs, confirming the findings of our waveguide model, and demonstrated by coincidence measurements that the total parity of the modes is conserved in the nonlinear interaction. Furthermore, we show that we can combine the advantages of a waveguide source with the potential to generate spatially entangled photon pairs as in bulk crystal down-converters.

id: 0908.4045
title: Cryptohermitian Picture of Scattering Using Quasilocal Metric Operators
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 085, 21 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4045
abstract: One-dimensional unitary scattering controlled by non-Hermitian (typically, ${\cal PT}$-symmetric) quantum Hamiltonians $H\neq H^\dagger$ is considered. Treating these operators via Runge-Kutta approximation, our three-Hilbert-space formulation of quantum theory is reviewed as explaining the unitarity of scattering. Our recent paper on bound states [Znojil M., SIGMA 5 (2009), 001, 19 pages, arXiv:0901.0700] is complemented by the text on scattering. An elementary example illustrates the feasibility of the resulting innovative theoretical recipe. A new family of the so called quasilocal inner products in Hilbert space is found to exist. Constructively, these products are all described in terms of certain non-equivalent short-range metric operators $\Theta\neq I$ represented, in Runge-Kutta approximation, by $(2R-1)$-diagonal matrices.

id: 0908.4063
title: 200km Decoy-state quantum key distribution with photon polarization
authors: Teng-Yun Chen, Jian Wang, Yang Liu, Wen-Qi Cai, Xu Wan, Luo-Kan Chen, Jin-Hong Wang, Shu-Bin Liu, Hao Liang, Lin Yang, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 18, Issue 8, pp. 8587-8594 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4063
abstract: We demonstrate the decoy-state quantum key distribution over 200 km with photon polarization through optical fiber, by using super-conducting single photon detector with a repetition rate of 320 Mega Hz and a dark count rate of lower than 1 Hz. Since we have used the polarization coding, the synchronization pulses can be run in a low frequency. The final key rate is 14.1 Hz. The experiment lasts for 3089 seconds with 43555 total final bits.

id: 0908.4069
title: Decoherence, measurement and interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Juan Sebasti¨¢n Ardenghi, Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 9 PAGES
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4069
abstract: According to our modal-Hamiltonian interpretation (MHI) of quantum mechanics, the Hamiltonian of the closed system defines the set of its definite-valued observables. This definition seems to be incompatible with the pointer basis selected by the environment-induced decoherence (EID) of the open system. In this paper we argue that decoherence can be understood from a closed system perspective which (i) shows that the incompatibility between MHI and EID is only apparent, and (ii) solves certain conceptual challenges that the EID program still has to face.

id: 0908.4113
title: Quantum-optical state engineering up to the two-photon level
authors: Erwan Bimbard, Nitin Jain, Andrew MacRae, A.I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 243 - 247 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4113
abstract: We propose and experimentally verify a scheme to engineer arbitrary states of traveling light field up to the two-photon level. The desired state is remotely prepared in the signal channel of spontaneous parametric down-conversion by means of conditional measurements on the idler channel. The measurement consists of bringing the idler field into interference with two ancilla coherent states, followed by two single-photon detectors, which, in coincidence, herald the preparation event. By varying the amplitudes and phases of the ancillae, we can prepare any arbitrary superposition of zero- one- and two-photon states.

id: 0908.4147
title: Experimental comparison of Raman and RF outcouplers for high flux atom lasers
authors: J. E. Debs, D. D?ring, P. A. Altin, C. Figl, J. Dugu¨¦, M. Jeppesen, J. T. Schultz, N. P. Robins, J. D. Close
comments: 8 Pages, 5 Figures, Submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 81, 013619, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4147
abstract: We study the properties of an atom laser beam derived from a Bose-Einstein condensate using three different outcouplers, one based on multi-state radio frequency transitions and two others based on Raman transitions capable of imparting momentum to the beam. We first summarize the differences that arise in such systems, and how they may impact on the use of an atom laser in interferometry. Experimentally, we examine the formation of a bound state in all three outcouplers, a phenomenon which limits the atom laser flux, and find that a two-state Raman outcoupler is the preferred option for high flux, low divergence atom laser beams.

id: 0908.4181
title: Non-Markovian control of qubit thermodynamics by frequent quantum measurements
authors: Guy Bensky, D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, Goren Gordon, David Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, Noam Erez, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physica E 42, 477 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4181
abstract: We explore the effects of frequent, impulsive quantum nondemolition measurements of the energy of two-level systems (TLS), alias qubits, in contact with a thermal bath. The resulting entropy and temperature of both the system and the bath are found to be completely determined by the measurement rate, and unrelated to what is expected by standard thermodynamical rules that hold for Markovian baths. These anomalies allow for very fast control of heating, cooling and state-purification (entropy reduction) of qubits, much sooner than their thermal equilibration time.

id: 0908.4214
title: Entanglement detection via tighter local uncertainty relations
authors: Cheng-Jie Zhang, Hyunchul Nha, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012324 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4214
abstract: We propose an entanglement criterion based on local uncertainty relations (LURs) in a stronger form than the original LUR criterion introduced in [H. F. Hofmann and S. Takeuchi, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{68}, 032103 (2003)]. Using arbitrarily chosen operators $\{\hat{A}_{k}\}$ and $\{\hat{B}_{k}\}$ of subsystems A and B, the tighter LUR criterion, which may be used not only for discrete variables but also for continuous variables, can detect more entangled states than the original criterion.

id: 0908.4219
title: Fast Universal Quantum Computation with Railroad-switch Local Hamiltonians
authors: Daniel Nagaj
comments: Added references to work by de Falco et al., and realized that Feynman's '85 paper already contained the idea of a switch in it
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 51 (6), 062201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4219
abstract: We present two universal models of quantum computation with a time-independent, frustration-free Hamiltonian. The first construction uses 3-local (qubit) projectors, and the second one requires only 2-local qubit-qutrit projectors. We build on Feynman's Hamiltonian computer idea and use a railroad-switch type clock register. The resources required to simulate a quantum circuit with L gates in this model are O(L) small-dimensional quantum systems (qubits or qutrits), a time-independent Hamiltonian composed of O(L) local, constant norm, projector terms, the possibility to prepare computational basis product states, a running time O(L log^2 L), and the possibility to measure a few qubits in the computational basis. Our models also give a simplified proof of the universality of 3-local Adiabatic Quantum Computation.

id: 0908.4225
title: Reservoir cross-over in entanglement dynamics
authors: L. Mazzola, S. Maniscalco, K.-A. Suominen, B. M. Garraway
comments: 
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 8, 577 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4225
abstract: We study the effects of spontaneous emission on the entanglement dynamics of two qubits interacting with a common Lorentzian structured reservoir. We assume that the qubits are initially prepared in a Bell-like state. We focus on the strong coupling regime and study the entanglement dynamics for different regions of the spontaneous emission decay parameter. This investigation allows us to explore the cross-over between common and independent reservoirs in entanglement dynamics.

id: 0908.4246
title: Topological Subsystem Codes
authors: H. Bombin
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures, explanations added, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4246
abstract: We introduce a family of 2D topological subsystem quantum error-correcting codes. The gauge group is generated by 2-local Pauli operators, so that 2-local measurements are enough to recover the error syndrome. We study the computational power of code deformation in these codes, and show that boundaries cannot be introduced in the usual way. In addition, we give a general mapping connecting suitable classical statistical mechanical models to optimal error correction in subsystem stabilizer codes that suffer from depolarizing noise.

id: 0908.4264
title: Self-Correcting Quantum Memory in a Thermal Environment
authors: Stefano Chesi, Beat R?thlisberger, Daniel Loss
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4264
abstract: The ability to store information is of fundamental importance to any computer, be it classical or quantum. To identify systems for quantum memories which rely, analogously to classical memories, on passive error protection (`self-correction') is of greatest interest in quantum information science. While systems with topological ground states have been considered to be promising candidates, a large class of them was recently proven unstable against thermal fluctuations. Here, we propose two-dimensional (2D) spin models unaffected by this result. Specifically, we introduce repulsive long-range interactions in the toric code and establish a memory lifetime polynomially increasing with the system size. This remarkable stability is shown to originate directly from the repulsive long-range nature of the interactions. We study the time dynamics of the quantum memory in terms of diffusing anyons and support our analytical results with extensive numerical simulations. Our findings demonstrate that self-correcting quantum memories can exist in 2D at finite temperatures.

id: 0908.4303
title: Deterministic generation of non-classical states of light using photon blockade
authors: Andrei Faraon, Arka Majumdar, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4303
abstract: The generation of non-classical states of light via photon blockade with time-modulated input is analyzed. We show that improved single photon statistics can be obtained by adequately choosing the parameters of the driving laser pulses. An alternative method, where the system is driven via a continuous wave laser and the frequency of the dipole is controlled (e.g. electrically) at very fast timescales is presented.

id: 0908.4337
title: Some entanglement features of three-atoms Tavis-Cummings model: Cooperative case
authors: M. Youssef, A.-S. F. Obada, N. Metwally
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4337
abstract: In this paper we consider a system of identical three two-level atoms interacting at resonance with a single-mode of the quantized field in a lossless cavity. The initial cavity field is prepared in the coherent state while the atoms are taken initially to be either in the uppermost excited state "$|eee>$" or The $\textmd{GHZ}$-state or the $\textmd{W}$-state. For this system we investigate different kinds of atomic inversion and entanglement, which arise between the different parts of the system due to the interaction. Also the relationship, between entanglement and some other nonclassical effects in the statistical properties, such as collapses and revivals in the atomic inversion where superharmonic effects appear, is discussed. The $Q$-functions for different cases are discussed. Most remarkably it is found that the $\textmd{GHZ}$-state is more robust against energy losses, showing almost coherent trapping and Schr\"odinger-cat states can not be produced from such state. Also the entanglement of $\textmd{GHZ}$-state is more robust than the $\textmd{W}$-state. Another interesting feature found is that the state which has no pairwise entanglement initially will have a much improvement of such pairwise entanglement through the evolution. Sudden death and sudden revival of atoms-pairwise entanglement are produced with the $\textmd{W}$-state.

id: 0908.4348
title: An Adynamical, Graphical Approach to Quantum Gravity and Unification
authors: W. M. Stuckey, Michael Silberstein, Timothy McDevitt
comments: 47 pages text, 14 figures, revised per recent results, e.g., dark energy results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4348
abstract: We use graphical field gradients in an adynamical, background independent fashion to propose a new approach to quantum gravity and unification. Our proposed reconciliation of general relativity and quantum field theory is based on a modification of their graphical instantiations, i.e., Regge calculus and lattice gauge theory, respectively, which we assume are fundamental to their continuum counterparts. Accordingly, the fundamental structure is a graphical amalgam of space, time, and sources (in parlance of quantum field theory) called a "spacetimesource element." These are fundamental elements of space, time, and sources, not source elements in space and time. The transition amplitude for a spacetimesource element is computed using a path integral with discrete graphical action. The action for a spacetimesource element is constructed from a difference matrix K and source vector J on the graph, as in lattice gauge theory. K is constructed from graphical field gradients so that it contains a non-trivial null space and J is then restricted to the row space of K, so that it is divergence-free and represents a conserved exchange of energy-momentum. This construct of K and J represents an adynamical global constraint between sources, the spacetime metric, and the energy-momentum content of the element, rather than a dynamical law for time-evolved entities. We use this approach via modified Regge calculus to correct proper distance in the Einstein-deSitter cosmology model yielding a fit of the Union2 Compilation supernova data that matches LambdaCDM without having to invoke accelerating expansion or dark energy. A similar modification to lattice gauge theory results in an adynamical account of quantum interference.

id: 0908.4370
title: Polarization State Dynamics of Single Photon Pulse Under Stochastic Polarization Mode Dispersion for Optical Fiber Quantum Channels
authors: Chang-hua Zhu, Chang-xing Pei, Dong-xiao Quan, Nan Chen, Yun-hui Yi
comments: Any comment is welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4370
abstract: We investigate the polarization state dynamics of single photon pulse for optical fiber quantum communication channels. On the basis of a birefringence vector model in which amplitude and direction are both stochastic variables, Jones vector is obtained by solving the frequency domain wave equation. The fidelity of output quantum state and degree of polarization of the pulse are also obtained from the density operators. It is shown that the fidelity of quantum state decreases quickly and tends to a stable value along optical fiber, and increases for larger mean fluctuation magnitude of the stochastic fiber birefringence. Degree of polarization is nearly constant for small mean fluctuation magnitude of the birefringence. The fidelity and degree of polarization vary in the same way for Gaussian and rectangular frequency spectrum envelope, while the value of Lorentzian spectrum is smaller.

id: 0908.4373
title: A competitive game whose maximal Nash-equilibrium payoff requires quantum resources for its achievement
authors: Charles D. Hill, Adrian P. Flitney, Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: 8 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374 (2010) 3619-3624
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4373
abstract: While it is known that shared quantum entanglement can offer improved solutions to a number of purely cooperative tasks for groups of remote agents, controversy remains regarding the legitimacy of quantum games in a competitive setting--in particular, whether they offer any advantage beyond what is achievable using classical resources. We construct a competitive game between four players based on the minority game where the maximal Nash-equilibrium payoff when played with the appropriate quantum resource is greater than that obtainable by classical means, assuming a local hidden variable model. The game is constructed in a manner analogous to a Bell inequality. This result is important in confirming the legitimacy of quantum games.

id: 0908.4377
title: Extraction of an Entanglement by Repetition of the Resonant Transmission of an Ancilla Qubit
authors: Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 43, 095304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4377
abstract: A scheme for the extraction of entanglement in two noninteracting qubits (spins) is proposed. The idea is to make use of resonant transmission of ancilla qubit through the two fixed qubits, controlled by the entanglement in the scatterers. Repetition of the resonant transmission extracts the singlet state in the target qubits from their arbitrary given state. Neither the preparation nor the post-selection of the ancilla spin is required, in contrast to the previously proposed schemes.

id: 0908.4390
title: Quantum Electrodynamics of Casimir Momentum: Momentum of the Quantum Vacuum?
authors: Sebastien Kawka, Bart Van Tiggelen
comments: 4,4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4390
abstract: The electromagnetic vacuum is known to have energy. It has been recently argued that the quantum vacuum can possess momentum, that adds up to the momentum of matter. This ``Casimir momentum'' is closely related to the Casimir effect, in which case energy is exchanged. In previous theory it was treated semi-classically. We present a non-relativistic quantum theory for the linear momentum of electromagnetic zero-point fluctuations, considering an harmonic oscillator subject to crossed, quasi-static magnetic and electric and coupled to the quantum vacuum. We derive a contribution of the quantum vacuum to the linear pseudo-momentum and give a new estimate for the achievable speed. Our analysis show that the effect exists and that it is finite.

id: 0908.4398
title: Limitations on the simulation of non-sparse Hamiltonians
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Robin Kothari
comments: v1: 12 pages. v2: 15 pages; strengthened main result
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 10, 669-684 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4398
abstract: The problem of simulating sparse Hamiltonians on quantum computers is well studied. The evolution of a sparse N x N Hamiltonian H for time t can be simulated using O(||Ht||poly(log N)) operations, which is essentially optimal due to a no--fast-forwarding theorem. Here, we consider non-sparse Hamiltonians and show significant limitations on their simulation. We generalize the no--fast-forwarding theorem to dense Hamiltonians, ruling out generic simulations taking time o(||Ht||), even though ||H|| is not a unique measure of the size of a dense Hamiltonian $H$. We also present a stronger limitation ruling out the possibility of generic simulations taking time poly(||Ht||,log N), showing that known simulations based on discrete-time quantum walk cannot be dramatically improved in general. On the positive side, we show that some non-sparse Hamiltonians can be simulated efficiently, such as those with graphs of small arboricity.

id: 0908.4435
title: Modulated Entanglement Evolution Via Correlated Noises
authors: Brittany Corn, Ting Yu
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. To be published in Quantum Information Processing, special issue on Quantum Decoherence and Entanglement
journal: Quantum Information Processing 8, 565(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4435
abstract: We study entanglement dynamics in the presence of correlated environmental noises. Specifically, we investigate the quantum entanglement dynamics of two spins in the presence of correlated classical white noises, deriving Markov master equation and obtaining explicit solutions for several interesting classes of initial states including Bell states and X form density matrices. We show how entanglement can be enhanced or reduced by the correlation between the two participating noises.

id: 0908.4473
title: Unequal intensity splitting can reduce back action in interferometers
authors: Ole Steuernagel
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4473
abstract: Typical two-path interferometers are intensity-balanced because this maximizes the visibility of their interference patterns. Unbalancing the interferometer can be advised when back action on the object whose position is monitored is to be reduced. Variations of the intensity splitting ratios in two-path interferometers are analyzed in order to determine optimal interferometric performance while minimizing back action: it turns out that homodyning-like schemes perform best.

id: 0908.4475
title: Multi-barrier resonant tunneling for the one-dimensional nonlinear Schr?dinger Equation
authors: K Rapedius, H J Korsch
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 425301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4475
abstract: For the stationary one-dimensional nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation (or Gross-Pitaevskii equation) nonlinear resonant transmission through a finite number of equidistant identical barriers is studied using a (semi-) analytical approach. In addition to the occurrence of bistable transmission peaks known from nonlinear resonant transmission through a single quantum well (respectively a double barrier) complicated (looped) structures are observed in the transmission coefficient which can be identified as the result of symmetry breaking similar to the emergence of self-trapping states in double well potentials. Furthermore it is shown that these results are well reproduced by a nonlinear oscillator model based on a small number of resonance eigenfunctions of the corresponding linear system.

id: 0908.4490
title: Near-optimal dynamical decoupling of a qubit
authors: Jacob R. West, Bryan H. Fong, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: v2: corrected references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 130501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4490
abstract: We present a near-optimal quantum dynamical decoupling scheme that eliminates general decoherence of a qubit to order n using O(n^2) pulses, an exponential decrease in pulses over all previous decoupling methods. Numerical simulations of a qubit coupled to a spin bath demonstrate the superior performance of the new pulse sequences.

id: 0908.4534
title: Asymptotic Evolution of Random Unitary Operations
authors: J. Novotny, G. Alber, I. Jex
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4534
abstract: We analyze the asymptotic dynamics of quantum systems resulting from large numbers of iterations of random unitary operations. Although, in general, these quantum operations cannot be diagonalized it is shown that their resulting asymptotic dynamics is described by a diagonalizable superoperator. We prove that this asymptotic dynamics takes place in a typically low dimensional attractor space which is independent of the probability distribution of the unitary operations applied. This vector space is spanned by all eigenvectors of the unitary operations involved which are associated with eigenvalues of unit modulus. Implications for possible asymptotic dynamics of iterated random unitary operations are presented and exemplified in an example involving random controlled-not operations acting on two qubits.

id: 0908.4546
title: Continuous-time quantum walks on semi-regular spidernet graphs via quantum probability theory
authors: S. Salimi
comments: 21 page; 8 figures. Accepted for publication on Quantum information processing
journal: Quantum Inf. Process 9 (2010) 75.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4546
abstract: We analyze continuous-time quantum and classical random walk on spidernet lattices. In the framework of Stieltjes transform, we obtain density of states, which is an efficiency measure for the performance of classical and quantum mechanical transport processes on graphs, and calculate the spacetime transition probabilities between two vertices of the lattice. Then we analytically show that there are two power law decays $\sim t^{-3}$ and $\sim t^{-1.5}$ at the beginning of the transport for transition probability in the continuous-time quantum and classical random walk respectively. This results illustrate the decay of quantum mechanical transport processes is quicker than that of the classical one. Due to the result, the characteristic time $t_c$, which is the time when the first maximum of the probabilities occur on an infinite graph, for the quantum walk is shorter than that of the classical walk. Therefore, we can interpret that the quantum transport speed on spidernet is faster than that of the classical one. In the end, we investigate the results by numerical analysis for two examples.

id: 0908.4558
title: Phase gate and readout with an atom/molecule hybrid platform
authors: Elena Kuznetsova, Marko Gacesa, Susanne F. Yelin, Robin C?t¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4558
abstract: We suggest a combined atomic/molecular system for quantum computation, which takes advantage of highly developed techniques to control atoms and recent experimental progress in manipulation of ultracold molecules. We show that two atoms of different species in a given site, {\it e.g.}, in an optical lattice, could be used for qubit encoding, initialization and readout, with one atom carrying the qubit, the other enabling a gate. In particular, we describe how a two-qubit phase gate can be realized by transferring a pair of atoms into the ground rovibrational state of a polar molecule with a large dipole moment, and allowing two molecules to interact via their dipole-dipole interaction. We also discuss how the reverse process of coherently transferring a molecule into a pair of atoms could be used as a readout tool for molecular quantum computers.

id: 0908.4596
title: Anomalous diffusion in the resonant quantum kicked rotor
authors: A. Romanelli, Guzm¨¢n Hern¨¢ndez
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures To appear in Physica A.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4596
abstract: We study the resonances of the quantum kicked rotor subjected to an excitation that follows a deterministic time-dependent prescription. For the primary resonances we find an analytical relation between the long-time behavior of the standard deviation and the external kick strength. For the secondary resonances we obtain essentially the same result numerically. Selecting the time sequence of the kick allows to obtain a variety of asymptotic wave-function spreadings: super-ballistic, ballistic, sub-ballistic, diffusive, sub-diffusive and localized.

id: 0908.0016
title: Effects due to a scalar coupling on the particle-antiparticle production in the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory
authors: T.R. Cardoso, L.B. Castro, A.S. de Castro
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.49:10-17,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0016
abstract: The Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau formalism with vector and scalar potentials is used to point out a few misconceptions diffused in the literature. It is explicitly shown that the scalar coupling makes the DKP formalism not equivalent to the Klein-Gordon formalism or to the Proca formalism, and that the spin-1 sector of the DKP theory looks formally like the spin-0 sector. With proper boundary conditions, scattering of massive bosons in an arbitrary mixed vector-scalar square step potential is explored in a simple way and effects due to the scalar coupling on the particle-antiparticle production and localization of bosons are analyzed in some detail.

id: 0908.0032
title: Expectation Values $<r^p>$ for Harmonic Oscillator in $R^n$
authors: Ricardo Cordero-Soto, Sergei K. Suslov
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0032
abstract: We evaluate the matrix elements $<r^{p}>$ for the $n$ -dimensional harmonic oscillator in terms of the dual Hahn polynomials and derive a corresponding three-term recurrence relation and a Pasternack-type reflection relation. A short review of similar results for nonrelativistic hydrogen atom is also given.

id: 0908.0180
title: Information and Particle Physics
authors: Wei Khim Ng, Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: 
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A26:681-689,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0180
abstract: Information measures for relativistic quantum spinors are constructed to satisfy various postulated properties such as normalisation invariance and positivity. Those measures are then used to motivate generalised Lagrangians meant to probe shorter distance physics within the maximum uncertainty framework. The modified evolution equations that follow are necessarily nonlinear and simultaneously violate Lorentz invariance, supporting previous heuristic arguments linking quantum nonlinearity with Lorentz violation. The nonlinear equations also break discrete symmetries. We discuss the implications of our results for physics in the neutrino sector and cosmology.

id: 0908.0279
title: Solid-state laser system for laser cooling of Sodium
authors: Emmanuel Mimoun, Luigi de Sarlo, Jean-Jacques Zondy, Jean Dalibard, Fabrice Gerbier
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0279
abstract: We demonstrate a frequency-stabilized, all-solid laser source at 589 nm with up to 800 mW output power. The laser relies on sum-frequency generation from two laser sources at 1064 nm and 1319 nm through a PPKTP crystal in a doubly-resonant cavity. We obtain conversion efficiency as high as 2 W/W^2 after optimization of the cavity parameters. The output wavelength is tunable over 60 GHz, which is sufficient to lock on the Sodium D2 line. The robustness, beam quality, spectral narrowness and tunability of our source make it an alternative to dye lasers for atomic physics experiments with Sodium atoms.

id: 0908.0292
title: Direct Measurement of Quantum Dot Spin Dynamics using Time-Resolved Resonance Fluorescence
authors: C.-Y. Lu, Y. Zhao, A. N. Vamivakas, C. Matthiesen, S. F?lt, A. Badolato, M. Atat¨¹re
comments: An additional EPAPS file in PDF format is available for download at the publications section of our website this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 035332 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0292
abstract: We temporally resolve the resonance fluorescence from an electron spin confined to a single self-assembled quantum dot to measure directly the spin's optical initialization and natural relaxation timescales. Our measurements demonstrate that spin initialization occurs on the order of microseconds in the Faraday configuration when a laser resonantly drives the quantum dot transition. We show that the mechanism mediating the optically induced spin-flip changes from electron-nuclei interaction to hole-mixing interaction at 0.6 Tesla external magnetic field. Spin relaxation measurements result in times on the order of milliseconds and suggest that a $B^{-5}$ magnetic field dependence, due to spin-orbit coupling, is sustained all the way down to 2.2 Tesla.

id: 0908.0413
title: Relativistic Thermodynamics with an Invariant Energy Scale
authors: Sudipta Das, Subir Ghosh, Dibakar Roychowdhury
comments: 14 pages, Latex, No figures, minor corrections, two new references added, to appear in PRD
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:125036,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0413
abstract: A particular framework for Quantum Gravity is the Doubly Special Relativity (DSR) formalism that introduces a new observer independent scale, the Planck energy. Our aim in this paper is to study the effects of this energy upper bound in relativistic thermodynamics. We have explicitly computed the modified equation of state for an ideal fluid in the DSR framework. In deriving our result we exploited the scheme of treating DSR as a non-linear representation of the Lorentz group in Special Relativity.

id: 0908.0608
title: Ground state of a tightly bound composite dimer immersed in a Fermi Sea
authors: Christophe Mora, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Chevy
comments: 11 pages; 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 80 (2009) 033607
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0608
abstract: In this paper we present a theoretical investigation for the ground state of an impurity immersed in a Fermi sea. The molecular regime is considered where a two-body bound state between the impurity and one of the fermions is formed. Both interaction and exchange of the bound fermion take place between the dimer and the Fermi sea. We develop a formalism based on a two channel model allowing us to expand systematically the ground state energy of this immersed dimer with the scattering length $a$. Working up to order $a^3$, associated to the creation of two particle-hole pairs, reveals the first signature of the composite nature of the bosonic dimer. Finally, a complementary variational study provides an accurate estimate of the dimer energy even at large scattering length.

id: 0908.0719
title: The Quantum Normal Form Approach to Reactive Scattering: The Cumulative Reaction Probability for Collinear Exchange Reactions
authors: Arseni Goussev, Roman Schubert, Holger Waalkens, Stephen Wiggins
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 131, 144103 (2009)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0719
abstract: The quantum normal form approach to quantum transition state theory is used to compute the cumulative reaction probability for collinear exchange reactions. It is shown that for heavy atom systems like the nitrogen exchange reaction the quantum normal form approach gives excellent results and has major computational benefits over full reactive scattering approaches. For light atom systems like the hydrogen exchange reaction however the quantum normal approach is shown to give only poor results. This failure is attributed to the importance of tunnelling trajectories in light atom reactions that are not captured by the quantum normal form as indicated by the only very slow convergence of the quantum normal form for such systems.

id: 0908.0948
title: Catalysis of Schwinger Vacuum Pair Production
authors: Gerald V. Dunne, Holger Gies, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; v2 clarifications and references added
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:111301,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0948
abstract: We propose a new catalysis mechanism for non-perturbative vacuum electron-positron pair production, by superimposing a plane-wave X-ray probe beam with a strongly focused optical laser pulse, such as is planned at the Extreme Light Infrastructure (ELI) facility. We compute the absorption coefficient arising from vacuum polarization effects for photons below threshold in a strong electric field. This set-up should facilitate the (first) observation of this non-perturbative QED effect with planned light sources such as ELI yielding an envisioned intensity of order 10^{26}W/cm^2.

id: 0908.0989
title: The Veldkamp Space of the Smallest Slim Dense Near Hexagon
authors: Richard M. Green, Metod Saniga
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, 4 tables; Version 2 - slightly polished; Version 3 - to appear in Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Physics
journal: Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Physics 10 (2013) 1250082
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0989
abstract: We give a detailed description of the Veldkamp space of the smallest slim dense near hexagon. This space is isomorphic to PG(7, 2) and its 2^8 - 1 = 255 Veldkamp points (that is, geometric hyperplanes of the near hexagon) fall into five distinct classes, each of which is uniquely characterized by the number of points/lines as well as by a sequence of the cardinalities of points of given orders and/or that of (grid-)quads of given types. For each type we also give its weight, stabilizer group within the full automorphism group of the near hexagon and the total number of copies. The totality of (255 choose 2)/3 = 10795 Veldkamp lines split into 41 different types. We give a complete classification of them in terms of the properties of their cores (i. e., subconfigurations of points and lines common to all the three hyperplanes comprising a given Veldkamp line) and the types of the hyperplanes they are composed of. These findings may lend themselves into important physical applications, especially in view of recent emergence of a variety of closely related finite geometrical concepts linking quantum information with black holes.

id: 0908.1195
title: A model with generalized Y-junction
authors: P. N. Bibikov, L. V. Prokhorov
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1195
abstract: The Klein-Fock-Gordon equation is studied on the generalized Y-junction of $N$ strings with a massive center. The corresponding formulas for wave scattering and normal modes are obtained.

id: 0908.1312
title: Local renormalization method for random systems
authors: O. Gittsovich, R. H¨¹bener, E. Rico, H.J. Briegel
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures. Submitted to the Special Issue on "Quantum Information and Many-Body Theory", New Journal of Physics. Editors: M.B. Plenio, J. Eisert
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 025020 (2010)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1312
abstract: In this paper, we introduce a real-space renormalization transformation for random spin systems on 2D lattices. The general method is formulated for random systems and results from merging two well known real space renormalization techniques, namely the strong disorder renormalization technique (SDRT) and the contractor renormalization (CORE). We analyze the performance of the method on the 2D random transverse field Ising model (RTFIM).

id: 0908.1327
title: Influence of a static magnetic field on the photoluminescence of an ensemble of Nitrogen-Vacancy color centers in a diamond single-crystal
authors: Ngoc Diep Lai, Dingwei Zheng, Fedor Jelezko, Fran?ois Treussart, Jean-Fran?ois Roch
comments: 14 pages, published on Applied Physics Letters journal
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1327
abstract: We investigate the electron spin resonance of an ensemble of Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) color centers in a bulk diamond crystal. The four possible orientations of the NV-center in the lattice lead to different dependences on the magnitude and the orientation of an external static magnetic field. Experimental results obtained with a continuous microwave excitation are in good agreement with simulations. In addition, we observe that the average radiative lifetime of the NV color center is also modified when the external magnetic field is applied. This variation is explained by the mixing between mS = 0 and mS = $\pm$1 spin states of the NV-center with different radiative lifetimes, due to magnetic coupling. These results are of interest for a broad range of applications, such as spin-resonance-based magnetometry with a high-density ensemble of NV-centers

id: 0908.1337
title: Fluctuation-Induced Interaction between Randomly Charged Dielectrics
authors: Ali Naji, David S. Dean, Jalal Sarabadani, Ron R. Horgan, Rudolf Podgornik
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 060601 (2010)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1337
abstract: Monopolar charge disorder effects are studied in the context of fluctuation-induced interactions between neutral dielectric slabs. It is shown that quenched bulk charge disorder gives rise to an additive contribution to the net interaction force which decays as the inverse distance between the slabs and may thus completely mask the standard Casimir--van der Waals force at large separations. By contrast, annealed (bulk or surface) charge disorder leads to a net interaction force whose large-distance behavior coincides with the universal Casimir force between perfect conductors, which scales as inverse cubic distance, and the dielectric properties enter only in subleading corrections.

id: 0908.1348
title: The non-existence of a [[13,5,4]] quantum stabilizer code
authors: J. Bierbrauer, S. Marcugini, F. Pambianco
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1348
abstract: We solve one of the oldest problems in the theory of quantum stabilizer codes by proving the non-existence of quantum [[13,5,4]]-codes.

id: 0908.1647
title: Deformation Quantization of a Certain Type of Open Systems
authors: Florian Becher, Nikolai Neumaier, Stefan Waldmann
comments: Major update. Improved main statements. 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1647
abstract: We give an approach to open quantum systems based on formal deformation quantization. It is shown that classical open systems of a certain type can be systematically quantized into quantum open systems preserving the complete positivity of the open time evolution. The usual example of linearly coupled harmonic oscillators is discussed.

id: 0908.1724
title: Entanglement Entropy and the Fermi Surface
authors: Brian Swingle
comments: 4 pages, 2 improved figures added, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 050502 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1724
abstract: Free fermions with a finite Fermi surface are known to exhibit an anomalously large entanglement entropy. The leading contribution to the entanglement entropy of a region of linear size $L$ in $d$ spatial dimensions is $S\sim L^{d-1} \log{L}$, a result that should be contrasted with the usual boundary law $S \sim L^{d-1}$. This term depends only on the geometry of the Fermi surface and on the boundary of the region in question. I give an intuitive account of this anomalous scaling based on a low energy description of the Fermi surface as a collection of one dimensional gapless modes. Using this picture, I predict a violation of the boundary law in a number of other strongly correlated systems.

id: 0908.1795
title: Critical Casimir effect in classical binary liquid mixtures
authors: A. Gambassi, A. Maciolek, C. Hertlein, U. Nellen, L. Helden, C. Bechinger, S. Dietrich
comments: 30 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 061143 (2009) [27 pages]
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1795
abstract: If a fluctuating medium is confined, the ensuing perturbation of its fluctuation spectrum generates Casimir-like effective forces acting on its confining surfaces. Near a continuous phase transition of such a medium the corresponding order parameter fluctuations occur on all length scales and therefore close to the critical point this effect acquires a universal character, i.e., to a large extent it is independent of the microscopic details of the actual system. Accordingly it can be calculated theoretically by studying suitable representative model systems. We report on the direct measurement of critical Casimir forces by total internal reflection microscopy (TIRM), with femto-Newton resolution. The corresponding potentials are determined for individual colloidal particles floating above a substrate under the action of the critical thermal noise in the solvent medium, constituted by a binary liquid mixture of water and 2,6-lutidine near its lower consolute point. Depending on the relative adsorption preferences of the colloid and substrate surfaces with respect to the two components of the binary liquid mixture, we observe that, upon approaching the critical point of the solvent, attractive or repulsive forces emerge and supersede those prevailing away from it. Based on the knowledge of the critical Casimir forces acting in film geometries within the Ising universality class and with equal or opposing boundary conditions, we provide the corresponding theoretical predictions for the sphere-planar wall geometry of the experiment. The experimental data for the effective potential can be interpreted consistently in terms of these predictions and a remarkable quantitative agreement is observed.

id: 0908.2039
title: Comment on "Time modulation of the K-shell electron capture decay rates of H-like heavy ions at GSI experiments", arXiv:0908.0877
authors: V.V. Flambaum
comments: Comment to Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 062502 (2009), also to Lipkin arXiv articles and Lambiase et al arXiv:0811.2302
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:159201,2010
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2039
abstract: According to GSI experiment Phys.Lett.B 664, 162 (2008), the rate of the daughter ion production by the K-shell electron capture (with neutrino emission) in H-like ions 142Pm, 140Pr and 152I is modulated with a period of 6 to 7 seconds. In PRL 103, 062502, 2009 by Ivanov and Kienle (also by Lipkin}) there is a claim that neutrino oscillations may explain this result. In arXiv:0811.2302 by Lambiase et al a different explanation is suggested which is based on the rotation of electron and nuclear spins. The aim of this Comment is to show why these explanations are not satisfactory and to discuss other possibilities.

id: 0908.2042
title: Problems in application of LDPC codes to information reconciliation in quantum key distribution protocols
authors: Ryutaroh Matsumoto
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure. short survey article
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2042
abstract: The information reconciliation in a quantum key distribution protocol can be studied separately from other steps in the protocol. The problem of information reconciliation can be reduced to that of distributed source coding. Its solution by LDPC codes is reviewed. We list some obstacles preventing the LDPC-based distributed source coding from becoming a more favorable alternative to the Cascade protocol for information reconciliation in quantum key distribution protocols. This exposition does not require knowledge of the quantum theory.

id: 0908.2048
title: Quantum Geometry and Quantum Mechanics of Integrable Systems
authors: M. V. Karasev
comments: Latex, 16p
journal: Russian Journal of Mathematical Physics, Vol.16, No.1, 2009, pp.81-92
subjects: Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2048
abstract: Quantum integrable systems and their classical counterparts are considered. We show that the symplectic structure and invariant tori of the classical system can be deformed by a quantization parameter $\hbar$ to produce a new (classical) integrable system. The new tori selected by the $\hbar$-equidistance rule represent the spectrum of the quantum system up to $O(\hbar^\infty)$ and are invariant under quantum dynamics in the long-time range $O(\hbar^{-\infty})$. The quantum diffusion over the deformed tori is described. The analytic apparatus uses quantum action-angle coordinates explicitly constructed by an $\hbar$-deformation of the classical action-angles.

id: 0908.2069
title: Simple Error Scattering Model for improved Information Reconciliation
authors: Stefan Rass
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Applications (stat.AP); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2069
abstract: Implementations of quantum key distribution as available nowadays suffer from inefficiencies due to post processing of the raw key that severely cuts down the final secure key rate. We present a simple model for the error scattering across the raw key and derive "closed form" expressions for the probability of a parity check failure, or experiencing more than some fixed number of errors. Our results can serve for improvement for key establishment, as information reconciliation via interactive error correction and privacy amplification rests on mostly unproven assumptions. We support those hypotheses on statistical grounds.

id: 0908.2087
title: Energies and wave functions for a soft-core Coulomb potential
authors: Richard L. Hall, Nasser Saad, K. D. Sen, Hakan Ciftci
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, title change, minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032507 (2009)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2087
abstract: For the family of model soft Coulomb potentials represented by V(r) = -\frac{Z}{(r^q+\beta^q)^{\frac{1}{q}}}, with the parameters Z>0, \beta>0, q \ge 1, it is shown analytically that the potentials and eigenvalues, E_{\nu\ell}, are monotonic in each parameter. The potential envelope method is applied to obtain approximate analytic estimates in terms of the known exact spectra for pure power potentials. For the case q =1, the Asymptotic Iteration Method is used to find exact analytic results for the eigenvalues E_{\nu\ell} and corresponding wave functions, expressed in terms of Z and \beta. A proof is presented establishing the general concavity of the scaled electron density near the nucleus resulting from the truncated potentials for all q. Based on an analysis of extensive numerical calculations, it is conjectured that the crossing between the pair of states [(\nu,\ell),(\nu',\ell')], is given by the condition \nu'\geq (\nu+1) and \ell' \geq (\ell+3). The significance of these results for the interaction of an intense laser field with an atom is pointed out. Differences in the observed level-crossing effects between the soft potentials and the hydrogen atom confined inside an impenetrable sphere are discussed.

id: 0908.2128
title: The Complexity of Relating Quantum Channels to Master Equations
authors: Toby S. Cubitt, Jens Eisert, Michael M. Wolf
comments: V1: 43 pages, single column, 8 figures. V2: titled changed; added proof-overview and accompanying figure; 50 pages, single column, 9 figures
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 310, 383 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2128
abstract: Completely positive, trace preserving (CPT) maps and Lindblad master equations are both widely used to describe the dynamics of open quantum systems. The connection between these two descriptions is a classic topic in mathematical physics. One direction was solved by the now famous result due to Lindblad, Kossakowski Gorini and Sudarshan, who gave a complete characterisation of the master equations that generate completely positive semi-groups. However, the other direction has remained open: given a CPT map, is there a Lindblad master equation that generates it (and if so, can we find it's form)? This is sometimes known as the Markovianity problem. Physically, it is asking how one can deduce underlying physical processes from experimental observations. We give a complexity theoretic answer to this problem: it is NP-hard. We also give an explicit algorithm that reduces the problem to integer semi-definite programming, a well-known NP problem. Together, these results imply that resolving the question of which CPT maps can be generated by master equations is tantamount to solving P=NP: any efficiently computable criterion for Markovianity would imply P=NP; whereas a proof that P=NP would imply that our algorithm already gives an efficiently computable criterion. Thus, unless P does equal NP, there cannot exist any simple criterion for determining when a CPT map has a master equation description. However, we also show that if the system dimension is fixed (relevant for current quantum process tomography experiments), then our algorithm scales efficiently in the required precision, allowing an underlying Lindblad master equation to be determined efficiently from even a single snapshot in this case. Our work also leads to similar complexity-theoretic answers to a related long-standing open problem in probability theory.

id: 0908.2219
title: Energy of unstable states at long times
authors: K. Urbanowski, J. Piskorski
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures, Talk given at the "14th Lomonosov Conference on Elementary Particle Physics", Moscow, Russia, August 19 -- 25, 2009; 1 Figure added, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2219
abstract: An effect generated by the nonexponential behavior of the survival amplitude of an unstable state in the long time region is considered. In 1957 Khalfin proved that this amplitude tends to zero as $t\to\infty$ more slowly than any exponential function of $t$. For a time-dependent decay rate $\gamma(t)$ Khalfin's result means that this $\gamma(t)$ is not a constant for large $t$ but that it tends to zero as $t\to\infty$. We find that a similar conclusion can be drawn for the instantaneous energy of the unstable state for a large class of models of unstable states: This energy tends to the minimal energy of the system ${\cal E}_{min}$ as $t\to\infty$ which is much smaller than the energy of this state for $t$ of the order of the lifetime of the considered state. Analyzing the transition time region between exponential and non-exponential form of the survival amplitude we find that the instantaneous energy of a considered unstable state can take large values, much larger than the energy of this state for $t$ from the exponential time region. Taking into account results obtained for a model considered, it is hypothesized that this purely quantum mechanical effect may be responsible for the properties of broad resonances such as $\sigma$ meson as well as having astrophysical and cosmological consequences.

id: 0908.2323
title: Particle fluctuations in nonuniform and trapped Bose gases
authors: V.I. Yukalov
comments: Latex file, 16 pages
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 6 (2009) 688-695
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2323
abstract: The problem of particle fluctuations in arbitrary nonuniform systems with Bose-Einstein condensate is considered. This includes the case of trapped Bose atoms. It is shown that the correct description of particle fluctuations for any nonuniform system of interacting atoms always results in thermodynamically normal fluctuations.

id: 0908.2332
title: Ladder Operators and Endomorphisms in Combinatorial Physics
authors: G¨¦rard Henry Edmond Duchamp, Laurent Poinsot, Allan I. Solomon, Karol A. Penson, Pawel Blasiak, Andrzej Horzela
comments: 
journal: DMTCS 12, 2 (2010) 1
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2332
abstract: Starting with the Heisenberg-Weyl algebra, fundamental to quantum physics, we first show how the ordering of the non-commuting operators intrinsic to that algebra gives rise to generalizations of the classical Stirling Numbers of Combinatorics. These may be expressed in terms of infinite, but {\em row-finite}, matrices, which may also be considered as endomorphisms of $\C[[x]]$. This leads us to consider endomorphisms in more general spaces, and these in turn may be expressed in terms of generalizations of the ladder-operators familiar in physics.

id: 0908.2363
title: Polynomial-Space Approximation of No-Signaling Provers
authors: Tsuyoshi Ito
comments: 13 pages. v2: Introduction expanded, references added, some open problems stated, and typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2363
abstract: In two-prover one-round interactive proof systems, no-signaling provers are those who are allowed to use arbitrary strategies, not limited to local operations, as long as their strategies cannot be used for communication between them. Study of multi-prover interactive proof systems with no-signaling provers is motivated by study of those with provers sharing quantum states. The relation between them is that no-signaling strategies include all the strategies realizable by provers sharing arbitrary entangled quantum states, and more. This paper shows that two-prover one-round interactive proof systems with no-signaling provers only accept languages in PSPACE. Combined with the protocol for PSPACE by Ito, Kobayashi and Matsumoto (CCC 2009), this implies MIPns(2,1)=PSPACE, where MIPns(2,1) is the class of languages having a two-prover one-round interactive proof system with no-signaling provers. This is proved by constructing a fast parallel algorithm which approximates within an additive error the maximum value of a two-player one-round game achievable by cooperative no-signaling players. The algorithm uses the fast parallel algorithm for the mixed packing and covering problem by Young (FOCS 2001).

id: 0908.2380
title: Exponentially Fragile PT-Symmetry in Lattices with Localized Eigenmodes
authors: Oliver Bendix, Ragnar Fleischmann, Tsampikos Kottos, Boris Shapiro
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:030402,2009
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2380
abstract: We study the effect of localized modes in lattices of size N with parity-time (PT) symmetry. Such modes are arranged in pairs of quasi-degenerate levels with splitting delta exp{-N/xi}, where \xi is their localization length. The level "evolution" with respect to the PT breaking parameter gamma shows a cascade of bifurcations during which a pair of real levels becomes complex. The spontaneous PT symmetry breaking occurs at gamma min(delta), thus resulting in an exponentially narrow exact PT phase. As N/xi decreases, it becomes more robust with gamma (1/N)^2 and the distribution P(gamma) changes from log-normal to semi-Gaussian. Our theory can be tested in the frame of optical lattices.

id: 0908.2622
title: Quantum noise and entanglement generated by a local quantum quench
authors: Benjamin Hsu, Eytan Grosfeld, Eduardo Fradkin
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures. v2, minor typos corrected and clarification added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 235412 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2622
abstract: We examine the growth of entanglement under a quantum quench at point contacts of simple fractional quantum Hall fluids and its relation with the measurement of local observables. Recently Klich and Levitov proposed that the noise generated from a local quantum quench provides a measure of the entanglement entropy. Their methods were specific to non-interacting electrons and the generalization to interacting systems was left as an open question. In this work, we generalize their result to the Laughlin states. We investigate the noise generated in the current along the edge of a fractional quantum Hall state at filling factors $\nu=1/m$, when a quantum point contact, initially closed, is fully opened at some initial time $t_0=0$. We find that local quenching in these systems gives time dependent correlation functions that have universal behavior on sufficiently long time and length scales. We calculate the noise and full counting statistics for $\nu=1/m$ and find that in general, the entanglement entropy and noise generated are unrelated quantities. We also discuss a generalization of this problem to the critical quantum Ising spin chain.

id: 0908.2647
title: Bose--Hubbard Models Coupled to Cavity Light Fields
authors: A. O. Silver, M. Hohenadler, M. J. Bhaseen, B. D. Simons
comments: 16 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 023617 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2647
abstract: Recent experiments on strongly coupled cavity quantum electrodynamics present new directions in "matter-light" systems. Following on from our previous work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 135301 (2009)] we investigate Bose-Hubbard models coupled to a cavity light field. We discuss the emergence of photoexcitations or "polaritons" within the Mott phase, and obtain the complete variational phase diagram. Exploiting connections to the super-radiance transition in the Dicke model we discuss the nature of polariton condensation within this novel state. Incorporating the effects of carrier superfluidity, we identify a first-order transition between the superradiant Mott phase and the single component atomic superfluid. The overall predictions of mean field theory are in excellent agreement with exact diagonalization and we provide details of superfluid fractions, density fluctuations, and finite size effects. We highlight connections to recent work on coupled cavity arrays.

id: 0908.2728
title: Multiphoton excitations and inverse population in two-flux-qubit system
authors: E. Il'ichev, S. N. Shevchenko, S. H. W. van der Ploeg, M. Grajcar, E. A. Temchenko, A. N. Omelyanchouk, H.-G. Meyer
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; v.2: minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 012506 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2728
abstract: We study spectroscopy of artificial solid-state four-level quantum system. This system is formed by two coupled superconducting flux qubits. When multiple driving frequency of the applied microwaves matches the energy difference between any two levels, the transition to the upper level is induced. We demonstrate two types of the multi-photon transitions: direct transitions between two levels and ladder-type transitions via an intermediate level. For the latter transitions, in particular, the inverse population of the excited state with respect to the ground one is realized. These processes can be useful for the control of the level population for the multilevel scalable quantum systems.

id: 0908.2792
title: Dynamical quantum phase transition of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical lattice
authors: Anssi Collin, Jani-Petri Martikainen, Jonas Larson
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 013603 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2792
abstract: We study dynamics of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate where the two components are coupled via an optical lattice. In particular, we focus on the dynamics as one drives the system through a critical point of a first order phase transition characterized by a jump in the internal populations. Solving the time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii equation, we analyze; breakdown of adiabaticity, impact of non-linear atom-atom scattering, and the role of a harmonic trapping potential. Our findings demonstrate that the phase transition is resilient to both contact interaction between atoms and external trapping confinement.

id: 0908.2815
title: Semirelativistic N-boson systems bound by attractive pair potentials
authors: Richard L. Hall, Wolfgang Lucha
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: J.Phys.A42:395303,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2815
abstract: We establish bounds on the energy of a system of N identical bosons bound by attractive pair potentials and obeying the semirelativistic Salpeter equation. The lower bound is provided by a `reduction', with the aid of Jacobi relative coordinates, to a suitably scaled one-body Klein-Gordon problem. Complementary upper energy bounds are provided by means of a Gaussian trial function. Detailed results are presented for the exponential pair potential V(r) = -v\exp(-r/a).

id: 0908.3027
title: Momentum space trigonometric Rosen-Morse potential
authors: C.B. Compean, M. Kirchbach
comments: 5 pages, 1 fugure
journal: J. Phys. A:Math.Theor. 42 (2009) 365301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3027
abstract: We transform the trigonometric S wave Rosen-Morse potential to momentum space in employing its property of being a harmonic angular function on the three dimensional hypersphere S^3.

id: 0908.3061
title: Information-theoretic natural ultraviolet cutoff for spacetime
authors: Achim Kempf
comments: A few details added and typos removed
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:231301,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3061
abstract: Fields in spacetime could be simultaneously discrete and continuous, in the same way that information can: it has been shown that the amplitudes, \phi(x_n), that a field takes at a generic discrete set of points, x_n, can be sufficient to reconstruct the field \phi(x) for all x, namely if there exists a certain type of natural ultraviolet (UV) cutoff in nature, and if the average spacing of the sample points is at the UV cutoff scale. Here, we generalize this information-theoretic framework to spacetimes themselves. We show that samples taken at a generic discrete set of points of a Euclidean-signature spacetime can allow one to reconstruct the shape of that spacetime everywhere, down to the cutoff scale. The resulting methods could be useful in various approaches to quantum gravity.

id: 0908.3179
title: Ion induced density bubble in a strongly correlated one dimensional gas
authors: J. Goold, H. Doerk, Z. Idziaszek, T. Calarco, Th. Busch
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A (Rapid Communications).
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 041601(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3179
abstract: We consider a harmonically trapped Tonks-Girardeau gas of impenetrable bosons in the presence of a single embedded ion, which is assumed to be tightly confined in a RF trap. In an ultracold ion-atom collision the ion's charge induces an electric dipole moment in the atoms which leads to an attractive $r^{-4}$ potential asymptotically. We treat the ion as a static deformation of the harmonic trap potential and model its short range interaction with the gas in the framework of quantum defect theory. The molecular bound states of the ionic potential are not populated due to the lack of any possible relaxation process in the Tonks-Girardeau regime. Armed with this knowledge we calculate the density profile of the gas in the presence of a central ionic impurity and show that a density \textit{bubble} of the order of a micron occurs around the ion for typical experimental parameters. From these exact results we show that an ionic impurity in a Tonks gas can be described using a pseudopotential, allowing for significantly easier treatment.

id: 0908.3348
title: Prediction and measurement of the size-dependent stability of fluorescence in diamond over the entire nanoscale
authors: Carlo Bradac, Torsten Gaebel, Nishen Naidoo, James R. Rabeau, Amanda S. Barnard
comments: Published in Nano Letters August 2009 24 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3348
abstract: Fluorescent defects in non-cytotoxic diamond nanoparticles are candidates for qubits in quantum computing, optical labels in biomedical imaging and sensors in magnetometry. For each application these defects need to be optically and thermodynamically stable, and included in individual particles at suitable concentrations (singly or in large numbers). In this letter, we combine simulations, theory and experiment to provide the first comprehensive and generic prediction of the size, temperature and nitrogen-concentration dependent stability of optically active NV defects in nanodiamonds.

id: 0908.3356
title: Quantum Information Approach to Rotating Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Zhao Liu, Hongli Guo, Shu Chen, Heng Fan
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures, minimal changes are made
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 80, 063606 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3356
abstract: We investigate the 2D weakly interacting Bose-Einstein condensate in a rotating trap by the tools of quantum information theory. The critical exponents of the ground state fidelity susceptibility and the correlation length of the system are obtained for the quantum phase transition when the frst vortex is formed. We also find the single-particle entanglement can be an indicator of the angular momentums for some real ground states. The single-particle entanglement of fractional quantum Hall states such as Laughlin state and Pfaffian state is also studied.

id: 0908.3363
title: Geometric Hyperplanes of the Near Hexagon L_3 times GQ(2, 2)
authors: Metod Saniga, Peter Levay, Michel Planat, Petr Pracna
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures and 2 tables; Version 2 - more detailed discussion of the properties of hyperplanes
journal: Letters in Mathematical Physics 91 (2010) 93-104
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3363
abstract: Having in mind their potential quantum physical applications, we classify all geometric hyperplanes of the near hexagon that is a direct product of a line of size three and the generalized quadrangle of order two. There are eight different kinds of them, totalling to 1023 = 2^{10} - 1 = |PG(9, 2)|, and they form two distinct families intricately related with the points and lines of the Veldkamp space of the quadrangle in question.

id: 0908.3673
title: Toolbox of resonant quantum gates in Circuit QED
authors: G. Haack, F. Helmer, M. Mariantoni, F. Marquardt, E. Solano
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B. 82, 024514 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3673
abstract: We propose the implementation of fast resonant gates in circuit quantum electrodynamics for quantum information processing. We show how a suitable utilization of three-level superconducting qubits inside a resonator constitutes a key tool to perform diverse two-qubit resonant gates, improving the operation speed when compared to slower dispersive techniques. To illustrate the benefit of resonant two-qubit gates in circuit QED, we consider the implementation of a two-dimensional cluster state in an array of N x N superconducting qubits by using resonant controlled-phase (CPHASE) and one-qubit gates, where the generation time grows linearly with N. For N=3, and taking into account decoherence mechanisms, a fidelity over 60% for the generation of this cluster state is obtained.

id: 0908.3780
title: Open Questions regarding the Arrow of Time
authors: H. D. Zeh
comments: 14 pages - To appear in The Arrow of Time, Mersini-Houghton, L., and Vaas, R., edts. (Springer). v2: minor changes and added comments
journal: The Arrow of Time (Springer, Heidelberg, 2012), pp. 205-217
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3780
abstract: Conceptual problems regarding the arrow of time in classical physics, quantum physics, cosmology, and quantum gravity are discussed. Particular attention is paid to the dynamical role of the quantum indeterminism, and to various concepts of timelessness.

id: 0908.3919
title: Particle-Hole Asymmetry and Brightening of Solitons in A Strongly Repulsive BEC
authors: Radha Balakrishnan, Indubala I. Satija, Charles W. Clark
comments: Accepted for publication in PRL, Nov 12, 2009
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:230403,2009
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3919
abstract: We study solitary wave propagation in the condensate of a system of hard-core bosons with nearest-neighbor interactions. For this strongly repulsive system, the evolution equation for the condensate order parameter of the system, obtained using spin coherent state averages is different from the usual Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE). The system is found to support two kinds of solitons when there is a particle-hole imbalance: a dark soliton that dies out as the velocity approaches the sound velocity, and a new type of soliton which brightens and persists all the way up to the sound velocity, transforming into a periodic wave train at supersonic speed. Analogous to the GPE soliton, the energy-momentum dispersion for both solitons is characterized by Lieb II modes.

id: 0908.4036
title: Simulating two- and three-dimensional frustrated quantum systems with string-bond states
authors: Alessandro Sfondrini, Javier Cerrillo, Norbert Schuch, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures; v2: accepted version, Journal-Ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 214426 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4036
abstract: Simulating frustrated quantum magnets is among the most challenging tasks in computational physics. We apply String-Bond States, a recently introduced ansatz which combines Tensor Networks with Monte Carlo based methods, to the simulation of frustrated quantum systems in both two and three dimensions. We compare our results with existing results for unfrustrated and two-dimensional systems with open boundary conditions, and demonstrate that the method applies equally well to the simulation of frustrated systems with periodic boundaries in both two and three dimensions.

id: 0908.4255
title: A New Class of non-Hermitian Quantum Hamiltonians with PT Symmetry
authors: Katherine Jones-Smith, Harsh Mathur
comments: Replaced submitted version with accepted version; to appear in Phys Rev A
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:042101,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4255
abstract: In a remarkable development Bender and coworkers have shown that it is possible to formulate quantum mechanics consistently even if the Hamiltonian and other observables are not Hermitian. Their formulation, dubbed PT quantum mechanics, replaces hermiticity by another set of requirements, notably that the Hamiltonian should be invariant under the discrete symmetry PT, where P denotes parity and T denotes time reversal. All prior work has focused on the case that time reversal is even (T^2 = 1). We generalize the formalism to the case of odd time reversal (T^2 = -1). We discover an analogue of Kramer's theorem for PT quantum mechanics, present a prototypical example of a PT quantum system with odd time reversal, and discuss potential applications of the formalism. Odd time reversal symmetry applies to fermionic systems including quarks and leptons and a plethora of models in nuclear, atomic and condensed matter physics. PT quantum mechanics makes it possible to enlarge the set of possible Hamiltonians that physicists could deploy to describe fundamental physics beyond the standard model or for the effective description of condensed matter phenomena.

id: 0908.4257
title: Relativistic Non-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics
authors: Katherine Jones-Smith, Harsh Mathur
comments: 
journal: Physical Review D, 89, 125014 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4257
abstract: We develop relativistic wave equations in the framework of the new non-hermitian ${\cal PT}$ quantum mechanics. The familiar Hermitian Dirac equation emerges as an exact result of imposing the Dirac algebra, the criteria of ${\cal PT}$-symmetric quantum mechanics, and relativistic invariance. However, relaxing the constraint that in particular the mass matrix be Hermitian also allows for models that have no counterpart in conventional quantum mechanics. For example it is well-known that a quartet of Weyl spinors coupled by a Hermitian mass matrix reduces to two independent Dirac fermions; here we show that the same quartet of Weyl spinors, when coupled by a non-Hermitian but $\cal{PT}$ symmetric mass matrix, describes a single relativistic particle that can have massless dispersion relation even though the mass matrix is non-zero.The ${\cal PT}$-generalized Dirac equation is also Lorentz invariant, unitary in time, and CPT respecting, even though as a non-interacting theory it violates ${\cal P}$ and ${\cal T}$ individually. The relativistic wave equations are reformulated as canonical fermionic field theories to facilitate the study of interactions, and are shown to maintain many of the canonical structures from Hermitian field theory, but with new and interesting new possibilities permitted by the non-hermiticity parameter $m_2$.

id: 0908.4453
title: Depth-Independent Lower bounds on the Communication Complexity of Read-Once Boolean Formulas
authors: Rahul Jain, Hartmut Klauck, Shengyu Zhang
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4453
abstract: We show lower bounds of $\Omega(\sqrt{n})$ and $\Omega(n^{1/4})$ on the randomized and quantum communication complexity, respectively, of all $n$-variable read-once Boolean formulas. Our results complement the recent lower bound of $\Omega(n/8^d)$ by Leonardos and Saks and $\Omega(n/2^{\Omega(d\log d)})$ by Jayram, Kopparty and Raghavendra for randomized communication complexity of read-once Boolean formulas with depth $d$. We obtain our result by "embedding" either the Disjointness problem or its complement in any given read-once Boolean formula.

id: 0908.4550
title: Quantum hydrodynamics of electron gases
authors: Radomir Slavchov, Roumen Tsekov
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 132 (2010) 084505
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4550
abstract: Electron gases in metals are described as quantum charged Newtonian viscous fluids experiencing Ohmic Darcy friction on the solid lattice ions as well. The dispersion relation of the electron acoustic waves is derived, which shows the existence of new quantum diffusion processes. The electric double layer near a metal surface is studied, which exhibits a quantum oscillatory-decaying behavior different from the Friedel oscillations.

id: 0908.4568
title: Creating p-wave superfluids and topological excitations in optical lattices
authors: P. Massignan, A. Sanpera, M. Lewenstein
comments: Published version
journal: Physical Review A 81, 031607(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4568
abstract: We propose to realize a p-wave superfluid using bosons mixed with a single species of fermions in a deep optical lattice. We analyze with a self-consistent method its excitation spectrum in presence of a vortex, and we point out the range of interaction strengths in which the zero-energy mode with topological character exists on a finite optical lattice. Lattice effects are strongest close to fermionic half-filling: here the linearity of the low-lying spectrum is lost, and a new class of extended zero-energy modes with checkerboard structure and d-wave symmetry appears.

id: 0908.4590
title: Anomalous non-ergodic scaling in adiabatic multicritical quantum quenches
authors: Shusa Deng, Gerardo Ortiz, Lorenza Viola
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, minor change in figure 2
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 241109(R) (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4590
abstract: We investigate non-equilibrium dynamical scaling in adiabatic quench processes across quantum multicritical points. Our analysis shows that the resulting power-law scaling depends sensitively on the control path, and that anomalous critical exponents may emerge depending on the universality class. We argue that the observed anomalous behavior originates in the fact that the dynamical excitation process takes place asymmetrically with respect to the static multicritical point, and that non-critical energy modes may play a dominant role. As a consequence, dynamical scaling requires introducing new non-static exponents.

id: 0908.3291
title: Vacuum fluctuations and topological Casimir effect in Friedmann-Robertson-Walker cosmologies with compact dimensions
authors: A. A. Saharian, A. L. Mkhitaryan
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C66:295-306,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3291
abstract: We investigate the Wightman function, the vacuum expectation values of the field squared and the energy-momentum tensor for a massless scalar field with general curvature coupling parameter in spatially flat Friedmann-Robertson-Walker universes with an arbitrary number of toroidally compactified dimensions. The topological parts in the expectation values are explicitly extracted and in this way the renormalization is reduced to that for the model with trivial topology. In the limit when the comoving lengths of the compact dimensions are very short compared to the Hubble length, the topological parts coincide with those for a conformal coupling and they are related to the corresponding quantities in the flat spacetime by standard conformal transformation. In the opposite limit of large comoving lengths of the compact dimensions, in dependence of the curvature coupling parameter, two regimes are realized with monotonic or oscillatory behavior of the vacuum expectation values. In the monotonic regime and for nonconformally and nonminimally coupled fields the vacuum stresses are isotropic and the equation of state for the topological parts in the energy density and pressures is of barotropic type. In the oscillatory regime, the amplitude of the oscillations for the topological part in the expectation value of the field squared can be either decreasing or increasing with time, whereas for the energy-momentum tensor the oscillations are damping.

id: 0908.0237
title: Vortex-antivortex wavefunction of a degenerate quantum gas
authors: A.Yu.Okulov
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Laser Physics, 2009, Vol. 19, No. 8, pp. 1796-1803
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0237
abstract: A mechanism of a pinning of the quantized matter wave vortices by optical vortices in a specially arranged optical dipole traps is discussed. The vortex-antivortex optical arrays of rectangular symmetry are shown to transfer angular orbital momentum and form the "antiferromagnet"-like matter waves. The separable Hamiltonian for matter waves in pancake trapping geometry is proposed and 3D-wavefunction is factorized in a product of wavefunctions of the 1D harmonic oscillator and 2D vortex-antivortex quantum state. The 2D wavefunction's phase gradient field associated via Madelung transform with the field of classical velocities forms labyrinth-like structure. The macroscopic quantum state composed of periodically spaced counter-rotating BEC superfluid vortices has zero angular momentum and nonzero rotational energy.

id: 0908.3991
title: Random-matrix modeling of semi-linear response, the generalized variable range hopping picture, and the conductance of mesoscopic rings
authors: Alexander Stotland, Tsampikos Kottos, Doron Cohen
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures, published version with minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 115464 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3991
abstract: Semi-linear response theory determines the absorption coefficient of a driven system using a resistor network calculation: Each unperturbed energy level of a particle in a vibrating trap, or of an electron in a mesoscopic ring, is regarded as a node ($n$) of the network; The transition rates ($w_{mn}$) between the nodes are regarded as the elements of a random matrix that describes the network. If the size-distribution of the connecting elements is wide (e.g. log-normal-like rather than Gaussian-like) the result for the absorption coefficient differs enormously from the conventional Kubo prediction of linear response theory. We use a generalized variable range hopping scheme for the analysis. In particular we apply this approach to obtain practical approximations for the conductance of mesoscopic rings. In this context Mott's picture of diffusion and localization is revisited.

id: 0908.2214
title: Phase Diffusion and Lamb-Shift-Like Spectrum Shift in Classical Oscillators
authors: Xiaofeng Li, Wenjiang Zhu, Donhee Ham
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, 1 supplemental material
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2214
abstract: The phase diffusion in a self-sustained oscillator, which produces oscillator's spectral linewidth, is inherently governed by a nonlinear Langevin equation. Over past 40 years, the equation has been treated with linear approximation, rendering the nonlinearity's effects unknown. Here we solve the nonlinear Langevin equation using the perturbation method borrowed from quantum mechanics, and reveal the physics of the nonlinearity: slower phase diffusion (linewidth narrowing) and a surprising oscillation frequency shift that formally corresponds to the Lamb shift in quantum electrodynamics.

id: 0908.0561
title: Smooth electron waveguides in graphene
authors: R. R. Hartmann, N. J. Robinson, M. E. Portnoi
comments: 8 Pages including 4 figures, an appendix and two additional figures added, references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 245431 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.0561
abstract: We present exact analytical solutions for the zero-energy modes of two-dimensional massless Dirac fermions fully confined within a smooth one-dimensional potential V(x)= - {\alpha}/cosh({\beta}x), which provides a good fit for potential profiles of existing top-gated graphene structures. We show that there is a threshold value of the characteristic potential strength {\alpha}/{\beta} for which the first mode appears, in striking contrast to the non-relativistic case. A simple relationship between the characteristic strength and the number of modes within the potential is found. An experimental setup is proposed for the observation of these modes. The proposed geometry could be utilized in future graphene-based devices with high on/off current ratios.

id: 0908.4029
title: Turning big bang into big bounce: II. Quantum dynamics
authors: Przemyslaw Malkiewicz, Wlodzimierz Piechocki
comments: 14 pages, no figures, version accepted for publication in Class. Quant. Grav
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.27:225018,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4029
abstract: We analyze the big bounce transition of the quantum FRW model in the setting of the nonstandard loop quantum cosmology (LQC). Elementary observables are used to quantize composite observables. The spectrum of the energy density operator is bounded and continuous. The spectrum of the volume operator is bounded from below and discrete. It has equally distant levels defining a quantum of the volume. The discreteness may imply a foamy structure of spacetime at semiclassical level which may be detected in astro-cosmo observations. The nonstandard LQC method has a free parameter that should be fixed in some way to specify the big bounce transition.

id: 0908.2207
title: Noise reduction in 3D noncollinear parametric amplifier
authors: Piotr Migda?, Wojciech Wasilewski
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures, accepted to Applied Physics B
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.2207
abstract: We analytically find an approximate Bloch-Messiah reduction of a noncollinear parametric amplifier pumped with a focused monochromatic beam. We consider type I phase matching. The results are obtained using a perturbative expansion and scaled to a high gain regime. They allow a straightforward maximization of the signal gain and minimization of the parametric fluorescence noise. We find the fundamental mode of the amplifier, which is an elliptic Gaussian defining the optimal seed beam shape. We conclude that the output of the amplifier should be stripped of higher order modes, which are approximately Hermite-Gaussian beams. Alternatively, the pump waist can be adjusted such that the amount of noise produced in the higher order modes is minimized.

id: 0908.1665
title: Cascaded exciton emission of an individual strain-induced quantum dot
authors: F. J. R. Sch¨¹lein, A. Laucht, J. Riikonen, M. Mattila, M. Sopanen, H. Lipsanen, J. J. Finley, A. Wixforth, H. J. Krenner
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 95, 083122 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1665
abstract: Single strain-induced quantum dots are isolated for optical experiments by selective removal of the inducing InP islands from the sample surface. Unpolarized emission of single, bi- and triexciton transitions are identified by power-dependent photoluminescence spectroscopy. Employing time-resolved experiments performed at different excitation powers we find a pronounced shift of the rise and decay times of these different transitions as expected from cascaded emission. Good agreement is found for a rate equation model for a three step cascade.

id: 0908.1955
title: Entanglement Metrology Using a Joint Readout of Superconducting Qubits
authors: J. M. Chow, L. DiCarlo, J. M. Gambetta, A. Nunnenkamp, Lev S. Bishop, L. Frunzio, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, and 4 pages of supporting material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062325 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1955
abstract: Accurate and precise detection of multi-qubit entanglement is key for the experimental development of quantum computation. Traditionally, non-classical correlations between entangled qubits are measured by counting coincidences between single-shot readouts of individual qubits. We report entanglement metrology using a single detection channel with direct access to ensemble-averaged correlations between two superconducting qubits. Following validation and calibration of this joint readout, we demonstrate full quantum tomography on both separable and highly-entangled two-qubit states produced on demand. Using a subset of the measurements required for full tomography, we perform entanglement metrology with ~95% accuracy and ~98% precision despite ~10% fidelity of single measurements. For the highly entangled states, measured Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt operators reach a maximum value of 2.61+/-0.04 and entanglement witnesses give a lower bound of ~88% on concurrence. In its present form, this detector will be able to resolve future improvements in the production of two-qubit entanglement and is immediately extendable to 3 or 4 qubits.

id: 0908.1984
title: Predicted band structures of III-V semiconductors in wurtzite phase
authors: Amrit De, Craig E. Pryor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.1984
abstract: While non-nitride III-V semiconductors typically have a zincblende structure, they may also form wurtzite crystals under pressure or when grown as nanowhiskers. This makes electronic structure calculation difficult since the band structures of wurtzite III-V semiconductors are poorly characterized. We have calculated the electronic band structure for nine III-V semiconductors in the wurtzite phase using transferable empirical pseudopotentials including spin-orbit coupling. We find that all the materials have direct gaps. Our results differ significantly from earlier {\it ab initio} calculations, and where experimental results are available (InP, InAs and GaAs) our calculated band gaps are in good agreement. We tabulate energies, effective masses, and linear and cubic Dresselhaus zero-field spin-splitting coefficients for the zone-center states. The large zero-field spin-splitting coefficients we find may lead to new functionalities for designing devices that manipulate spin degrees of freedom.

