id: 0909.0015
title: Comment on 'Non-realism: deep thought or soft option?', by N. Gisin
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: v2: minor clarifications in light of comments by N Gisin and others, 3 refs added; v3: subtleties of separability, 2 refs added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0015
abstract: It is briefly demonstrated that Gisin's so-called 'locality' assumption [arXiv:0901.4255] is in fact equivalent to the existence of a local deterministic model. Thus, despite Gisin's suggestions to the contrary, 'local realism' in the sense of Bell is built into his argument from the very beginning. His 'locality' assumption may more appropriately be labelled 'separability'. It is further noted that the increasingly popular term 'quantum nonlocality' is not only misleading, but tends to obscure the important distinction between no-signalling and separability. In particular, 'local non-realism' remains firmly in place as a hard option for interpreting Bell inequality violations. Other options are briefly speculated on.

id: 0909.0045
title: Quantum interference within the complex quantum Hamilton-Jacobi formalism
authors: Chia-Chun Chou, Angel S. Sanz, Salvador Miret-Artes, Robert E. Wyatt
comments: revised version, 13 pages, 11 figures, 1 table
journal: Annals of Physics 325, 2193 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0045
abstract: Quantum interference is investigated within the complex quantum Hamilton-Jacobi formalism. As shown in a previous work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 250401 (2009)], complex quantum trajectories display helical wrapping around stagnation tubes and hyperbolic deflection near vortical tubes, these structures being prominent features of quantum caves in space-time Argand plots. Here, we further analyze the divergence and vorticity of the quantum momentum function along streamlines near poles, showing the intricacy of the complex dynamics. Nevertheless, despite this behavior, we show that the appearance of the well-known interference features (on the real axis) can be easily understood in terms of the rotation of the nodal line in the complex plane. This offers a unified description of interference as well as an elegant and practical method to compute the lifetime for interference features, defined in terms of the average wrapping time, i.e., considering such features as a resonant process.

id: 0909.0046
title: Preparation of Dicke States in an Ion Chain
authors: D. B. Hume, C. W. Chou, T. Rosenband, D. J. Wineland
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0046
abstract: We have investigated theoretically and experimentally a method for preparing Dicke states in trapped atomic ions. We consider a linear chain of $N$ ion qubits that is prepared in a particular Fock state of motion, $|m>$. The $m$ phonons are removed by applying a laser pulse globally to the $N$ qubits, and converting the motional excitation to $m$ flipped spins. The global nature of this pulse ensures that the $m$ flipped spins are shared by all the target ions in a state that is a close approximation to the Dicke state $\D{N}{m}$. We calculate numerically the fidelity limits of the protocol and find small deviations from the ideal state for $m = 1$ and $m = 2$. We have demonstrated the basic features of this protocol by preparing the state $\D{2}{1}$ in two $^{25}$Mg$^+$ target ions trapped simultaneously with an $^{27}$Al$^+$ ancillary ion.

id: 0909.0063
title: Quantum Stackelberg duopoly in the presence of correlated noise
authors: Salman Khan, M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: 19 pages, 7 .eps figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 375301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0063
abstract: We study the influence of entanglement and correlated noise using correlated amplitude damping, depolarizing and phase damping channels on the quantum Stackelberg duopoly. Our investigations show that under the action of amplitude damping channel a critical point exists for unentangled initial state as well, at which firms get equal payoffs. The game becomes a follower advantage game when the channel is highly decohered. Two critical points corresponding to two values of the entanglement angle are found in the presence of correlated noise. Within the range of these limits of entanglement angle, the game is follower advantage game. In case of depolarizing channel, the payoffs of the two firms are strongly influenced by the memory parameter. The presence of quantum memory ensures the existence of Nash equilibrium for the entire range of decoherence and entanglement parameters for both the channels. A local maximum in the payoffs is observed which vanishes as the channel correlation increases. Moreover, under the influence of depolarizing channel, the game is always a leader advantage game. Furthermore, it is seen that phase damping channel does not effect the outcome of the game.

id: 0909.0064
title: Optical rotation of heavy hole spins by non-Abelian geometrical means
authors: Hui Sun, Xun-Li Feng, Chunfeng Wu, Jinming Liu, Shangqing Gong, C. H. Oh
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0064
abstract: A non-Abelian geometric method is proposed for rotating of heavy hole spins in a singly positive charged quantum dot in Voigt geometry. The key ingredient is the delay-dependent non-Abelian geometric phase, which is produced by the nonadiabatic transition between the two degenerate dark states. We demonstrate, by controlling the pump, the Stokes and the driving fields, that the rotations about $y$- and $z$-axes with arbitrary angles can be realized with high fidelity. Fast initialization and heavy hole spin state readout are also possible.

id: 0909.0072
title: Many-Body Coherent Destruction of Tunneling
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Luis Morales-Molina, Peter Hanggi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 133002 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0072
abstract: A new route to coherent destruction of tunneling is established by considering a monochromatic fast modulation of the self-interaction strength of a many-boson system. The modulation can be tuned such that only an arbitrarily, a priori prescribed number of particles are allowed to tunnel. The associated tunneling dynamics is sensitive to the odd or even nature of the number of bosons.

id: 0909.0077
title: Environment-invariant measure of distance between evolutions of an open quantum system
authors: Matthew D. Grace, Jason Dominy, Robert L. Kosut, Constantin Brif, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 33 pages, 1 figure. This posting contains extensively expanded and revised material from the posting arXiv:quant-ph/0606064
journal: New J. Phys, 12, 015001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0077
abstract: The problem of quantifying the difference between evolutions of an open quantum system (in particular, between the actual evolution of an open system and the ideal target operation on the corresponding closed system) is important in quantum control, especially in control of quantum information processing. Motivated by this problem, we develop a measure for evaluating the distance between unitary evolution operators of a composite quantum system that consists of a sub-system of interest (e.g., a quantum information processor) and environment. The main characteristic of this measure is the invariance with respect to the effect of the evolution operator on the environment, which follows from an equivalence relation that exists between unitary operators acting on the composite system, when the effect on only the sub-system of interest is considered. The invariance to the environment's transformation makes it possible to quantitatively compare the evolution of an open quantum system and its closed counterpart. The distance measure also determines the fidelity bounds of a general quantum channel (a completely positive and trace-preserving map acting on the sub-system of interest) with respect to a unitary target transformation. This measure is also independent of the initial state of the system and straightforward to numerically calculate. As an example, the measure is used in numerical simulations to evaluate fidelities of optimally controlled quantum gate operations (for one- and two-qubit systems), in the presence of a decohering environment. This example illustrates the utility of this measure for optimal control of quantum operations in the realistic case of open-system dynamics.

id: 0909.0078
title: Phase Compensation Enhancement of Photon Pair Entanglement Generated from Biexciton Decays in Quantum Dots
authors: Zong-Quan Zhou, Chuan-Feng Li, Geng Chen, Jian-Shun Tang, Yang Zou, Ming Gong, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 81.064302(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0078
abstract: Exciton fine-structure splittings within quantum dots introduce phase differences between the two biexciton decay paths that greatly reduce the entanglement of photon pairs generated via biexciton recombination. We analyze this problem in the frequency domain and propose a practicable method to compensate the phase difference by inserting a spatial light modulator, which substantially improves the entanglement of the photon pairs without any loss.

id: 0909.0082
title: Cooling and control of a cavity opto-electromechanical system
authors: Kwan H. Lee, Terry G. McRae, Glen I. Harris, Joachim Knittel, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0082
abstract: We implement a cavity opto-electromechanical system integrating electrical actuation capabilities of nanoelectromechanical devices with ultrasensitive mechanical transduction achieved via intra-cavity optomechanical coupling. Electrical gradient forces as large as 0.40 microN are realized, with simultaneous mechanical transduction sensitivity of 1.5 X 10^-18 m/rtHz representing a three orders of magnitude improvement over any nanoelectromechanical system to date. Opto-electromechanical feedback cooling is demonstrated, exhibiting strong squashing of the in-loop transduction signal. Out-of-loop transduction provides accurate temperature calibration even in the critical paradigm where measurement backaction induces opto-mechanical correlations.

id: 0909.0088
title: Jaynes-Cummings Models with trapped electrons on liquid Helium
authors: Miao Zhang, H.Y. Jia, L.F. Wei
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 055801 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0088
abstract: Jaynes-Cummings model is a typical model in quantum optics and has been realized with various physical systems (e.g, cavity QED, trapped ions, and circuit QED etc..) of two-level atoms interacting with quantized bosonic fields. Here, we propose a new implementation of this model by using a single classical laser beam to drive an electron floating on liquid Helium. Two lowest levels of the {\it vertical} motion of the electron acts as a two-level "atom", and the quantized vibration of the electron along one of the {\it parallel} directions, e.g., $x$-direction, serves the bosonic mode. These two degrees of freedom of the trapped electron can be coupled together by using a classical laser field. If the frequencies of the applied laser fields are properly set, the desirable Jaynes-Cummings models could be effectively realized.

id: 0909.0092
title: Ultranarrow resonance peaks in the transmission and reflection spectra of a photonic crystal cavity with Raman gain
authors: V.G. Arkhipkin, S.A. Myslivets
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0092
abstract: The Raman gain of a probe light in a three-state $\Lambda $-scheme placed into a defect of a one-dimensional photonic crystal is studied theoretically. We show that there exists a pump intensity range, where the transmission and reflection spectra of the probe field exhibit \textit{simultaneously} occurring narrow peaks (resonances) whose position is determined by the Raman resonance. Transmission and reflection coefficients can be larger than unity at pump intensities of order tens of $\mu$W/cm$^{2}$. When the pump intensity is outside this region, the peak in the transmission spectrum turns into a narrow dip. The nature of narrow resonances is attributed to a drastic dispersion of the nonlinear refractive index in the vicinity of the Raman transition, which leads to a significant reduction of the group velocity of the probe wave.

id: 0909.0126
title: Generalized controlled phase QGE
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information(IJQI), Vol. 7, No. 6 (2009) 1211-1216
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0126
abstract: We construct a generalized controlled phased gate entangler for a multi-qubit state based on the geometrical structure of quantum systems. We also investigate relation between the generalized controlled phase construction of a quantum gate entangler and graph state for two-qubit and three-qubit states.

id: 0909.0147
title: Entropic Entanglement Criteria for Continuous Variables
authors: S. P. Walborn, B. G. Taketani, A. Salles, F. Toscano, R. L. de Matos Filho
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0147
abstract: We derive several entanglement criteria for bipartite continuous variable quantum systems based on the Shannon entropy. These criteria are more sensitive than those involving only second-order moments, and are equivalent to well-known variance product tests in the case of Gaussian states. Furthermore, they involve only a pair of quadrature measurements, and will thus should prove extremely useful the experimental identification of entanglement.

id: 0909.0175
title: A symmetry problem in the Copenhagen interpretation
authors: I. Schmelzer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0175
abstract: A non-uniqueness result for the canonical structure in quantum theory shows that the classical part of the Copenhagen interpretation contains physically important information not contained in its quantum part. As a consequence, we cannot compute the symmetry group of a quantum theory considering only the quantum part. The unavoidable vagueness of the classical part therefore leads to a similar vagueness in the definition of the symmetry group. This makes it at least problematic, if not impossible, to establish the true symmetry group of a quantum theory in the Copenhagen interpretation. Different from the old measurement problem, the symmetry group is to important physically to be rejected as a metaphysical pseudoproblem.

id: 0909.0223
title: Non-Markovian Entanglement Dynamics of Two Qubits Interacting with a Common Electromagnetic Field
authors: C. Anastopoulos, S. Shresta, B. L. Hu
comments: This is an updated summary (16 pages) of article arXiv:quant-ph/0610007
journal: . Inf. Proc. 8, 549 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0223
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium dynamics of a pair of qubits made of two-level atoms separated in space with distance $r$ and interacting with one common electromagnetic field but not directly with each other. Our calculation makes a weak coupling assumption but no Born or Markov approximation. We write the evolution equations of the reduced density matrix of the two-qubit system after integrating out the electromagnetic field modes. We study two classes of states in detail: Class A is a one parameter family of states which are the superposition of the highest energy and lowest energy states, and Class B states which are the linear combinations of the symmetric and the antisymmetric Bell states. Our results for an initial Bell state are similar to those obtained before for the same model derived under the Born-Markov approximation. However, in the Class A states the behavior is qualitatively different: under the non-Markovian evolution we do not see sudden death of quantum entanglement and subsequent revivals, except when the qubits are sufficiently far apart. We provide explanations for such differences of behavior both between these two classes of states and between the predictions from the Markov and non-Markovian dynamics. We also study the decoherence of this two-qubit system.

id: 0909.0256
title: Adaptive versus non-adaptive strategies for quantum channel discrimination
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Avinatan Hassidim, Debbie W. Leung, John Watrous
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032339 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0256
abstract: We provide a simple example that illustrates the advantage of adaptive over non-adaptive strategies for quantum channel discrimination. In particular, we give a pair of entanglement-breaking channels that can be perfectly discriminated by means of an adaptive strategy that requires just two channel evaluations, but for which no non-adaptive strategy can give a perfect discrimination using any finite number of channel evaluations.

id: 0909.0295
title: Quantum weak values are not unique; what do they actually measure?
authors: Stephen Parrott
comments: Version 3 is mathematically identical to Version 2, but incorporates a referee's suggestions. A potentially ambiguous passage has been rewritten and an important overlapping reference added, which is discussed in a new Afterword section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0295
abstract: Precise definitions of "weak [quantum] measurements" and "weak value" [of a quantum observable] are offered, which seem to capture the meaning of the often vague ways that these terms are used in the literature. Simple finite dimensional examples are given showing that weak values of an observable are not unique, and in fact arbitrary weak values can be obtained by appropriate weak measurements. This implies that a "weak value" of an observable A, *by itself*, can furnish no unambiguous information about A; any information in a weak value is inextricably connected with the particular measurement procedure used to obtain that weak value. Moreover, arbitrary weak values can be obtained using a "meter space" of dimension as small as 2. A "Remarks" section questions the utility of "weak measurement".

id: 0909.0299
title: Coherent State Description of the Ground State in the Tavis-Cummings Model and its Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Octavio Castanos, Ramon Lopez-Pena, Eduardo Nahmad-Achar, Jorge G. Hirsch, Enrique Lopez-Moreno, Javier E. Vitela
comments: 38 pages, 16 figures
journal: Physica Scripta, Volume 79, Issue 6, pp. 065405 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0299
abstract: Quantum phase transitions and observables of interest of the ground state in the Tavis-Cummings model are analyzed, for any number of atoms, by using a tensorial product of coherent states. It is found that this "trial" state constitutes a very good approximation to the exact quantum solution, in that it globally reproduces the expectation values of the matter and field observables. These include the population and dipole moments of the two-level atoms and the squeezing parameter. Agreement in the field-matter entanglement and in the fidelity measures, of interest in quantum information theory, is also found.The analysis is carried out in all three regions defined by the separatrix which gives rise to the quantum phase transitions. It is argued that this agreement is due to the gaussian structure of the probability distributions of the constant of motion and the number of photons. The expectation values of the ground state observables are given in analytic form, and the change of the ground state structure of the system when the separatrix is crossed is also studied.

id: 0909.0300
title: Single-photon logic gates using minimal resources
authors: Qing Lin, Bing He
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042310 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0300
abstract: We present a simple architecture for deterministic quantum circuits operating on single photon qubits. Few resources are necessary to implement two elementary gates and can be recycled for computing with large numbers of qubits. The deterministic realization of some key multi-qubit gates, such as the Fredkin and Toffoli gate, is greatly simplified in this approach.

id: 0909.0311
title: Revival-collapse phenomenon in the quadrature squeezing of the multiphoton intensity-dependent Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Faisal A A El-Orany
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 53 (2006) 1699-1714
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0311
abstract: For multiphoton intensity-dependent Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM), which is described by two-level atom interacting with a radiation field, we prove that there is a relationship between the atomic inversion and the quadrature squeezing. We give the required condition to obtain best information from this relation. Also we show that this relation is only sensitive to large values of the detuning parameter. Furthermore, we discuss briefly such relation for the off-resonance standard JCM.

id: 0909.0313
title: Quantum properties of the parametric amplifier with and without pumping field fluctuations
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, J. Perina, M. Sebawe Abdalla
comments: 17 pages, 6figures
journal: Opt. Commun. 187 (2001) 199-209
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0313
abstract: The parametric amplifier with and without the pumping fluctuations of coupling function is considered when the fields are initially prepared in coherent light. The pumping fluctuations are assumed to be normally distributed with time-dependent variance. The effects of antibunching and anticorrelation of photons on the photon distribution, correlation between modes and factorial moments are demonstrated. A possible enhancement of photon antibunching for certain values of initial mean photon numbers is shown and discussed. We have shown also that new states (called modified squeezed vacuum states or even thermal states) can be generated from such an interaction. Further, we have demonstrated that the sum photon-number distribution can exhibit collapses and revivals in the photon-number domain somewhat similar to those known in the Jaynes-Cummings model.

id: 0909.0375
title: Quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effect in atom-atom entanglement induced by non-Markovian environment
authors: Yang Li, Hong Guo
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0375
abstract: The dynamic behavior of the entanglement for two two-level atoms coupled to a common lossy cavity is studied. We find that the speed of disentanglement is a decreasing (increasing) function of the damping rate of the cavity for on/near (far-off) resonant couplings. The quantitative explanations for these phenomena are given, and further, it is shown that they are related to the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effect induced by the non-Markovian environment.

id: 0909.0408
title: The semigroup structure of Gaussian channels
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Alexander S. Holevo, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 20 pages
journal: Quantum Inf. Comp. 10: 0619-0635 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0408
abstract: We investigate the semigroup structure of bosonic Gaussian quantum channels. Particular focus lies on the sets of channels which are divisible, idempotent or Markovian (in the sense of either belonging to one-parameter semigroups or being infinitesimal divisible). We show that the non-compactness of the set of Gaussian channels allows for remarkable differences when comparing the semigroup structure with that of finite dimensional quantum channels. For instance, every irreversible Gaussian channel is shown to be divisible in spite of the existence of Gaussian channels which are not infinitesimal divisible. A simpler and known consequence of non-compactness is the lack of generators for certain reversible channels. Along the way we provide new representations for classes of Gaussian channels: as matrix semigroup, complex valued positive matrices or in terms of a simple form describing almost all one-parameter semigroups.

id: 0909.0409
title: Which optical processes are suitable to make probabilistic single photon sources for quantum cryptography?
authors: Amit Verma, Anirban Pathak
comments: 7 Pages, Presented in an international conference Photonics and Optics 2008 at San Diego, USA, 10-14 Aug 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0409
abstract: Single photon sources to be used in quantum cryptography must show higher order antibunching (HOA). HOA is reported by us in several many wave mixing processes. In the present work we have investigated the possibility of observing HOA in multiwave mixing processes in general. The generalized Hamiltonian is solved for several particular cases in Heisenberg picture and possibility of observing HOA is investigated with the help of criterion of Pathak and Garcia. Several particular cases of the generalized Hamiltonian are solved with the help of short time approximation technique and HOA is reported for pump modes of different multiwave mixing processes. It is also found that HOA can not be observed for the signal and stokes modes in of the cases studied here.

id: 0909.0423
title: Entanglement dynamics during decoherence
authors: Juan Pablo Paz, Augusto J. Roncaglia
comments: to appear in QIP special issue on Quantum Decoherence and Entanglement
journal: Quantum Information Processing 8, 535-548 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0423
abstract: The evolution of the entanglement between oscillators that interact with the same environment displays highly non-trivial behavior in the long time regime. When the oscillators only interact through the environment, three dynamical phases were identified and a simple phase diagram characterizing them was presented. Here we generalize those results to the cases where the oscillators are directly coupled and we show how a degree of mixidness can affect the final entanglement. In both cases, entanglement dynamics is fully characterized by three phases (SD: sudden death, NSD: no-sudden death and SDR: sudden death and revivals) which cover a phase diagram that is a simple variant of the previously introduced one. We present results when the oscillators are coupled to the environment through their position and also for the case where the coupling is symmetric in position and momentum (as obtained in the RWA). As a bonus, in the last case we present a very simple derivation of an exact master equation valid for arbitrary temperatures of the environment.

id: 0909.0425
title: Swapping path-spin intraparticle entanglement onto spin-spin interparticle entanglement
authors: S. Adhikari, A.S. Majumdar, Dipankar Home, Alok Kumar pan
comments: 5 pages, 1 Figure
journal: Euro. Phys. Lett. 89, 10005(2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0425
abstract: Based on a scheme that produces an entanglement between the spin and the path variables of a single spin-1/2 particle (qubit) using a beam-splitter and a spin-flipper, we formulate a procedure for transferring this intraparticle hybrid entanglement to an interparticle entanglement between the spin variables of two other spatially separated spin-1/2 particles which never interact with each other during the entire process. This procedure of entanglement swapping is accomplished by a Mach-Zehnder setup in conjunction with the Stern-Gerlach measuring device, using suitable unitary operations. The proposed protocol, thus, enables the use of intraparticle entanglement as a resource - a feature that has remained unexplored.

id: 0909.0429
title: Splitting of quantum information in traveling wave fields using only linear optical elements
authors: W. B. Cardoso, N. G. de Almeida, A. T. Avelar, B. Baseia
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0429
abstract: In this brief report we present a feasible scheme to split quantum information in the realm of traveling waves. An oversimplified scheme is also proposed for the generation of a class of W states useful for perfect teleportation and superdense coding. The scheme employs only linear optical elements as beam splitters and phase shifters, in addition to photon counters and one-photon sources. It is shown that splitting of quantum information with high fidelity is possible even including inefficiency of the detectors and photoabsorption of the beam splitters.

id: 0909.0431
title: On quantum perfect state transfer in weighted join graphs
authors: R.J. Angeles-Canul, R. Norton, M. Opperman, C. Paribello, M. Russell, C. Tamon
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 7(8):1429-1445, 2009.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0431
abstract: We study perfect state transfer on quantum networks represented by weighted graphs. Our focus is on graphs constructed from the join and related graph operators. Some specific results we prove include: (1) The join of a weighted two-vertex graph with any regular graph has perfect state transfer. This generalizes a result of Casaccino et al. [clms09] where the regular graph is a complete graph or a complete graph with a missing link. In contrast, the half-join of a weighted two-vertex graph with any weighted regular graph has no perfect state transfer. This implies that adding weights in a complete bipartite graph do not help in achieving perfect state transfer. (2) A Hamming graph has perfect state transfer between each pair of its vertices. This is obtained using a closure property on weighted Cartesian products of perfect state transfer graphs. Moreover, on the hypercube, we show that perfect state transfer occurs between uniform superpositions on pairs of arbitrary subcubes. This generalizes results of Bernasconi et al. [bgs08] and Moore and Russell [mr02]. Our techniques rely heavily on the spectral properties of graphs built using the join and Cartesian product operators.

id: 0909.0474
title: Redundancy of classical and quantum correlations during decoherence
authors: Juan Pablo Paz, Augusto J. Roncaglia
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042111 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0474
abstract: We analyze the time dependence of entanglement and total correlations between a system and fractions of its environment in the course of decoherence. For the quantum Brownian motion model we show that the entanglement and total correlations have rather different dependence on the size of the environmental fraction. Redundancy manifests differently in both types of correlations and can be related with induced--classicality. To study this we introduce a new measure of redundancy and compare it with the existing one.

id: 0909.0549
title: Matroids and Quantum Secret Sharing Schemes
authors: Pradeep Sarvepalli, Robert Raussendorf
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052333 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0549
abstract: A secret sharing scheme is a cryptographic protocol to distribute a secret state in an encoded form among a group of players such that only authorized subsets of the players can reconstruct the secret. Classically, efficient secret sharing schemes have been shown to be induced by matroids. Furthermore, access structures of such schemes can be characterized by an excluded minor relation. No such relations are known for quantum secret sharing schemes. In this paper we take the first steps toward a matroidal characterization of quantum secret sharing schemes. In addition to providing a new perspective on quantum secret sharing schemes, this characterization has important benefits. While previous work has shown how to construct quantum secret sharing schemes for general access structures, these schemes are not claimed to be efficient. In this context the present results prove to be useful; they enable us to construct efficient quantum secret sharing schemes for many general access structures. More precisely, we show that an identically self-dual matroid that is representable over a finite field induces a pure state quantum secret sharing scheme with information rate one.

id: 0909.0580
title: Channel Capacities versus Entanglement Measures in Multiparty Quantum States
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4; v2: minor changes, some implications strengthened
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012308 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0580
abstract: For quantum states of two subsystems, entanglement measures are related to capacities of communication tasks -- highly entangled states give higher capacity of transmitting classical as well as quantum information. However, we show that this is no more the case in general: quantum capacities of multi-access channels, motivated by communication in quantum networks, do not have any relation with genuine multiparty entanglement measures. Along with revealing the structural richness of multi-access channel capacities, this gives us a tool to classify multiparty quantum states from the perspective of its usefulness in quantum networks, which cannot be visualized by known multiparty entanglement measures.

id: 0909.0607
title: Higher order antibunching and subpossonian photon statistics in five wave mixing process
authors: Amit Verma, Anirban Pathak
comments: Published in Proc. of National Laser Symposium 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0607
abstract: We have investigated the possibility of observing higher order antibunching (HOA) and higher order subpossonian photon statistics (HOSPS) in five wave mixing and third harmonic generation process. It had been shown that both processes satisfy the criteria of HOA and HOSPS. Further, some observations on the nature of interaction which produces HOA and HOSPS are reported.

id: 0909.0623
title: Any l-state approximate solutions of the Manning-Rosen potential by the Nikiforov-Uvarov method
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0623
abstract: The Schrodinger equation for the Manning-Rosen potential with the centrifugal term is solved approximately to obtain bound states energies. Additionally, the corresponding wave functions are expressed by the Jacobi polynomials. The Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method is used in the calculations. To show the accuracy of our results, we calculate the eigenvalues numerically for arbitrary quantum numbers n and l with two different values of the potential parameter \alpha. It is shown that the results are in good agreement with the those obtained by other methods for short potential range, small l and \alpha. This solution reduces to two cases l=0 and Hulthen potential case.

id: 0909.0624
title: Generating functions and sum rules for quantum oscillator
authors: V. S. Popov, M. A. Trusov
comments: 4 pages; RevTeX;
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 1925-1927
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0624
abstract: Generating functions and sum rules are discussed for transition probabilities between quantum oscillator eigenstates with time-dependent parameters.

id: 0909.0646
title: Time gating of heralded single photons for atomic memories
authors: B. Melholt Nielsen, J. S. Neergaard-Nielsen, E. S. Polzik
comments: Accepted for publication in Optics Letters
journal: B. Melholt Nielsen, J. S. Neergaard-Nielsen, and E. S. Polzik, Opt. Lett. 34, 3872-3874 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0646
abstract: We demonstrate a method for time gating the standard heralded continuous- wave (cw) spontaneous parametric down-converted (SPDC) single photon source by using pulsed pumping of the optical parametric oscillator (OPO) below threshold. The narrow bandwidth, high purity, high spectral brightness and the pseudo-deterministic character make the source highly suitable for light-atom interfaces with atomic memories.

id: 0909.0655
title: Entanglement and Quantum Information Transfer in Arrays of Interacting Quantum Systems
authors: Martina Avellino
comments: PhD thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0655
abstract: This thesis examines some of the more fundamental requirements of a successful quantum computation, namely the ability to transmit quantum information with maximum efficiency, and the creation of entanglement. I focus specifically on neutron entanglement, showing that the spins of two or more distinct neutrons can be measurably entangled by forward-scattering from an isotropic medium. The interpretation of `time' in scattering experiments is also discussed. I present a simple treatment based on the Heisenberg S-matrix, from which it emerges that in certain situations the quantum-mechanical time parameter appearing in the effective time-evolution operator for the spin system has an intuitive physical interpretation. The final part of the thesis deals with quantum information transfer in arrays of permanently coupled dipolar systems. It is shown that spin chains with dipolar couplings offer high fidelity long-distance state transmission, but transfer times in unmodulated chains are unfeasibly long. Possible optimization methods are discussed, concluding with a review of recent achievements in this field.

id: 0909.0674
title: Quantum simulation of the Dirac equation
authors: R. Gerritsma, G. Kirchmair, F. Z?hringer, E. Solano, R. Blatt, C. F. Roos
comments: 5 pages
journal: Nature 463, 68 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0674
abstract: The Dirac equation is a cornerstone in the history of physics, merging successfully quantum mechanics with special relativity, providing a natural description of the electron spin and predicting the existence of anti-matter. Furthermore, it is able to reproduce accurately the spectrum of the hydrogen atom and its realm, relativistic quantum mechanics, is considered as the natural transition to quantum field theory. However, the Dirac equation also predicts some peculiar effects such as Klein's paradox and Zitterbewegung, an unexpected quivering motion of a free relativistic quantum particle first examined by Schr\"odinger. These and other predictions would be difficult to observe in real particles, while constituting key fundamental examples to understand relativistic quantum effects. Recent years have seen an increased interest in simulations of relativistic quantum effects in different physical setups, where parameter tunability allows accessibility to different physical regimes. Here, we perform a proof-of-principle quantum simulation of the one-dimensional Dirac equation using a single trapped ion, which is set to behave as a free relativistic quantum particle. We measure as a function of time the particle position and study Zitterbewegung for different initial superpositions of positive and negative energy spinor states, as well as the cross-over from relativistic to nonrelativistic dynamics. The high level of control of trapped-ion experimental parameters makes it possible to simulate elegant textbook examples of relativistic quantum physics.

id: 0909.0678
title: Microwave Control of Atomic Motion in Optical Lattices
authors: Leonid F?rster, Micha? Karski, Jai-Min Choi, Andreas Steffen, Wolfgang Alt, Dieter Meschede, Artur Widera, Enrique Montano, Jae Hoon Lee, Worawarong Rakreungdet, Poul S. Jessen
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0678
abstract: We control the quantum mechanical motion of neutral atoms in an optical lattice by driving microwave transitions between spin states whose trapping potentials are spatially offset. Control of this offset with nanometer precision allows for adjustment of the coupling strength between different motional states, analogous to an adjustable effective Lamb-Dicke factor. This is used both for efficient one-dimensional sideband cooling of individual atoms to a vibrational ground state population of 97%, and to drive coherent Rabi oscillation between arbitrary pairs of vibrational states. We further show that microwaves can drive well resolved transitions between motional states in maximally offset, shallow lattices, and thus in principle allow for coherent control of long range quantum transport.

id: 0909.0705
title: Rabi Interferometry and Sensitive Measurement of the Casimir-Polder Force with Ultra-Cold Gases
authors: Jan Chwede¨½czuk, Luca Pezz¨¦, Francesco Piazza, Augusto Smerzi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0705
abstract: We show that Rabi oscillations of a degenerate fermionic or bosonic gas trapped in a double-well potential can be exploited for the interferometric measurement of external forces at micrometer length scales. The Rabi interferometer is less sensitive, but easier to implement, than the Mach-Zehnder since it does not require dynamical beam-splitting/recombination processes. As an application we propose a measurement of the Casimir-Polder force acting between the atoms and a dielectric surface. We find that even if the interferometer is fed with a coherent state of relatively small number of atoms, and in the presence of realistic experimental noise, the force can be measured with a sensitivity sufficient to discriminate between thermal and zero-temperature regimes of the Casimir-Polder potential. Higher sensitivities can be reached with spin squeezed states.

id: 0909.0752
title: Topological Order Following a Quantum Quench
authors: D.I. Tsomokos, A. Hamma, W. Zhang, S. Haas, R. Fazio
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; published version (PRA Rapid Communication)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 060302(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0752
abstract: We determine the conditions under which topological order survives a rapid quantum quench. Specifically, we consider the case where a quantum spin system is prepared in the ground state of the Toric Code Model and, after the quench, it evolves with a Hamiltonian that does not support topological order. We provide analytical results supported by numerical evidence for a variety of quench Hamiltonians. The robustness of topological order under non-equilibrium situations is tested by studying the topological entropy and a novel dynamical measure, which makes use of the similarity between partial density matrices obtained from different topological sectors.

id: 0909.0789
title: Experimental violation of Svetlichny's inequality
authors: Jonathan Lavoie, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 073051
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0789
abstract: It is well known that quantum mechanics is incompatible with local realistic theories. Svetlichny showed, through the development of a Bell-like inequality, that quantum mechanics is also incompatible with a restricted class of nonlocal realistic theories for three particles where any two-body nonlocal correlations are allowed [Phys. Rev. D 35, 3066 (1987)]. In the present work, we experimentally generate three-photon GHZ states to test Svetlichny's inequality. Our states are fully characterized by quantum state tomography using an overcomplete set of measurements and have a fidelity of (84+/-1)% with the target state. We measure a convincing, 3.6 std., violation of Svetlichny's inequality and rule out this class of restricted nonlocal realistic models.

id: 0909.0791
title: "Quantum-optical coherence tomography" with classical light
authors: Jonathan Lavoie, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17, Issue 5, pp. 3818-3825 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0791
abstract: Quantum-optical coherence tomography (Q-OCT) is an interferometric technique for axial imaging offering several advantages over conventional methods. Chirped-pulse interferometry (CPI) was recently demonstrated to exhibit all of the benefits of the quantum interferometer upon which Q-OCT is based. Here we use CPI to measure axial interferograms to profile a sample accruing the important benefits of Q-OCT, including automatic dispersion cancellation, but with 10 million times higher signal. Our technique solves the artifact problem in Q-OCT and highlights the power of classical correlation in optical imaging.

id: 0909.0792
title: Classical analogues of two-photon quantum interference
authors: Rainer Kaltenbaek, Jonathan Lavoie, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 243601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0792
abstract: Chirped-pulse interferometry (CPI) captures the metrological advantages of quantum Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) interferometry in a completely classical system. Modified HOM interferometers are the basis for a number of seminal quantum-interference effects. Here, the corresponding modifications to CPI allow for the first observation of classical analogues to the HOM peak and quantum beating. They also allow a new classical technique for generating phase super-resolution exhibiting a coherence length dramatically longer than that of the laser light, analogous to increased two-photon coherence lengths in entangled states.

id: 0909.0796
title: Chirped-pulse interferometry with finite frequency correlations
authors: Kevin J. Resch, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Jonathan Lavoie, Devon N. Biggerstaff
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Proc. SPIE, Vol. 7465, 74650N (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0796
abstract: Chirped-pulse interferometry is a new interferometric technique encapsulating the advantages of the quantum Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer without the drawbacks of using entangled photons. Both interferometers can exhibit even-order dispersion cancellation which allows high resolution optical delay measurements even in thick optical samples. In the present work, we show that finite frequency correlations in chirped-pulse interferometry and Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometry limit the degree of dispersion cancellation. Our results are important considerations in designing practical devices based on these technologies.

id: 0909.0803
title: Quantum-circuit guide to optical and atomic interferometry
authors: Carlton M. Caves, Anil Shaji
comments: To appear in Optics Communications special issue in memory of Krzysztof Wodkiewicz
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0803
abstract: Atomic (qubit) and optical or microwave (modal) phase-estimation protocols are placed on the same footing in terms of quantum-circuit diagrams. Circuit equivalences are used to demonstrate the equivalence of protocols that achieve the Heisenberg limit by employing entangled superpositions of Fock states, such as N00N states. The key equivalences are those that disentangle a circuit so that phase information is written exclusively on a mode or modes or on a qubit. The Fock-state-superposition phase-estimation circuits are converted to use entangled coherent-state superpositions; the resulting protocols are more amenable to realization in the lab, particularly in a qubit/cavity setting at microwave frequencies.

id: 0909.0805
title: Experimental EPR-Steering of Bell-local States
authors: D. J. Saunders, S. J. Jones, H. M. Wiseman, G. J. Pryde
comments: 5pages, 5figures, letter
journal: D. J. Saunders, S. J. Jones, H. M. Wiseman and G. J. Pryde, "Experimental EPR-Steering using Bell-local States", in Nature Physics, 6, 845-849 (November 2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0805
abstract: Entanglement is the defining feature of quantum mechanics, and understanding the phenomenon is essential at the foundational level and for future progress in quantum technology. The concept of steering was introduced in 1935 by Schr\"odinger as a generalization of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox. Surprisingly, it has only recently been formalized as a quantum information task with arbitrary bipartite states and measurements, for which the existence of entanglement is necessary but not sufficient. Previous experiments in this area have been restricted to the approach of Reid [PRA 40, 913], which followed the original EPR argument in considering only two different measurement settings per side. Here we implement more than two settings so as to be able to demonstrate experimentally, for the first time, that EPR-steering occurs for mixed entangled states that are Bell-local (that is, which cannot possibly demonstrate Bell-nonlocality). Unlike the case of Bell inequalities, increasing the number of measurement settings beyond two--we use up to six--dramatically increases the robustness of the EPR-steering phenomenon to noise.

id: 0909.0820
title: Isotope - based Quantum Information
authors: Vladimir G. Plekhanov
comments: 39 pages, 20 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0820
abstract: This paper is brief review of three aspects of the isotope - based quantum information: computation, teleportation and cryptography. Our results demonstrate not only that entanglement exists in elementary excitation of isotope - mixed solids but also it can be used for quantum information processing.

id: 0909.0821
title: Approximate Analytical Solutions of the Pseudospin Symmetric Dirac Equation for Exponential-type Potentials
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever, Cevdet Tezcan
comments: 16 pages
journal: Ann. Phys.(Berlin) 18, 736(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0821
abstract: The solvability of The Dirac equation is studied for the exponential-type potentials with the pseudospin symmetry by using the parametric generalization of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. The energy eigenvalue equation, and the corresponding Dirac spinors for Morse, Hulthen, and q-deformed Rosen-Morse potentials are obtained within the framework of an approximation to the spin-orbit coupling term, so the solutions are given for any value of the spin-orbit quantum number $\kappa=0$, or $\kappa \neq 0$.

id: 0909.0832
title: Reducing quantum control for spin-spin entanglement distribution
authors: Francesco Ciccarello, Mauro Paternostro, G. Massimo Palma, M. Zarcone
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, replaced with published version
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 113053 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0832
abstract: We present a protocol that sets maximum stationary entanglement between remote spins through scattering of mobile mediators without initialization, post-selection or feedback of the mediators' state. No time-resolved tuning is needed and, counterintuitively, the protocol generates two-qubit singlet states even when classical mediators are used. The mechanism responsible for such effect is resilient against non-optimal coupling strengths and dephasing affecting the spins. The scheme uses itinerant particles and scattering centres and can be implemented in various settings. When quantum dots and photons are used a striking result is found: injection of classical mediators, rather than quantum ones, improves the scheme efficiency.

id: 0909.0841
title: Weak measurements with a qubit meter
authors: Shengjun Wu, Klaus M?lmer
comments: a couple of references added
journal: Physics Letters A 374, 34 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0841
abstract: We derive schemes to measure the so-called weak values of quantum system observables by coupling of the system to a qubit meter system. We highlight, in particular, the meaning of the imaginary part of the weak values, and show how it can be measured directly on equal footing with the real part of the weak value. We present compact expressions for the weak value of single qubit observables and of product observables on qubit pairs. Experimental studies of the results are suggested with cold trapped ions.

id: 0909.0931
title: A simple approach to approximate quantum error correction based on the transpose channel
authors: Hui Khoon Ng, Prabha Mandayam
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. More concise version, with added references and modified title.
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062342 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0931
abstract: We demonstrate that there exists a universal, near-optimal recovery map---the transpose channel---for approximate quantum error-correcting codes, where optimality is defined using the worst-case fidelity. Using the transpose channel, we provide an alternative interpretation of the standard quantum error correction (QEC) conditions, and generalize them to a set of conditions for approximate QEC (AQEC) codes. This forms the basis of a simple algorithm for finding AQEC codes. Our analytical approach is a departure from earlier work relying on exhaustive numerical search for the optimal recovery map, with optimality defined based on entanglement fidelity. For the practically useful case of codes encoding a single qubit of information, our algorithm is particularly easy to implement.

id: 0909.0946
title: Coherent State Control of Non-Interacting Quantum Entanglement
authors: Muhammed Yonac, Joseph H. Eberly
comments: Published in PRA, 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022321 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0946
abstract: We exploit a novel approximation scheme to obtain a new and compact formula for the parameters underlying coherent-state control of the evolution of a pair of entangled two-level systems. It is appropriate for long times and for relatively strong external quantum control via coherent state irradiation. We take account of both discrete-state and continuous-variable degrees of freedom. The formula predicts the relative heights of entanglement revivals and their timing and duration.

id: 0909.0950
title: The Uncertainty Principle in the Presence of Quantum Memory
authors: Mario Berta, Matthias Christandl, Roger Colbeck, Joseph M. Renes, Renato Renner
comments: 5 pages plus 12 of supplementary information. Updated to match the journal version
journal: Nature Physics 6, 659-662 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0950
abstract: The uncertainty principle, originally formulated by Heisenberg, dramatically illustrates the difference between classical and quantum mechanics. The principle bounds the uncertainties about the outcomes of two incompatible measurements, such as position and momentum, on a particle. It implies that one cannot predict the outcomes for both possible choices of measurement to arbitrary precision, even if information about the preparation of the particle is available in a classical memory. However, if the particle is prepared entangled with a quantum memory, a device which is likely to soon be available, it is possible to predict the outcomes for both measurement choices precisely. In this work we strengthen the uncertainty principle to incorporate this case, providing a lower bound on the uncertainties which depends on the amount of entanglement between the particle and the quantum memory. We detail the application of our result to witnessing entanglement and to quantum key distribution.

id: 0909.0965
title: Fractional Generalization of Quantum Markovian Master Equation
authors: Vasily E. Tarasov
comments: 25 pages, LaTeX
journal: Theoretical and Mathematical Physics. Vol.158. No.2. (2008) 179-195
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0965
abstract: We prove a generalization of the quantum Markovian equation for observables. In this generalized equation, we use superoperators that are fractional powers of completely dissipative superoperators. We prove that the suggested superoperators are infinitesimal generators of completely positive semigroups and describe the properties of this semigroup. We solve the proposed fractional quantum Markovian equation for the harmonic oscillator with linear friction. A fractional power of the Markovian superoperator can be considered a parameter describing a measure of "screening" of the environment of the quantum system: the environmental influence on the system is absent for $\alpha=0$, the environment completely influences the system for $\alpha=1$, and we have a powerlike environmental influence for $0<\alpha<1$.

id: 0909.0970
title: Cavity optomechanics with stoichiometric SiN films
authors: D. J. Wilson, C. A. Regal, S. B. Papp, H. J. Kimble
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 207204 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0970
abstract: We study high-stress SiN films for reaching the quantum regime with mesoscopic oscillators connected to a room-temperature thermal bath, for which there are stringent requirements on the oscillators' quality factors and frequencies. Our SiN films support mechanical modes with unprecedented products of mechanical quality factor $Q_m$ and frequency $\nu_m$ reaching $Q_{m} \nu_m \simeq2 \times 10^{13}$ Hz. The SiN membranes exhibit a low optical absorption characterized by Im$(n) \lesssim 10^{-5}$ at 935 nm, representing a 15 times reduction for SiN membranes. We have developed an apparatus to simultaneously cool the motion of multiple mechanical modes based on a short, high-finesse Fabry-Perot cavity and present initial cooling results along with future possibilities.

id: 0909.0984
title: Complete transfer of populations from a single state to a pre-selected superposition of states using Piecewise Adiabatic Passage: Experiment
authors: S. Zhdanovich, E.A. Shapiro, J.W. Hepburn, M. Shapiro, V. Milner
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A. 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0984
abstract: We demonstrate a method of adiabatic population transfer from a single quantum state into a coherent superposition of states. The transfer is executed with femtosecond pulses, spectrally shaped in simple and intuitive manner, which does not require iterative feedback-controlled loops. In contrast to non-adiabatic methods of excitation, our approach is not sensitive to the exact value of laser intensity. We show that the population transfer is complete, and analyze the possibility of controlling the relative phases and amplitudes of the excited eigenstates. We discuss the limitations of the proposed control methods due to the dynamic level shifts and suggest ways of reducing their influence.

id: 0909.0988
title: Braided Categorical Quantum Mechanics I
authors: Spencer D. Stirling, Yong-Shi Wu
comments: 74 pages, Part I
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0988
abstract: This is the first paper in a series where we generalize the Categorical Quantum Mechanics program (due to Abramsky, Coecke, et al) to braided systems. In our view a uniform description of quantum information for braided systems has not yet emerged. The picture is complicated by a diversity of examples that lacks a unifying framework for proving theorems and discovering new protocols. We use category theory to construct a high-level language that abstracts the quantum mechanical properties of braided systems. We exploit this framework to propose an axiomatic description of braided quantum information intended for topological quantum computation. In this installment we first generalize the primordial Abramsky-Coecke "quantum information flow" paradigm from compact closed categories to right-rigid strict monoidal categories. We then study dagger structures for rigid and/or braided categories and formulate a graphical dagger calculus. We then propose two generalizations of strongly compact closed categories. Finally we study partial traces in the context of dagger categories.

id: 0909.0990
title: Nonclassical correlations from randomly chosen local measurements
authors: Yeong-Cherng Liang, Nicholas Harrigan, Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph
comments: v3 (published version) 7 pages, 4 figures, 1 table, results considerably strengthened, references updated; v2 4 pages, 3 figures, margins tightened, references updated, minor errors fixed, Fig1 and Fig 2 replaced; v1 4+ pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters, vol. 104, art. 050401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0990
abstract: We show that correlations inconsistent with any locally causal description can be a generic feature of measurements on entangled quantum states. Specifically, spatially-separated parties who perform local measurements on a maximally-entangled state using randomly chosen measurement bases can, with significant probability, generate nonclassical correlations that violate a Bell inequality. For n parties using a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state, this probability of violation rapidly tends to unity as the number of parties increases. We also show that, even with both a randomly chosen two-qubit pure state and randomly chosen measurement bases, a violation can be found about 10% of the time. Amongst other applications, our work provides a feasible alternative for the demonstration of Bell inequality violation without a shared reference frame.

id: 0909.1016
title: Atom-wall dispersive forces: a microscopic approach
authors: F. Cornu, Ph. A. Martin
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1016
abstract: We present a study of atom-wall interactions in non-relativistic quantum electrodynamics by functional integral methods. The Feynman-Kac path integral representation is generalized to the case when the particle interacts with a radiation field, providing an additional effective potential that contains all the interactions induced by the field. We show how one can retrieve the standard van der Waals, Casimir-Polder and classical Lifshiftz forces in this formalism for an atom in its ground state. Moreover, when electrostatic interactions are screened in the medium, we find low temperature corrections that are not included in the Lifshitz theory of fluctuating forces and are opposite to them.

id: 0909.1036
title: Measurement-based quantum foundations
authors: Jochen Rau
comments: 8 pages, version to appear in Found. Phys
journal: Foundations of Physics 41, 380 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1036
abstract: I show that quantum theory is the only probabilistic framework that permits arbitrary processes to be emulated by sequences of local measurements. This supports the view that, contrary to conventional wisdom, measurement should not be regarded as a complex phenomenon in need of a dynamical explanation but rather as a primitive -- and perhaps the only primitive -- operation of the theory.

id: 0909.1077
title: Effect of Phase Factor in the Geometric Entanglement Measure of Three-Qubit States
authors: Sayatnova Tamaryan, Hungsoo Kim, Mu-Seong Kim, Kap Soo Jang, DaeKil Park
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures: fig.5 is not included due to file size limit. Full version can be downloaded from this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1077
abstract: Any pure three-qubit state is uniquely characterized by one phase and four positive parameters. The geometric measure of entanglement as a function of state parameters can have different expressions. Each of expressions has its own applicable domain and thus the whole state parameter space is divided into subspaces that are ranges of definition for corresponding expressions. The purpose of this paper is to examine the applicable domains for the most general qubit-interchange symmetric three-qubit states. First, we compute the eigenvalues of the non-linear eigenvalue equations and the nearest separable states for the permutation invariant three-qubit states with a fixed phase. Next, we compute the geometric entanglement measure, deduce the boundaries of all subspaces, and find allocations of highly and slightly entangled states. It is shown that there are three applicable domains when the phase factor is $\pi/2$ while other cases have only two domains. The emergence of the three domains is due to the appearance of the additional W-state. We show that most of highly entangled states reside near the boundaries of the domains and states located far from the boundaries become less-entangled and eventually go to the product states. The neighbors of W-state are generally more entangled than the neighbors of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger(GHZ) state from the aspect of the geometric measure. However, the range of the GHZ-neighbors is much more wider than the range of the W-neighbors.

id: 0909.1080
title: NMR Quantum Calculations of the Jones Polynomial
authors: Raimund Marx, Amr Fahmy, Louis Kauffman, Samuel Lomonaco, Andreas Sp?rl, Nikolas Pomplun, John Myers, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: Presented in part at the ENC, Daytona Beach, FL, U.S.A., 22 April to 27 April 2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1080
abstract: The repertoire of problems theoretically solvable by a quantum computer recently expanded to include the approximate evaluation of knot invariants, specifically the Jones polynomial. The experimental implementation of this evaluation, however, involves many known experimental challenges. Here we present experimental results for a small-scale approximate evaluation of the Jones Polynomial by nuclear-magnetic resonance (NMR), in addition we show how to escape from the limitations of NMR approaches that employ pseudo pure states. Specifically, we use two spin 1/2 nuclei of natural abundance chloroform and apply a sequence of unitary transforms representing the Trefoil Knot, the Figure Eight Knot and the Borromean Rings. After measuring the state of the molecule in each case, we are able to estimate the value of the Jones Polynomial for each of the knots.

id: 0909.1087
title: Entropic characterization of Separability in Gaussian states
authors: Sudha Shenoy, A.R. Usha Devi, A.K. Rajagopal
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; Brief version of the earlier paper; Journal references added
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 81, 024303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1087
abstract: We explore separability of bipartite divisions of mixed Gaussian states based on the positivity of the Abe-Rajagopal (AR) q-conditional entropy. The AR q-conditional entropic characterization provide more stringent restrictions on separability (in the limit q tending to infinity) than that obtained from the corresponding von Neumann conditional entropy (q = 1 case)--similar to the situation in finite dimensional states. Effectiveness of this approach, in relation to the results obtained by partial transpose criterion, is explicitly analyzed in three illustrative examples of two-mode Gaussian states of physical significance.

id: 0909.1133
title: Near-resonance Light Scattering from a High-density, Ultracold Atomic $^{87}$Rb Gas
authors: S. Balik, A.L. Win, M.D. Havey, I.M. Sokolov, D.V. Kupriyanov
comments: Submitted to Physical Review A. This is V.2, completely revised from earlier V.1. 13 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053817 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1133
abstract: We report a combined experimental and theoretical investigation of near resonance light scattering from a high-density and ultracold atomic $^{87}$Rb gas. The atomic sample, having a peak density $\sim 5\cdot10^{13}$ atoms/cm$^{3}$, temperature $\sim$ 65 $\mu$K and initially prepared in the F = 1 lower energy $^{87}$Rb hyperfine component, is optically pumped to the higher energy F = 2 hyperfine level. Measurements are made of the transient hyperfine pumping process and of the time evolution of scattering of near resonance probe radiation on the $F = 2 \rightarrow F' = 3$ transition. Features of the density, detuning, and temporal dependence of the signals are attributed to the high density and consequent large optical depth of the samples.

id: 0909.1149
title: Minimum-error multiple state discrimination constrained by the no-signaling principle
authors: Won-Young Hwang, Joonwoo Bae
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 022202 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1149
abstract: We provide a bound on the minimum error when discriminating among quantum states, using the no-signaling principle. The bound is general in that it depends on neither dimensions nor specific structures of given quantum states to be discriminated among. We show that the bound is tight for the minimum-error state discrimination between symmetric (both pure and mixed) qubit states. Moreover, the bound can be applied to a set of quantum states for which the minimum-error state discrimination is not known yet. Finally, our results strengthen the quantitative connection between two no-go theorems, the no-signaling principle and the no perfect state estimation.

id: 0909.1186
title: Scheme of thinking quantum systems
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: Latex file, 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 6 (2009) 833-839
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1186
abstract: A general approach describing quantum decision procedures is developed. The approach can be applied to quantum information processing, quantum computing, creation of artificial quantum intelligence, as well as to analyzing decision processes of human decision makers. Our basic point is to consider an active quantum system possessing its own strategic state. Processing information by such a system is analogous to the cognitive processes associated to decision making by humans. The algebra of probability operators, associated with the possible options available to the decision maker, plays the role of the algebra of observables in quantum theory of measurements. A scheme is advanced for a practical realization of decision procedures by thinking quantum systems. Such thinking quantum systems can be realized by using spin lattices, systems of magnetic molecules, cold atoms trapped in optical lattices, ensembles of quantum dots, or multilevel atomic systems interacting with electromagnetic field.

id: 0909.1208
title: Waveguide-based OPO source of entangled photon pairs
authors: Enrico Pomarico, Bruno Sanguinetti, Nicolas Gisin, Robert Thew, Hugo Zbinden, Gerhard Schreiber, Abu Thomas, Wolfgang Sohler
comments: 13 pages
journal: New Journal of Physics 11, 113042 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1208
abstract: In this paper we present a compact source of narrow-band energy-time entangled photon pairs in the telecom regime based on a Ti-indiffused Periodically Poled Lithium Niobate (PPLN) waveguide resonator, i.e. a waveguide with end-face dielectric multi-layer mirrors. This is a monolithic doubly resonant Optical Parametric Oscillator (OPO) far below threshold, which generates photon pairs by Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion (SPDC) at around 1560nm with a 117MHz (0.91 pm)- bandwidth. A coherence time of 2.7 ns is estimated by a time correlation measurement and a high quality of the entangled states is confirmed by a Bell-type experiment. Since highly coherent energy-time entangled photon pairs in the telecom regime are suitable for long distance transmission and manipulation, this source is well suited to the requirements of quantum communication.

id: 0909.1218
title: Approximate analytic solutions of the diatomic molecules in the Schrodinger equation with hyperbolical potentials
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 18 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 18 (10-11) (2009) 747-758.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1218
abstract: The Schrodinger equation for the rotational-vibrational (ro-vibrational) motion of a diatomic molecule with empirical potential functions is solved approximately by means of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. The approximate ro-vibratinal energy spectra and the corresponding normalized total wavefunctions are calculated in closed form and expressed in terms of the hypergeometric functions or Jacobi polynomials P_{n}^{(\mu,\nu)}(x), where \mu>-1, \nu>-1 and x included in [-1,+1]. The s-waves analytic solution is obtained. The numerical energy eigenvalues for selected H_{2} and Ar_{2} molecules are also calculated and compared with the previous models and experiments.

id: 0909.1230
title: Spontaneous symmetry breaking in thermalization and anti-thermalization
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, H. Dong, X. G. Wang, X. F. Liu, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1230
abstract: The phenomenon of spontaneous symmetry breaking is investigated in the dynamic thermalization of a degenerate quantum system. A three-level system interacting with a heat bath is carefully studied to this end. It is shown that the three-level system with degenerate ground states might have different behaviors depending on the details of the interaction with the heat bath when the temperature approaches zero. If we introduce an external field to break the degeneracy of the ground states and let it approach zero after letting the temperature approach zero, then two possibilities will arise: the steady state is a definite one of the degenerate states independent of the initial state, or the steady state is dependent on the initial state in a complicated way. The first possibility corresponds to a spontaneous symmetry breaking of the system and the second one implies that the heat bath could not totally erase the initial information in certain cases.

id: 0909.1232
title: Real eigenvalues in non-Hermitian Hamilton quantum physics
authors: Ingrid Rotter
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1232
abstract: The dynamics of open quantum systems is determined by avoided and true crossings of eigenvalue trajectories of a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. The phases of the eigenfunctions are not rigid so that environmentally induced spectroscopic redistribution processes may take place and a dynamical phase transition may occur. Due to the formal equivalence between the quantum mechanical Schr\"odinger equation and the optical wave equation in PT symmetric lattices, the dynamics of the system is determined also in this case by avoided and true crossings of eigenvalue trajectories of the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. In contrast to the eigenvalues characterizing an open quantum system, the eigenvalues describing the PT symmetric optical lattice are real as long as the influence of the environment (lattice) onto the optical wave equation is small. In the regime of avoided level crossings, the symmetry is destroyed, the eigenvalues become complex and a dynamical phase transition occurs similar as in the open quantum system. The redistribution processes in the regime of avoided level crossings allow to design systems with desired properties in a broad parameter range.

id: 0909.1274
title: An interplay between nonlocality and quantum violation of path-spin noncontextuality
authors: Dipankar Home, Alok Kumar Pan
comments: 6 pages, 1 Figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 9, 1279 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1274
abstract: In terms of a suitable variant of the EPR-Bohm example, we argue that the quantum mechanically predicted and experimentally verified violation of a Bell-type path-spin noncontextual realist inequality for an `intraparticle' path-spin entanglement involving single neutrons can be used to infer a form of nonlocality, distinct from Bell-type nonlocality, that is required for any relevant hidden variable model to be compatible with the quantum mechanical treatment of an EPR-Bohm-type `interparticle' entanglement.

id: 0909.1297
title: Entanglement and entropy rates in open quantum systems
authors: Fabio Benatti, Alexandra M. Liguori, Giacomo Paluzzano
comments: 20 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 045304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1297
abstract: We study a recent conjecture about the behavior of the quantum relative entropy compared to the relative entropy of entanglement in open bipartite systems. The conjecture states that, under a dissipative time-evolution, the positive rate of change of the relative entropy will always be larger than that of the relative entropy of entanglement. After explicitly solving a two-qubit master equation of Lindblad type with separable and entangled stationary states, we show that the conjecture can be violated for initial states with an entangled asymptotic state, while it appears to be confirmed when the asymptotic states are separable.

id: 0909.1353
title: Decoherence in Two-Dimensional Quantum Random Walks with Traps
authors: Meltem Gonulol, Ekrem Aydiner, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022336 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1353
abstract: Quantum random walk in a two-dimensional lattice with randomly distributed traps is investigated. Distributions of quantum walkers are evaluated dynamically for the cases of Hadamard, Fourier, and Grover coins, and quantum to classical transition is examined as a function of the density of the traps. It is shown that traps act as a serious and additional source of quantum decoherence. Furthermore, non-trivial temporal dependence of the standard deviation of the probability distribution of the walker is found when the trapping imperfections are introduced.

id: 0909.1387
title: Wigner distributions for finite state systems without redundant phase point operators
authors: S. Chaturvedi, N. Mukunda, R.Simon
comments: Latex, 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1387
abstract: We set up Wigner distributions for $N$ state quantum systems following a Dirac inspired approach. In contrast to much of the work on this case, requiring a $2N\times 2N$ phase space, particularly when $N$ is even, our approach is uniformly based on an $N\times N $ phase space grid and thereby avoids the necessity of having to invoke a `quadrupled' phase space and hence the attendant redundance. Both $N$ odd and even cases are analysed in detail and it is found that there are striking differences between the two. While the $N$ odd case permits full implementation of the marginals property, the even case does so only in a restricted sense. This has the consequence that in the even case one is led to several equally good definitions of the Wigner distributions as opposed to the odd case where the choice turns out to be unique.

id: 0909.1408
title: The background as a quantum observable: Einstein's hole argument in a quasiclassical context
authors: I. Schmelzer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1408
abstract: I consider a thought experiment measuring the decoherence for quasiclassical superpositions of gravitational field. A version of the hole argument allows to prove that a covariant (background-free) theory is completely unable to define the outcome of this experiment and is therefore not viable. Instead, the results of experiments of this type allow to reconstruct a common background shared by all superposed gravitational fields.

id: 0909.1428
title: Exponentially more concise quantum recognition of non-RMM regular languages
authors: Daowen Qiu, Lvzhou Li, Paulo Mateus, Amilcar Sernadas
comments: 32 pages, 6 figures. We have added a number of results concerning the state complexity, and the proof methods for accepting languages and equivalence have been changed. Also, the title has been changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1428
abstract: We show that there are quantum devices that accept all regular languages and that are exponentially more concise than deterministic finite automata (DFA). For this purpose, we introduce a new computing model of {\it one-way quantum finite automata} (1QFA), namely, {\it one-way quantum finite automata together with classical states} (1QFAC), which extends naturally both measure-only 1QFA and DFA and whose state complexity is upper-bounded by both. The original contributions of the paper are the following. First, we show that the set of languages accepted by 1QFAC with bounded error consists precisely of all regular languages. Second, we prove that 1QFAC are at most exponentially more concise than DFA. Third, we show that the previous bound is tight for families of regular languages that are not recognized by measure-once (RMO), measure-many (RMM) and multi-letter 1QFA. % More concretely we exhibit regular languages $L^0(m)$ for $m$ prime such that: (i) $L^0(m)$ cannot be recognized by measure-once, measure-many and multi-letter 1QFA; (ii) the minimal DFA that accepts $L^0(m)$ has $O(m)$ states; (iii) there is a 1QFAC with constant classical states and $O(\log(m))$ quantum basis that accepts $L^0(m)$. Fourth, we give a polynomial-time algorithm for determining whether any two 1QFAC are equivalent. Finally, we show that state minimization of 1QFAC is decidable within EXPSPACE. We conclude the paper by posing some open problems.

id: 0909.1465
title: Low velocity limits of cold atom clocks
authors: J. Mu?oz, I. Lizuain, J. G. Muga
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022116 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1465
abstract: Fundamental low-energy limits to the accuracy of quantum clock and stopwatch models in which the clock hand motion is activated by the presence of a particle in a region of space have been studied in the past, but their relevance for actual atomic clocks had not been assessed. In this work we address the effect of slow atomic quantum motion on Rabi and Ramsey resonance fringe patterns, as a perturbation of the results based on classical atomic motion. We find the dependence of the fractional error of the corresponding atomic clocks on the atomic velocity and interaction parameters.

id: 0909.1466
title: Approximate quantum error correction for correlated noise
authors: Avraham Ben-Aroya, Amnon Ta-Shma
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1466
abstract: Most of the research done on quantum error correction studies an error model in which each qubit is affected by noise, independently of the other qubits. In this paper we study a different noise model -- one in which the noise may be correlated with the qubits it acts upon. We show both positive and negative results. On the one hand, we show controlled-X errors cannot be perfectly corrected, yet can be approximately corrected with sub-constant approximation error. On the other hand, we show that no non-trivial quantum error correcting code can approximately correct controlled phase error with sub-constant approximation error.

id: 0909.1469
title: Toward Quantum Superposition of Living Organisms
authors: Oriol Romero-Isart, Mathieu L. Juan, Romain Quidant, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 12:033015,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1469
abstract: The most striking feature of quantum mechanics is the existence of superposition states, where an object appears to be in different situations at the same time. The existence of such states has been tested with small objects, like atoms, ions, electrons and photons, and even with molecules. More recently, it has been possible to create superpositions of collections of photons, atoms, or Cooper pairs. Current progress in optomechanical systems may soon allow us to create superpositions of even larger objects, like micro-sized mirrors or cantilevers, and thus to test quantum mechanical phenomena at larger scales. Here we propose a method to cool down and create quantum superpositions of the motion of sub-wavelength, arbitrarily shaped dielectric objects trapped inside a high--finesse cavity at a very low pressure. Our method is ideally suited for the smallest living organisms, such as viruses, which survive under low vacuum pressures, and optically behave as dielectric objects. This opens up the possibility of testing the quantum nature of living organisms by creating quantum superposition states in very much the same spirit as the original Schr\"odinger's cat "gedanken" paradigm. We anticipate our essay to be a starting point to experimentally address fundamental questions, such as the role of life and consciousness in quantum mechanics.

id: 0909.1545
title: Macroscopic polarization entanglement and loophole-free Bell inequality test
authors: M. Stobi¨½ska, P. Horodecki, A. Buraczewski, R. W. Chhajlany, R. Horodecki, G. Leuchs
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1545
abstract: The question whether Quantum Mechanics describes all aspects of both the micro-world of elementary particles and living organisms adequately is still open. A Bell inequality test without locality and detection loopholes will deliver the answer when applied to macroscopic systems. Here we show that an experimentally feasible loophole-free Bell test is possible using only multi-photon polarization entanglement and linear optics. We apply a preselection protocol which produces genuine macroscopic superpositions and entanglement, thus eliminating postselection and dark counts. Such superpositions are usually difficult to generate. Their study paves the way for testing the quantum nature of biological organisms such as plants, viruses and human brain. Our results find application in creating quantum superpositions of living organisms and their manipulation.

id: 0909.1548
title: Cavity optomechanics using an optically levitated nanosphere
authors: D.E. Chang, C.A. Regal, S.B. Papp, D.J. Wilson, J. Ye, O. Painter, H.J. Kimble, P. Zoller
comments: 33 pages, 6 figures, minor revisions, references added
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA (2009), online publication doi: 10.1073/pnas.0912969107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1548
abstract: Recently, remarkable advances have been made in coupling a number of high-Q modes of nano-mechanical systems to high-finesse optical cavities, with the goal of reaching regimes where quantum behavior can be observed and leveraged toward new applications. To reach this regime, the coupling between these systems and their thermal environments must be minimized. Here we propose a novel approach to this problem, in which optically levitating a nano-mechanical system can greatly reduce its thermal contact, while simultaneously eliminating dissipation arising from clamping. Through the long coherence times allowed, this approach potentially opens the door to ground-state cooling and coherent manipulation of a single mesoscopic mechanical system or entanglement generation between spatially separate systems, even in room temperature environments. As an example, we show that these goals should be achievable when the mechanical mode consists of the center-of-mass motion of a levitated nanosphere.

id: 0909.1550
title: Experimental approximation of the Jones polynomial with DQC1
authors: G. Passante, O. Moussa, C.A. Ryan, R. Laflamme
comments: 5 figures. Version 2 changes: published version, minor errors corrected, slight changes to improve readability
journal: PRL 103, 250501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1550
abstract: We present experimental results approximating the Jones polynomial using 4 qubits in a liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor. This is the first experimental implementation of a complete problem for the deterministic quantum computation with one quantum bit model of quantum computation, which uses a single qubit accompanied by a register of completely random states. The Jones polynomial is a knot invariant that is important not only to knot theory, but also to statistical mechanics and quantum field theory. The implemented algorithm is a modification of the algorithm developed by Shor and Jordan suitable for implementation in NMR. These experimental results show that for the restricted case of knots whose braid representations have four strands and exactly three crossings, identifying distinct knots is possible 91% of the time.

id: 0909.1557
title: Entanglement spread and clean resource inequalities
authors: Aram W. Harrow
comments: 11 pages. This is an extended version of an article that appeared in the proceedings of ICMP09: the 16th International Congress on Mathematical Physics. v2. Fixed a sign error in one definition
journal: Proc. of the XVIth Intl. Cong. on Math. Phys., pp. 536--540, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1557
abstract: This article will examine states that superpose different amounts of entanglement and protocols that run in superposition but generate or consume different amounts of entanglement. In both cases we find a uniquely quantum difficulty: entanglement cannot be conditionally discarded without either using communication or causing decoherence. I will first describe the problem of entanglement spread in states and operations, as well as some methods of dealing with it. Then I'll describe three applications to problems that at first glance appear to be quite different: first, a reinterpretation of the old observation that creating n partially entangled states from singlets requires theta(sqrt(n)) communication, but cannot itself be used to communicate; second, a new lower bound technique for communication complexity; third, an explanation of how to extend the quantum reverse Shannon theorem from tensor power sources to general sources.

id: 0909.1572
title: Mixed state discrimination using optimal control
authors: B. L. Higgins, B. M. Booth, A. C. Doherty, S. D. Bartlett, H. M. Wiseman, G. J. Pryde
comments: Corrected ref 1 date; 4 pages & 4 figures + 2 pages & 3 figures supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 220503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1572
abstract: We present theory and experiment for the task of discriminating two nonorthogonal states, given multiple copies. We implement several local measurement schemes, on both pure states and states mixed by depolarizing noise. We find that schemes which are optimal (or have optimal scaling) without noise perform worse with noise than simply repeating the optimal single-copy measurement. Applying optimal control theory, we derive the globally optimal local measurement strategy, which outperforms all other local schemes, and experimentally implement it for various levels of noise.

id: 0909.1577
title: Multi-frequency control pulses for multi-level superconducting quantum circuits
authors: Anne M. Forney, Steven R. Jackson, Frederick W. Strauch
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1577
abstract: Superconducting quantum circuits, such as the superconducting phase qubit, have multiple quantum states that can interfere with ideal qubit operation. The use of multiple frequency control pulses, resonant with the energy differences of the multi-state system, is theoretically explored. An analytical method to design such control pulses is developed, using a generalization of the Floquet method to multiple frequency controls. This method is applicable to optimizing the control of both superconducting qubits and qudits, and is found to be in excellent agreement with time-dependent numerical simulations.

id: 0909.1578
title: Feynman and Squeezed States
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: RevTex4 8 pages with 2 eps figs, presented at the joint meeting of the 4th Feynman Festival and the 10th International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations (Olomouc, Czech Republic, June 2009), to be included in the Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1578
abstract: In 1971, Feynman et al. published a paper on hadronic mass spectra and transition rates based on the quark model. Their starting point was a Lorentz-invariant differential equation. This equation can be separated into a Klein-Gordon equation for the free-moving hadron and a harmonic oscillator equation for the quarks inside the hadron. However, their solution of the oscillator equation is not consistent with the existing rules of quantum mechanics and special relativity. On the other hand, their partial differential equation has many other solutions depending on boundary conditions. It is noted that there is a Lorentz-covariant set of solutions totally consistent with quantum mechanics and special relativity. This set constitutes a representation of the Poincar\'e group which dictates the fundamental space-time symmetry of particles in the Lorentz-covariant world. It is then shown that the same set of solutions can be used as the mathematical basis for two-photon coherent states or squeezed states in quantum optics. It is thus possible to transmit the physics of squeezed states into the hadronic world. While the time-like separation is the most puzzling problem in the covariant oscillator regime, this variable can be interpreted like the unobserved photon in the two-mode squeezed state which leads to an entropy increase.

id: 0909.1584
title: Optical implementation of a unitarily correctable code
authors: Kurt M. Schreiter, Aron Pasieka, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Kevin J. Resch, David W. Kribs
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1584
abstract: Noise poses a challenge for any real-world implementation in quantum information science. The theory of quantum error correction deals with this problem via methods to encode and recover quantum information in a way that is resilient against that noise. Unitarily correctable codes are an error correction technique wherein a single unitary recovery operation is applied without the need for an ancilla Hilbert space. Here, we present the first optical implementation of a non-trivial unitarily correctable code for a noisy quantum channel with no decoherence-free subspaces or noiseless subsystems. We show that recovery of our initial states is achieved with high fidelity (>=0.97), quantitatively proving the efficacy of this unitarily correctable code.

id: 0909.1594
title: Computation and Dynamics: Classical and Quantum
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: 5 pages, 2 EPS figures, LaTeX2e, AMSLaTeX
journal: in "Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations--5'' (A.Yu. Khrennikov, ed.), AIP Conference Proceedings, v.1232, Amer. Inst. Phys., pp.306--312, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1594
abstract: We discuss classical and quantum computations in terms of corresponding Hamiltonian dynamics. This allows us to introduce quantum computations which involve parallel processing of both: the data and programme instructions. Using mixed quantum-classical dynamics we look for a full cost of computations on quantum computers with classical terminals.

id: 0909.1596
title: Stabilizing Open Quantum Systems by Markovian Reservoir Engineering
authors: S.G. Schirmer, Xiaoting Wang
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, marginally revised version, mainly fixed some notational inconsistencies that had crept in when we change the notation in some figures without changing the captions and text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1596
abstract: We study open quantum systems whose evolution is governed by a master equation of Kossakowski-Gorini-Sudarshan-Lindblad type and give a characterization of the convex set of steady states of such systems based on the generalized Bloch representation. It is shown that an isolated steady state of the Bloch equation cannot be a center, i.e., that the existence of a unique steady state implies attractivity and global asymptotic stability. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a unique steady state are derived and applied to different physical models including two- and four-level atoms, (truncated) harmonic oscillators, composite and decomposable systems. It is shown how these criteria could be exploited in principle for quantum reservoir engineeing via coherent control and direct feedback to stabilize the system to a desired steady state. We also discuss the question of limit points of the dynamics. Despite the non-existence of isolated centers, open quantum systems can have nontrivial invariant sets. These invariant sets are center manifolds that arise when the Bloch superoperator has purely imaginary eigenvalues and are closely related to decoherence-free subspaces.

id: 0909.1603
title: Entanglement of graph states up to 8 qubits
authors: Xiao-yu Chen
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 085507
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1603
abstract: The entanglement of graph states up to eight qubits is calculated in the regime of iteration calculation. The entanglement measures could be the relative entropy of entanglement, the logarithmic robustness or the geometric measure. All 146 local inequivalent graphs are classified as two categories: graphs with identical upper LOCC entanglement bound and lower bipartite entanglement bound, graphs with unequal bounds. The late may displays non-integer entanglement. The precision of iteration calculation of the entanglement is less than $10^{-14}$.

id: 0909.1627
title: Optimal Entanglement Provision over Underlying Networks of Group Association Schemes
authors: M. Ghojavand, M. A. Jafarizadeh, S. Rouhani
comments: 19 pages,no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1627
abstract: We investigate creation of optimal entanglement in symmetric networks. The proposed network is one in which the connections are organized by a group table in other words a group association scheme. We show that optimal entanglement can be provided over such networks by adjusting couplings and initial state. We find that the optimal initial state is a simple local excited state. Moreover we obtain an analytic formula for entanglement achievable between vertex pairs located in the same strata and calculate their relevant optimal couplings. For those pairs located in different strata two upper bounds are presented. These results are also checked numerically.

id: 0909.1634
title: Local correlations of mixed two-qubit states
authors: Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen, Chang-Liang Ren, Ming-Jun Shi
comments: 5p, 1f
journal: Physics Letters A, 374 (2010) 2429-2433
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1634
abstract: The quantum probability distribution arising from single-copy von Neumann measurements on an arbitrary two-qubit state is decomposed into the local and nonlocal parts, in the approach of Elitzur, Popescu and Rohrlich [A. Elitzur, S. Popescu, and D. Rohrlich, Phys. Lett. A 162, 25 (1992)]. A lower bound of the local weight is proved being connected with the concurrence of the state $p_L^{\max}= 1-\mathcal{C}(\rho)$. The local probability distributions for two families of mixed states are constructed independently, which accord with the lower bound.

id: 0909.1654
title: Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with a Real Spectrum and Their Physical Applications
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 9 pages, contributed to Homi Bhabha Centenary Conference on Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics (8th International Workshop on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics), held in Mumbai, January 13-16, 2009
journal: Pramana-J. Phys. 73, 269-277 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1654
abstract: We present an evaluation of some recent attempts at understanding the role of pseudo-Hermitian and PT-symmetric Hamiltonians in modeling unitary quantum systems and elaborate on a particular physical phenomenon whose discovery originated in the study of complex scattering potentials.

id: 0909.1672
title: Anyonic Topological Quantum Computation and the Virtual Braid Group
authors: H. A. Dye, Louis H. Kauffman
comments: 14 pages, 23 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Geometric Topology (math.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1672
abstract: We introduce a recoupling theory for virtual braided trees. This recoupling theory can be utilized to incorporate swap gates into anyonic models of quantum computation.

id: 0909.1680
title: Analog control of open quantum systems under arbitrary decoherence
authors: Jens Clausen, Guy Bensky, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 8 pages, including 4 figures and an appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1680
abstract: We derive and investigate a general non-Markovian equation for the time-dependence of a Hamiltonian that maximizes the fidelity of a desired quantum gate on any finite-dimensional quantum system in the presence of arbitrary bath and noise sources. The method is illustrated for a single-qubit gate implemented on a three-level system.

id: 0909.1725
title: Entangled States and Super-radiant Phase Transition
authors: M. Aparicio Alcalde, A. H. Cardenas, N. F. Svaiter, V. B. Bezerra
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1725
abstract: The Dicke spin-boson model is composed by a single bosonic mode and an ensemble of $N$ identical two-level atoms. Assuming thermal equilibrium with a reservoir at temperature $\beta^{-1}$, we consider the situation where the coupling between the bosonic mode and the atoms generates resonant and non-resonant processes. The thermodynamic of the model is investigated. Next we introduce dipole-dipole interaction between the atoms. We investigate the transition from fluorescent to super-radiant phase and the quantum phase transition in a situation where the dipole-dipole interaction between the atoms generates entangled states in the atomic system. We proved that, the critical behavior is not modified by the introduction of the dipole-dipole interaction.

id: 0909.1726
title: Comment on `Quantum resolution to the arrow of time dilemma'
authors: David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 4 pages, no figures. Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 148901 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1726
abstract: Recently, a substantial amount of debate has grown up around a proposed quantum resolution to the `arrow of time dilemma' that is based on the role of classical memory records of entropy-decreasing events. In this note we show that the argument is incomplete and furthermore, by providing a counter-example, argue that it is incorrect. Instead of quantum mechanics providing a resolution in the manner suggested, it allows enhanced classical memory records of entropy-decreasing events.

id: 0909.1814
title: A single trapped atom in front of an oscillating mirror
authors: A.W. Glaetzle, K. Hammerer, A.J. Daley, R. Blatt, P. Zoller
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures, contribution to the special issue in Optics Communications devoted to Krzysztof Wodkiewicz's memory
journal: Opt. Comm. 283, 758 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1814
abstract: We investigate the Wigner-Weisskopf decay of a two level atom in front of an oscillating mirror. This work builds on and extends previous theoretical and experimental studies of the effects of a static mirror on spontaneous decay and resonance fluorescence. The spontaneously emitted field is inherently non-stationary due to the time-dependent boundary conditions and in order to study its spectral distribution we employ the operational definition of the spectrum of non-stationary light due to the seminal work by Eberly and Wodkiewicz. We find a rich dependence of this spectrum as well as of the effective decay rates and level shifts on the mirror-atom distance and on the amplitude and frequency of oscillations of the mirror. The results presented here provide the basis for future studies of more complex setups, where the motion of the atom and/or the mirror are included as quantum degrees of freedom.

id: 0909.1846
title: Vibration-enhanced quantum transport
authors: F. L. Semi?o, K. Furuya, G. J. Milburn
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, new material, included references, final published version
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 083033 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1846
abstract: In this paper, we study the role of collective vibrational motion in the phenomenon of electronic energy transfer (EET) along a chain of coupled electronic dipoles with varying excitation frequencies. Previous experimental work on EET in conjugated polymer samples has suggested that the common structural framework of the macromolecule introduces correlations in the energy gap fluctuations which cause coherent EET. Inspired by these results, we present a simple model in which a driven nanomechanical resonator mode modulates the excitation energy of coupled quantum dots and find that this can indeed lead to an enhancement in the transport of excitations across the quantum network. Disorder of the on-site energies is a key requirement for this to occur. We also show that in this solid state system phase information is partially retained in the transfer process, as experimentally demonstrated in conjugated polymer samples. Consequently, this mechanism of vibration enhanced quantum transport might find applications in quantum information transfer of qubit states or entanglement.

id: 0909.1862
title: Normal Mode Splitting and Antibunching in Stokes and Anti-Stokes Processes in Cavity Optomechanics: Radiation Pressure Induced Four-Wave Mixing Cavity Optomechanics
authors: Sumei Huang, G. S. Agarwal
comments: The calculation error has been corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 033830 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1862
abstract: We study Stokes and anti-Stokes processes in cavity optomechanics in the regime of strong coupling. The Stokes and anti-Stokes signals exhibit prominently the normal-mode splitting. We report gain for the Stokes signal. We also report lifetime splitting when the pump power is less than the critical power for normal-mode splitting. The nonlinear Stokes processes provide a useful method for studying strong coupling regime of cavity optomechanics. We also investigate the correlations between the Stokes and anti-Stokes photons produced spontaneously by the optomechanical system. At zero temperature, our nanomechanical system leads to the correlations between the spontaneously generated photons exhibiting photon antibunching and those violating the Cauchy-Schwartz inequality.

id: 0909.1868
title: Exchange interaction radically changes behavior of a quantum particle in a classically forbidden region: simple model
authors: V.V. Flambaum
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1868
abstract: Exchange interaction strongly influences the long-range behavior of localized electron orbitals and quantum tunneling amplitudes.In the Hartree-Fock approximation the exchange produces a power-law decay instead of the usual exponential decrease at large distances. To show that this effect is real (i.e. not a result of the approximation) we consider a simple model where different effects may be accurately analyzed. Applications include huge enhancement of inner electron ionization by a static electric field or laser field considered in Ref. M. Ya. Amusia, arxiv:0904.4395

id: 0909.1873
title: Photophysics of novel diamond based single photon emitters
authors: I. Aharonovich, S. Castelletto, D. A. Simpson, A. D. Greentree, S. Prawer
comments: 12 pages, 7 figure
journal: Phys Rev A 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1873
abstract: A detailed study of the photophysical properties of several novel color centers in chemical vapor deposition diamond is presented. These emitters show narrow luminescence lines in the near infra-red. Single photon emission was verified with continuous and pulsed excitation with emission rates at saturation in the MHz regime, whilst direct lifetime measurements reveal excited state lifetimes ranging from 1-14 ns. In addition, a number of quantum emitters demonstrate two level behavior with no bunching present in the second order correlation function. An improved method of evaluating the quantum efficiency through the direct measurement of the collection efficiency from two level emitters is presented and discussed. \

id: 0909.1887
title: Non-negative Wigner functions for orbital angular momentum states
authors: I. Rigas, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, A. B. Klimov, J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil
comments: 4 pages. Minor changes (including title). To appear in Physica. Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1887
abstract: The Wigner function of a pure continuous-variable quantum state is non-negative if and only if the state is Gaussian. Here we show that for the canonical pair angle and angular momentum, the only pure states with non-negative Wigner functions are the eigenstates of the angular momentum. Some implications of this surprising result are discussed.

id: 0909.1958
title: Cavity QED nondemolition measurement scheme using quantized atomic motion
authors: Jonas Larson, Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures. Final version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 053609 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1958
abstract: Considering ultracold atoms traversing a high-Q Fabry-Perot cavity, we theoretically demonstrate a quantum nondemolition measurement of the photon number. This fully quantum mechanical approach may be understood utilizing concepts as effective mass and group velocity of the atom. The various photon numbers induce a splitting of the atomic wave packet, and a time-of-flight measurement of the atom thereby reveals the photon number. While repeated atomic measurements increase the efficiency of the protocol, it is shown that by considering long interaction times only a few atoms are needed to resolve the photon number with almost perfect accuracy.

id: 0909.1973
title: Geometry of Generalized Depolarizing Channels
authors: Christian K. Burrell
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042330 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1973
abstract: A generalized depolarizing channel acts on an N-dimensional quantum system to compress the ``Bloch ball'' in N^2-1 directions; it has a corresponding compression vector. We investigate the geometry of these compression vectors and prove a conjecture of Dixit and Sudarshan [1], namely that when N=2^d (i.e. the system consists of d qubits) and we work in the Pauli basis then the set of all compression vectors forms a simplex. We extend this result by investigating the geometry in other bases; in particular we find precisely when the set of all compression vectors forms a simplex.

id: 0909.2007
title: Time-Resolved Upconversion of Entangled Photon Pairs
authors: Kevin A. O'Donnell, Alfred B. U'Ren
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2007
abstract: In the process of spontaneous parametric downconversion, photons from a pump field are converted to signal and idler photon pairs in a nonlinear crystal. The reversed process, or upconversion of these pairs back to single photons in a second crystal, is also possible. Here, we present experimental measurements of the upconversion rate with a controlled time delay introduced between the signal and idler photons. As a function of delay, this rate presents a full width at half maximum of 27.9 fs under our experimental conditions, and we further demonstrate that group delay dispersion of the photon pairs broadens this width. These observations are in close agreement with our calculations, thus demonstrating an ultrafast, nonclassical correlation between the signal and idler waves.

id: 0909.2033
title: Exotic quantum holonomy in Hamiltonian systems
authors: Taksu Cheon, Atushi Tanaka, Sang Wook Kim
comments: LaTeX Elsevier double column format, 6 pages, 10 figures, See this http URL for higher quality figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:144-149,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2033
abstract: We study the evolution of quantum eigenstates in the presence of level crossing under adiabatic cyclic change of environmental parameters. We find that exotic holonomies, indicated by exchange of the eigenstates after a single cyclic evolution, can arise from non-Abelian gauge potentials among non-degenerate levels. We illustrate our arguments with solvable two and three level models.

id: 0909.2057
title: On photonic controlled phase gates
authors: K. Kieling, J.L. O'Brien, J. Eisert
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, final version
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 013003 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2057
abstract: As primitives for entanglement generation, controlled phase gates take a central role in quantum computing. Especially in ideas realizing instances of quantum computation in linear optical gate arrays a closer look can be rewarding. In such architectures, all effective non-linearities are induced by measurements: Hence the probability of success is a crucial parameter of such quantum gates. In this note, we discuss this question for controlled phase gates that implement an arbitrary phase with one and two control qubits. Within the class of post-selected gates in dual-rail encoding with vacuum ancillas we identify the optimal success probabilities. We construct networks that allow for an implementation by means of todays experimental capabilities in detail. The methods employed here appear specifically useful with the advent of integrated linear optical circuits, providing stable interferometers on monolithic structures.

id: 0909.2070
title: Preferred Measurements: Optimality and Stability in Quantum Parameter Estimation
authors: Gabriel A. Durkin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, in submission. Substantial Extension and replacement of arXiv:0902.3260v1 in response to Referees' remarks
journal: New J. Phys. 12 023010 (10pp) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2070
abstract: We explore precision in a measurement process incorporating pure probe states, unitary dynamics and complete measurements via a simple formalism. The concept of `information complement' is introduced. It undermines measurement precision and its minimization reveals the system properties at an optimal point. Maximally precise measurements can exhibit independence from the true value of the estimated parameter, but demanding this severely restricts the type of viable probe and dynamics, including the requirement that the Hamiltonian be block-diagonal in a basis of preferred measurements. The curvature of the information complement near a globally optimal point provides a new quantification of measurement stability.

id: 0909.2079
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency in an inverted Y-type four-level system
authors: Jianbing Qi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2079
abstract: The interaction of a weak probe laser with an inverted-Y type four-level atomic system driven by two additional coherent fields is investigated theoretically. Under the influence of the coherent coupling fields, the steady-state linear susceptibility of the probe laser shows that the system can have single or double electromagnetically induced transparency windows depending on the amplitude and the detuning of the coupling lasers. The corresponding index of refraction associated with the group velocity of the probe laser can be controlled at both transparency windows by the coupling fields. The propagation of the probe field can be switched from superluminal near the resonance to subluminal on resonance within the single transparency window when two coupling lasers are on resonance. This provides a potential application in quantum information processing. We propose an atomic $^{87}Rb$ system for experimental observation.

id: 0909.2081
title: Control of spontaneous emission of an inverted Y-type atomic system coupled by three coherent fields
authors: Jianbing Qi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2081
abstract: We investigate the spontaneous emission from an inverted Y-type atomic system coupled by three coherent fields. We use the Schr\"{o}dinger equation to calculate the probability amplitudes of the wave function of the system and derive an analytical expression of the spontaneous emission spectrum to trace the origin of the spectral features. Quantum interference effects, such as the spectral line narrowing, spectrum splitting and dark resonance are observed. The number of spectral components, the spectral linewidth, and relative heights can be very different depending on the physical parameters. A variety of spontaneous emission spectral features can be controlled by the amplitudes of the coupling fields and the preparation of the initial quantum state of the atom. We propose an ultracold atomic $^{87}Rb$ system for experimental observation.

id: 0909.2122
title: Multiple atomic dark solitons in cigar-shaped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: G. Theocharis, A. Weller, J. P. Ronzheimer, C. Gross, M. K. Oberthaler, P. G. Kevrekidis, D. J. Frantzeskakis
comments: 17 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 063604 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2122
abstract: We consider the stability and dynamics of multiple dark solitons in cigar-shaped Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs). Our study is motivated by the fact that multiple matter-wave dark solitons may naturally form in such settings as per our recent work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 130401 (2008)]. First, we study the dark soliton interactions and show that the dynamics of well-separated solitons (i.e., ones that undergo a collision with relatively low velocities) can be analyzed by means of particle-like equations of motion. The latter take into regard the repulsion between solitons (via an effective repulsive potential) and the confinement and dimensionality of the system (via an effective parabolic trap for each soliton). Next, based on the fact that stationary, well-separated dark multi-soliton states emerge as a nonlinear continuation of the appropriate excited eigensates of the quantum harmonic oscillator, we use a Bogoliubov-de Gennes analysis to systematically study the stability of such structures. We find that for a sufficiently large number of atoms, multiple soliton states may be dynamically stable, while for a small number of atoms, we predict a dynamical instability emerging from resonance effects between the eigenfrequencies of the soliton modes and the intrinsic excitation frequencies of the condensate. Finally we present experimental realizations of multi-soliton states including a three-soliton state consisting of two solitons oscillating around a stationary one.

id: 0909.2161
title: Demonstration of the asymmetric lateral Casimir force between corrugated surfaces in the nonadditive regime
authors: H.-C. Chiu, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.N. Marachevsky, V.M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.80, N12, 121402(R)-1-4 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2161
abstract: The measurement of the lateral Casimir force between two aligned sinusoidally corrugated Au-coated surfaces has been performed in the nonadditive regime. The use of deeper corrugations also allowed to demonstrate an asymmetry in the phase dependences of the lateral Casimir force, as predicted earlier. The measurement data are found to be in excellent agreement with the exact theoretical results computed at T=300 K including effect of real material properties. The deviations between the exact theory and the proximity force approximation are quantified. The obtained results are topical for applications in nanomachines.

id: 0909.2166
title: Collective decoherence of cold atoms coupled to a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: M.A. Cirone, G. De Chiara, G. M. Palma, A. Recati
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures, two references added
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 103055
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2166
abstract: We examine the time evolution of cold atoms (impurities) interacting with an environment consisting of a degenerate bosonic quantum gas. The impurity atoms differ from the environment atoms, being of a different species. This allows one to superimpose two independent trapping potentials, each being effective only on one atomic kind, while transparent to the other. When the environment is homogeneous and the impurities are confined in a potential consisting of a set of double wells, the system can be described in terms of an effective spin-boson model, where the occupation of the left or right well of each site represents the two (pseudo)-spin states. The irreversible dynamics of such system is here studied exactly, i.e., not in terms of a Markovian master equation. The dynamics of one and two impurities is remarkably different in respect of the standard decoherence of the spin - boson system. In particular we show: i) the appearance of coherence oscillations, i) the presence of super and sub decoherent states which differ from the standard ones of the spin boson model, and iii) the persistence of coherence in the system at long times. We show that this behaviour is due to the fact that the pseudospins have an internal spatial structure. We argue that collective decoherence also prompts information about the correlation length of the environment. In a one dimensional configuration one can change even stronger the qualitative behaviour of the dephasing just by tuning the interaction of the bath.

id: 0909.2170
title: A scattering approach to Casimir forces and radiative heat transfer for nanostructured surfaces out of thermal equilibrium
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 7 pages, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:042102,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2170
abstract: We develop an exact method for computing Casimir forces and the power of radiative heat transfer between two arbitrary nanostructured surfaces out of thermal equilibrium. The method is based on a generalization of the scattering approach recently used in investigations on the Casimir effect. Analogously to the equilibrium case, we find that also out of thermal equilibrium the shape and composition of the surfaces enter only through their scattering matrices. The expressions derived provide exact results in terms of the scattering matrices of the intervening surfaces.

id: 0909.2188
title: A Fault Tolerant, Area Efficient Architecture for Shor's Factoring Algorithm
authors: Mark G. Whitney, Nemanja Isailovic, Yatish Patel, John Kubiatowicz
comments: Appears in International Symposium on Computer Architecture 2009 (ISCA09)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2188
abstract: We optimize the area and latency of Shor's factoring while simultaneously improving fault tolerance through: (1) balancing the use of ancilla generators, (2) aggressive optimization of error correction, and (3) tuning the core adder circuits. Our custom CAD flow produces detailed layouts of the physical components and utilizes simulation to analyze circuits in terms of area, latency, and success probability. We introduce a metric, called ADCR, which is the probabilistic equivalent of the classic Area-Delay product. Our error correction optimization can reduce ADCR by an order of magnitude or more. Contrary to conventional wisdom, we show that the area of an optimized quantum circuit is not dominated exclusively by error correction. Further, our adder evaluation shows that quantum carry-lookahead adders (QCLA) beat ripple-carry adders in ADCR, despite being larger and more complex. We conclude with what we believe is one of most accurate estimates of the area and latency required for 1024-bit Shor's factorization: 7659 mm$^{2}$ for the smallest circuit and $6 * 10^8$ seconds for the fastest circuit.

id: 0909.2203
title: Quantum measure and integration theory
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 28 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys.50:123509,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2203
abstract: This article begins with a review of quantum measure spaces. Quantum forms and indefinite inner-product spaces are then discussed. The main part of the paper introduces a quantum integral and derives some of its properties. The quantum integral's form for simple functions is characterized and it is shown that the quantum integral generalizes the Lebesgue integral. A bounded, monotone convergence theorem for quantum integrals is obtained and it is shown that a Radon-Nikodym type theorem does not hold for quantum measures. As an example, a quantum-Lebesgue integral on the real line is considered.

id: 0909.2206
title: Post-selected weak measurement beyond the weak value
authors: Tamas Geszti
comments: The published version; with respect to previous one, note changes in Eqs. (16),(17),(19).
journal: Physical Review A 81, 044102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2206
abstract: Closed expressions are derived for the quantum measurement statistics of pre-and postselected gaussian particle beams. The weakness of the pre-selection step is shown to compete with the non-orthogonality of post-selection in a transparent way. The approach is shown to be useful in analyzing post-selection-based signal amplification, allowing measurements to be extended far beyond the range of validity of the well-known Aharonov-Albert-Vaidman limit.

id: 0909.2209
title: The Stark effect in linear potentials
authors: R. W. Robinett
comments: 15 pages. To appear in Eur. J. Phys. Needs Institute of Physics (iopart) style files
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2209
abstract: We examine the Stark effect (the second-order shift in the energy spectrum due to an external constant force) for two 1-dimensional model quantum mechanical systems described by linear potentials, the so-called quantum bouncer (defined by V(z) = Fz for z>0 and V(z) infinite for z<0) and the symmetric linear potential (given by V(z) = F|z|). We show how straightforward use of the most obvious properties of the Airy function solutions and simple Taylor expansions give closed form results for the Stark shifts in both systems. These exact results are then compared to other approximation techniques, such as perturbation theory and WKB methods. These expressions add to the small number of closed-form descriptions available for the Stark effect in model quantum mechanical systems.

id: 0909.2217
title: Extraction of a squeezed state in a field mode via repeated measurements on an auxiliary quantum particle
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Giuseppe Compagno, Hiromichi Nakazato, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 80, 052113 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2217
abstract: The dynamics of a system, consisting of a particle initially in a Gaussian state interacting with a field mode, under the action of repeated measurements performed on the particle, is examined. It is shown that regardless of its initial state the field is distilled into a squeezed state. The dependence on the physical parameters of the dynamics is investigated.

id: 0909.2229
title: On-demand Entanglement Source with Polarization-Dependent Frequency Shift
authors: Cheng-Xi Yang, Yan-Bing Liu, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2229
abstract: We propose a polarization-dependent spatial phase modulation method to purify the two-photon polarization entanglement generated by the biexciton cascade decay in a single semiconductor quantum dot. In principle, our method can completely compensate the random phase acquired from the decay of the non-degenerate exciton states in time domain. In frequency domain, our method is equivalent to shifting photon frequency according to its polarization. The method can be applied immediately by existing experimental set-ups.

id: 0909.2250
title: Reconstruction of Markovian Master Equation parameters through symplectic tomography
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Antonella De Pasquale, Giulia Gualdi, Ugo Marzolino
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 80, 052108 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2250
abstract: In open quantum systems, phenomenological master equations with unknown parameters are often introduced. Here we propose a time-independent procedure based on quantum tomography to reconstruct the potentially unknown parameters of a wide class of Markovian master equations. According to our scheme, the system under investigation is initially prepared in a Gaussian state. At an arbitrary time t, in order to retrieve the unknown coefficients one needs to measure only a finite number (ten at maximum) of points along three time-independent tomograms. Due to the limited amount of measurements required, we expect our proposal to be especially suitable for experimental implementations.

id: 0909.2342
title: Bound entanglement in quantum phase transitions
authors: S. Baghbanzadeh, S. Alipour, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2342
abstract: We investigate quantum phase transitions in which a change in the type of entanglement from bound entanglement to either free entanglement or separability may occur. In particular, we present a theoretical method to construct a class of quantum spin-chain Hamiltonians that exhibit this type of quantum criticality. Given parameter-dependent two-site reduced density matrices (with prescribed entanglement properties), we lay out a reverse construction for a compatible pure state for the whole system, as well as a class of Hamiltonians for which this pure state is a ground state. This construction is illustrated through several examples.

id: 0909.2359
title: An Introduction to Consistent Quantum Theory
authors: Pierre C. Hohenberg
comments: I have added material and attempted to clarify certain passages
journal: Rev.Mod.Phys.82:2835-2844,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2359
abstract: This paper presents an elementary introduction to Consistent Quantum Theory (CQT), as developed by Griffiths and others over the past 25 years. The theory is a version of orthodox(Copenhagen) quantum mechanics, based on the notion that the unique and mysterious feature of quantum, as opposed to classical, systems is the simultaneous existence of multiple incompatible representations of reality, referred to as "frameworks". A framework is a maximal set of properties of a system for which probabilities can be consistently defined. This notion is expressed by saying that a framework provides an exhaustive set of exclusive alternatives (ESEA), but no single framework suffices to fully characterize a quantum system. Indeed, the existence of multiple incompatible frameworks is the hallmark of quantum mechanical behavior. Any prediction of the theory must be confined to a single framework and combining elements from different frameworks leads to quantum mechanically meaningless statements. This "single framework rule" is the precise mathematical statement of Bohr's complementarity. It is shown that if the microscopic description is assumed to incorporate these elements in a local setting, then distant entanglements, macroscopic measurements, wave function collapse and other mysterious features of quantum behavior follow in a logical manner. The essential elements of the theory are first explained using the simplest quantum system, a single spin-1/2 degree of freedom at one time.

id: 0909.2395
title: Number-phase entropic uncertainty relations and Wigner functions for solvable quantum systems with discrete spectra
authors: G.R. Honarasa, M. K. Tavassoly, M. Hatami
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures; To appear in Phys Lett A 2009
journal: Phys.Lett.A 373:3931,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2395
abstract: In this letter, the number-phase entropic uncertainty relation and the number-phase Wigner function of generalized coherent states associated to a few solvable quantum systems with nondegenerate spectra are studied. We also investigate time evolution of number-phase entropic uncertainty and Wigner function of the considered physical systems with the help of temporally stable Gazeau-Klauder coherent states.

id: 0909.2423
title: Manipulation of Non-classical Atomic Spin States
authors: Tetsushi Takano, Shin-Ichi-Ro Tanaka, Ryo Namiki, Yoshiro Takahashi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2423
abstract: We report successful manipulation of non-classical atomic spin states. We generate squeezed spin states by a spin quantum nondemolition measurement, and apply an off-resonant circularly-polarized light pulse to the atoms. By changing the pulse duration, we have clearly observed a rotation of anisotropic quantum noise distribution in good contrast with the case of manipulation of a coherent spin state where the quantum noise distribution is always isotropic. This is an important step for quantum state tomography, quantum swapping, and precision spectroscopic measurement.

id: 0909.2429
title: Quantum wave equation of photon
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Xiao-Jing Liu, Yi-Heng Wu, Qing-Cai Wang, Yan Wang
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: Int J Theor phys 49: 194-200, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2429
abstract: In this paper, we give the quantum wave equations of single photon when it is in the free or medium space. With these equations, we can study light interference and diffraction with quantum approach. Otherwise, they can be applied in quantum optics and photonic crystal.

id: 0909.2432
title: Optimal waveform estimation for classical and quantum systems via time-symmetric smoothing. II. Applications to atomic magnetometry and Hardy's paradox
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 81, 013824 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2432
abstract: The quantum smoothing theory [Tsang, Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 250403 (2009); Phys. Rev. A, in press (e-print arXiv:0906.4133)] is extended to account for discrete jumps in the classical random process to be estimated, discrete variables in the quantum system, such as spin, angular momentum, and photon number, and Poissonian measurements, such as photon counting. The extended theory is used to model atomic magnetometers and study Hardy's paradox in phase space. In the phase-space picture of Hardy's proposed experiment, the negativity of the predictive Wigner distribution is identified as the culprit of the disagreement between classical reasoning and quantum mechanics.

id: 0909.2449
title: Refocussing off-resonant spin-1/2 evolution using spinor behavior
authors: Jonathan Baugh
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2449
abstract: A systematic method is presented for constructing increasingly precise sequences to refocus off-resonant spin evolution with severely limited control amplitude. Sequences obtained should be readily applicable to the case of electron spin qubits in quantum dots with random nuclear fields, and other qubit systems with systematic qubit splitting errors comparable to control field amplitude.

id: 0909.2463
title: Distribution of Resonant Eigenvalues of Quantum Potential Scattering
authors: Naomichi Hatano
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2463
abstract: We formulate the Born approximation for finding resonance poles in the complex plane for potential scattering problems. Using the method, we study the distribution of resonance poles for several scattering potentials. In particular, we find for an exponential potential with a cutoff that the cutoff generates an infinite series of extra resonance poles below and along the real axis, which would not exist without the cutoff. We also find for a Gaussian potential that the series of resonance poles approach the imaginary axis of the complex energy plane from left. In other words, the real parts of the resonant eigenenergis are all negative.

id: 0909.2464
title: Scalable ion traps for quantum information processing
authors: J. M. Amini, H. Uys, J. H. Wesenberg, S. Seidelin, J. Britton, J. J. Bollinger, D. Leibfried, C. Ospelkaus, A. P. VanDevender, D. J. Wineland
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2464
abstract: We report on the design, fabrication, and preliminary testing of a 150 zone array built in a `surface-electrode' geometry microfabricated on a single substrate. We demonstrate transport of atomic ions between legs of a `Y'-type junction and measure the in-situ heating rates for the ions. The trap design demonstrates use of a basic component design library that can be quickly assembled to form structures optimized for a particular experiment.

id: 0909.2475
title: Optical Lattices for Atom Based Quantum Microscopy
authors: Andreas Klinger, Skyler Degenkolb, Nathan Gemelke, Kathy-Anne Brickman Soderberg, Cheng Chin
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 81, 013109 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2475
abstract: We describe new techniques in the construction of optical lattices to realize a coherent atom-based microscope, comprised of two atomic species used as target and probe atoms, each in an independently controlled optical lattice. Precise and dynamic translation of the lattices allows atoms to be brought into spatial overlap to induce atomic interactions. For this purpose, we have fabricated two highly stable, hexagonal optical lattices, with widely separted wavelengths but identical lattice constants using diffractive optics. The relative translational stability of 12nm permits controlled interactions and even entanglement operations with high fidelity. Translation of the lattices is realized through a monolithic electro-optic modulator array, capable of moving the lattice smoothly over one lattice site in 11 microseconds, or rapidly on the order of 100 nanoseconds.

id: 0909.2492
title: Entanglement transfer through the turbulent atmosphere
authors: A. A. Semenov, W. Vogel
comments: Corrected published version; appendices include supplementary materials
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 023835 (2010); Phys. Rev. A 85, 019908(E) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2492
abstract: The propagation of polarization-entangled states of light through fluctuating loss channels in the turbulent atmosphere is studied, including the situation of strong losses. We consider violations of Bell inequalities by light, emitted by a parametric down-conversion source, after transmission through the turbulent atmosphere. It is shown by analytical calculations, that in the presence of background radiation and dark counts, fluctuating loss channels may preserve entanglement properties of light even better than standard loss channels, when postselected measurements are applied.

id: 0909.2514
title: Nonlocal dispersion cancellation with phase-sensitive Gaussian-state light
authors: Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2514
abstract: Franson's paradigm for nonlocal dispersion cancellation [J. D. Franson, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 45,} 3126 (1992)] is studied using two kinds of jointly Gaussian-state signal and reference beams with phase-sensitive cross correlations. The first joint signal-reference state is nonclassical, with a phase-sensitive cross correlation that is at the ultimate quantum-mechanical limit. It models the outputs obtained from continuous-wave spontaneous parametric downconversion. The second joint signal-reference state is classical---it has a proper $P$ representation---with a phase-sensitive cross correlation that is at the limit set by classical physics. Using these states we show that a version of Franson's nonlocal dispersion cancellation configuration has essentially identical quantum and classical explanations \em except rm for the contrast obtained, which is much higher in the quantum case than it is in the classical case. This work bears on Franson's recent paper [J. D. Franson, arXiv:0907:5196 [quant-ph]], which asserts that there is no classical explanation for all the features seen in quantum nonlocal dispersion cancellation.

id: 0909.2530
title: Optimization using Bose-Einstein condensation and measurement-feedback circuits
authors: Tim Byrnes, Kai Yan, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 113025 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2530
abstract: We investigate a computational device that harnesses the effects of Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) to accelerate the speed of finding the solution of a given optimization problem. Many computationally difficult problems, including NP-complete problems, can be formulated as a ground state search problem. In a BEC, below the critical temperature, bosonic particles have a natural tendency to accumulate in the ground state. Furthermore, the speed of attaining this configuration is enhanced as a result of final state stimulation. We propose a physical device that incorporates these basic properties of bosons into the optimization problem, such that an optimized solution is found by a simple cooling of the physical temperature of the device. We find that the speed of convergence to the ground state can be sped up by a factor of $ N$ at a given error, where N is the boson number per site.

id: 0909.2570
title: Deterministic remote preparation of arbitrary photon polarization states
authors: Wei Wu, Wei-Tao Liu, Ping-Xing Chen, Cheng-Zu Li
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2570
abstract: We propose a deterministic remote state preparation scheme for photon polarization qubit states, where entanglement, local operations and classical communication are used. By consuming one maximally entangled state and two classical bits, an arbitrary (either pure or mixed) qubit state can be prepared deterministically at a remote location. We experimentally demonstrate the scheme by remotely preparing 12 pure states and 6 mixed states. The fidelities between the desired and achieved states are all higher than 0.99 and have an average of 0.9947.

id: 0909.2584
title: Finite Difference-Time Domain solution of the Dirac equation and the dynamics of the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Neven Simicevic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2584
abstract: The time-dependent Dirac equation is solved using the three-dimensional Finite Difference-Time Domain (FDTD) method. The dynamics of the electron wave packet in a vector potential is studied in the arrangements associated with the Aharonov-Bohm effect. The solution of the Dirac equation showed a change in the velocity of the electron wave packet even in a region where no forces acted on the electron. The solution of the Dirac equation agreed with the prediction of classical dynamics under the assumption that the dynamics was defined by the conservation of generalized or canonical momentum. It was also shown that in the case when the magnetic field was not zero, the conservation of generalized or canonical momentum was equivalent to the action of the Lorentz force.

id: 0909.2601
title: Strong nonlocality: A trade-off between states and measurements
authors: Anthony J. Short, Jonathan Barrett
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, very minor changes
journal: New Journal of Physics 12, 033034 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2601
abstract: Measurements on entangled quantum states can produce outcomes that are nonlocally correlated. But according to Tsirelson's theorem, there is a quantitative limit on quantum nonlocality. It is interesting to explore what would happen if Tsirelson's bound were violated. To this end, we consider a model that allows arbitrary nonlocal correlations, colloquially referred to as "box world". We show that while box world allows more highly entangled states than quantum theory, measurements in box world are rather limited. As a consequence there is no entanglement swapping, teleportation or dense coding.

id: 0909.2611
title: Bell's Inequalities: Foundations and Quantum Communication
authors: Caslav Brukner, Marek Zukowski
comments: 43 pages, 3 figures. to be published in "Handbook of Natural Computing", Editors: G. Rozenberg, T.H.W. Baeck, J.N. Kok (Springer, 2010) (this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2611
abstract: Efforts to construct deeper, realistic, level of physical description, in which individual systems have, like in classical physics, preexisting properties revealed by measurements are known as hidden-variable programs. Demonstrations that a hidden-variable program necessarily requires outcomes of certain experiments to disagree with the predictions of quantum theory are called "no-go theorems". The Bell theorem excludes local hidden variable theories. The Kochen-Specker theorem excludes noncontextual hidden variable theories. In local hidden-variable theories faster-that-light-influences are forbidden, thus the results for a given measurement (actual, or just potentially possible) are independent of the settings of other measurement devices which are at space-like separation. In noncontextual hidden-variable theories the predetermined results of a (degenerate) observable are independent of any other observables that are measured jointly with it. It is a fundamental doctrine of quantum information science that quantum communication and quantum computation outperforms their classical counterparts. If this is to be true, some fundamental quantum characteristics must be behind better-than-classical performance of information processing tasks. This chapter aims at establishing connections between certain quantum information protocols and foundational issues in quantum theory. After a brief discusion of the most common misinterpretations of Bell's theorem and a discussion of what its real meaning is, it will be demonstrated how quantum contextuality and violations of local realism can be used as useful resources in quantum information applications.

id: 0909.2673
title: Observers and Locality in Everett Quantum Field Theory
authors: Mark A. Rubin
comments: Some changes to introduction and discussion sections, typos corrected, conclusions unchanged. To appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: Found.Phys.41:1236-1262,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2673
abstract: A model for measurement in collapse-free nonrelativistic fermionic quantum field theory is presented. In addition to local propagation and effectively-local interactions, the model incorporates explicit representations of localized observers, thus extending an earlier model of entanglement generation in Everett quantum field theory [M. A. Rubin, Found. Phys. 32, 1495-1523 (2002)]. Transformations of the field operators from the Heisenberg picture to the Deutsch-Hayden picture, involving fictitious auxiliary fields, establish the locality of the model. The model is applied to manifestly-local calculations of the results of measurements, using a type of sudden approximation and in the limit of massive systems in narrow-wavepacket states. Detection of the presence of a spin-1/2 system in a given spin state by a freely-moving two-state observer illustrates the features of the model and the nonperturbative computational methodology. With the help of perturbation theory the model is applied to a calculation of the quintessential "nonlocal" quantum phenomenon, spin correlations in the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiment.

id: 0909.2716
title: Fermionic collective excitations in a lattice gas of Rydberg atoms
authors: B. Olmos, R. Gonz¨¢lez-F¨¦rez, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 185302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2716
abstract: We investigate the many-body quantum states of a laser-driven gas of Rydberg atoms confined to a large spacing ring lattice. If the laser driving is much stronger than the van-der-Waals interaction among the Rydberg sates, these many-body states are collective fermionic excitations. The first excited state is a spin-wave that extends over the entire lattice. We demonstrate that our system permits to study fermions in the presence of disorder although no external atomic motion takes place. We analyze how this disorder influences the excitation properties of the fermionic states. Our work shows a route towards the creation of complex many-particle states with atoms in lattices.

id: 0909.2723
title: Band Structure, Phase transitions and Semiconductor Analogs in One-Dimensional Solid Light Systems
authors: James Quach, Melissa I. Makin, Chun-Hsu Su, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 7 pages
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 80, 063838 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2723
abstract: The conjunction of atom-cavity physics and photonic structures (``solid light'' systems) offers new opportunities in terms of more device functionality and the probing of designed emulators of condensed matter systems. By analogy to the canonical one-electron approximation of solid state physics, we propose a one-polariton approximation to study these systems. Using this approximation we apply Bloch states to the uniformly tuned Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model to analytically determine the energy band structure. By analyzing the response of the band structure to local atom-cavity control we explore its application as a quantum simulator and show phase transition features absent in mean field theory. Using this novel approach for solid light systems we extend the analysis to include detuning impurities to show the solid light analogy of the semiconductor. This investigation also shows new features with no semiconductor analog.

id: 0909.2743
title: Experimental generation of pseudo bound entanglement
authors: H. Kampermann, X. Peng, D. Bruss, D. Suter
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 040304(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2743
abstract: We use Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) to experimentally generate a bound entangled (more precisely: pseudo bound entangled) state, i.e. a quantum state which is non-distillable but nevertheless entangled. Our quantum system consists of three qubits. We characterize the produced state via state tomography to show that the created state has a positive partial transposition with respect to any bipartite splitting, and we use a witness operator to prove its entanglement.

id: 0909.2746
title: Probability representation and quantumness tests for qudits and two-mode light states
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, PDFLaTeX, Contribution to the 11th International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations (ICSSUR'09), June 22-26, 2009, Olomouc, Czech Republic
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 30 (2009) 443-450
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2746
abstract: Using tomographic-probability representation of spin states, quantum behavior of qudits is examined. For a general j-qudit state we propose an explicit formula of quantumness witnetness whose negative average value is incompatible with classical statistical model. Probability representations of quantum and classical (2j+1)-level systems are compared within the framework of quantumness tests. Trough employing Jordan-Schwinger map the method is extended to check quantumness of two-mode light states.

id: 0909.2748
title: Controlling the transport of single photons by tuning the frequency of either one or two cavities in an array of coupled cavities
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, Z. R. Gong, Lan Zhou, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2748
abstract: We theoretically study how to control transport, bound states, and resonant states of a single photon in a one-dimensional coupled-cavity array. We find that the transport of a single photon in the cavity array can be controlled by tuning the frequency of either one or two cavities. If one of the cavities in the array has a tunable frequency, and its frequency is tuned to be larger (or smaller) than those of other cavities, then there is a photon bound state above (or below) the energy band of the coupled cavity array. However, if two cavities in the array have tunable frequencies, then there exist both bound states and resonant states. When the frequencies of the two cavities are chosen to be much larger than those of other cavities and the hopping couplings between any two nearest-neighbor cavities are weak, a single photon with a resonant wave vector can be trapped in the region between the two frequency-tunable cavities. In this case, a quantum supercavity can be formed by these two frequency-tunable cavities. We also study how to apply this photon transport control to an array of coupled superconducting transmission line resonators.

id: 0909.2783
title: Universal enhancement of the optical readout fidelity of single electron spins
authors: M. Steiner, P. Neumann, J. Beck, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 4 pages with 4 figures, 2 pages of additional material, references added, paragraph added in additional material
journal: PRB 81, 035205 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2783
abstract: Precise readout of spin states is crucial for any approach towards physical realization of a spin-based quantum computer and for magnetometry with single spins. Here, we report a new method to strongly improve the optical readout fidelity of electron spin states associated with single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond. The signal-to-noise ratio is enhanced significantly by performing conditional flip-flop processes between the electron spin and the nuclear spin of the NV center's nitrogen atom. The enhanced readout procedure is triggered by a short preparatory pulse sequence. As the nitrogen nuclear spin is intrinsically present in the system, this method is universally applicable to any nitrogen-vacancy center.

id: 0909.2813
title: Quantum machine using cold atoms
authors: Alexey V. Ponomarev, Sergey Denisov, Peter Hanggi
comments: simplified notations, extended figure captions; 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Comput. Theor. Nanosci. 7, 2441-2447 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2813
abstract: For a machine to be useful in practice, it preferably has to meet two requirements: namely, (i) to be able to perform work under a load and (ii) its operational regime should ideally not depend on the time at which the machine is switched-on. We devise a minimal setup, consisting of two atoms only, for an ac-driven quantum motor which fulfills both these conditions. Explicitly, the motor consists of two different interacting atoms placed into a ring-shaped periodic optical potential -- an optical "bracelet" --, resulting from the interference of two counter-propagating Laguerre-Gauss laser beams. This bracelet is additionally threaded by a pulsating magnetic flux. While the first atom plays a role of a quantum "carrier", the second serves as a quantum "starter", which sets off the "carrier" into a steady rotational motion. For fixed zero-momentum initial conditions the asymptotic carrier velocity saturates to a unique, nonzero value which becomes increasingly independent on the starting time with increasing "bracelet"-size. We identify the quantum mechanisms of rectification and demonstrate that our quantum motor is able to perform useful work.

id: 0909.2835
title: On the possibility of Casimir repulsion using Metamaterials
authors: F.S.S. Rosa
comments: Published a few months back, uploaded here to give it more visibility
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Series 161 (2009) 012039
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2835
abstract: It is well known that the Casimir force between two half-spaces is dictated by their electromagnetic properties. In particular, when one of the half-spaces is mainly metallic or dielectric and the other is mainly magnetic, it is possible to show that the force is repulsive. This has attracted lots of interest towards the study of metamterials (MMs) in the context of Casimir effect, as their magnetic activity might help bring the idea of Casimir repulsion from the theoretical realm to experimental verification. In this paper we investigate the possibility of repulsion when the MM magnetic permeability is given not by a Drude-Lorentz behavior, but by a model put forward by Pendry et al. . After introducing the model and deriving the necessary formulas, we show that it is impossible to achieve repulsion with such a model and present a qualitative discussion of why this is so.

id: 0909.2843
title: Cluster-state quantum computing enhanced by high-fidelity generalized measurements
authors: Devon N. Biggerstaff, Terry Rudolph, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Deny Hamel, Gregor Weihs, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 240504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2843
abstract: We introduce and implement a technique to extend the quantum computational power of cluster states by replacing some projective measurements with generalized quantum measurements (POVMs). As an experimental demonstration we fully realize an arbitrary three-qubit cluster computation by implementing a tunable linear-optical POVM, as well as fast active feedforward, on a two-qubit photonic cluster state. Over 206 diferent computations, the average output fidelity is 0.9832 +/- 0.0002; furthermore the error contribution from our POVM device and feedforward is only of order 10e-3, less than some recent thresholds for fault-tolerant cluster computing.

id: 0909.2846
title: Lack of dispersion cancellation with classical phase-sensitive light
authors: J.D. Franson
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. Minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81,023825 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2846
abstract: J.H. Shapiro recently argued that nonlocal dispersion cancellation using entangled pairs of photons is essentially classical in nature, based on a comparison with a classical model in which two stationary, chaotic beams of light have phases and frequencies that are anti-correlated, which he refers to as "phase-sensitive" light (arXiv:0909.2514). It is shown here that there is no physical cancellation of dispersion for classical light of that kind, and Shapiro's results merely reflect the fact that identical dispersion occurs in both beams. The origin of the cross-correlations between the intensities of the two beams is shown to be completely different in the classical and quantum-mechanical cases.

id: 0909.2897
title: Quantum Parrondo's games under decoherence
authors: Salman Khan, M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: 21 pages, 6 .eps figures, 1 table
journal: Int J Theor Phys (2010) 49: 31-41
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2897
abstract: We study the effect of quantum noise on history dependent quantum Parrondo's games by taking into account different noise channels. Our calculations show that entanglement can play a crucial role in quantum Parrondo's games. It is seen that for the maximally entangled initial state in the presence of decoherence, the quantum phases strongly influence the payoffs for various sequences of the game. The effect of amplitude damping channel leads to winning payoffs. Whereas the depolarizing and phase damping channels lead to the losing payoffs. In case of amplitude damping channel, the payoffs are enhanced in the presence of decoherence for the sequence AAB. This is because the quantum phases interfere constructively which leads to the quantum enhancement of the payoffs in comparison to the undecohered case. It is also seen that the quantum phase angles damp the payoffs significantly in the presence of decoherence. Furthermore, it is seen that for multiple games of sequence AAB, under the influence of amplitude damping channel, the game still remains a winning game. However, the quantum enhancement reduces in comparison to the single game of sequence AAB because of the destructive interference of phase dependent terms. In case of depolarizing channel, the game becomes a loosing game. It is seen that for the game sequence B the game is loosing one and the behavior of sequences B and BB is similar for amplitude damping and depolarizing channels. In addition, the repeated games of A are only influenced by the amplitude damping channel and the game remains a losing game. Furthermore, it is also seen that for any sequence when played in series, the phase damping channel does not influence the game.

id: 0909.2905
title: Quantum Communication Network Utilizing Quadripartite Entangled States of Optical Field
authors: Heng Shen, Xiaolong Su, Xiaojun Jia, Changde Xie
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042320 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2905
abstract: We propose two types of quantum dense coding communication networks with optical continuous variables, in which a quadripartite entangled state of the optical field with totally three-party correlations of quadrature amplitudes is utilized. In the networks, the exchange of information between any two participants can be manipulated by one or two of the remaining participants. The channel capacities for a variety of communication protocols are numerically calculated. Due to the fact that the quadripartite entangled states applied in the communication systems have been successfully prepared already in the laboratory, the proposed schemes are experimentally accessible at present.

id: 0909.2907
title: Observation of tunable Popescu-Rohrlich correlations through post-selection of a gaussian state
authors: D. S. Tasca, S. P. Walborn, F. Toscano, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev A 80, 030101(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2907
abstract: We show that non-local Popescu-Rohrlich correlations can be observed in the post-selected results of binned position measurements on a two-party gaussian state. Our experiment is based on the spatial correlations of entangled photons and lens systems. We obtain a maximum violation of the CHSH inequality of 3.42, which corresponds to the implementation of a non-local AND gate with success probability of 0.93. These results do not conflict with quantum mechanics due to the post-selection required, and open up the possibility of experimental investigation of fundamental aspects of Popescu-Rohrlich non-locality with a reliable and simple experimental setup.

id: 0909.2918
title: Entanglement in a molecular three-qubit system
authors: Amit Kumar Pal, Indrani Bose
comments: 9 pages, 13 figures, revtex4
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 22 (2010) 016004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2918
abstract: We study the entanglement properties of a molecular three-qubit system described by the Heisenberg spin Hamiltonian with anisotropic exchange interactions and including an external magnetic field. The system exhibits first order quantum phase transitions by tuning two parameters, $x$ and $y$, of the Hamiltonian to specific values. The three-qubit chain is open ended so that there are two types of pairwise entanglement : nearest-neighbour (n.n.) and next-nearest-neighbour (n.n.n.). We calculate the ground and thermal state concurrences, quantifying pairwise entanglement, as a function of the parameters $x$, $y$ and the temperature $T$. The entanglement threshold and gap temperatures are also determined as a function of the anisotropy parameter $x$. The results obtained are of relevance in understanding the entanglement features of the recently engineered molecular $Cr_{7}Ni$-$Cu^{2+}$-$Cr_{7}Ni$ complex which serves as a three-qubit system at sufficiently low temperatures.

id: 0909.2919
title: Quantifying Nonlocality Based on Local Hidden Variable Models
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Jing-Ling Chen, Zi-Sui Zhou
comments: 4pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2919
abstract: We introduce a fresh scheme based on the local hidden variable models to quantify nonlocality for arbitrarily high-dimensional quantum systems. Our scheme explores the minimal amount of white noise that must be added to the system in order to make the system local and realistic. Moreover, the scheme has a clear geometric significance and is numerically computable due to powerful computational and theoretical methods for the class of convex optimization problems known as semidefinite programs.

id: 0909.2928
title: Matrix Product States and Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: K. Heshami, S. Raeisi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2928
abstract: We have developed a new approach based on matrix product representations of ground states to study Quantum Phase Transitions (QPT). As confirmation of the power of our approach we have analytically analyzed the XXZ spin-one chain with uniaxial single-ion-type anisotropy and our results compare favourably with previous numerical studies. In addition, our description lets to know which part of parameters space of the Hamiltonian is most likely to be exactly solvable.

id: 0909.2940
title: Optimal two-copy discrimination of quantum measurements
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Michal Micuda
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042312 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2940
abstract: We investigate optimal discrimination between two projective quantum measurements on a single qubit. We consider scenario where the measurement that should be identified can be performed twice and we show that adaptive discrimination strategy, entangled probe states, and feed-forward all help to increase the probability of correct identification of the measurement. We also experimentally demonstrate the studied discrimination strategies and test their performance. The employed experimental setup involves projective measurements on polarization states of single photons and preparation of required probe two-photon polarization states by the process of spontaneous parametric down-conversion and passive linear optics.

id: 0909.2962
title: Low temperature optical characterization of near infrared single photon emitters in nanodiamonds
authors: P. Siyushev, V. Jacques, I. Aharonovich, F. Kaiser, T. Muller, L. Lombez, M. Atature, S. Castelletto, S. Prawer, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 12pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 113029 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2962
abstract: In this paper, we study the optical properties of single defects emitting in the near infrared in nanodiamonds at liquid helium temperature. The nanodiamonds are synthesized using a microwave chemical vapor deposition method followed by nickel implantation and annealing. We show that single defects exhibit several striking features at cryogenic temperature: the photoluminescence is strongly concentrated into a sharp zero-phonon line in the near infrared, the radiative lifetime is in the nanosecond range and the emission is perfectly linearly polarized. The spectral stability of the defects is then investigated. An optical resonance linewidth of 4 GHz is measured using resonant excitation on the zero-phonon line. Although Fourier-transform limited emission is not achieved, our results show that it might be possible to use consecutive photons emitted in the near infrared by single defects in diamond nanocrystals to perform two photon interference experiments, which are at the heart of linear quantum computing protocols.

id: 0909.2995
title: Quantum wave equation of non-conservative system
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bai-Jun Zhang, Hai-Bo Li, Xiao-Jing Liu, Jing-Wu Li, Yi-Qing Guo
comments: 10 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0909.3189; and text overlap with arXiv:0711.3544 by other authors without attribution
journal: Int J Theor Phys, (2009), 48: 2027-2035
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2995
abstract: It is well known that Schr\"{o}dinger's equation is only suitable for the particle in conservative force field. In atomic and molecular field, a particle can suffer the action of non-conservative force. In this paper, a new quantum wave equation is proposed, which can describe the particle in non-conservative force field. We think the new quantum wave equation can be used in many fields.

id: 0909.2998
title: Casimir stress in an inhomogeneous medium
authors: T.G. Philbin, C. Xiong, U. Leonhardt
comments: 17 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 325 (2010) 579
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2998
abstract: The Casimir effect in an inhomogeneous dielectric is investigated using Lifshitz's theory of electromagnetic vacuum energy. A permittivity function that depends continuously on one Cartesian coordinate is chosen, bounded on each side by homogeneous dielectrics. The result for the Casimir stress is infinite everywhere inside the inhomogeneous region, a divergence that does not occur for piece-wise homogeneous dielectrics with planar boundaries. A Casimir force per unit volume can be extracted from the infinite stress but it diverges on the boundaries between the inhomogeneous medium and the homogeneous dielectrics. An alternative regularization of the vacuum stress is considered that removes the contribution of the inhomogeneity over small distances, where macroscopic electromagnetism is invalid. The alternative regularization yields a finite Casimir stress inside the inhomogeneous region, but the stress and force per unit volume diverge on the boundaries with the homogeneous dielectrics. The case of inhomogeneous dielectrics with planar boundaries thus falls outside the current understanding of the Casimir effect.

id: 0909.3005
title: A simple encoding of a quantum circuit amplitude as a matrix permanent
authors: Terry Rudolph
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3005
abstract: A simple construction is presented which allows computing the transition amplitude of a quantum circuit to be encoded as computing the permanent of a matrix which is of size proportional to the number of quantum gates in the circuit. This opens up some interesting classical monte-carlo algorithms for approximating quantum circuits.

id: 0909.3016
title: Matchgate quantum computing and non-local process analysis
authors: S. Ramelow, A. Fedrizzi, A. M. Steinberg, A. G. White
comments: * published version * extended title reflecting the additions on non-local process analyis in the manuscript
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 083027
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3016
abstract: In the circuit model, quantum computers rely on the availability of a universal quantum gate set. A particularly intriguing example is a set of two-qubit only gates: matchgates, along with SWAP (the exchange of two qubits). In this paper, we show a simple decomposition of arbitrary matchgates into better known elementary gates, and implement a matchgate in a linear-optics experiment using single photons. The gate performance was fully characterized via quantum process tomography. Moreover, we represent the resulting reconstructed quantum process in a novel way, as a fidelity map in the space of all possible nonlocal two-qubit unitaries. We propose the non-local distance - which is independent of local imperfections like uncorrelated noise or uncompensated local rotations - as a new diagnostic process measure for the non-local properties of the implemented gate.

id: 0909.3054
title: Non Hermitian Operators with Real Spectrum in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jo?o da Provid¨ºncia, Nat¨¢lia Bebiano, Jo?o Pinheiro da Provid¨ºncia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3054
abstract: Examples are given of non-Hermitian Hamiltonian operators which have a real spectrum. Some of the investigated operators are expressed in terms of the generators of the Weil-Heisenberg algebra. It is argued that the existence of an involutive operator $\hat J$ which renders the Hamiltonian $\hat J$-Hermitian leads to the unambiguous definition of an associated positive definite norm allowing for the standard probabilistic interpretation of quantum mechanics. Non-Hermitian extensions of the Poeschl-Teller Hamiltonian are also considered. Hermitian counterparts obtained by similarity transformations are constructed.

id: 0909.3068
title: On the use of the proximity force approximation for deriving limits to short-range gravitational-like interactions from sphere-plane Casimir force experiments
authors: Diego A.R. Dalvit, Roberto Onofrio
comments: 11 page, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:064025,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3068
abstract: We discuss the role of the proximity force approximation in deriving limits to the existence of Yukawian forces - predicted in the submillimeter range by many unification models - from Casimir force experiments using the sphere-plane geometry. Two forms of this approximation are discussed, the first used in most analyses of the residuals from the Casimir force experiments performed so far, and the second recently discussed in this context in R. Decca et al. [Phys. Rev. D 79, 124021 (2009)]. We show that the former form of the proximity force approximation overestimates the expected Yukawa force and that the relative deviation from the exact Yukawa force is of the same order of magnitude, in the realistic experimental settings, as the relative deviation expected between the exact Casimir force and the Casimir force evaluated in the proximity force approximation. This implies both a systematic shift making the actual limits to the Yukawa force weaker than claimed so far, and a degree of uncertainty in the alpha-lambda plane related to the handling of the various approximations used in the theory for both the Casimir and the Yukawa forces. We further argue that the recently discussed form for the proximity force approximation is equivalent, for a geometry made of a generic object interacting with an infinite planar slab, to the usual exact integration of any additive two-body interaction, without any need to invoke approximation schemes. If the planar slab is of finite size, an additional source of systematic error arises due to the breaking of the planar translational invariance of the system, and we finally discuss to what extent this may affect limits obtained on power-law and Yukawa forces.

id: 0909.3117
title: One way quantum bit commitment through classical correlation
authors: Sriram Prasath E., Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3117
abstract: A one way partial quantum bit commitment protocol is developed, using states with built-in classical correlation, completely independent of entanglement. It involves concealing information in a set of mutually non-orthogonal states and revealing it through measurements on a set of product states that are mutually orthogonal. Given $2^N$ choices to commit from, the protocol encodes each choice in a $N+1$ qubit state, from $2^N$ non-orthogonal states. A previously agreed upon $N$ qubit state corresponding to each choice, when coupled with the $N+1$ qubit state, yields an element belonging to a set of orthogonal product states, which can be deterministically distinguished. The protocol is demonstrated by implementing it for a `coin-toss' game. A procedure to enhance security of the protocol is explicated, increasing the number of qubits required. Thus a modification is suggested to reduce this required number.

id: 0909.3171
title: Closing the detection loophole in Bell experiments using qudits
authors: Tamas Vertesi, Stefano Pironio, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. v2: improved experimental scheme
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 060401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3171
abstract: We show that the detection efficiencies required for closing the detection loophole in Bell tests can be significantly lowered using quantum systems of dimension larger than two. We introduce a series of asymmetric Bell tests for which an efficiency arbitrarily close to 1/N can be tolerated using N-dimensional systems, and a symmetric Bell test for which the efficiency can be lowered down to 61.8% using four-dimensional systems. Experimental perspectives for our schemes look promising considering recent progress in atom-photon entanglement and in photon hyperentanglement.

id: 0909.3175
title: Typicality in Ensembles of Quantum States: Monte Carlo Sampling versus Analytical Approximations
authors: Barbara Fresch, Giorgio J. Moro
comments: 27 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. Chem. A, 113, 14502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3175
abstract: Random Quantum States are presently of interest in the fields of quantum information theory and quantum chaos. Moreover, a detailed study of their properties can shed light on some foundational issues of the quantum statistical mechanics such as the emergence of well defined thermal properties from the pure quantum mechanical description of large many body systems. When dealing with an ensemble of pure quantum states, two questions naturally arise: what is the probability density function on the parameters which specify the state of the system in a given ensemble? And, does there exist a most typical value of a function of interest in the considered ensemble? Here two different ensembles are considered: the Random Pure State Ensemble (RPSE) and the Fixed Expectation Energy Ensemble (FEEE). By means of a suitable parameterization of the wave function in terms of populations and phases, we focus on the probability distribution of the populations in such ensembles. A comparison is made between the distribution induced by the inherent geometry of the Hilbert Space and an approximate distribution derived by means of the minimization of the informational functional. While the latter can be analytically handled, the exact geometrical distribution is sampled by a Metropolis-Hastings algorithm. The analysis is made for an ensemble of wavefunctions describing an ideal system composed of n spins 1/2 and reveals the salient differences between the geometrical and the approximate distributions. The analytical approximations are proven to be useful tools in order to obtain ensemble averaged quantity. In particular we focus on the distribution of the Shannon entropy by providing an explanation of the emergence of a typical value of this quantity in the ensembles.

id: 0909.3188
title: Minimal Set of Quantum Postulates and Realistic Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Sumio Wada
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3188
abstract: We argue that quantum mechanics makes sense without such controversial postulates as the wave function collapse, the quantum probability rule and the observable postulate. We only need the existence of a wave function as a representation of a state, its dynamical evolution rule and another rather trivial postulate proposed here (Read-Off Postulate). The wave function collapse and the probability rule are replaced with intrinsic properties of the theory, i.e. decoherence and relative frequency, respectively. Interpretation of the wave function as a faithful representation of the reality naturally emerges, although quantum reality has a peculiar feature which distinguishes it from classical reality.

id: 0909.3189
title: Schr?dinger equation of general potential
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Xiao-Jing Liu, Yi-Heng Wu, Qing-Cai Wang, Yan Wang
comments: 10 pages, 0 figures, accepted for publication in International Journal of Modern Physics B. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0909.2995; and text overlap with arXiv:0711.3544 by other authors without attribution
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B, Vol. 25, No. 15, (2011), 2009-2017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3189
abstract: It is well known that the Schr\"odinger equation is only suitable for the particle in common potential $V(\vec{r},t)$. In this paper, a general Quantum Mechanics is proposed, where the Lagrangian is the general form. The new quantum wave equation can describe the particle which is in general potential $V(\vec{r}, \dot{\vec{r}}, t)$. We think these new quantum wave equations can be applied in many fields.

id: 0909.3203
title: Creation of long-term coherent optical memory via controlled nonlinear interactions in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Rui Zhang, Sean R. Garner, Lene Vestergaard Hau
comments: published version of the paper
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 233602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3203
abstract: A Bose-Einstein condensate confined in an optical dipole trap is used to generate long-term coherent memory for light, and storage times of more than one second are observed. Phase coherence of the condensate as well as controlled manipulations of elastic and inelastic atomic scattering processes are utilized to increase the storage fidelity by several orders of magnitude over previous schemes. The results have important applications for creation of long-distance quantum networks and for generation of entangled states of light and matter.

id: 0909.3239
title: Observation of the Stark-tuned Forster resonance between two Rydberg atoms
authors: I.I.Ryabtsev, D.B.Tretyakov, I.I.Beterov, V.M.Entin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, shorter version and references updated in v2
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 2010, v.104, p.073003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3239
abstract: Cold atoms in highly excited Rydberg states are promising candidates to implement quantum logic gates of a quantum computer via long-range dipole-dipole interaction. Two-qubit gates require a controlled interaction of only two close Rydberg atoms. We report on the first spectroscopic observation of the resonant dipole-dipole interaction between two cold rubidium Rydberg atoms confined in a small laser excitation volume. The interaction strength was controlled by fine-tuning of the Rydberg levels into a Forster resonance using the Stark effect. The observed resonance line shapes are in good agreement with numerical Monte Carlo simulations.

id: 0909.3272
title: Implementation of a symmetric surface electrode ion trap with field compensation using a modulated Raman effect
authors: D. T. C. Allcock, J. A. Sherman, D. N. Stacey, A. H. Burrell, M. J. Curtis, G.Imreh, N. M. Linke, D. J. Szwer, S. C. Webster, A. M. Steane, D. M. Lucas
comments: 9 pages, 14 figures; Rewritten section IB and added authors
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 053026.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3272
abstract: We describe the fabrication and characterization of a new surface-electrode Paul ion trap designed for experiments in scalable quantum information processing with Ca+. A notable feature is a symmetric electrode pattern which allows rotation of the normal modes of ion motion, yielding efficient Doppler cooling with a single beam parallel to the planar surface. We propose and implement a technique for micromotion compensation in all directions using an infrared repumper laser beam directed into the trap plane. Finally, we employ an alternate repumping scheme that increases ion fluorescence and simplifies heating rate measurements obtained by time-resolved ion fluorescence during Doppler cooling.

id: 0909.3282
title: Entanglement distillation from Gaussian input states by coherent photon addition
authors: Pei Zhang, Hong-Rong Li, Hong Gao, Fu-Li Li
comments: 5 pages, 1 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Vol. 58, No. 10, 10 June 2011, 835--838
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3282
abstract: The entanglement between Gaussian entangled states can be increased by non-Gaussian operations. We design a new scheme named coherent photon addition, which can coherently add one photon generated by spontaneous parametric down conversation process to Gaussian quadrature-entangled light pulses created by a non-degenerate optical parametric amplifier. This operation can increase the entanglement of input two-mode Gaussian states as an entanglement distillation, and provides us a new method of non-Gaussian operation. This scheme can also help us to study the decoherence of adding one to two-mode Gaussian states from coherent photon addition to normal photon addition.

id: 0909.3285
title: Casimir Forces in Multi-Sphere Configurations
authors: James Babington, Stefan Scheel
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures; references added, typos fixed, text clarified in places, last section rewritten.
journal: J. Phys. A 43, 215402 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3285
abstract: We calculate the Casimir force on an isolated dielectric sphere in an ensemble of $N$ spheres due to multiple mutual interactions of the collection of spheres. In particular we consider dielectric spheres immersed in some other background dielectric. As an example, the Casimir force between two and three spheres at zero and finite temperature is evaluated. For a very large number of spheres, we consider a large-$N$ scaling limit of the Casimir force.

id: 0909.3297
title: Conjugate Degradability and the Quantum Capacity of Cloning Channels
authors: Kamil Bradler, Nicolas Dutil, Patrick Hayden, Abubakr Muhammad
comments: 18 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51:072201, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3297
abstract: A quantum channel is conjugate degradable if the channel's environment can be simulated up to complex conjugation using the channel's output. For all such channels, the quantum capacity can be evaluated using a single-letter formula. In this article we introduce conjugate degradability and establish a number of its basic properties. We then use it to calculate the quantum capacity of N to N+1 and 1 to M universal quantum cloning machines as well as the quantum capacity of a channel that arises naturally when data is being transmitted to an accelerating receiver. All the channels considered turn out to have strictly positive quantum capacity, meaning they could be used as part of a communication system to send quantum states reliably.

id: 0909.3304
title: Quantum state tomography via compressed sensing
authors: David Gross, Yi-Kai Liu, Steven T. Flammia, Stephen Becker, Jens Eisert
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; v3, v4: presentation improved
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 150401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3304
abstract: We establish methods for quantum state tomography based on compressed sensing. These methods are specialized for quantum states that are fairly pure, and they offer a significant performance improvement on large quantum systems. In particular, they are able to reconstruct an unknown density matrix of dimension d and rank r using O(rd log^2 d) measurement settings, compared to standard methods that require d^2 settings. Our methods have several features that make them amenable to experimental implementation: they require only simple Pauli measurements, use fast convex optimization, are stable against noise, and can be applied to states that are only approximately low-rank. The acquired data can be used to certify that the state is indeed close to pure, so no a priori assumptions are needed. We present both theoretical bounds and numerical simulations.

id: 0909.3315
title: Casimir forces from a loop integral formulation
authors: James Babington
comments: references added, text clarified in places
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 065403 (12pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3315
abstract: We reformulate the Casimir force in the presence of a non-trivial background. The force may be written in terms of loop variables, the loop being a curve around the scattering sites. A natural path ordering of exponentials take place when a particular representation of the scattering centres is given. The basic object to be evaluated is a reduced (or abbreviated) classical pseudo-action that can be operator valued.

id: 0909.3317
title: Equation of motion for entanglement
authors: Markus Tiersch, Fernando de Melo, Thomas Konrad, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Quant. Inf. Proc. 8, 523 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3317
abstract: We review an evolution equation for quantum entanglement for 2x2 dimensional quantum systems, the smallest system that can exhibit entanglement, and extend it to higher dimensional systems. Furthermore, we provide statistical evidence for the equation's applicability to the experimentally relevant domain of weakly mixed states.

id: 0909.3322
title: Analytic Approximation of the Tavis-Cummings Ground State via Projected States
authors: Octavio Castanos, Eduardo Nahmad-Achar, Ramon Lopez-Pena, Jorge G. Hirsch
comments: 22 pages, 13 figures, accepted for publication in Physics Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3322
abstract: We show that an excellent approximation to the exact quantum solution of the ground state of the Tavis-Cummings model is obtained by means of a semi-classical projected state. This state has an analytical form in terms of the model parameters and, in contrast to the exact quantum state, it allows for an analytical calculation of the expectation values of field and matter observables, entanglement entropy between field and matter, squeezing parameter, and population probability distributions. The fidelity between this projected state and the exact quantum ground state is very close to 1, except for the region of classical phase transitions. We compare the analytical results with those of the exact solution obtained through the direct Hamiltonian diagonalization as a function of the atomic separation energy and the matter-field coupling.

id: 0909.3369
title: Constructing quantum games from a system of Bell's inequalities
authors: Azhar Iqbal, Derek Abbott
comments: 17 pages, no figure, revised in light of referees' comments, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 374, Issues 31-32, pp 3155-3163 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3369
abstract: We report constructing quantum games directly from a system of Bell's inequalities using Arthur Fine's analysis published in early 1980s. This analysis showed that such a system of inequalities forms a set of both necessary and sufficient conditions required to find a joint distribution function compatible with a given set of joint probabilities, in terms of which the system of Bell's inequalities is usually expressed. Using the setting of a quantum correlation experiment for playing a quantum game, and considering the examples of Prisoners' Dilemma and Matching Pennies, we argue that this approach towards constructing quantum games addresses some of their well known criticisms.

id: 0909.3375
title: Quantum cryptography as a retrodiction problem
authors: A. H. Werner, T. Franz, R. F. Werner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 220504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3375
abstract: We propose a quantum key distribution protocol based on a quantum retrodiction protocol, known as the Mean King problem. The protocol uses a two way quantum channel. We show security against coherent attacks in a transmission error free scenario, even if Eve is allowed to attack both transmissions. This establishes a connection between retrodiction and key distribution.

id: 0909.3401
title: Efficient Generation of a Maximally Entangled State by Repeated On- and Off-Resonant Scattering of Ancilla Qubits
authors: Kazuya Yuasa, Daniel Burgarth, Vittorio Giovannetti, Hiromichi Nakazato
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 123027 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3401
abstract: A scheme for preparing two fixed non-interacting qubits in a maximally entangled state is presented. By repeating on- and off-resonant scattering of ancilla qubits, the state of the target qubits is driven from an arbitrary initial state into the singlet state with probability 1 (perfect efficiency). Neither the preparation nor the post-selection of the ancilla spin state is required. The convergence from an arbitrary input state to the unique fixed point (mixing property) is proved rigorously, and its robustness is investigated, by scrutinizing the effects of imperfections in the incident wave of the ancilla, such as mistuning to a resonant momentum, imperfect monochromatization, and fluctuation of the incident momentum, as well as detector efficiency.

id: 0909.3416
title: State reconstruction formulas for the s-distributions and quadratures
authors: Jukka Kiukas, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??, Jussi Schultz
comments: 26 pages
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 66 (2010) 55-84
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3416
abstract: We consider the method of infinite matrix inversion in the context of quantum state reconstruction. Using this method we give rigorous proofs for reconstruction formulas for the Cahill-Glauber s-parametrized distributions and the rotated quadrature distributions. We also demonstrate how to construct the s-distributions from the quadrature data.

id: 0909.3430
title: Towards Bose-Einstein condensation of excitons in an asymmetric multi-quantum state magnetic lattice
authors: A. Abdelrahman, M. Vasiliev, K. Alameh, P. Hannaford, Byoung S. Ham, Yong-Tak Lee
comments: Conference Paper: NUSOD 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3430
abstract: An asymmetric multi-quantum state magnetic lattice is proposed to host excitons formed in a quantum degenerate gas of ultracold fermionic atoms to simulate Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) of excitons. A Quasi-two dimensional degenerate gas of excitons can be collected in the in-plane asymmetric magnetic bands created at the surface of the proposed magnetic lattice, where the ultracold fermions simulate separately direct and indirect confined electronhole pairs (spin up fermions-spin down fermions) rising to the statistically degenerate Bose gas and eventually through controlled tunnelling to BEC of excitons. The confinement of the coupled magnetic quantum well (CMQWs) system may significantly improve the condition for long lived exciton BEC. The exciton BEC, formed in CMQWs can be regarded as a suitable host for the multi-qubits (multipartite) systems to be used in quantum information processors.

id: 0909.3433
title: Multipartite Entanglement in a Discrete Magnetic Bands Magnetic Lattice
authors: A. Abdelrahman, P. Hannaford, M. Vasiliev, K. Alameh
comments: Conference Paper:Asia Communications and Photonics Conference and Exhibition (ACP)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3433
abstract: Using magneto-optical materials, an asymmetric multi-quantum state magnetic lattice is proposed to host an entangled multipartite system formed by using a quantum degenerate gas of ultracold atoms in a Bose Einstein Condensate (BEC). The discrete magnetic bands magnetic lattice is devised to locate a controllable long-range entanglement of a many harmonic oscillator system well separated in space. The confinement of the coupled magnetic quantum well (CMQW) system may significantly improve the condition for the long-range entanglement of the multipartite (multi-qubits) to be used in quantum information processors.

id: 0909.3439
title: Optimized Dynamical Decoupling for Power Law Noise Spectra
authors: S. Pasini, G.S. Uhrig
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012309 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3439
abstract: We analyze the suppression of decoherence by means of dynamical decoupling in the pure-dephasing spin-boson model for baths with power law spectra. The sequence of ideal $\pi$ pulses is optimized according to the power of the bath. We expand the decoherence function and separate the cancelling divergences from the relevant terms. The proposed sequence is chosen to be the one minimizing the decoherence function. By construction, it provides the best performance. We analytically derive the conditions that must be satisfied. The resulting equations are solved numerically. The solutions are very close to the Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) sequence for a soft cutoff of the bath while they approach the Uhrig dynamical-decoupling (UDD) sequence as the cutoff becomes harder.

id: 0909.3468
title: Bohrification
authors: Chris Heunen, Nicolaas P. Landsman, Bas Spitters
comments: 44 pages; a chapter of the first author's PhD thesis, to appear in "Deep Beauty" (ed. H. Halvorson)
journal: in Deep Beauty (ed. H. Halvorson), Cambridge University Press (2011) 271-313
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3468
abstract: New foundations for quantum logic and quantum spaces are constructed by merging algebraic quantum theory and topos theory. Interpreting Bohr's "doctrine of classical concepts" mathematically, given a quantum theory described by a noncommutative C*-algebra A, we construct a topos T(A), which contains the "Bohrification" B of A as an internal commutative C*-algebra. Then B has a spectrum, a locale internal to T(A), the external description S(A) of which we interpret as the "Bohrified" phase space of the physical system. As in classical physics, the open subsets of S(A) correspond to (atomic) propositions, so that the "Bohrified" quantum logic of A is given by the Heyting algebra structure of S(A). The key difference between this logic and its classical counterpart is that the former does not satisfy the law of the excluded middle, and hence is intuitionistic. When A contains sufficiently many projections (e.g. when A is a von Neumann algebra, or, more generally, a Rickart C*-algebra), the intuitionistic quantum logic S(A) of A may also be compared with the traditional quantum logic, i.e. the orthomodular lattice of projections in A. This time, the main difference is that the former is distributive (even when A is noncommutative), while the latter is not. This chapter is a streamlined synthesis of 0709.4364, 0902.3201, 0905.2275.

id: 0909.3470
title: Ionization of molecular hydrogen and deuterium by a frequency-doubled Ti:sapphire laser pulses
authors: Yulian V. Vanne, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3470
abstract: A theoretical study of the intense-field single ionization of molecular hydrogen or deuterium oriented either parallel or perpendicular to a linear polarized laser pulse (400 nm) is performed for different internuclear separations and pulse lengths in an intensity range of $(2-13)\times10^{13} $W cm$^{-2}$. The investigation is based on a non-perturbative treatment that solves the full time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation of both correlated electrons within the fixed-nuclei and the dipole approximation. The results for various internuclear separations are used to obtain the ionization yields of molecular hydrogen and deuterium in their ground vibrational states. An atomic model is used to identify the influence of the intrinsic diatomic two-center character of the problem.

id: 0909.3494
title: QHJ, WKB and exact quantisation
authors: S. Sree Ranjani, A. K. Kapoor, P.K. Panigrahi
comments: 8 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3494
abstract: We present a simple derivation of the WKB quantisation condition using the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi formalism and propose an exact quantisation condition within this formalism for integrable models in higher dimensions.

id: 0909.3505
title: Vacuum degeneracy of a circuit-QED system in the ultrastrong coupling regime
authors: Pierre Nataf, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: Published PRL version (with Supplementary Material)
journal: Physical Review Letters 104 (2010) 023601
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3505
abstract: We investigate theoretically the quantum vacuum properties of a chain of $N$ superconducting Josephson atoms inductively coupled to a transmission line resonator. We derive the quantum field Hamiltonian for such circuit-QED system, showing that, due to the type and strength of the interaction, a quantum phase transition can occur with a twice degenerate quantum vacuum above a critical coupling. In the finite-size case, the degeneracy is lifted, with an energy splitting decreasing exponentially with increasing values of $g^2 N^2$, where $g$ is the dimensionless vacuum Rabi coupling per artificial atom. We determine analytically the ultrastrong coupling asymptotic expression of the two degenerate vacua for an arbitrary number of artificial atoms and of resonator modes. In the ultrastrong coupling regime the degeneracy is protected with respect to random fluctuations of the transition energies of the Josephson elements.

id: 0909.3512
title: 3rd Order Temporal Correlation Function of Pseudo-Thermal Light
authors: Yu Zhou, Jianbin Liu, Yanhua Shih
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3512
abstract: This experiment reports a nontrivial third-order temporal correlation of chaotic-thermal light in which the randomly radiated thermal light is observed to have a 6-times greater chance of being captured by three individual photodetectors simultaneously than that of being captured by three photodetectors at different times (separated by the coherent time of pseudo-thermal light), indicating a "three-photon bunching" effect. The nontrivial correlation of thermal light is the result of multi-photon interference.

id: 0909.3545
title: Active control of qubit-qubit entanglement evolution
authors: J. F. Leandro, A. S. M. de Castro, P. P. Munhoz, F. L. Semi?o
comments: Author added, Expanded version, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Lett A 374 (2010) 4199-4204
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3545
abstract: In this work, we propose a scheme to design the time evolution of the entropy of entanglement between two qubits. It is shown an explicit accurate solution for the inverse problem of determining the time dependence of the coupling constant from a user-defined dynamical entanglement function. Such an active control of entanglement can be implemented in many different physical implementations of coupled qubits, and we briefly comment on the use of interacting flux qubits.

id: 0909.3546
title: Environmental Assisted Quantum Information Correction for Continuous Variables
authors: Metin Sabuncu, Radim Filip, Gerd Leuchs, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3546
abstract: Quantum information protocols are inevitably affected by decoherence which is associated with the leakage of quantum information into an environment. In this paper we address the possibility of recovering the quantum information from an environmental measurement. We investigate continuous variable quantum information, and we propose a simple environmental measurement that under certain circumstances fully restores the quantum information of the signal state although the state is not reconstructed with unit fidelity. We implement the protocol for which information is encoded into conjugate quadratures of coherent states of light and the noise added under the decoherence process is of Gaussian nature. The correction protocol is tested using both a deterministic as well as a probabilistic strategy. The potential use of the protocol in a continuous variable quantum key distribution scheme as a means to combat excess noise is also investigated.

id: 0909.3578
title: Thwarted dynamics by partial projective measurements
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Giuseppe Compagno, Hiromichi Nakazato, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 30, Number 5, 451 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3578
abstract: The dynamics of a system, made of a particle interacting with a field mode, thwarted by the action of repeated projective measurements on the particle, is examined. The effect of the partial measurements is discussed by comparing it with the dynamics in the absence of the measurements.

id: 0909.3580
title: Unifying the theory of Integration within normal-, Weyl- and antinormal-ordering of operators and the s--ordered operator expansion formula of density operators
authors: Hong-yi Fan
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3580
abstract: By introducing the s-parameterized generalized Wigner operator into phase-space quantum mechanics we invent the technique of integration within s-ordered product of operators (which considers normal ordered, antinormally ordered and Weyl ordered product of operators as its special cases). The s-ordered operator expansion formula of density operators is derived, and the s-parameterized quantization scheme is thus completely established.

id: 0909.3613
title: Simultaneous Dense Coding
authors: Haozhen Situ, Daowen Qiu
comments: 8 pages, comments are welcome
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. Volume 43 (5), 055301 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3613
abstract: We present a dense coding scheme between one sender and two receivers, which guarantees that the receivers simultaneously obtain their respective messages. In our scheme, the quantum entanglement channel is first locked by the sender so that the receivers cannot learn their messages unless they collaborate to perform the unlocking operation. We also show that the quantum Fourier transform can act as the locking operator both in simultaneous dense coding and teleportation.

id: 0909.3617
title: Dynamics of a movable micro-mirror in a nonlinear optical cavity
authors: Tarun Kumar, Aranya B Bhattacherjee, ManMohan
comments: 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3617
abstract: We consider the dynamics of a movable mirror (cantilever) of a nonlinear optical cavity. We show that a $\chi^{(3)}$ medium with a strong Kerr nonlinearity placed inside a cavity inhibits the normal mode splitting (NMS) due to the photon blockade mechanism. This study demonstrates that NMS could be used as a tool to observe the photon blockade effect. We also found that the backaction cooling of the movable mirror is reduced in the presence of the Kerr medium.

id: 0909.3697
title: Wigner Quantization of Hamiltonians Describing Harmonic Oscillators Coupled by a General Interaction Matrix
authors: Gilles Regniers, Joris Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 106, 17 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3697
abstract: In a system of coupled harmonic oscillators, the interaction can be represented by a real, symmetric and positive definite interaction matrix. The quantization of a Hamiltonian describing such a system has been done in the canonical case. In this paper, we take a more general approach and look at the system as a Wigner quantum system. Hereby, one does not assume the canonical commutation relations, but instead one just requires the compatibility between the Hamilton and Heisenberg equations. Solutions of this problem are related to the Lie superalgebras gl(1|n) and osp(1|2n). We determine the spectrum of the considered Hamiltonian in specific representations of these Lie superalgebras and discuss the results in detail. We also make the connection with the well-known canonical case.

id: 0909.3700
title: An efficient numerical algorithm on irreducible multiparty correlations
authors: D.L. Zhou
comments: 4 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 61 (2014) 187
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3700
abstract: We develop a numerical algorithm to calculate the degrees of irreducible multiparty correlations for an arbitrary multiparty quantum state, which is efficient for any quantum state of up to five qubits. We demonstrate the power of the algorithm by the explicit calculations of the degrees of irreducible multiparty correlations in the 4-qubit GHZ state, the Smolin state, and the 5-qubit W state. This development takes a crucial step towards practical applications of irreducible multiparty correlations in real quantum many-body physics.

id: 0909.3715
title: Realization of Universal Ion Trap Quantum Computation with Decoherence Free Qubits
authors: T. Monz, K. Kim, A. S. Villar, P. Schindler, M. Chwalla, M. Riebe, C. F. Roos, H. H?ffner, W. H?nsel, M. Hennrich, R. Blatt
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3715
abstract: Any residual coupling of a quantum computer to the environment results in computational errors. Encoding quantum information in a so-called decoherence-free subspace provides means to avoid these errors. Despite tremendous progress in employing this technique to extend memory storage times by orders of magnitude, computation within such subspaces has been scarce. Here, we demonstrate the realization of a universal set of quantum gates acting on decoherence-free ion qubits. We combine these gates to realize the first controlled-NOT gate within a decoherence-free, scalable quantum computer.

id: 0909.3720
title: Limits on entropic uncertainty relations for 3 and more MUBs
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 11 pages, many small corrections, this version to appear in QIC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3720
abstract: We consider entropic uncertainty relations for outcomes of the measurements of a quantum state in 3 or more mutually unbiased bases (MUBs), chosen from the standard construction of MUBs in prime dimension. We show that, for any choice of 3 MUBs and at least one choice of a larger number of MUBs, the best possible entropic uncertainty relation can be only marginally better than the one that trivially follows from the relation by Maassen and Uffink (PRL, 1987) for 2 bases.

id: 0909.3726
title: Self-consistent phase determination for Wigner function reconstruction
authors: Maria Bondani, Alessia Allevi, Alessandra Andreoni
comments: submitted to JOSAB
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3726
abstract: We present the reconstruction of the Wigner function of a classical phase-sensitive state, a pulsed coherent state, by measurements of the distributions of detected-photons of the state displaced by a coherent probe field. By using a hybrid photodetector operated above its photon-resolving regime, we obtained both the statistics at different values of the probe field and the values of the probe phase required to reconstruct the Wigner function.

id: 0909.3744
title: Extremal Channels for a genaral Quantum system
authors: Kuldeep Dixit, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3744
abstract: Quantum channels can be mathematically represented as completely positive trace-preserving maps that act on a density matrix. A general quantum channel can be written as a convex sum of `extremal' channels. We show that for an $N$-level system, the extremal channel can be characterized in terms of $N^2$-$N$ real parameters coupled with rotations. We give a representation for $N$= 2, 3, 4.

id: 0909.3750
title: Transport of Orbital-Angular-Momentum Entanglement through a Turbulent Atmosphere
authors: Bart-Jan Pors, C. H. Monken, Eric R. Eliel, J.P. Woerdman
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3750
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally how orbital-angular-momentum entanglement of two photons evolves under influence of atmospheric turbulence. We find that the quantum channel capacity is surprisingly robust: Its typical horizontal decay distance is of the order of 2 kilometers, demonstrating the potential of photonic orbital angular momentum for free-space quantum communication in a metropolitan environment.

id: 0909.3783
title: An Error Model for the Cirac-Zoller CNOT gate
authors: Sara Felloni, Giuliano Strini
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure. Accepted as a contributed oral communication in the QuantumComm 2009 International Conference on Quantum Communication and Quantum Networking, Vico Equense, Italy, October 26-30, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3783
abstract: In the framework of ion-trap quantum computing, we develop a characterization of experimentally realistic imperfections which may affect the Cirac-Zoller implementation of the CNOT gate. The CNOT operation is performed by applying a protocol of five laser pulses of appropriate frequency and polarization. The laser-pulse protocol exploits auxiliary levels, and its imperfect implementation leads to unitary as well as non-unitary errors affecting the CNOT operation. We provide a characterization of such imperfections, which are physically realistic and have never been considered before to the best of our knowledge. Our characterization shows that imperfect laser pulses unavoidably cause a leak of information from the states which alone should be transformed by the ideal gate, into the ancillary states exploited by the experimental implementation.

id: 0909.3839
title: The local content of bipartite qubit correlations
authors: Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin, Valerio Scarani
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3839
abstract: One of the last open problems concerning two qubits in a pure state is to find the exact local content of their correlation, in the sense of Elitzur, Popescu and Rohrlich (EPR2) [Phys. Lett. A 162, 25 (1992)]. We propose a new EPR2 decomposition that allows us to prove, for a wide range of states psi(theta)=cos(theta)|00>+sin(theta)|11>, that their local content is pL(theta)=cos(2theta). We also share reflections on how to possibly extend our result to all two-qubit pure states.

id: 0909.3879
title: Processing multi-photon state through operation on single photon: methods and applications
authors: Qing Lin, Bing He, J¨¢nos A. Bergou, Yuhang Ren
comments: Published version in Phys. Rev. A
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 80, 042311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3879
abstract: Multi-photon states are widely applied in quantum information technology. By the methods presented in this paper, the structure of a multi-photon state in the form of multiple single photon qubit product can be mapped to a single photon qudit, which could also be in separable product with other photons. This makes the possible manipulation of such multi-photon states in the way of processing single photon states. The optical realization of unknown qubit discrimination [B. He, J. A. Bergou, and Y.-H. Ren, Phys. Rev. A 76, 032301 (2007)] is simplified with the transformation methods. Another application is the construction of quantum logic gates, where the inverse transformations back to the input state spaces are also necessary. We especially show that the modified setups to implement the transformations can realize the deterministic multi-control gates (including Toffoli gate) operating directly on the products of single photon qubits.

id: 0909.3896
title: Robust control of individual nuclear spins in diamond
authors: Benjamin Smeltzer, Jean McIntyre, Lilian Childress
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3896
abstract: Isolated nuclear spins offer a promising building block for quantum information processing systems, but their weak interactions often impede preparation, control, and detection. Hyperfine coupling to a proximal electronic spin can enhance each of these processes. Using the electronic spin of the nitrogen-vacancy center as an intermediary, we demonstrate robust initialization, single-qubit manipulation, and direct optical readout of 13C, 15N, and 14N nuclear spins in diamond. These results pave the way for nitrogen nuclear spin based quantum information architectures in diamond.

id: 0909.3907
title: A Family of Norms With Applications In Quantum Information Theory
authors: Nathaniel Johnston, David W. Kribs
comments: Original posting "Schmidt norms for quantum states" evolved into two papers, this one and arXiv:1006.0898. Proposition 4.5 is corrected in v4
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 082202 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3907
abstract: We consider a family of vector and operator norms defined by the Schmidt decomposition theorem for quantum states. We use these norms to tackle two fundamental problems in quantum information theory: the classification problem for k-positive linear maps and entanglement witnesses, and the existence problem for non-positive partial transpose bound entangled states. We begin with an analysis of the norms, showing that the vector norms can be explicitly calculated, and we derive several inequalities in order to bound the operator norms and compute them in special cases. We then use the norms to establish what appears to be the most general spectral test for k-positivity currently available, showing how it implies several other known tests as well as some new ones. Building on this work, we frame the NPPT bound entangled problem as a concrete problem on a specific limit, specifically that a particular entangled Werner state is bound entangled if and only if a certain norm inequality holds on a given family of projections.

id: 0909.3930
title: Computational Distinguishability of Quantum Channels
authors: Bill Rosgen
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, 178 pages, 35 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3930
abstract: The computational problem of distinguishing two quantum channels is central to quantum computing. It is a generalization of the well-known satisfiability problem from classical to quantum computation. This problem is shown to be surprisingly hard: it is complete for the class QIP of problems that have quantum interactive proof systems, which implies that it is hard for the class PSPACE of problems solvable by a classical computation in polynomial space. Several restrictions of distinguishability are also shown to be hard. It is no easier when restricted to quantum computations of logarithmic depth, to mixed-unitary channels, to degradable channels, or to antidegradable channels. These hardness results are demonstrated by finding reductions between these classes of quantum channels. These techniques have applications outside the distinguishability problem, as the construction for mixed-unitary channels is used to prove that the additivity problem for the classical capacity of quantum channels can be equivalently restricted to the mixed unitary channels.

id: 0909.3958
title: Geomeric phases in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Y.Ben-Aryeh
comments: 31 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3958
abstract: Various phenomena related to geometric phases in quantum mechanics are reviewed and explained by analyzing some examples.The concepts of 'parallelism' ,'connections' and 'curvatures' are applied to Aharonov-Bohm (AB) effect, to U(1)phase rotation, to SU(2) phase rotation and to holonomic quantum computation (HQC). The connections in Schrodinger equations are treated by two alternative approaches. Implementation of HQC is demonstrated by the use of 'dark states' including detailed calculations with the connections, for implementing the quantum gates. 'Anyons' are related to the symmetries of the wave functions,in a two-dimensional space, and the use of this concept is demonstrated by analyzing an example taken from the field of Quantum Hall effects.

id: 0909.3970
title: Simulation of quantum gates by postselection of interference experiments in multi-port beam-splitter (BS) configurations
authors: Y.Ben-Aryeh
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3970
abstract: Using multiport beam-splitter (BS) configurations eight input operators a(0),a(1),a(2) a(3),a(4) a(5),a(6), a(7) are mixed by 12 BS's to produce the output operators b(0), b(1), b(2), b(3), b(4), b(5), b(6), b(7). A single photon entering into, or exiting from, one port of a BS is considered as the |0> state while that in the second port of the BS is considered as the |1> state. Two single photons are inserted into two of the BS's simulating two input qubit-states by operators a(0), a(1),a(2), a(3) . In order to simulate the two-qubit gates we exclude by postselection all the cases in which one or two photons exit through output ports b(4), b(5), b(6), b(7) so that only 25% of the experiments are taken into account. The method simulates explicitly the CNOT and SWAP gates but similar methods can be used for other gates.

id: 0909.4023
title: Asymptotic Entanglement Dynamics Phase Diagrams for Two Electromagnetic Field Modes in a Cavity
authors: R. C. Drumond, L. A. M. Souza, M. Terra Cunha
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4023
abstract: We investigate theoretically an open dynamics for two modes of electromagnetic field inside a microwave cavity. The dynamics is Markovian and determined by two types of reservoirs: the "natural" reservoirs due to dissipation and temperature of the cavity, and an engineered one, provided by a stream of atoms passing trough the cavity, as devised in [Pielawa \emph{et al.} \emph{Phys. Rev. Lett.} \textbf{98}, 240401 (2007)]. We found that, depending on the reservoir parameters, the system can have distinct "phases" for the asymptotic entanglement dynamics: it can disentangle at finite time or it can have persistent entanglement for large times, with the transition between them characterized by the possibility of asymptotical disentanglement. Incidentally, we also discuss the effects of dissipation on the scheme proposed in the above reference for generation of entangled states.

id: 0909.4034
title: Implementation of controlled phase shift gates and Collins version of Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm on a quadrupolar spin-7/2 nucleus using non-adiabatic geometric phases
authors: T. Gopinath, Anil Kumar
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance 193 (2008) 168-176
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4034
abstract: In this work Controlled phase shift gates are implemented on a qaudrupolar system, by using non-adiabatic geometric phases. A general procedure is given, for implementing controlled phase shift gates in an 'N' level system. The utility of such controlled phase shift gates, is demonstrated here by implementing 3-qubit Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm on a 7/2 quadrupolar nucleus oriented in a liquid crystal matrix.

id: 0909.4098
title: Pure Phase Decoherence in a Ring Geometry
authors: Z. Zhu, A. Aharony, O. Entin-Wohlman, P. C. E. Stamp
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4098
abstract: We study the dynamics of pure phase decoherence for a particle hopping around an N-site ring, coupled both to a spin bath and to an Aharonov-Bohm flux which threads the ring. Analytic results are found for the dynamics of the influence functional and of the reduced density matrix of the particle, both for initial single wave-packet states, and for states split initially into 2 separate wave-packets moving at different velocities. We also give results for the dynamics of the current as a function of time.

id: 0909.4109
title: To Quantization of Free Electromagnetic Field
authors: D.Yearchuck, Y.Yerchak, A.Alexandrov
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4109
abstract: Correct quantization of free electromagnetic field is proposed

id: 0909.4115
title: The coherent information of Pauli channels with coded inputs
authors: Xiao-yu Chen, Li-zhen Jiang
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4115
abstract: The calculating of the coherent information is a fundamental step in obtaining the quantum capacity of a quantum channel. We introduce orthogonal and complete code basis to evaluate the coherent information per channel use when the input is the maximal mixture of stabilizer codewords. In the code basis, the output density matrix is diagonal, the joint output of the system and the auxiliary is block diagonal. The coherent information is worked out by counting the weights of error operators.

id: 0909.4119
title: Fast Equivalence-checking for Quantum Circuits
authors: Shigeru Yamashita, Igor L. Markov
comments: Minor change of some wording
journal: Quant. Inf. and Comp., vol. 9, no. 9,10 (2010), pp. 721-734
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4119
abstract: We perform formal verification of quantum circuits by integrating several techniques specialized to particular classes of circuits. Our verification methodology is based on the new notion of a reversible miter that allows one to leverage existing techniques for circuit simplification of quantum circuits. For reversible circuits which arise as runtime bottlenecks of key quantum algorithms, we develop several verification techniques and empirically compare them. We also combine existing quantum verification tools with the use of SAT-solvers. Experiments with circuits for Shor's number-factoring algorithm, containing thousands of gates, show improvements in efficiency by 3-4 orders of magnitude.

id: 0909.4139
title: Large ion Coulomb crystals: a near-ideal medium for coupling optical cavity modes to matter
authors: A. Dantan, M. Albert, J. P. Marler, P. F. Herskind, M. Drewsen
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Rapid Comm. 80, 041802 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4139
abstract: We present an investigation of the coherent coupling of various transverse field modes of an optical cavity to ion Coulomb crystals. The obtained experimental results, which include the demonstration of identical collective coupling rates for different transverse modes of a cavity field to ions in the same large Coulomb crystal, are in excellent agreement with theoretical predictions. The results furthermore suggest that Coulomb crystals in the future may serve as near-ideal media for highfidelity multi-mode quantum information processing and communication purposes, including the generation and storage of single photon qubits encoded in different transverse modes.

id: 0909.4147
title: Optimised generation of heralded Fock states using parametric down conversion
authors: Agata M. Branczyk, T. C. Ralph, Wolfram Helwig, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 28 pages, 25 figures, revised expressions for two-photon fidelity
journal: Agata M Bra\'nczyk et al 2010 New J. Phys. 12 063001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4147
abstract: The generation of heralded pure Fock states via spontaneous parametric down conversion (PDC) relies on perfect photon-number correlations in the output modes. Correlations in any other degree of freedom, however, degrade the purity of the heralded state. In this paper, we investigate spectral entanglement between the two output modes of a periodically poled waveguide. With the intent of generating heralded 1- and 2-photon Fock states, we expand the output state of the PDC to second order in photon number. We explore the effects of spectral filtering and inefficient detection, of the heralding mode, on the count rate, g(2) and purity of the heralded state, as well as the fidelity between the resulting state and an ideal Fock state. We find that filtering can decrease spectral correlations, however, at the expense of the count rate and increased photon-number mixedness in the heralded output state. As a physical example, we model a type II PP-KTP waveguide pumped by lasers at wavelengths of 400 nm, 788 nm and 1930 nm. The latter two allow the fulfillment of extended phase matching conditions in an attempt to eliminate spectral correlations in the PDC output state without the use of filtering, however, we find that even in these cases, some filtering is needed to achieve states of very high purity.

id: 0909.4166
title: The canonical phase measurement is pure
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 040101(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4166
abstract: We show that the canonical phase measurement is pure in the sense that the corresponding positive operator valued measure (POVM) is extremal in the convex set of all POVMs. This means that the canonical phase measurement cannot be interpreted as a noisy measurement, even if it is not a projection valued measure.

id: 0909.4169
title: Spin states of para-water and ortho-water molecule in gas and liquid phases
authors: V. K. Konyukhov
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4169
abstract: Spin degrees of freedom of water molecule in gas and liquid state were investigated in order to provide a reasonable answer about the unsolved problem of a long-term behavior of water spin isomers. The approach used involves an assumption that molecules change their spin state from a pure state to a mixed one when they interact with some sorts of adsorbent surface. Some models and conceptions of the quantum information processing were used.

id: 0909.4179
title: Quantum Dynamics Against a Noisy Background
authors: Valentin V. Sokolov, Oleg V. Zhirov, Yaroslav A. Kharkov
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. An enlightening remark has been edded in the Abstract. An insert has been included in Fig. 2 that illustrates explicitly our results in the weak-noise limit; few remarks have been also added in the text. None of the original results are called in question
journal: EPL, {\bf 88} (2009) 6002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4179
abstract: By the example of a kicked quartic oscillator we investigate the dynamics of classically chaotic quantum systems with few degrees of freedom affected by persistent external noise. Stability and reversibility of the motion are analyzed in detail in dependence on the noise level $\sigma$. The critical level $\sigma_c(t)$, below which the response of the system to the noise remains weak, is studied versus the evolution time. In the regime with the Ehrenfest time interval $t_E$ so short that the classical Lyapunov exponential decay of the Peres fidelity does not show up the time dependence of this critical value is proved to be power-like. We estimate also the decoherence time after which the motion turns into a Markovian process.

id: 0909.4186
title: Quantum dice rolling: A multi-outcome generalization of quantum coin flipping
authors: N. Aharon, J. Silman
comments: Supercedes arXiv:0908.1682
journal: New J. Phys., 12, 033027 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4186
abstract: We generalize the problem of coin flipping to more than two outcomes and parties. We term this problem dice rolling, and study both its weak and strong variants. We prove by construction that in quantum settings (i) weak N-sided dice rolling admits an arbitrarily small bias for any value of N, and (ii) two-party strong N-sided dice rolling saturates the corresponding generalization of Kitaev's bound for any value of N. In addition, we make use of this last result to introduce a family of optimal 2m-party strong n^m-sided dice rolling protocols for any value of m and n.

id: 0909.4195
title: Wave-particle duality and the Hamilton action
authors: Gregory Sivashinsky
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4195
abstract: The Hamilton-Jacobi equation of relativistic quantum mechanics is revisited. The equation is shown to permit solutions in the form of breathers (oscillating/spinning solitons), displaying simultaneous particle-like and wave-like behaviour.

id: 0909.4200
title: Concerning an old (but still quite alive) rebuttal of the theorem of John Bell
authors: Aurelien Drezet
comments: This is an unpublished work concerning a debate about hidden variables that I had in 2004 - 2005 with George Lochak
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4200
abstract: In a old paper by G. Lochak, it is claimed that the Bell definition of a hidden variable is in conflict with the formalism of quantum mechanics. This result implies that it is not necessary to invoke non locality to explain the violation of the Bell inequality. A careful analysis of the concept of probability for hidden variables, as defined differently by Bell and Lochak, show that the reasoning and main conclusions of are not correct.

id: 0909.4212
title: Entanglement verification with realistic measurement devices via squashing operations
authors: Tobias Moroder, Otfried G¨¹hne, Normand J. Beaudry, Marco Piani, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052342 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4212
abstract: Many protocols and experiments in quantum information science are described in terms of simple measurements on qubits. However, in a real implementation, the exact description is more difficult, and more complicated observables are used. The question arises whether a claim of entanglement in the simplified description still holds, if the difference between the realistic and simplified models is taken into account. We show that a positive entanglement statement remains valid if a certain positive linear map connecting the two descriptions--a so-called squashing operation--exists; then lower bounds on the amount of entanglement are also possible. We apply our results to polarization measurements of photons using only threshold detectors, and derive procedures under which multi-photon events can be neglected.

id: 0909.4219
title: Effective magnetic fields for stationary light
authors: J. Otterbach, J. Ruseckas, R. G. Unanyan, G. Juzeliunas, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett.,104 ,033903 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4219
abstract: We describe a method to create effective gauge potentials for stationary-light polaritons in two or three spatial dimensions. When stationary light is created in the interaction with a uniformly rotating ensemble of coherently driven double $\Lambda$ atoms, the equation of motion is that of a massive Schr\"odinger particle in an effective magnetic field. In addition a repulsive scalar potential emerges which can however be compensated by a space-dependent detuning. Since the effective interaction area for the polaritons can be made large, degenerate Landau levels can be created with degeneracy well above 100. This opens the possibility to study the bosonic analogue of the fractional quantum Hall effect for interacting stationary-light polaritons.

id: 0909.4235
title: Implementation of Liouville space search algorithm on strongly dipolar coupled nuclear spins
authors: T. Gopinath, Anil Kumar
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures. "Future Directions of Magnetic Resonance" Special issue to commemorate the Platinum Jubilee of the Indian National Science Academy, Springer, (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4235
abstract: Liouville space search algorithm [Bruschweiler, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 85}, 4815(2000).] utilizes mixed initial states of the ensemble, and has been successfully implemented earlier in weakly coupled spins, in which a spin can be identified as a qubit. It has recently been demonstrated that n-strongly coupled spins can be collectively treated as an n-qubit system. Application of algorithms in such systems, requires new approaches using transition selective pulses rather than qubit selective pulses. This work develops a modified version of Liouville space search algorithm, which is applicable for strongly as well as weakly coupled spins. All the steps of the algorithm, can be implemented by using transition selective pulses. Experimental implementation is carried out on a strongly dipolar coupled four qubit system.

id: 0909.4319
title: Photon pair generation in birefringent optical fibers
authors: Brian J. Smith, P. Mahou, Offir Cohen, J. S. Lundeen, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, revised, published version
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17 Issue 26, pp.23589-23602 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4319
abstract: We study both experimentally and theoretically the generation of photon pairs by spontaneous four-wave mixing (SFWM) in standard birefringent optical fibers. The ability to produce a range of two-photon spectral states, from highly correlated (entangled) to completely factorable, by means of cross-polarized birefringent phase matching, is explored. A simple model is developed to predict the spectral state of the photon pair which shows how this can be adjusted by choosing the appropriate pump bandwidth, fiber length and birefringence. Spontaneous Raman scattering is modeled to determine the tradeoff between SFWM and background Raman noise, and the predicted results are shown to agree with experimental data.

id: 0909.4333
title: Detection of avoided crossings by fidelity
authors: Patrick Pl?tz, Michael Lubasch, Sandro Wimberger
comments: more comprehensive version including new theory and data analysis
journal: Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, Vol. 390 (7) (2011) 1363-1369
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4333
abstract: The fidelity, defined as overlap of eigenstates of two slightly different Hamiltonians, is proposed as an efficient detector of avoided c rossings in the energy spectrum. This new application of fidelity is motivated for model systems, and its value for analyzing complex qua ntum spectra is underlined by applying it to a random matrix model and a tilted Bose-Hubbard system.

id: 0909.4382
title: The Second-Order Talbot Effect with Entangled Photon Pairs
authors: Kai-Hong Luo, Jianming Wen, Xi-Hao Chen, Qian Liu, Min Xiao, Ling-An Wu
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4382
abstract: The second-order Talbot effect is analyzed for a periodic object illuminated by entangled photon pairs in both the quantum imaging and quantum lithography configurations. The Klyshko picture is applied to describe the quantum imaging scheme, in which self-images of the object that may or may not be magnified can be observed nonlocally in the photon coincidences but not in the singles count rate. In the quantum lithography setup, we find that the second-order Talbot length is half that of the classical first-order case, thus the resolution may be improved by a factor of two.

id: 0909.4389
title: Amplitude Noise Squeezing in Cavity-Driven Oscillations of a Mechanical Resonator
authors: D. A. Rodrigues, A. D. Armour
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4389
abstract: We analyze the amplitude and phase noise of limit-cycle oscillations in a mechanical resonator coupled parametrically to an optical cavity driven above its resonant frequency. At a given temperature the limit-cycle oscillations have lower amplitude noise than states of the same average amplitude excited by a pure harmonic drive; for sufficiently low thermal noise a sub-Poissonian resonator state can be produced. We also calculate the linewidth narrowing that occurs in the limit-cycle states, and show that while the minimum is set by direct phase diffusion, diffusion due to the optical spring effect can dominate if the cavity is not driven exactly at a side-band resonance.

id: 0909.4394
title: Quantum heat engines and nonequilibrium temperature
authors: Ramandeep S. Johal
comments: Five pages, Accepted for publication in Physical Review E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 041119 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4394
abstract: A pair of two-level systems initially prepared in different thermal states and coupled to an external reversible work source, do not in general reach a common temperature at the end of a unitary work extraction process. We define an effective temperature for the final nonequilibrium but passive state of the bipartite quantum system and analyse its properties.

id: 0909.4434
title: Self-adjoint Lyapunov variables, temporal ordering and irreversible representations of Schroedinger evolution
authors: Y. Strauss
comments: Accepted for publication in JMP. Supercedes arXiv:0710.3604. Discussion expanded to include the case of Hamiltonians with an infinitely degenerate spectrum
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4434
abstract: In non relativistic quantum mechanics time enters as a parameter in the Schroedinger equation. However, there are various situations where the need arises to view time as a dynamical variable. In this paper we consider the dynamical role of time through the construction of a Lyapunov variable - i.e., a self-adjoint quantum observable whose expectation value varies monotonically as time increases. It is shown, in a constructive way, that a certain class of models admit a Lyapunov variable and that the existence of a Lyapunov variable implies the existence of a transformation mapping the original quantum mechanical problem to an equivalent irreversible representation. In addition, it is proved that in the irreversible representation there exists a natural time ordering observable splitting the Hilbert space at each t>0 into past and future subspaces.

id: 0909.4443
title: Entanglement and Discord of superposition of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states
authors: Preeti Parashar, Swapan Rana
comments: 7 pages (2 columns), 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4443
abstract: We calculate the analytic expression for geometric measure of entanglement for arbitrary superposition of two $N$-qubit canonical orthonormal Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ($GHZ$) states and the same for two $W$ states. In course of characterizing all kinds of nonclassical correlations, explicit formula for quantum discord (via relative entropy) for the former class of states has been presented. Contrary to the $GHZ$ state, the closest separable state to the $W$ state is not classical. Therefore, in this case the discord is different from the relative entropy of entanglement. We conjecture that the discord for the $N$-qubit $W$ state is $\log_2N$.

id: 0909.4450
title: Experimental demonstration of bosonic commutation relation via superpositions of quantum operations on thermal light fields
authors: A. Zavatta, V. Parigi, M. S. Kim, H. Jeong, M. Bellini
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters 103, 140406 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4450
abstract: We present the experimental realization of a scheme, based on single-photon interference, for implementing superpositions of distinct quantum operations. Its application to a thermal light field (a well-categorized classical entity) illustrates quantum superposition from a new standpoint and provides a direct and quantitative verification of the bosonic commutation relation between creation and annihilation operators. By shifting the focus towards operator superpositions, this result opens interesting alternative perspectives for manipulating quantum states.

id: 0909.4453
title: Classifying all mutually unbiased bases in Rel
authors: Julia Evans, Ross Duncan, Alex Lang, Prakash Panangaden
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4453
abstract: Finding all the mutually unbiased bases in various dimensions is a problem of fundamental interest in quantum information theory and pure mathematics. The general problem formulated in finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces is open. In the categorical approach to quantum mechanics one can find examples of categories which behave ``like'' the category of finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces in various ways but are subtly different. One such category is the category of sets and relations, $\mathbf{Rel}$. One can formulate the concept of mutually unbiased bases here as well. In this note we classify all the mutually unbiased bases in this category by relating it to a standard question in combinatorics.

id: 0909.4479
title: Information Flow in Secret Sharing Protocols
authors: Elham Kashefi, Damian Markham, Mehdi Mhalla, Simon Perdrix
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 9, 2009, pp. 87-97
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4479
abstract: The entangled graph states have emerged as an elegant and powerful quantum resource, indeed almost all multiparty protocols can be written in terms of graph states including measurement based quantum computation (MBQC), error correction and secret sharing amongst others. In addition they are at the forefront in terms of implementations. As such they represent an excellent opportunity to move towards integrated protocols involving many of these elements. In this paper we look at expressing and extending graph state secret sharing and MBQC in a common framework and graphical language related to flow. We do so with two main contributions. First we express in entirely graphical terms which set of players can access which information in graph state secret sharing protocols. These succinct graphical descriptions of access allow us to take known results from graph theory to make statements on the generalisation of the previous schemes to present new secret sharing protocols. Second, we give a set of necessary conditions as to when a graph with flow, i.e. capable of performing a class of unitary operations, can be extended to include vertices which can be ignored, pointless measurements, and hence considered as unauthorised players in terms of secret sharing, or error qubits in terms of fault tolerance. This offers a way to extend existing MBQC patterns to secret sharing protocols. Our characterisation of pointless measurements is believed also to be a useful tool for further integrated measurement based schemes, for example in constructing fault tolerant MBQC schemes.

id: 0909.4483
title: Alignment-Dependent Ionization of Molecular Hydrogen in Intense Laser Fields
authors: Yulian V. Vanne, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4483
abstract: The alignment dependence of the ionization behavior of H$_2$ exposed to intense ultrashort laser pulses is investigated on the basis of solutions of the full time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation within the fixed-nuclei and dipole approximation. The total ionization yields as well as the energy-resolved electron spectra have been calculated for a parallel and a perpendicular orientation of the molecular axis with respect to the polarization axis of linear polarized laser pulses. For most, but not all considered laser peak intensities the parallel aligned molecules are easier to ionize. Furthermore, it is shown that the velocity formulation of the strong-field approximation predicts a simple interference pattern for the ratio of the energy-resolved electron spectra obtained for the two orientations, but this is not confirmed by the full ab initio results.

id: 0909.4488
title: Non-linear dynamics, entanglement and the quantum-classical crossover of two coupled SQUID rings
authors: M.J. Everitt
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. Published as part of the proceedings of the 32nd International Workshop on Condensed Matter Theories (CMT32) Loughborough University, 2008 (invited paper)
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B, Volume: 23, Issues: 20-21 (2009) pp. 4311-4319
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4488
abstract: We explore the quantum-classical crossover of two coupled, identical, superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) rings. We note that the motivation for this work is based on a study of a similar system comprising two coupled Duffing oscillators. In that work we showed that the entanglement characteristics of chaotic and periodic (entrained) solutions differed significantly and that in the classical limit entanglement was preserved only in the chaotic-like solutions. However, Duffing oscillators are a highly idealised toy model. Motivated by a wish to explore more experimentally realisable systems we now extend our work to an analysis of two coupled SQUID rings. We observe some differences in behaviour between the system that is based on SQUID rings rather than on Duffing oscillators. However, we show that the two systems share a common feature. That is, even when the SQUID ring's trajectories appear to follow (semi) classical orbits entanglement persists.

id: 0909.4502
title: Isomorphism between the Peres and Penrose proofs of the BKS theorem in three dimensions
authors: Elizabeth Gould, P.K.Aravind
comments: 7 pages, 2 Tables. A concluding para and 9 new references have been added to the second version
journal: Foundations of Physics 40 (2010), 1096-1101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4502
abstract: It is shown that the 33 complex rays in three dimensions used by Penrose to prove the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem have the same orthogonality relations as the 33 real rays of Peres, and therefore provide an isomorphic proof of the theorem. It is further shown that the Peres and Penrose rays are just two members of a continuous three-parameter family of unitarily inequivalent rays that prove the theorem.

id: 0909.4506
title: Quantum control and measurement of atomic spins in polarization spectroscopy
authors: Ivan H. Deutsch, Poul S. Jessen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4506
abstract: Quantum control and measurement are two sides of the same coin. To affect a dynamical map, well-designed time-dependent control fields must be applied to the system of interest. To read out the quantum state, information about the system must be transferred to a probe field. We study a particular example of this dual action in the context of quantum control and measurement of atomic spins through the light-shift interaction with an off-resonant optical probe. By introducing an irreducible tensor decomposition, we identify the coupling of the Stokes vector of the light field with moments of the atomic spin state. This shows how polarization spectroscopy can be used for continuous weak measurement of atomic observables that evolve as a function of time. Simultaneously, the state-dependent light shift induced by the probe field can drive nonlinear dynamics of the spin, and can be used to generate arbitrary unitary transformations on the atoms. We revisit the derivation of the master equation in order to give a unified description of spin dynamics in the presence of both nonlinear dynamics and photon scattering. Based on this formalism, we review applications to quantum control, including the design of state-to-state mappings, and quantum-state reconstruction via continuous weak measurement on a dynamically controlled ensemble.

id: 0909.4553
title: The Theory of (Exclusively) Local Beables
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures
journal: Found. Phys. Vol. 40 (2010) page 1858
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4553
abstract: It is shown how, starting with the de Broglie - Bohm pilot-wave theory, one can construct a new theory of the sort envisioned by several of QM's founders: a Theory of Exclusively Local Beables (TELB). In particular, the usual quantum mechanical wave function (a function on a high-dimensional configuration space) is not among the beables posited by the new theory. Instead, each particle has an associated ``pilot-wave'' field (living in physical space). A number of additional fields (also fields on physical space) maintain what is described, in ordinary quantum theory, as ``entanglement.'' The theory allows some interesting new perspective on the kind of causation involved in pilot-wave theories in general. And it provides also a concrete example of an empirically viable quantum theory in whose formulation the wave function (on configuration space) does not appear -- i.e., it is a theory according to which nothing corresponding to the configuration space wave function need actually exist. That is the theory's \emph{raison d'etre} and perhaps its only virtue. Its vices include the fact that it only reproduces the empirical predictions of the ordinary pilot-wave theory (equivalent, of course, to the predictions of ordinary quantum theory) for spinless non-relativistic particles, and only then for wave functions that are everywhere analytic. The goal is thus not to recommend the TELB proposed here as a replacement for ordinary pilot-wave theory (or ordinary quantum theory), but is rather to illustrate (with a crude first stab) that it might be possible to construct a plausible, empirically viable TELB, and to recommend this as an interesting and perhaps-fruitful program for future research.

id: 0909.4599
title: Optimal Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition of two-qubit states using Semidefinite Programming
authors: Guo Chuan Thiang, Philippe Raynal, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 7 pages. submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052313 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4599
abstract: We use the language of semidefinite programming and duality to derive necessary and sufficient conditions for the optimal Lewenstein-Sanpera Decomposition (LSD) of 2-qubit states. We first provide a simple and natural derivation of the Wellens-Kus equations for full-rank states. Then, we obtain a set of necessary and sufficient conditions for the optimal decomposition of rank-3 states. This closes the gap between the full-rank case, where optimality conditions are given by the Wellens-Kus equations, and the rank-2 case, where the optimal decomposition is analytically known. We also give an analytic expression for the optimal LSD of a special class of rank-3 states. Finally, our formulation ensures efficient numerical procedures to return the optimal LSD for any arbitrary 2-qubit state.

id: 0909.4608
title: Interferometry using spatial adiabatic passage in quantum dot networks
authors: Lenneke M Jong, Andrew D. Greentree
comments: Version accepted in Phys. Rev. B, 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4608
abstract: We show that techniques of spatial adiabatic passage can be used to realise an electron interferometer in a geometry analogous to a conventional Aharonov-Bohm ring, with transport of the particle through the device modulated using coherent transport adiabatic passage. This device shows an interesting interplay between the adiabatic and non-adiabatic behaviour of the system. The transition between non-adiabatic and adiabatic behaviour may be tuned via system parameters and the total time over which the protocol is enacted. Interference effects in the final state populations analogous to the electrostatic Aharonov-Bohm effect are observed.

id: 0909.4649
title: Conditions for Efimov Physics for Finite Range Potentials
authors: M. Th?gersen, D.V. Fedorov, A.S. Jensen, B.D. Esry, Yujun Wang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013608 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4649
abstract: We consider a system of three identical bosons near a Feshbach resonance in the universal regime with large scattering length usually described by model independent zero-range potentials. We employ the adiabatic hyperspherical approximation and derive the rigorous large-distance equation for the adiabatic potential for finite-range interactions. The effective range correction to the zero-range approximation must be supplemented by a new term of the same order. The non-adiabatic term can be decisive. Efimov physics is always confined to the range between effective range and scattering length. The analytical results agree with numerical calculations for realistic potentials.

id: 0909.4673
title: Computational depth complexity of measurement-based quantum computation
authors: Dan E. Browne, Elham Kashefi, Simon Perdrix
comments: 12 pages
journal: In Proceeding of the Fifth Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography (TQC 2010), Leeds 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4673
abstract: We prove that one-way quantum computations have the same computational power as quantum circuits with unbounded fan-out. It demonstrates that the one-way model is not only one of the most promising models of physical realisation, but also a very powerful model of quantum computation. It confirms and completes previous results which have pointed out, for some specific problems, a depth separation between the one-way model and the quantum circuit model. Since one-way model has the same computational power as unbounded quantum fan-out circuits, the quantum Fourier transform can be approximated in constant depth in the one-way model, and thus the factorisation can be done by a polytime probabilistic classical algorithm which has access to a constant-depth one-way quantum computer. The extra power of the one-way model, comparing with the quantum circuit model, comes from its classical-quantum hybrid nature. We show that this extra power is reduced to the capability to perform unbounded classical parity gates in constant depth.

id: 0909.4713
title: Pentagrams and paradoxes
authors: Piotr Badziag, Ingemar Bengtsson, Adan Cabello, Helena Granstrom, Jan-Ake Larsson
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Found. Phys. vol. 41 p. 41 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4713
abstract: Klyachko and coworkers consider an orthogonality graph in the form of a pentagram, and in this way derive a Kochen-Specker inequality for spin 1 systems. In some low-dimensional situations Hilbert spaces are naturally organised, by a magical choice of basis, into SO(N) orbits. Combining these ideas some very elegant results emerge. We give a careful discussion of the pentagram operator, and then show how the pentagram underlies a number of other quantum "paradoxes", such as that of Hardy.

id: 0909.4747
title: An improved exact upper bound of 22/35 on the Hilbert-Schmidt separability probability of real two-qubit systems
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4747
abstract: We seek to derive the probability--expressed in terms of the Hilbert-Schmidt (Euclidean or flat) metric--that a generic (nine-dimensional) real two-qubit system is separable, by implementing the well-known Peres-Horodecki test on the partial transposes (PTs) of the associated 4 x 4 density matrices. But the full implementation of the test--requiring that the determinant of the PT be nonnegative for separability to hold--appears to be, at least presently, computationally intractable. So, we have previously implemented--using the auxiliary concept of a diagonal-entry-parameterized separability function (DESF)--the weaker implied test of nonnegativity of the six 2 x 2 principal minors of the PT. This yielded an exact upper bound on the separability probability of 1024/(135 Pi^2) = 0.76854. Here, we extend this line of work by requiring that the four 3 x 3 principal minors of the PT be nonnegative, giving us an improved/reduced upper bound of 22/35 = 0.628571. Numerical simulations--as opposed to exact symbolic calculations--indicate, on the other hand, that the true probability is certainly less than 1/2. Our combined analyses lead us to suggest a possible form for the true DESF, yielding a separability probability of 29/64 = 0.453125, while the best exact lower bound established so far is (6928-2205 Pi)/2^(9/2) = 0.0348338.

id: 0909.4751
title: Temperature Correlation of Quantum Spins
authors: A.Its, A. Izergin, V. Korepin, N. Slavnov
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 70 (1993) 1704-1708; Erratum Phys.Rev.Let. 70 (1993) 2357
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4751
abstract: This is a historical note. In 1993 we calculated space, time and temperature dependent correlation function in isotropic version of one dimensional XY spin chain. The correlation function decays exponentially with time and space separation. The rate of exponential decay was evaluated explicitly. Since that time similar results were obtained in other models: Bose gas with delta interaction, Ising model and strongly correlated electrons.

id: 0909.4762
title: Deterministic photon-photon (SWAP)^{1/2} gate using a lambda system
authors: Kazuki Koshino, Satoshi Ishizaka, Yasunobu Nakamura
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4762
abstract: We theoretically present a method to realize a deterministic photon-photon (SWAP)^{1/2} gate using a three-level lambda system interacting with single photons in reflection geometry. The lambda system is used completely passively as a temporary memory for a photonic qubit; the initial state of the lambda system may be arbitrary, and active control by auxiliary fields is unnecessary throughout the gate operations. These distinct merits make this entangling gate suitable for deterministic and scalable quantum computation.

id: 0909.4764
title: Exact Calculation of Entanglement in a 19-site 2D Spin System
authors: Qing Xu, Sabre Kais, Maxim Naumov, Ahmed Sameh
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022324 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4764
abstract: Using the Trace Minimization Algorithm, we carried out an exact calculation of entanglement in a 19-site two-dimensional transverse Ising model. This model consists of a set of localized spin-1/2 particles in a two dimensional triangular lattice coupled through exchange interaction J and subject to an external magnetic field of strength h. We demonstrate, for such a class of two-dimensional magnetic systems, that entanglement can be controlled and tuned by varying the parameter $\lambda$ = h/J in the Hamiltonian and by introducing impurities into the systems. Examining the derivative of the concurrence as a function of $\lambda$ shows that the system exhibits a quantum phase transition at about $\lambda_c$ = 3.01, a transition induced by quantum fluctuations at the absolute zero of temperature.

id: 0909.4766
title: Quantum Adiabatic Algorithms, Small Gaps, and Different Paths
authors: Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, David Gosset, Sam Gutmann, Harvey B. Meyer, Peter Shor
comments: The original version considered a unique satisfying assignment and one problematic low lying state. The revision argues that the algorithm with path change will succeed when there are polynomially many low lying states
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Volume 11 number 3&4, 2011, pages 181-214
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4766
abstract: We construct a set of instances of 3SAT which are not solved efficiently using the simplest quantum adiabatic algorithm. These instances are obtained by picking random clauses all consistent with two disparate planted solutions and then penalizing one of them with a single additional clause. We argue that by randomly modifying the beginning Hamiltonian, one obtains (with substantial probability) an adiabatic path that removes this difficulty. This suggests that the quantum adiabatic algorithm should in general be run on each instance with many different random paths leading to the problem Hamiltonian. We do not know whether this trick will help for a random instance of 3SAT (as opposed to an instance from the particular set we consider), especially if the instance has an exponential number of disparate assignments that violate few clauses. We use a continuous imaginary time Quantum Monte Carlo algorithm in a novel way to numerically investigate the ground state as well as the first excited state of our system. Our arguments are supplemented by Quantum Monte Carlo data from simulations with up to 150 spins.

id: 0909.4777
title: Quantum information with Rydberg atoms
authors: M. Saffman, T. G. Walker, K. Molmer
comments: accepted version, to appear in Rev. Mod. Phys., 40 figures,
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 82, 2313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4777
abstract: Rydberg atoms with principal quantum number n >> 1 have exaggerated atomic properties including dipole-dipole interactions that scale as n^4 and radiative lifetimes that scale as n^3. It was proposed a decade ago to take advantage of these properties to implement quantum gates between neutral atom qubits. The availability of a strong, long-range interaction that can be coherently turned on and off is an enabling resource for a wide range of quantum information tasks stretching far beyond the original gate proposal. Rydberg enabled capabilities include long-range two-qubit gates, collective encoding of multi-qubit registers, implementation of robust light-atom quantum interfaces, and the potential for simulating quantum many body physics. We review the advances of the last decade, covering both theoretical and experimental aspects of Rydberg mediated quantum information processing.

id: 0909.4787
title: Three Slit Experiments and the Structure of Quantum Theory
authors: Cozmin Ududec, Howard Barnum, Joseph Emerson
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. To appear in Foundations of Physics - Advances in Quantum Foundations issue
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4787
abstract: In spite of the interference manifested in the double-slit experiment, quantum theory predicts that a measure of interference defined by Sorkin and involving various outcome probabilities from an experiment with three slits, is identically zero. We adapt Sorkin's measure into a general operational probabilistic framework for physical theories, and then study its relationship to the structure of quantum theory. In particular, we characterize the class of probabilistic theories for which the interference measure is zero as ones in which it is possible to fully determine the state of a system via specific sets of 'two-slit' experiments.

id: 0909.4788
title: Optimal generation of Fock states in a weakly nonlinear oscillator
authors: B. Khani, J.M. Gambetta, F. Motzoi, F.K. Wilhelm
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T137, 014021 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4788
abstract: We apply optimal control theory to determine the shortest time in which an energy eigenstate of a weakly anharmonic oscillator can be created under the practical constraint of linear driving. We show that the optimal pulses are beatings of mostly the transition frequencies for the transitions up to the desired state and the next leakage level. The time of a shortest possible pulse for a given nonlinearity scale with the nonlinearity parameter delta as a power law of alpha with alpha=-0.73 +/-0.029. This is a qualitative improvement relative to the value alpha=1 suggested by a simple Landau-Zener argument.

id: 0909.4801
title: Entropy in general physical theories
authors: Anthony J. Short, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 20 pages, revtex, 7 figures, v2: Coding theorem revised, published version
journal: New Journal of Physics 12, 033023 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4801
abstract: Information plays an important role in our understanding of the physical world. We hence propose an entropic measure of information for any physical theory that admits systems, states and measurements. In the quantum and classical world, our measure reduces to the von Neumann and Shannon entropy respectively. It can even be used in a quantum or classical setting where we are only allowed to perform a limited set of operations. In a world that admits superstrong correlations in the form of non-local boxes, our measure can be used to analyze protocols such as superstrong random access encodings and the violation of `information causality'. However, we also show that in such a world no entropic measure can exhibit all properties we commonly accept in a quantum setting. For example, there exists no`reasonable' measure of conditional entropy that is subadditive. Finally, we prove a coding theorem for some theories that is analogous to the quantum and classical setting, providing us with an appealing operational interpretation.

id: 0909.4834
title: Sudden vanishing of spin squeezing under decoherence
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Adam Miranowicz, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables, final extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4834
abstract: In order to witness multipartite correlations beyond pairwise entanglement, spin-squeezing parameters are analytically calculated for a spin ensemble in a collective initial state under three different decoherence channels. It is shown that, in analogy to pairwise entanglement, the spin squeezing described by different parameters can suddenly become zero at different vanishing times. This finding shows the general occurrence of sudden vanishing phenomena of quantum correlations in many-body systems, which here is referred to as spin-squeezing sudden death (SSSD). It is shown that the SSSD usually occurs due to decoherence and that SSSD never occurs for some initial states in the amplitude-damping channel. We also analytically obtain the vanishing times of spin squeezing.

id: 0909.4851
title: Experimental Determination of Entanglement for Arbitrary Pure States
authors: Shao-Ming Fei, Ming-Jing Zhao, Kai Chen, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 6 pages
journal: PhysRevA.80.032320(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4851
abstract: We present a way of experimentally determining the concurrence in terms of the expectation values of local observables for arbitrary multipartite pure states. In stead of the joint measurements on two copies of a state in the experiment for two-qubit systems [S. P. Walborn et al. Nature (London)440, 20(2006)], we only need one copy of the state in every measurement for any arbitrary dimensional multipartite systems, avoiding the preparation of twin states or the imperfect copy of the state.

id: 0909.4864
title: Jaynes-Cummings Models with trapped surface-state electrons in THz cavities
authors: Miao Zhang, H.Y. Jia, J.S. Huang, L.F. Wei
comments: 11 pages, 1 figures
journal: Optics Letters 35 1686 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4864
abstract: An electron floating on the liquid Helium is proposed to be trapped (by a micro-electrode set below the liquid Helium) in a high finesse cavity. Two lowest levels of the vertical motion of the electron acts as a two-level "atom", which could resonantly interact with the THz cavity. In the Lamb-Dicke regime, wherein the electron's in-plane activity region is much smaller than the wavelength of the cavity mode, the famous Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM) could be realized. By applying an additional external classical laser beam to the electron, a driven JCM could also be implemented. With such a driven JCM certain quantum states, e.g., coherent states and the Schrodinger cat states, of the THz cavity field could be prepared by one-step evolution. The numerical results show that, for the typical parameters of the cavity and electron on liquid Helium, a strong coupling between the artificial atom and the THz cavity could be obtained.

id: 0909.4908
title: Observation of Nonlocal Modulation with Entangled Photons
authors: S. Sensarn, G.Y. Yin, S.E. Harris
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4908
abstract: We demonstrate a new type of quantum mechanical correlation where phase modulators at distant locations, acting on the photons of an entangled pair, interfere to determine the apparent depth of modulation. When the modulators have the same phase, the modulation depth doubles; when oppositely phased, the modulators negate each other.

id: 0909.4942
title: On Evolution Equations of Quantum-Classical Systems
authors: V.I. Gerasimenko
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 131 (2009) 127101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4942
abstract: We consider the links between consistent and approximate descriptions of the quantum-classical systems, i.e. systems are composed of two interacting subsystems, one of which behaves almost classically while the other requires a quantum description.

id: 0909.4984
title: Nonperturbative treatment of double Compton backscattering in intense laser fields
authors: E. L?tstedt, U. D. Jentschura
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:110404,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4984
abstract: The emission of a pair of entangled photons by an electron in an intense laser field can be described by two-photon transitions of laser-dressed, relativistic Dirac--Volkov states. In the limit of a small laser field intensity, the two-photon transition amplitude approaches the result predicted by double Compton scattering theory. Multi-exchange processes with the laser field, including a large number of exchanged laser photons, cannot be described without the fully relativistic Dirac--Volkov propagator. The nonperturbative treatment significantly alters theoretical predictions for future experiments of this kind. We quantify the degree of polarization correlation of the photons in the final state by employing the well-established concurrence as a measure of the entanglement.

id: 0909.4992
title: Slow light enhanced photon echoes
authors: J. Hahn, B. S. Ham
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4992
abstract: We report a slow light-enhanced photon echo method, whose retrieval efficiency is two orders of magnitude higher than that of conventional photon echoes. The enhanced photon echo efficiency is due to lengthened interaction time given by ultraslow group velocity.

id: 0909.5073
title: Non-Gaussian states by conditional measurements
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Federica A. Beduini, Alessia Allevi, Maria Bondani, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5073
abstract: We address realistic schemes for the generation of non-Gaussian states of light based on conditional intensity measurements performed on correlated bipartite states. We consider both quantum and classically correlated states and different kind of detection, comparing the resulting non Gaussianity parameters upon varying the input energy and the detection efficiency. We find that quantum correlations generally lead to higher non Gaussianity, at least in the low energy regime. An experimental implementation feasible with current technology is also suggested.

id: 0909.5075
title: Entropy and Information Causality in General Probabilistic Theories
authors: Howard Barnum, Jonathan Barrett, Lisa Orloff Clark, Matthew Leifer, Robert Spekkens, Nicholas Stepanik, Alex Wilce, Robin Wilke
comments: 20 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 033024 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5075
abstract: We investigate the concept of entropy in probabilistic theories more general than quantum mechanics, with particular reference to the notion of information causality recently proposed by Pawlowski et. al. (arXiv:0905.2992). We consider two entropic quantities, which we term measurement and mixing entropy. In classical and quantum theory, they are equal, being given by the Shannon and von Neumann entropies respectively; in general, however, they are very different. In particular, while measurement entropy is easily seen to be concave, mixing entropy need not be. In fact, as we show, mixing entropy is not concave whenever the state space is a non-simplicial polytope. Thus, the condition that measurement and mixing entropies coincide is a strong constraint on possible theories. We call theories with this property monoentropic. Measurement entropy is subadditive, but not in general strongly subadditive. Equivalently, if we define the mutual information between two systems A and B by the usual formula I(A:B) = H(A) + H(B) - H(AB) where H denotes the measurement entropy and AB is a non-signaling composite of A and B, then it can happen that I(A:BC) < I(A:B). This is relevant to information causality in the sense of Pawlowski et al.: we show that any monoentropic non-signaling theory in which measurement entropy is strongly subadditive, and also satisfies a version of the Holevo bound, is informationally causal, and on the other hand we observe that Popescu-Rohrlich boxes, which violate information causality, also violate strong subadditivity. We also explore the interplay between measurement and mixing entropy and various natural conditions on theories that arise in quantum axiomatics.

id: 0909.5083
title: Accessing higher order correlations by time-multiplexing
authors: M. Avenhaus, K. Laiho, M. V. Chekhova, C. Silberhorn
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 063602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5083
abstract: We experimentally measured higher order normalized correlation functions (nCF) of pulsed light with a time-multiplexing-detector. We demonstrate excellent performance of our device by verifying unity valued nCF up to the eighth order for coherent light, and factorial dependence of the nCF for pseudothermal light. We applied our measurement technique to a type-II parametric downconversion source to investigate mutual two-mode correlation properties and ascertain nonclassicality.

id: 0909.5090
title: Bose-Einstein condensation in dark power-law laser traps
authors: Amine Jaouadi, Naceur Gaaloul, Bruno Viaris De Lesegno, Mourad Telmini, Laurence Pruvost, Eric Charron
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 82, 2 (2010) 023613
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5090
abstract: We investigate theoretically an original route to achieve Bose-Einstein condensation using dark power-law laser traps. We propose to create such traps with two crossing blue-detuned Laguerre-Gaussian optical beams. Controlling their azimuthal order $\ell$ allows for the exploration of a multitude of power-law trapping situations in one, two and three dimensions, ranging from the usual harmonic trap to an almost square-well potential, in which a quasi-homogeneous Bose gas can be formed. The usual cigar-shaped and disk-shaped Bose-Einstein condensates obtained in a 1D or 2D harmonic trap take the generic form of a "finger" or of a "hockey puck" in such Laguerre-Gaussian traps. In addition, for a fixed atom number, higher transition temperatures are obtained in such configurations when compared with a harmonic trap of same volume. This effect, which results in a substantial acceleration of the condensation dynamics, requires a better but still reasonable focusing of the Laguerre-Gaussian beams.

id: 0909.5103
title: Nested Quantum Error Correction Codes
authors: Zhuo Wang, Kai Sun, Hen Fan, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5103
abstract: The theory of quantum error correction was established more than a decade ago as the primary tool for fighting decoherence in quantum information processing. Although great progress has already been made in this field, limited methods are available in constructing new quantum error correction codes from old codes. Here we exhibit a simple and general method to construct new quantum error correction codes by nesting certain quantum codes together. The problem of finding long quantum error correction codes is reduced to that of searching several short length quantum codes with certain properties. Our method works for all length and all distance codes, and is quite efficient to construct optimal or near optimal codes. Two main known methods in constructing new codes from old codes in quantum error-correction theory, the concatenating and pasting, can be understood in the framework of nested quantum error correction codes.

id: 0909.5152
title: Local unitary equivalence of multipartite pure states
authors: B. Kraus
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 020504 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5152
abstract: Necessary and sufficient conditions for the equivalence of arbitrary n-qubit pure quantum states under Local Unitary (LU) operations are derived. First, an easily computable standard form for multipartite states is introduced. Two generic states are shown to be LU-equivalent iff their standard forms coincide. The LU-equivalence problem for non--generic states is solved by presenting a systematic method to determine the LU operators (if they exist) which interconvert the two states.

id: 0909.5159
title: Is there a dynamical cause of the spin-statistics connection?
authors: Aditya Gilra
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5159
abstract: Extant proofs of the spin-statistics connection (SSC) are kinematical. C S Unnikrishnan has suggested that a dynamical interaction leading to the SSC would involve spin and perforce gravity, the only known universal force. For the scattering of two identical particles, he considers [arXiv: gr-qc/0406043] the interaction of their spins with the gravito-magnetic field generated by their scattering motion through cosmic matter-energy. There the direct and particles-exchanged scattering amplitudes accumulate different quantum phases which provide the relevant bosonic/fermionic sign between them without applying the ad hoc SSC rule. Here it is shown that the scattering probabilities given by the standard implementation of SSC in quantum mechanics are actually not obtained from the above interaction for most initial spin states of the scattering particles. Instead, an unrealized peculiar dynamical interaction is required. Further, a spin-gravito-magnetic interaction as above (with caveats) would result in a large unmeasured spin-orbit coupling type effect on atomic energy levels. A comparison with a typical rotation based proof is also provided.

id: 0909.5164
title: Nonlinearity and constrained quantum motion
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Anna C. T. Gustavsson, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 082003 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5164
abstract: The dynamical equation satisfied by the density matrix, when a quantum system is subjected to one or more constraints arising from conserved quantities, is derived. The resulting nonlinear motion of the density matrix has the property that the evolution is independent of the specific composition of the pure-state mixture generating the initial state of the system.

id: 0909.5200
title: Tradeoffs for reliable quantum information storage in 2D systems
authors: Sergey Bravyi, David Poulin, Barbara Terhal
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 050503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5200
abstract: We ask whether there are fundamental limits on storing quantum information reliably in a bounded volume of space. To investigate this question, we study quantum error correcting codes specified by geometrically local commuting constraints on a 2D lattice of finite-dimensional quantum particles. For these 2D systems, we derive a tradeoff between the number of encoded qubits k, the distance of the code d, and the number of particles n. It is shown that kd^2=O(n) where the coefficient in O(n) depends only on the locality of the constraints and dimension of the Hilbert spaces describing individual particles. We show that the analogous tradeoff for the classical information storage is k\sqrt{d} =O(n).

id: 0909.5217
title: A New Tripartite Coherent-Entangled State Generated by An Asymmetric Beam-Splitter and Its Applications
authors: Ma Xu, Zhang Shuang-Xi, Dong Chuan-Fei
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5217
abstract: A new kind of tripartite coherent-entangled state (CES) $\ket{\beta,\gamma, x}_{\mu\nu\tau}$ is proposed, which exhibits the properties of both coherence and entanglement. We investigate its completeness and orthogonality, and find it can make up a representation of tripartite CES. A protocol for generating the tripartite CES is proposed using asymmetric beam splitter. Applications of the tripartite CES in quantum optics are also presented.

id: 0909.5231
title: Quantum state transfer in a XX chain with impurities
authors: Analia Zwick, Omar Osenda
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 105302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5231
abstract: One spin excitation states are involved in the transmission of quantum states and entanglement through a quantum spin chain, the localization properties of these states are crucial to achieve the transfer of information from one extreme of the chain to the other. We investigate the bipartite entanglement and localization of the one excitation states in a quantum $XX$ chain with one impurity. The bipartite entanglement is obtained using the Concurrence and the localization is analyzed using the inverse participation ratio. Changing the strength of the exchange coupling of the impurity allows us to control the number of localized or extended states. The analysis of the inverse participation ratio allows us to identify scenarios where the transmission of quantum states or entanglement can be achieved with a high degree of fidelity. In particular we identify a regime where the transmission of quantum states between the extremes of the chain is executed in a short transmission time $\sim N/2$, where $N$ is the number of spins in the chain, and with a large fidelity.

id: 0909.5233
title: Properties of the extended Clifford group with applications to SIC-POVMs and MUBs
authors: D.M.Appleby
comments: 39 pages, AMS Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5233
abstract: We consider a version of the extended Clifford Group which is defined in terms of a finite Galois field in odd prime power dimension. We show that Neuhauser's result, that with the appropriate choice of phases the standard (or metaplectic) representation of the discrete symplectic group is faithful also holds for the anti-unitary operators of the extended group. We also improve on Neuhauser's result by giving explicit formulae for the (anti-)unitary corresponding to an arbitrary (anti-)symplectic matrix. We then go on to find the eigenvalues and the order of an arbitrary (anti-)symplectic matrix. The fact that in prime power dimension the matrix elements belong to a field means that this can be done using the same techniques which are used to find the eigenvalues of a matrix defined over the reals-including the use of an extension field (the analogue of the complex numbers) when the eigenvalues are not in the base field. We then give an application of these results to SIC-POVMs (symmetric informationally complete positive operator valued measures). We show that in prime dimension our results can be used to find a natural basis for the eigenspace of the Zauner unitary in which SIC-fiducials are expected to lie. Finally, we apply our results to the MUB cycling problem. We show that in odd prime power dimension d, although there is no Clifford unitary, there is a Clifford anti-unitary which cycles through the full set of Wootters-Fields MUBs if d=3 (mod 4). Also, irrespective of whether d=1 or 3 (mod 4), the Wootters-Fields MUBs split into two groups of (d+1)/2 bases in such a way that there is a single Clifford unitary which cycles through each group separately.

id: 0909.5288
title: On the discrimination between classical and quantum states
authors: G. Brida, M. Bondani, I. P. Degiovanni, M. Genovese, M. G. A. Paris, I. Ruo Berchera, V. Schettini
comments: 
journal: Found. of Phys. 41 (2011) 305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5288
abstract: With the purpose to introduce a useful tool for researches concerning foundations of quantum mechanics and applications to quantum technologies, here we study three quantumness quantifiers for bipartite optical systems: one based on sub-shot-noise correlations, one related to antibunching and one springing from entanglement determination. The specific cases of parametric down conversion seeded by thermal, coherent and squeezed states are discussed in detail.

id: 0909.5307
title: Integrated photonic qubit quantum computing on a superconducting chip
authors: Lianghui Du, Yong Hu, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Guang-Can Guo, Xingxiang Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 063015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5307
abstract: We study a quantum computing system using microwave photons in transmission line resonators on a superconducting chip as qubits. We show that all control necessary for quantum computing can be implemented by coupling to Josephson devices on the same chip, and take advantage of their strong inherent nonlinearities to realize qubit interactions. We analyze the gate error rate to demonstrate that our scheme is realistic even for Josephson devices with limited decoherence times. A conceptually innovative solution based on existing technologies, our scheme provides an integrated and scalable approach to the next key milestone for photonic qubit quantum computing.

id: 0909.5316
title: Concurrence of assistance and Mermin inequality on three-qubit pure states
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Kabgyun Jeong, Taewan Kim, Kyungjin Lee, Soojoon Lee
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 044302 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5316
abstract: We study a relation between the concurrence of assistance and the Mermin inequality on three-qubit pure states. We find that if a given three-qubit pure state has the minimal concurrence of assistance greater than 1/2 then the state violates some Mermin inequality.

id: 0909.5347
title: A quantum version of Wielandt's inequality
authors: M. Sanz, D. Perez-Garcia, M. M. Wolf, J. I. Cirac
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 56 (2010) 4668-4673
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5347
abstract: In this paper, Wielandt's inequality for classical channels is extended to quantum channels. That is, an upper bound to the number of times a channel must be applied, so that it maps any density operator to one with full rank, is found. Using this bound, dichotomy theorems for the zero--error capacity of quantum channels and for the Matrix Product State (MPS) dimension of ground states of frustration-free Hamiltonians are derived. The obtained inequalities also imply new bounds on the required interaction-range of Hamiltonians with unique MPS ground state.

id: 0909.5386
title: Observation of squeezed states with strong photon number oscillations
authors: Moritz Mehmet, Henning Vahlbruch, Nico Lastzka, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5386
abstract: Squeezed states of light constitute an important nonclassical resource in the field of high-precision measurements, e.g. gravitational wave detection, as well as in the field of quantum information, e.g. for teleportation, quantum cryptography, and distribution of entanglement in quantum computation networks. Strong squeezing in combination with high purity, high bandwidth and high spatial mode quality is desirable in order to achieve significantly improved performances contrasting any classical protocols. Here we report on the observation of the strongest squeezing to date of 11.5 dB, together with unprecedented high state purity corresponding to a vacuum contribution of less than 5%, and a squeezing bandwidth of about 170 MHz. The analysis of our squeezed states reveals a significant production of higher-order pairs of quantum-correlated photons, and the existence of strong photon number oscillations.

id: 0909.5396
title: Degenerate Landau-Zener model: Exact analytical solution
authors: G. S. Vasilev, S. S. Ivanov, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 75, 013417 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5396
abstract: The exact analytical solution of the degenerate Landau-Zener model, wherein two bands of degenerate energies cross in time, is presented. The solution is derived by using the Morris-Shore transformation, which reduces the fully coupled system to a set of independent nondegenerate two-state systems and a set of decoupled states. Due to the divergence of the phase of the off-diagonal element of the propagator in the original Landau-Zener model, not all transition probabilities exist for infinite time duration. In general, apart from some special cases, only the transition probabilities between states within the same degenerate set exist, but not between states of different sets. An illustration is presented for the transition between the magnetic sublevels of two atomic levels with total angular momenta J=2 and 1.

id: 0909.5397
title: Quantum gate in the decoherence-free subspace of trapped ion qubits
authors: Peter A. Ivanov, Ulrich G. Poschinger, Kilian Singer, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 92, 30006 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5397
abstract: We propose a geometric phase gate in a decoherence-free subspace with trapped ions. The quantum information is encoded in the Zeeman sublevels of the ground-state and two physical qubits to make up one logical qubit with ultra long coherence time. Single- and two-qubit operations together with the transport and splitting of linear ion crystals allow for a robust and decoherence-free scalable quantum processor. For the ease of the phase gate realization we employ one Raman laser field on four ions simultaneously, i.e. no tight focus for addressing. The decoherence-free subspace is left neither during gate operations nor during the transport of quantum information.

id: 0909.5401
title: Simple implementation of a quantum search with trapped ions
authors: Svetoslav S. Ivanov, Peter A. Ivanov, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 030301(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5401
abstract: We propose an ion trap implementation of Grover's quantum search algorithm for an unstructured database of arbitrary length N. The experimental implementation is appealingly simple because the linear ion trap allows for a straightforward construction, in a single interaction step and without a multitude of Hadamard transforms, of the reflection operator, which is the engine of the Grover algorithm. Consequently, a dramatic reduction in the number of the required physical steps takes place, to just O(\sqrt{N}), the same as the number of the mathematical steps. The proposed setup allows for demonstration of both the original (probabilistic) Grover search and its deterministic variation, and is remarkably robust to imperfections in the register initialization.

id: 0909.5443
title: Noise and deviation effects in a bichromatic Raman white light cavity
authors: Qingqing Sun, M. Selim Shahriar, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5443
abstract: We analyze the effects of noise and parameter deviations in a bichromatic Raman type white light cavity, with potential applications in precision measurements such as gravitational wave detection. The results show that the dispersion variation induced by parameter deviation can be controlled within $10^{-4}$. The laser phase noise decreases the dispersion magnitude while the amplitude noise increases it. Although we can always adjust the parameters to satisfy the white light condition, both noises make the cavity transmission curve uneven.

id: 0909.5461
title: Derivation and experimental test of fidelity benchmarks for remote preparation of arbitrary qubit states
authors: Nathan Killoran, Devon N. Biggerstaff, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Kevin J. Resch, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012334 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5461
abstract: Remote state preparation (RSP) is the act of preparing a quantum state at a remote location without actually transmitting the state itself. Using at most two classical bits and a single shared maximally entangled state, one can in theory remotely prepare any qubit state with certainty and with perfect fidelity. However, in any experimental implementation the average fidelity between the target and output states cannot be perfect. In order for an RSP experiment to demonstrate genuine quantum advantages, it must surpass the optimal threshold of a comparable classical protocol. Here we study the fidelity achievable by RSP protocols lacking shared entanglement, and determine the optimal value for the average fidelity in several different cases. We implement an experimental scheme for deterministic remote preparation of arbitrary photon polarization qubits, preparing 178 different pure and mixed qubit states with an average fidelity of 0.995. Our experimentally-achieved average fidelities surpass our derived classical thresholds whenever the classical protocol does not trivially allow for perfect RSP.

id: 0909.5465
title: Hamiltonian chaos in a coupled BEC -- optomechanical cavity system
authors: K. Zhang, W. Chen, M. Bhattacharya, P. Meystre
comments: 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 013802 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5465
abstract: We study a hybrid optomechanical system consisting of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) trapped inside a single-mode optical cavity with a moving end-mirror. The intracavity light field has a dual role: it excites a momentum side-mode of the condensate, and acts as a nonlinear spring that couples the vibrating mirror to that collective density excitation. We present the dynamics in a regime where the intracavity optical field, the mirror, and the side-mode excitation all display bistable behavior. In this regime we find that the dynamics of the system exhibits Hamiltonian chaos for appropriate initial conditions.

id: 0909.5518
title: A Lower Bound on the Value of Entangled Binary Games
authors: Salman Beigi
comments: 13 pages, new results added, matches published version
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 10, 0911-0924 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5518
abstract: A two-player one-round binary game consists of two cooperative players who each replies by one bit to a message that he receives privately; they win the game if both questions and answers satisfy some predetermined property. A game is called entangled if the players are allowed to share a priori entanglement. It is well-known that the maximum winning probability (value) of entangled XOR-games (binary games in which the predetermined property depends only on the XOR of the two output bits) can be computed by a semidefinite program. In this paper we extend this result in the following sense; if a binary game is uniform, meaning that in an optimal strategy the marginal distributions of the output of each player are uniform, then its entangled value can be efficiently computed by a semidefinite program. We also introduce a lower bound on the entangled value of a general two-player one-round game; this bound depends on the size of the output set of each player and can be computed by a semidefinite program. In particular, we show that if the game is binary, w_q is its entangled value, and w_{sdp} is the optimum value of the corresponding semidefinite program, then 0.68w_{sdp} < w_q <= w_{sdp}.

id: 0909.5519
title: Non-Poissonian statistics from Poissonian light sources with application to passive decoy state quantum key distribution
authors: Marcos Curty, Tobias Moroder, Xiongfeng Ma, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Opt. Lett
journal: Opt. Lett. 34, 3238 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5519
abstract: We propose a method to prepare different non-Poissonian signal pulses from sources of Poissonian photon number distribution using only linear optical elements and threshold photon detectors. This method allows a simple passive preparation of decoy states for quantum key distribution. We show that the resulting key rates are comparable to the performance of active choices of intensities of Poissonian signals.

id: 0909.5527
title: Boosting up quantum key distribution by learning statistics of practical single photon sources
authors: Yoritoshi Adachi, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures; published version in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 113033 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5527
abstract: We propose a simple quantum-key-distribution (QKD) scheme for practical single photon sources (SPSs), which works even with a moderate suppression of the second-order correlation $g^{(2)}$ of the source. The scheme utilizes a passive preparation of a decoy state by monitoring a fraction of the signal via an additional beam splitter and a detector at the sender's side to monitor photon number splitting attacks. We show that the achievable distance increases with the precision with which the sub-Poissonian tendency is confirmed in higher photon number distribution of the source, rather than with actual suppression of the multi-photon emission events. We present an example of the secure key generation rate in the case of a poor SPS with $g^{(2)} = 0.19$, in which no secure key is produced with the conventional QKD scheme, and show that learning the photon-number distribution up to several numbers is sufficient for achieving almost the same achievable distance as that of an ideal SPS.

id: 0909.5533
title: Simple procedure for classical signal-procession in cluster-state quantum computation
authors: Kazuto Oshima
comments: 5pages, 5figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5533
abstract: We exhibit a simple procedure to find how classical signals should be processed in cluster-state quantum computation. Using stabilizers characterizing a cluster state, we can easily find a precise classical signal-flow that is required in performing cluster-state computation.

id: 0909.5543
title: New exactly solvable relativistic models with anomalous interaction
authors: Elena Ferraro, Antonino Messina, A.G. Nikitin
comments: 20 pages, discussion of the possibility to test the model experimentally id added as an Appendix, typos are corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:042108,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5543
abstract: A special class of Dirac-Pauli equations with time-like vector potentials of external field is investigated. A new exactly solvable relativistic model describing anomalous interaction of a neutral Dirac fermion with a cylindrically symmetric external e.m. field is presented. The related external field is a superposition of the electric field generated by a charged infinite filament and the magnetic field generated by a straight line current. In non-relativistic approximation the considered model is reduced to the integrable Pron'ko-Stroganov model.

id: 0909.5565
title: A quantum jump description for the non-Markovian dynamics of the spin-boson model
authors: E.-M. Laine
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Proceedings of CEWQO2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5565
abstract: We derive a time-convolutionless master equation for the spin-boson model in the weak coupling limit. The temporarily negative decay rates in the master equation indicate short time memory effects in the dynamics which is explicitly revealed when the dynamics is studied using the non-Markovian jump description. The approach gives new insight into the memory effects influencing the spin dynamics and demonstrates, how for the spin-boson model the the co-operative action of different channels complicates the detection of memory effects in the dynamics.

id: 0909.5607
title: Scattering laser light on cold atoms: multiple scattering signals from single-atom responses
authors: Thomas Wellens, Tobias Geiger, Vyacheslav Shatokhin, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5607
abstract: We deduce the coherent backscattering signal from two distant laser-driven atoms using single-atom equations. In contrast to the standard master equation treatment, this new approach is suitable for the generalization to a large number of atomic scatterers.

id: 0909.5608
title: Measurement of distance and orientation of two atoms in arbitrary geometry
authors: Qurrat-ul-Ain Gulfam, Joerg Evers
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 43, 045501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5608
abstract: Accurate measurement of relative distance and orientation of two nearby quantum particles is discussed. We are in particular interested in a realistic description requiring as little prior knowledge about the system as possible. Thus, unlike in previous studies, we consider the case of an arbitrary relative orientation of the two atoms. For this, we model the atom with complete Zeeman manifolds, and include parallel as well as orthogonal dipole-dipole couplings between all states of the two atoms. We find that it is possible to determine the distance of the two atoms independent of the orientation, as long as the particles are sufficiently close to each other. Next, we discuss how in addition the alignment of the atoms can be measured. For this, we focus on the two cases of atoms in a two-dimensional waveguide and of atoms on a surface.

id: 0909.5609
title: Macroscopic bound entanglement in thermal graph states
authors: D. Cavalcanti, L. Aolita, A. Ferraro, A. Garcia-Saez, A. Acin
comments: 7p,3f
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 025011 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5609
abstract: We address the presence of bound entanglement in strongly-interacting spin systems at thermal equilibrium. In particular, we consider thermal graph states composed of an arbitrary number of particles. We show that for a certain range of temperatures no entanglement can be extracted by means of local operations and classical communication, even though the system is still entangled. This is found by harnessing the independence of the entanglement in some bipartitions of such states with the system's size. Specific examples for one- and two-dimensional systems are given. Our results thus prove the existence of thermal bound entanglement in an arbitrary large spin system with finite-range local interactions.

id: 0909.5683
title: Quantum interpolation of polynomials
authors: Daniel M. Kane, Samuel A. Kutin
comments: 8 pages; version 2 updates references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5683
abstract: We consider quantum interpolation of polynomials. We imagine a quantum computer with black-box access to input/output pairs (x_i, f(x_i)), where f is a degree-d polynomial, and we wish to compute f(0). We give asymptotically tight quantum lower bounds for this problem, even in the case where 0 is among the possible values of x_i.

id: 0909.0116
title: Volume of the set of unistochastic matrices of order 3 and the mean Jarlskog invariant
authors: Charles Dunkl, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 33 pages, 6 figures version 2 - misprints corrected, explicit formulae for phases provided
journal: J.Math.Phys.50:123521,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0116
abstract: A bistochastic matrix B of size N is called unistochastic if there exists a unitary U such that B_ij=|U_{ij}|^{2} for i,j=1,...,N. The set U_3 of all unistochastic matrices of order N=3 forms a proper subset of the Birkhoff polytope, which contains all bistochastic (doubly stochastic) matrices. We compute the volume of the set U_3 with respect to the flat (Lebesgue) measure and analytically evaluate the mean entropy of an unistochastic matrix of this order. We also analyze the Jarlskog invariant J, defined for any unitary matrix of order three, and derive its probability distribution for the ensemble of matrices distributed with respect to the Haar measure on U(3) and for the ensemble which generates the flat measure on the set of unistochastic matrices. For both measures the probability of finding |J| smaller than the value observed for the CKM matrix, which describes the violation of the CP parity, is shown to be small. Similar statistical reasoning may also be applied to the MNS matrix, which plays role in describing the neutrino oscillations. Some conjectures are made concerning analogous probability measures in the space of unitary matrices in higher dimensions.

id: 0909.0145
title: Finite Temperature Casimir Effect in Randall-Sundrum Models
authors: Marianne Rypest?l, Iver Brevik
comments: 33 pages latex, 2 figures. Some changes in the discussion. To appear in New J. Phys
journal: New J.Phys.12:013022,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0145
abstract: The finite temperature Casimir effect for a scalar field in the bulk region of the two Randall-Sundrum models, RSI and RSII, is studied. We calculate the Casimir energy and the Casimir force for two parallel plates with separation $a$ on the visible brane in the RSI model. High-temperature and low-temperature cases are covered. Attractiveness versus repulsiveness of the temperature correction to the force is discussed in the typical special cases of Dirichlet-Dirichlet, Neumann-Neumann, and Dirichlet-Neumann boundary conditions at low temperature. The Abel-Plana summation formula is made use of, as this turns out to be most convenient. Some comments are made on the related contemporary literature.

id: 0909.0370
title: Adiabatic theorem for finite dimensional quantum mechanical systems
authors: M. O. Katanaev
comments: 12 pages, corrected
journal: Russ.Phys.J.54:342-353,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0370
abstract: A new simple proof of the adiabatic theorem is given in the finite dimensional case for nondegenerate as well as degenerate states. The explicitly integrable two level system is considered as an example. It is demonstrated that the error estimate given by the adiabatic theorem can not be improved.

id: 0909.0491
title: Light scattering for thermometry of fermionic atoms in an optical lattice
authors: J. Ruostekoski, C. J. Foot, A. B. Deb
comments: submitted to PRL in January 2009
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 (2009) 170404
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0491
abstract: We propose a method for measuring the temperature of fermionic atoms in an optical lattice potential from the intensity of the scattered light in the far-field diffraction pattern. We consider a single-component gas in a tightly-confined two-dimensional lattice, illuminated by far off-resonant light driving a cycling transition. Our calculations show that thermal correlations of the fermionic atoms generate fluctuations in the intensity of the diffraction pattern of light scattered from the atomic lattice array and that this signal can be accurately detected above the shot noise using a lens to collect photons scattered in a forward direction (with the diffraction maxima blocked). The sensitivity of the thermometer is enhanced by an additional harmonic trapping potential.

id: 0909.0728
title: Simulating and detecting artificial magnetic fields in trapped atoms
authors: Matthias Rosenkranz, Alexander Klein, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 013607 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0728
abstract: A Bose-Einstein condensate exhibiting a nontrivial phase induces an artificial magnetic field in immersed impurity atoms trapped in a stationary, ring-shaped optical lattice. We present an effective Hamiltonian for the impurities for two condensate setups: the condensate in a rotating ring and in an excited rotational state in a stationary ring. We use Bogoliubov theory to derive analytical formulas for the induced artificial magnetic field and the hopping amplitude in the limit of low condensate temperature where the impurity dynamics is coherent. As methods for observing the artificial magnetic field we discuss time of flight imaging and mass current measurements. Moreover, we compare the analytical results of the effective model to numerical results of a corresponding two-species Bose-Hubbard model. We also study numerically the clustering properties of the impurities and the quantum chaotic behavior of the two-species Bose-Hubbard model.

id: 0909.0904
title: Entanglement at finite temperatures in the electronic two-particle interferometer
authors: P. Samuelsson, I. Neder, M. Buttiker
comments: Proceedings of the Nobel Symposium 2009, Qubits for future quantum computers, May 2009 in Goteborg, Sweden
journal: Phys. Scr. T 137, 014023 (2009).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0904
abstract: In this work we discuss a theory for entanglement generation, characterization and detection in fermionic two-particle interferometers at finite temperature. The motivation for our work is provided by the recent experiment by the Heiblum group, Neder et al, Nature 448, 333 (2007), realizing the two particle interferometer proposed by Samuelsson, Sukhorukov, and Buttiker, Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 026805 (2004). The experiment displayed a clear two-particle Aharonov-Bohm effect, however with an amplitude suppressed due to finite temperature and dephasing. This raised qualitative as well quantitative questions about entanglement production and detection in mesoscopic conductors at finite temperature. As a response to these questions, in our recent work, Samuelsson, Neder, and Buttiker, Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 106804 (2009) we presented a general theory for finite temperature entanglement in mesoscopic conductors. Applied to the two-particle interferometer we showed that the emitted two-particle state in the experiment was clearly entangled. Moreover, we demonstrated that the entanglement of the reduced two-particle state, reconstructed from measurements of average currents and current cross correlations, constitutes a lower bound to the entanglement of the emitted state. The present work provides an extended and more detailed discussion of these findings.

id: 0909.0977
title: Exact Casimir energies at nonzero temperature: Validity of proximity force approximation and interaction of semitransparent spheres
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Prachi Parashar, Jef Wagner, K.V. Shajesh
comments: 7 pages, 1 eps figure. Invited paper for the Festschrift for Tom Erber. This version corrects a misstatement about the order of the polynomial in the Appendix.
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0977
abstract: In this paper, dedicated to the career of Tom Erber, we consider the Casimir interaction between weakly coupled bodies at nonzero temperature. For the case of semitransparent bodies, that is, ones described by delta-function potentials, we first examine the interaction between an infinite plane and an arbitrary curved surface. In weak coupling, such an interaction energy coincides with the exact form of the proximity force approximation obtained by summing the interaction between opposite surface elements at arbitrary temperature. This result generalizes a theorem proved recently by Decca et al. We also obtain exact closed-form results for the Casimir energy at arbitrary temperature for weakly coupled semitransparent spheres.

id: 0909.1039
title: Tensor 2-sums and entanglement
authors: Sandi Klavzar, Simone Severini
comments: 5 pages, 1 EPS figure
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1039
abstract: To define a minimal mathematical framework for isolating some of the characteristic properties of quantum entanglement, we introduce a generalization of the tensor product of graphs. Inspired by the notion of a density matrix, the generalization is a simple one: every graph can be obtained by addition modulo two, possibly with many summands, of tensor products of adjacency matrices. In this picture, we are still able to prove a combinatorial analogue of the Peres-Horodecki criterion for testing separability.

id: 0909.1183
title: On fractional time quantum dynamics
authors: Alexander Iomin
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.E80:022103,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1183
abstract: Application of the fractional calculus to quantum processes is presented. In particular, the quantum dynamics is considered in the framework of the fractional time Schr\"odinger equation (SE), which differs from the standard SE by the fractional time derivative: $\frac{\prt}{\prt t}\to \frac{\prt^{\alpha}}{\prt t^{\alpha}}$. It is shown that for $\alpha =1/2$ the fractional SE is isospectral to a comb model. An analytical expression for the Green functions of the systems are obtained. The semiclassical limit is discussed.

id: 0909.1211
title: Bounds on the spectrum and reducing subspaces of a J-self-adjoint operator
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Alexander K. Motovilov, Christiane Tretter
comments: (this http URL)
journal: Indiana University Mathematics Journal 59:5 (2010), 1737-1776
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1211
abstract: Given a self-adjoint involution J on a Hilbert space H, we consider a J-self-adjoint operator L=A+V on H where A is a possibly unbounded self-adjoint operator commuting with J and V a bounded J-self-adjoint operator anti-commuting with J. We establish optimal estimates on the position of the spectrum of L with respect to the spectrum of A and we obtain norm bounds on the operator angles between maximal uniformly definite reducing subspaces of the unperturbed operator A and the perturbed operator L. All the bounds are given in terms of the norm of V and the distances between pairs of disjoint spectral sets associated with the operator L and/or the operator A. As an example, the quantum harmonic oscillator under a PT-symmetric perturbation is discussed. The sharp norm bounds obtained for the operator angles generalize the celebrated Davis-Kahan trigonometric theorems to the case of J-self-adjoint perturbations.

id: 0909.1315
title: Base Selection and Transmission Synchronization Algorithm in Quantum Cryptography
authors: Catalin Anghel
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, [12]. Proceedings CSCS17 - 17th International Conference on Control Systems and Computer Science, Romania, Bucharest, May 2009
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1315
abstract: One Achilles heal of classical cryptographic communication systems is that secret communication can only take place after a key is communicated in secret over a totally secure communication channel. Here comes quantum key distribution which takes advantage of certain phenomena that occur at the subatomic level, so that any attempt by an enemy to obtain the bits in a key not only fails, but gets detected as well. This paper proposes the idea of on algorithm, intended to be a quantum network algorithm named Base Selection and Transmission Synchronization - BSTS, which can realize a perfectly secure communication between two computers.

id: 0909.1881
title: Denseness and Zariski denseness of Jones braid representations
authors: Greg Kuperberg
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1881
abstract: Using various tools from representation theory and group theory, but without using hard classification theorems such as the classification of finite simple groups, we show that the Jones representations of braid groups are dense in the complex Zariski topology when the parameter $t$ is not a root of unity. As first established by Freedman, Larsen, and Wang, we the same result when t is a non-lattice root of unity, other than one initial case when t has order 10. We also compute the real Zariski closure of these representations. When such a representation is indiscrete in the analytic topology, then its analytic closure is the same as its real Zariski closure.

id: 0909.1899
title: Time in quantum physics: From an external parameter to an intrinsic observable
authors: Romeo Brunetti, Klaus Fredenhagen, Marc Hoge
comments: 13 pages, typos correction plus added conclusion section, accepted on Foundations of Physics, proceedings of the "Festschrift for Peter Mittelstaedt"
journal: Found.Phys.40:1368-1378,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1899
abstract: In the Schroedinger equation, time plays a special role as an external parameter. We show that in an enlarged system where the time variable denotes an additional degree of freedom, solutions of the Schroedinger equation give rise to weights on the enlarged algebra of observables. States in the associated GNS representation correspond to states on the original algebra composed with a completely positive unit preserving map. Application of this map to the functions of the time operator on the large system delivers the positive operator valued maps which were previously proposed by two of us as time observables. As an example we discuss the application of this formalism to the Wheeler-DeWitt theory of a scalar field on a Robertson-Walker spacetime.

id: 0909.1910
title: Charged Hydrogenic, Helium and Helium-Hydrogenic Molecular Chains in a Strong Magnetic Field
authors: A. V. Turbiner, N. L. Guevara, J. C. Lopez Vieyra
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures, 9 tables
journal: Phys Rev A 81 (2010) 042503
subjects: High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1910
abstract: A non-relativistic classification of charged molecular hydrogenic, helium and mixed helium-hydrogenic chains with one or two electrons which can exist in a strong magnetic field $B \lesssim 10^{16} $G is given. It is shown that for both $1e-2e$ cases at the strongest studied magnetic fields the longest hydrogenic chain contains at most five protons indicating to the existence of the $\rm{H}_5^{4+}$ and $\rm{H}_5^{3+}$ ions, respectively. In the case of the helium chains the longest chains can exist at the strongest studied magnetic fields with three and four $\al-$particles for $1e-2e$ cases, respectively. For mixed helium-hydrogenic chains the number of heavy centers can reach five for highest magnetic fields studied. In general, for a fixed magnetic field two-electron chains are more bound than one-electron ones.

id: 0909.1999
title: Entanglement entropy of excited states
authors: Vincenzo Alba, Maurizio Fagotti, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 37 pages, 10 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0910:P10020,2009
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1999
abstract: We study the entanglement entropy of a block of contiguous spins in excited states of spin chains. We consider the XY model in a transverse field and the XXZ Heisenberg spin-chain. For the latter, we developed a numerical application of algebraic Bethe Ansatz. We find two main classes of states with logarithmic and extensive behavior in the dimension of the block, characterized by the properties of excitations of the state. This behavior can be related to the locality properties of the Hamiltonian having a given state as ground state. We also provide several details of the finite size scaling.

id: 0909.2004
title: General Theory of the Zitterbewegung
authors: Gy. David, J. Cserti
comments: 10 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 121417(R) (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2004
abstract: We derive a general and simple expression for the time-dependence of the position operator of a multi-band Hamiltonian with arbitrary matrix elements depending only on the momentum of the quasi-particle. Our result shows that in such systems the Zitterbewegung like term related to a trembling motion of the quasi-particle, always appears in the position operator. Moreover, the Zitterbewegung is, in general, a multi-frequency oscillatory motion of the quasi-particle. We derive a few different expressions for the amplitude of the oscillatory motion including that related to the Berry connection matrix. We present several examples to demonstrate how general and versatile our result is.

id: 0909.2086
title: Approximate Pseudospin and Spin Solutions of the Dirac Equation for a Class of Exponential Potentials
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever, Cevdet Tezcan
comments: 14 pages
journal: Chinese J. Phys. 48, 27(2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2086
abstract: Dirac equation is solved for some exponential potentials, hypergeometric-type potential, generalized Morse potential and Poschl-Teller potential with any spin-orbit quantum number $\kappa$ in the case of spin and pseudospin symmetry, respectively. We have approximated for non s-waves the centrifugal term by an exponential form. The energy eigenvalue equations, and the corresponding wave functions are obtained by using the generalization of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method.

id: 0909.2169
title: Time reversal of pseudo-spin 1/2 degrees of freedom
authors: R. Winkler, U. Z¨¹licke
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 4003 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2169
abstract: We show that pseudo-spin 1/2 degrees of freedom can be categorized in two types according to their behavior under time reversal. One type exhibits the properties of ordinary spin whose three Cartesian components are all odd under time reversal. For the second type, only one of the components is odd while the other two are even. We discuss several physical examples for this second type of pseudo-spin and highlight observable consequences that can be used to distinguish it from ordinary spin.

id: 0909.2197
title: Coherent detection of electron dephasing
authors: E. Strambini, L. Chirolli, V. Giovannetti, F. Taddei, R. Fazio, V. Piazza, F. Beltram
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 170403 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2197
abstract: We show that an Aharonov-Bohm (AB) ring with asymmetric electron injection can act as a coherent detector of electron dephasing. The presence of a dephasing source in one of the two arms of a moderately-to-highly asymmetric ring changes the response of the system from total reflection to complete transmission while preserving the coherence of the electrons propagating from the ring, even for strong dephasing. We interpret this phenomenon as an implementation of an interaction-free measurement.

id: 0909.2211
title: The valence bond solid in quasicrystals
authors: Anatol N. Kirillov, Vladimir E. Korepin
comments: This is a historical note. In 1989 we constructed a version of AKLT with unique ground state on a finite graph. Recently the paper became important for description of entanglement in VBS states
journal: ALGEBRA and ANALYSIS, vol 1, issue 2, page 47, 1989 [in Russian language]
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2211
abstract: A generalized model of Heisenberg quantum antiferromagnet on an arbitrary graph is constructed so that the VBS is the unique ground state. The norm of the base state and equal time multi point correlation functions are computed in terms of generalized hyper geometric functions. For the one-dimensional periodic Heisenberg model we present a method of computing multi point correlation functions based on the study of a commuting family of transfer matrices. The connection of multi point correlators with Young tableaux and Gegenbauer polynomials is found.

id: 0909.2249
title: On the Existence of the Dynamics for Anharmonic Quantum Oscillator Systems
authors: Bruno Nachtergaele, Benjamin Schlein, Robert Sims, Shannon Starr, Valentin Zagrebnov
comments: 
journal: Rev.Math.Phys.22:207-231,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2249
abstract: We construct a W^*-dynamical system describing the dynamics of a class of anharmonic quantum oscillator lattice systems in the thermodynamic limit. Our approach is based on recently proved Lieb-Robinson bounds for such systems on finite lattices.

id: 0909.2316
title: Quantum Phase Transition, Dissipation, and Measurement
authors: Sudip Chakravarty
comments: 33 pages, 4 figures, chapter in the book: "Understanding Quantum Phase Transitions," edited by Lincoln D. Carr (Taylor \& Francis, Boca Raton, 2010)
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2316
abstract: A selected set of topics in quantum phase transition is discussed. It includes dissipative quantum phase transitions, the role of disorder, and the relevance of quantum phase transition to measurement theory in quantum mechanics.

id: 0909.2600
title: Radiative force from optical cycling on a diatomic molecule
authors: E.S. Shuman, J.F. Barry, D.R. Glenn, D. DeMille
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2600
abstract: We demonstrate a scheme for optical cycling in the polar, diatomic molecule strontium monofluoride (SrF) using the $X ^2\Sigma^+\toA^2\Pi_{1/2}$ electronic transition. SrF's highly diagonal Franck-Condon factors suppress vibrational branching. We eliminate rotational branching by employing a quasi-cycling $N=1\to N^\prime=0$ type transition in conjunction with magnetic field remixing of dark Zeeman sublevels. We observe cycling fluorescence and deflection through radiative force of an SrF molecular beam using this scheme. With straightforward improvements our scheme promises to allow more than $10^5$ photon scatters, possibly enabling the direct laser cooling of SrF.

id: 0909.2621
title: Quantum and thermal effects in dark soliton formation and dynamics in a 1D Bose gas
authors: A. D. Martin, J. Ruostekoski
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; modified in response to referees' comments
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 (2010) 194102
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2621
abstract: We numerically study the imprinting and dynamics of dark solitons in a bosonic atomic gas in a tightly-confined one-dimensional harmonic trap both with and without an optical lattice. Quantum and thermal fluctuations are synthesized within the truncated Wigner approximation in the quasi-condensate description. We track the soliton coordinates and calculate position and velocity uncertainties. We find that the phase fluctuations {\em lower} the classically predicted soliton speed and seed instabilities. Individual runs show interactions of solitons with sound waves, splitting and disappearing solitons.

id: 0909.2750
title: Entanglement of Coarse Grained Quantum Field in the Expanding Universe
authors: Yasusada Nambu, Yuji Ohsumi
comments: 23 pages, version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:124031,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2750
abstract: We investigate the entanglement of a quantum field in the expanding universe. By introducing a bipartite system using a coarse-grained scalar field, we apply the separability criterion based on the partial transpose operation and numerically calculate the bipartite entanglement between separate spatial regions. We find that the initial entangled state becomes separable or dis-entangled after the spatial separation of two points exceed the Hubble horizon. This provides the necessary condition for the appearance of classicality of the quantum fluctuation. We also investigate the condition of classicality that the quantum field can be treated as the classical stochastic variables.

id: 0909.2789
title: Quantum Probability Explanations for Probability Judgment 'Errors'
authors: Jerome R. Busemeyer, Riccardo Franco, Emmanuel M. Pothos
comments: 49 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2789
abstract: A quantum probability model is introduced and used to explain human probability judgment errors including the conjunction, disjunction, inverse, and conditional fallacies, as well as unpacking effects and partitioning effects. Quantum probability theory is a general and coherent theory based on a set of (von Neumann) axioms which relax some of the constraints underlying classic (Kolmogorov) probability theory. The quantum model is compared and contrasted with other competing explanations for these judgment errors including the representativeness heuristic, the averaging model, and a memory retrieval model for probability judgments. The quantum model also provides ways to extend Bayesian, fuzzy set, and fuzzy trace theories. We conclude that quantum information processing principles provide a viable and promising new way to understand human judgment and reasoning.

id: 0909.3305
title: Topological Entanglement Renyi Entropy and Reduced Density Matrix Structure
authors: Steven T. Flammia, Alioscia Hamma, Taylor L. Hughes, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 4 pages, v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 261601 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3305
abstract: We generalize the topological entanglement entropy to a family of topological Renyi entropies parametrized by a parameter alpha, in an attempt to find new invariants for distinguishing topologically ordered phases. We show that, surprisingly, all topological Renyi entropies are the same, independent of alpha for all non-chiral topological phases. This independence shows that topologically ordered ground-state wavefunctions have reduced density matrices with a certain simple structure, and no additional universal information can be extracted from the entanglement spectrum.

id: 0909.3392
title: On the communication complexity of XOR functions
authors: Ashley Montanaro, Tobias Osborne
comments: 18 pages; v2: minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3392
abstract: An XOR function is a function of the form g(x,y) = f(x + y), for some boolean function f on n bits. We study the quantum and classical communication complexity of XOR functions. In the case of exact protocols, we completely characterise one-way communication complexity for all f. We also show that, when f is monotone, g's quantum and classical complexities are quadratically related, and that when f is a linear threshold function, g's quantum complexity is Theta(n). More generally, we make a structural conjecture about the Fourier spectra of boolean functions which, if true, would imply that the quantum and classical exact communication complexities of all XOR functions are asymptotically equivalent. We give two randomised classical protocols for general XOR functions which are efficient for certain functions, and a third protocol for linear threshold functions with high margin. These protocols operate in the symmetric message passing model with shared randomness.

id: 0909.3644
title: Hyperfine structure in the microwave spectra of ultracold polar molecules
authors: Hong Ran, J. Aldegunde, Jeremy M. Hutson
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 043015 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3644
abstract: We investigate the microwave spectra of ultracold alkali metal dimers in magnetic, electric and combined fields, taking account of the hyperfine structure due to the nuclear spins. We consider the molecules 41K87Rb and 7Li133Cs, which are the targets of current experiments and demonstrate two extremes of large and small nuclear quadrupole coupling. We calculate the frequencies and intensities of transitions that may be used to transfer ultracold molecules between hyperfine states in a magnetic field, employing different polarizations of microwave radiation. In an electric field, the hyperfine levels display narrow avoided crossings at specific fields that we explain in terms of molecular alignment. The hyperfine splittings that arise in electric fields may hinder individual addressing in schemes to use ultracold molecules in quantum computation, but the structure of the spectra is suppressed in combined fields.

id: 0909.3664
title: Equivalent Hermitian operator from supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Boris F. Samsonov, V. V. Shamshutdinova, A. V. Osipov
comments: 9 pages; revised formula (14), published version with erratum
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:1962-1965,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3664
abstract: Diagonalizable pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians with real and discrete spectra, which are superpartners of Hermitian Hamiltonians, must be $\eta$-pseudo-Hermitian with Hermitian, positive-definite and non-singular $\eta$ operators. We show that despite the fact that an $\eta$ operator produced by a supersymmetric transformation, corresponding to the exact supersymmetry, is singular, it can be used to find the eigenfunctions of a Hermitian operator equivalent to the given pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian. Once the eigenfunctions of the Hermitian operator are found the operator may be reconstructed with the help of the spectral decomposition.

id: 0909.3668
title: Infinitely many shape invariant discrete quantum mechanical systems and new exceptional orthogonal polynomials related to the Wilson and Askey-Wilson polynomials
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 7 pages; one reference added, published in Phys. Lett. B682 (2009) 130-136
journal: Phys. Lett. B682 (2009) 130-136
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3668
abstract: Two sets of infinitely many exceptional orthogonal polynomials related to the Wilson and Askey-Wilson polynomials are presented. They are derived as the eigenfunctions of shape invariant and thus exactly solvable quantum mechanical Hamiltonians, which are deformations of those for the Wilson and Askey-Wilson polynomials in terms of a degree \ell (\ell=1,2,...) eigenpolynomial. These polynomials are exceptional in the sense that they start from degree \ell\ge1 and thus not constrained by any generalisation of Bochner's theorem.

id: 0909.3937
title: Gauge-Away Effect in Cold Gases on Optical Lattices
authors: O. Boada, A. Celi, J.I. Latorre
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, revtex style; v2 typos corrected, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3937
abstract: It is shown that a simple modification of the geometry in which Raman lasers are applied to a cold gas in an optical lattice results in transforming the emerging effective electromagnetic field into a pure gauge. This contrived gauge-away effect can be observed experimentally by measuring the Mott-Insulator to Superfluid critical point. The underlying mechanism for this phenomenon is the ability to engineer the transfer of the transverse component of the gauge potential into its longitudinal one.

id: 0909.4143
title: Black hole information problem and quantum gravity
authors: Daniel R. Terno
comments: 4 pages, proceedings of XXV Max Born Symposium
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4143
abstract: The gravity-scalar field system in spherical symmetry provides a natural setting for exploring gravitational collapse and its aftermath in quantum gravity. In a canonical approach, we give constructions of the constraint and Hamiltonian operators. Matter-gravity entanglement is an inherent feature of physical states, whether or not there is a black hole. Matter fields alone are an open system with a non-unitary evolution. However, if there is a successful theory of quantum gravity, there is no information loss.

id: 0909.4623
title: Quantum Simulation of Markov Chains
authors: X.F.Liu
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4623
abstract: The possibility of simulating a stochastic process by the intrinsic randomness of quantum system is investigated. Two simulations of Markov Chains by the measurements of quantum systems are proposed.

id: 0909.4809
title: On the linear response and scattering of an interacting molecule-metal system
authors: David J. Masiello, George C. Schatz
comments: under review at Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4809
abstract: A many-body Green's function approach to the microscopic theory of plasmon-enhanced spectroscopy is presented within the context of localized surface-plasmon resonance spectroscopy and applied to investigate the coupling between quantum-molecular and classical-plasmonic resonances in monolayer-coated silver nanoparticles. Electronic propagators or Green's functions, accounting for the repeated polarization interaction between a single molecule and its image in a nearby nanoscale metal, are explicitly computed and used to construct the linear-response properties of the combined molecule-metal system to an external electromagnetic perturbation. Shifting and finite lifetime of states appear rigorously and automatically within our approach and reveal an intricate coupling between molecule and metal not fully described by previous theories. Self-consistent incorporation of this quantum-molecular response into the continuum-electromagnetic scattering of the molecule-metal target is exploited to compute the localized surface-plasmon resonance wavelength shift with respect to the bare metal from first principles.

id: 0909.5094
title: Random Bures mixed states and the distribution of their purity
authors: Vladimir Al. Osipov, Hans-Juergen Sommers, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 28 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 055302 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5094
abstract: Ensembles of random density matrices determined by various probability measures are analysed. A simple and efficient algorithm to generate at random density matrices distributed according to the Bures measure is proposed. This procedure may serve as an initial step in performing Bayesian approach to quantum state estimation based on the Bures prior. We study the distribution of purity of random mixed states. The moments of the distribution of purity are determined for quantum states generated with respect to the Bures measure. This calculation serves as an exemplary application of the "deform-and-study" approach based on ideas of integrability theory. It is shown that Painlev\'e equation appeared as a part of the presented theory.

id: 0909.5161
title: Topological phase transitions in the non-Abelian honeycomb lattice
authors: A. Bermudez, N. Goldman, A. Kubasiak, M. Lewenstein, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: RevTex4 file, color figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 033041 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5161
abstract: Ultracold Fermi gases trapped in honeycomb optical lattices provide an intriguing scenario, where relativistic quantum electrodynamics can be tested. Here, we generalize this system to non-Abelian quantum electrodynamics, where massless Dirac fermions interact with effective non-Abelian gauge fields. We show how in this setup a variety of topological phase transitions occur, which arise due to massless fermion pair production events, as well as pair annihilation events of two kinds: spontaneous and strongly-interacting induced. Moreover, such phase transitions can be controlled and characterized in optical lattice experiments.

id: 0909.5337
title: Energy concentration in composite quantum systems
authors: Andreas Kurcz, Antonio Capolupo, Almut Beige, Emilio Del Giudice, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 6 pages, 1 figures, version accepted in Physical Review A
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:063821,2010
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5337
abstract: The spontaneous emission of photons from optical cavities and from trapped atoms has been studied extensively in the framework of quantum optics. Theoretical predictions based on the rotating wave approximation (RWA) are in general in very good agreement with experimental findings. However, current experiments aim at combining better and better cavities with large numbers of tightly confined atoms. Here we predict an energy concentrating mechanism in the behavior of such a composite quantum system which cannot be described by the RWA. Its result is the continuous leakage of photons through the cavity mirrors, even in the absence of external driving. We conclude with a discussion of the predicted phenomenon in the context of thermodynamics.

id: 0909.5504
title: Alternative sampling for variational quantum Monte Carlo
authors: J. R. Trail
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 016704 (2008)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5504
abstract: Expectation values of physical quantities may accurately be obtained by the evaluation of integrals within Many-Body Quantum mechanics, and these multi-dimensional integrals may be estimated using Monte Carlo methods. In a previous publication it has been shown that for the simplest, most commonly applied strategy in continuum Quantum Monte Carlo, the random error in the resulting estimates is not well controlled. At best the Central Limit theorem is valid in its weakest form, and at worst it is invalid and replaced by an alternative Generalised Central Limit theorem and non-Normal random error. In both cases the random error is not controlled. Here we consider a new `residual sampling strategy' that reintroduces the Central Limit Theorem in its strongest form, and provides full control of the random error in estimates. Estimates of the total energy and the variance of the local energy within Variational Monte Carlo are considered in detail, and the approach presented may be generalised to expectation values of other operators, and to other variants of the Quantum Monte Carlo method.

id: 0909.5505
title: Heavy-tailed random error in quantum Monte Carlo
authors: J. R. Trail
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 016703 (2008)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5505
abstract: The combination of continuum Many-Body Quantum physics and Monte Carlo methods provide a powerful and well established approach to first principles calculations for large systems. Replacing the exact solution of the problem with a statistical estimate requires a measure of the random error in the estimate for it to be useful. Such a measure of confidence is usually provided by assuming the Central Limit Theorem to hold true. In what follows it is demonstrated that, for the most popular implementation of the Variational Monte Carlo method, the Central Limit Theorem has limited validity, or is invalid and must be replaced by a Generalised Central Limit Theorem. Estimates of the total energy and the variance of the local energy are examined in detail, and shown to exhibit uncontrolled statistical errors through an explicit derivation of the distribution of the random error. Several examples are given of estimated quantities for which the Central Limit Theorem is not valid. The approach used is generally applicable to characterising the random error of estimates, and to Quantum Monte Carlo methods beyond Variational Monte Carlo.

id: 0909.2695
title: A new Hamiltonian formalism for singular Lagrangian theories
authors: Steven Duplij
comments: 9 pages
journal: Journal of Kharkov National University, ser. Nuclei, Particles and Fields.-2011.-V.969.-N3(51).-P. 34-39
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2695
abstract: We introduce a version of the Hamiltonian formalism based on the Clairaut equation theory, which allows us a self-consistent description of systems with degenerate (or singular) Lagrangian. A generalization of the Legendre transform to the case, when the Hessian is zero is done using the mixed (envelope/general) solutions of the multidimensional Clairaut equation. The corresponding system of equations of motion is equivalent to the initial Lagrange equations, but contains "nondynamical" momenta and unresolved velocities. This system is reduced to the physical phase space and presented in the Hamiltonian form by introducing a new (non-Lie) bracket.

id: 0909.0761
title: Soliton creation during a Bose-Einstein condensation
authors: Bogdan Damski, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, improved version to appear in PRL: scalings discussed more extensively, fitting scheme for determination of z and nu critical exponents is explained
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:160404,2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0761
abstract: We use stochastic Gross-Pitaevskii equation to study dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensation. We show that cooling into a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) can create solitons with density given by the cooling rate and by the critical exponents of the transition. Thus, counting solitons left in its wake should allow one to determine the critical exponents z and nu for a BEC phase transition. The same information can be extracted from two-point correlation functions.

id: 0909.0277
title: Entanglement Entropy in Non-Relativistic Field Theories
authors: Sergey N. Solodukhin
comments: 4 pages; v2: discussion of interacting fields included
journal: JHEP 1004:101,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0277
abstract: We calculate entanglement entropy in a non-relativistic field theory described by the Schr\"odinger operator. We demonstrate that the entropy is characterized by i) the area law and ii) UV divergences that are identical to those in the relativistic field theory. These observations are further supported by a holographic consideration. We use the non-relativistic symmetry and completely specify entanglement entropy in large class of non-relativistic theories described by the field operators polynomial in derivatives. We suggest that the area law of the entropy can be tested in experiments with condensed matter systems such as liquid helium.

id: 0909.1441
title: The dephasing rate formula in the many body context
authors: Doron Cohen, Jan von Delft, Florian Marquardt, Yoseph Imry
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, some textual improvements, to be published in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 245410 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1441
abstract: We suggest a straightforward approach to the calculation of the dephasing rate in a fermionic system, which correctly keeps track of the crucial physics of Pauli blocking. Starting from Fermi's golden rule, the dephasing rate can be written as an integral over the frequency transferred between system and environment, weighted by their respective spectral densities. We show that treating the full many-fermion system instead of a single particle automatically enforces the Pauli principle. Furthermore, we explain the relation to diagrammatics. Finally, we show how to treat the more involved strong-coupling case when interactions appreciably modify the spectra. This is relevant for the situation in disordered metals, where screening is important.

id: 0909.0047
title: Implications of Simultaneous Requirements for Low Noise Exchange Gates in Double Quantum Dots
authors: Erik Nielsen, Ralph W. Young, Richard P. Muller, M. S. Carroll
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.0047
abstract: Achieving low-error, exchange-interaction operations in quantum dots for quantum computing imposes simultaneous requirements on the exchange energy's dependence on applied voltages. A double quantum dot (DQD) qubit, approximated with a quadratic potential, is solved using a full configuration interaction method. This method is more accurate than Heitler-London and Hund-Mulliken approaches and captures new and significant qualitative behavior. We show that multiple regimes can be found in which the exchange energy's dependence on the bias voltage between the dots is compatible with current quantum error correction codes and state-of-the-art electronics. Identifying such regimes may prove valuable for the construction and operation of quantum gates that are robust to charge fluctuations, particularly in the case of dynamically corrected gates.

id: 0909.3647
title: From f-divergence to quantum quasi-entropies and their use
authors: Denes Petz
comments: Written version of the lecture in the conference "Information and Communication" held in Budapest
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.3647
abstract: Csiszar's f-divergence of two probability distributions was extended to the quantum case by the author in 1985. In the quantum setting positive semidefinite matrices are in the place of probability distributions and the quantum generalization is called quasi-entropy which is related to some other important concepts as covariance, quadratic costs, Fisher information, Cramer-Rao inequality and uncertainty relation. A conjecture about the scalar curvature of a Fisher information geometry is explained. The described subjects are overviewed in details in the matrix setting, but at the very end the von Neumann algebra approach is sketched shortly.

id: 0909.4005
title: Coherent spin control by electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations
authors: Jing Wang, Ren-Bao Liu, B.-F. Zhu, L. J. Sham, D. G. Steel
comments: 7 pages including 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053833 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4005
abstract: In coherent control, electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations usually cause coherence loss through irreversible spontaneous emission. However, since the dissipation via emission is essentially due to correlation of the fluctuations, when emission ends in a superposition of multiple final states, correlation between different pathways may build up if the "which-way" information is not fully resolved (i.e., the emission spectrum is broader than the transition energy range). Such correlation can be exploited for spin-flip control in a $\Lambda$-type three-level system, which manifests itself as an all-optical spin echo in nonlinear optics with two orders of optical fields saved as compared with stimulated Raman processes. This finding represents a new class of optical nonlinearity induced by electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations.

id: 0909.4676
title: Poincare-Snyder Relativity with Quantization
authors: Otto C. W. Kong, Hung-Yi Lee
comments: 17 pages in revtex, no figure
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4676
abstract: Based on a linear realization formulation of a quantum relativity -- the proposed relativity for quantum `space-time', we introduce the Poincar\'e-Snyder relativity and Snyder relativity as relativities in between the latter and the well known Galilean and Einstein cases. We discuss how the Poincar\'e-Snyder relativity may provide a stronger framework for the description of the usual (Einstein) relativistic quantum mechanics and beyond. In particular, we discuss a geometric quantization picture through the U(1) central extension of the relativity group, which had been establish to work well for the Galilean case but not for the Einstein case. We discuss similarities and differences between our Poincar\'e-Snyder picture with a still not fully understood $\sigma$ variable as the `evolution' parameter and some use of an invariant time or the proper time parameter in some earlier formulations with very similar mathematical structure. The study is a first step towards the investigation of physics of the $\sigma$ variable at the Poincar\'e-Snyder setting, plausible leading to experimental signatures to be studied.

id: 0909.4606
title: A Stepwise Planned Approach to the Solution of Hilbert's Sixth Problem. I : Noncommutative Symplectic Geometry and Hamiltonian Mechanics
authors: Tulsi Dass
comments: 61 pages; some modifications in text; improved treatment of noncommutative Noether's theorem; results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.4606
abstract: This series of papers is devoted to an open-ended project aimed at the solution of Hilbert's sixth problem (concerning joint axiomatization of physics and probability theory) proposed to be constructed in the framework of an all-embracing mechanics. In this first paper, the bare skeleton of such a mechanics is constructed in the form of noncommutative Hamiltonian mechanics (NHM) which combines elements of noncommutative symplectic geometry and noncommutative probability in the framework of topological superalgebras; it includes, besides NHM basics, a treatment of Lie group actions in NHM and noncommutative analogues of the momentum map, Poincar$\acute{e}$-Cartan form and the symplectic version of Noether's theorem. Canonically induced symplectic structure on the (skew) tensor product of two symplectic superalgebras (needed in the description of interaction between systems) is shown to exist if and only if either both system superalgebras are supercommutative or both non-supercommutative with a `quantum symplectic structure' characterized by a \emph{universal} Planck type constant; the presence of such a universal constant is, therefore, \emph{dictated} by the formalism. This provides proper foundation for an autonomous development of quantum mechanics as a universal mechanics.

id: 0909.1258
title: Classical nonintegrability of a quantum chaotic SU(3) Hamiltonian system
authors: Adam Sawicki, Marek Ku?
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.1258
abstract: We prove nonintegrability of a model Hamiltonian system defined on the Lie algebra $\mathfrak{su}_3$ suitable for investigation of connections between classical and quantum characteristics of chaos.

id: 0909.2678
title: Model of Extended Mechanics and Non-Local Hidden Variables for Quantum Theory
authors: Timur F. Kamalov
comments: 7 pages, the talk on the 11th International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations/4th Feynman festival
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research, Volume 30, Number 5, 2009, p.466-471.
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0909.2678
abstract: Newtonian physics is describes macro-objects sufficiently well, however it does not describe microobjects. A model of Extended Mechanics for Quantum Theory is based on an axiomatic generalization of Newtonian classical laws to arbitrary reference frames postulating the description of body dynamics by differential equations with higher derivatives of coordinates with respect to time but not only of second order ones and follows from Mach principle. In that case the Lagrangian $L(t,q,\dot{q},\ddot{q},...,\dot {q}^{(n)},...)$ depends on higher derivatives of coordinates with respect to time. The kinematic state of a body is considered to be defined if n-th derivative of the body coordinate with respect to time is a constant (i.e. finite). First, kinematic state of a free body is postulated to invariable in an arbitrary reference frame. Second, if the kinematic invariant of the reference frame is the n-th order derivative of coordinate with respect to time, then the body dynamics is describes by a 2n-th order differential equation. For example, in a uniformly accelerated reference frame all free particles have the same acceleration equal to the reference frame invariant, i.e. reference frame acceleration. These bodies are described by third-order differential equation in a uniformly accelerated reference frame.

