id: 0910.0016
title: Long-distance entanglement in many-body atomic and optical systems
authors: Salvatore M. Giampaolo, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 16 pages, 22 figures. Added detailed discussion on resilience against imperfections and disorder
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 025019 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0016
abstract: We discuss the phenomenon of long-distance entanglement in the ground state of quantum spin models, its use in high-fidelity and robust quantum communication, and its realization in many-body systems of ultracold atoms in optical lattices and in arrays of coupled optical cavities. We investigate different patterns of site-dependent interaction couplings, singling out two general settings: Patterns that allow for perfect long-distance entanglement (LDE) in the ground state of the system, namely such that the end-to-end entanglement remains finite in the thermodynamic limit, and patterns of quasi long-distance entanglement (QLDE) in the ground state of the system, namely, such such that the end-to-end entanglement vanishes with a very slow power-law decay as the length of the spin chain is increased. We discuss physical realizations of these models in ensembles of ultracold bosonic atoms loaded in optical lattices. We show how, using either suitably engineered super-lattice structures or exploiting the presence of edge impurities in lattices with single periodicity, it is possible to realize models endowed with nonvanishing LDE or QLDE. We then study how to realize models that optimize the robustness of QLDE at finite temperature and in the presence of imperfections using suitably engineered arrays of coupled optical cavities. We finally introduce LDE-based schemes of long-distance quantum teleportation in linear arrays of coupled cavities and show that they allow for high-fidelity and high success rates even at moderately high temperatures.

id: 0910.0050
title: Two-qubit entanglement dynamics for two different non-Markovian environments
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Rosario Lo Franco, Sabrina Maniscalco, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T 140 (2010) 014014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0050
abstract: We study the time behavior of entanglement between two noninteracting qubits each immersed in its own environment for two different non-Markovian conditions: a high-$Q$ cavity slightly off-resonant with the qubit transition frequency and a nonperfect photonic band-gap, respectively. We find that revivals and retardation of entanglement loss may occur by adjusting the cavity-qubit detuning, in the first case, while partial entanglement trapping occurs in non-ideal photonic-band gap.

id: 0910.0074
title: Storage and Retrieval of Thermal Light in Warm Atomic Vapor
authors: Young-Wook Cho, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033830 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0074
abstract: We report slowed propagation and storage and retrieval of thermal light in warm rubidium vapor using the effect of electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT). We first demonstrate slowed-propagation of the probe thermal light beam through an EIT medium by measuring the second-order correlation function of the light field using the Hanbury-Brown$-$Twiss interferometer. We also report an experimental study on the effect of the EIT slow-light medium on the temporal coherence of thermal light. Finally, we demonstrate the storage and retrieval of thermal light beam in the EIT medium. The direct measurement of the photon number statistics of the retrieved light field shows that the photon number statistics is preserved during the storage and retrieval process.

id: 0910.0109
title: Coherence properties of discrete static kinks
authors: H. Landa
comments: Master's thesis, Tel Aviv University, 45 pages ; no changes to the document
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0109
abstract: A chain of interacting particles subject also to a nonlinear on-site potential admits stable soliton-like configurations : static kinks. The linear normal-modes around such a kink contain a discrete set of localized, gap-separated modes. Quantization of the Hamiltonian in these modes results in an interacting system of phonons. We investigate numerically the coherence properties of such localized modes at low temperatures using a non-Markovian master equation. We show that low decoherence rates can be achieved in these nonlinear configurations for a surprisingly long time. If realized in the ion trap, kink internal modes may be advantageously used for Quantum Information Processing.

id: 0910.0113
title: Quantum coherence of discrete kink solitons in ion traps
authors: H. Landa, S. Marcovitch, A. Retzker, M. B. Plenio, B. Reznik
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures ; minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 043004 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0113
abstract: We propose to realize quantized discrete kinks with cold trapped ions. We show that long-lived solitonlike configurations are manifested as deformations of the zigzag structure in the linear Paul trap, and are topologically protected in a circular trap with an odd number of ions. We study the quantum-mechanical time evolution of a high-frequency, gap separated internal mode of a static kink and find long coherence times when the system is cooled to the Doppler limit. The spectral properties of the internal modes make them ideally suited for manipulation using current technology. This suggests that ion traps can be used to test quantum-mechanical effects with solitons and explore ideas for the utilization of the solitonic internal-modes as carriers of quantum information.

id: 0910.0152
title: Producing high fidelity single photons with optimal brightness via waveguided parametric down-conversion
authors: K. Laiho, K. N. Cassemiro, Ch. Silberhorn
comments: 15 pages, 10 Figures, published version
journal: Optics Express Vol. 17, Iss. 25, pp. 22823-22837 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0152
abstract: Parametric down-conversion (PDC) offers the possibility to control the fabrication of non-Gaussian states such as Fock states. However, in conventional PDC sources energy and momentum conservation introduce strict frequency and photon number correlations, which impact the fidelity of the prepared state. In our work we optimize the preparation of single-photon Fock states from the emission of waveguided PDC via spectral filtering. We study the effect of correlations via photon number resolving detection and quantum interference. Our measurements show how the reduction of mixedness due to filtering can be evaluated. Interfering the prepared photon with a coherent state we establish an experimentally measured fidelity of the produced target state of 78%.

id: 0910.0162
title: Broadband adiabatic conversion of light polarization
authors: U. Gaubatz, A. A. Rangelov, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: Optics Communications,Volume 283, Issue 20, 15 October 2010, Pages 3891-3894
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0162
abstract: A broadband technique for robust adiabatic rotation and conversion of light polarization is proposed. It uses the analogy between the equation describing the polarization state of light propagating through an optically anisotropic medium and the Schrodinger equation describing coherent laser excitation of a three-state atom. The proposed techniques is analogous to the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) technique in quantum optics; it is applicable to a wide range of frequencies and it is robust to variations in the ropagation length.

id: 0910.0192
title: Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: David J. Fernandez C
comments: 36 pages, 8 figures, lectures delivered at the Advanced Summer School 2009, Cinvestav (Mexico City), July 2009
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.1287:3-36,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0192
abstract: Supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSY QM) is a powerful tool for generating new potentials with known spectra departing from an initial solvable one. In these lecture notes we will present some general formulas concerning SUSY QM of first and second order for one-dimensional arbitrary systems, and we will illustrate the method through the trigonometric Poschl-Teller potentials. Some intrinsically related subjects, as the algebraic structure inherited by the new Hamiltonians and the corresponding coherent states will be analyzed. The technique will be as well implemented for periodic potentials, for which the corresponding spectrum is composed of allowed bands separated by energy gaps.

id: 0910.0195
title: Exact solution of Markovian master equations for quadratic fermi systems: thermal baths, open XY spin chains, and non-equilibrium phase transition
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Bojan Zunkovic
comments: 24 pages, 12 figures, submitted to New Journal of Physics, Focus issue "Quantum Information and Many-Body Theory"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0195
abstract: We generalize the method of third quantization to a unified exact treatment of Redfield and Lindblad master equations for open quadratic systems of n fermions in terms of diagonalization of 4n x 4n matrix. Non-equilibrium thermal driving in terms of the Redfield equation is analyzed in detail. We explain how to compute all physically relevant quantities, such as non-equilibrium expectation values of local observables, various entropies or information measures, or time evolution and properties of relaxation. We also discuss how to exactly treat explicitly time dependent problems. The general formalism is then applied to study a thermally driven open XY spin 1/2 chain. We find that recently proposed non-equilibrium quantum phase transition in the open XY chain survives the thermal driving within the Redfield model. In particular, the phase of long-range magnetic correlations can be characterized by hypersensitivity of the non-equilibrium-steady state to external (bath or bulk) parameters. Studying the heat transport we find negative thermal conductance for sufficiently strong thermal driving, as well as non-monotonic dependence of the heat current on the strength of the bath coupling.

id: 0910.0231
title: Stable classical structures in dissipative quantum chaotic systems
authors: Lisandro A. Raviola, Gabriel G. Carlo, Alejandro M. F. Rivas
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0231
abstract: We study the stability of classical structures in chaotic systems when a dissipative quantum evolution takes place. We consider a paradigmatic model, the quantum baker map in contact with a heat bath at finite temperature. We analyze the behavior of the purity, fidelity and Husimi distributions corresponding to initial states localized on short periodic orbits (scar functions) and map eigenstates. Scar functions, that have a fundamental role in the semiclassical description of chaotic systems, emerge as very robust against environmental perturbations. This is confirmed by the study of other states localized on classical structures. Also, purity and fidelity show a complementary behavior as decoherence measures.

id: 0910.0243
title: Energy Spread of the Unstable State and Proton Decay Observation
authors: Giovanni Salesi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A142, 453 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0243
abstract: Because of the extreme smallness of the energy spread of the unstable state describing the decaying proton, due in its turn to the anomalous smallness of the resonance width expected for the proton decay, the application of the Heisenberg time-energy relation predicts the measurement times for the proton decay observation to be so long as to forbid a "continuous" observation of the decay. This might account for the missing observation of the proton decay.

id: 0910.0287
title: Shor's Algorithm from the Mindset of Quantum Oracles
authors: Luigi Cimmino
comments: 8 pages, report on deterministic quantum measuremet theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0287
abstract: The aim of this work is to show a brand-new way of making deterministic Quantum Computing (short QC), in the sense of Theory of Calculability, by meaning of unitary evolution. We start from the original Shor's Algorithm to explain how the newest one works, at least compared to theory. We will give a new conceptual foundation of QC, resulting from a set of conventional and well known results of Calculability and Quantum Mechanics. In the practice, if that can be used in its general sense, we will show an inaccessible relativized process which let us able to obtain same results with the same outlay in the time resource as the Shor's one for factorizing a given number n. Then the QO-system will be a prototype way giving to the relativized calculus the possibility to put in to practice an oracle, kind of object having till now abstract nature. The basic physical tool of our theorization, we call Quantum State Selection, consists in the twin-combined measurement process through positive valued measure operator (POVM), needed to provide the quantum oracle's answer.

id: 0910.0300
title: Factorization and entanglement in general XYZ spin arrays in non-uniform transverse fields
authors: R. Rossignoli, N. Canosa, J.M. Matera
comments: 6 pages, figures added
journal: Physical Review A 80, 062325 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0300
abstract: We determine the conditions for the existence of a pair of degenerate parity breaking separable eigenstates in general arrays of arbitrary spins connected through $XYZ$ couplings of arbitrary range and placed in a transverse field, not necessarily uniform. Sufficient conditions under which they are ground states are also provided. It is then shown that in finite chains, the associated definite parity states, which represent the actual ground state in the immediate vicinity of separability, can exhibit entanglement between any two spins regardless of the coupling range or separation, with the reduced state of any two subsystems equivalent to that of pair of qubits in an entangled mixed state. The corresponding concurrences and negativities are exactly determined. The same properties persist in the mixture of both definite parity states. These effects become specially relevant in systems close to the $XXZ$ limit. The possibility of field induced alternating separable solutions with controllable entanglement side limits is also discussed. Illustrative numerical results for the negativity between the first and the $j^{\rm th}$ spin in an open spin $s$ chain for different values of $s$ and $j$ are as well provided.

id: 0910.0312
title: Practical issues in quantum-key-distribution post-processing
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Xiongfeng Ma, H. F. Chau
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012318 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0312
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) is a secure key generation method between two distant parties by wisely exploiting properties of quantum mechanics. In QKD, experimental measurement outcomes on quantum states are transformed by the two parties to a secret key. This transformation is composed of many logical steps (as guided by security proofs), which together will ultimately determine the length of the final secret key and its security. We detail the procedure for performing such classical post-processing taking into account practical concerns (including the finite-size effect and authentication and encryption for classical communications). This procedure is directly applicable to realistic QKD experiments, and thus serves as a recipe that specifies what post-processing operations are needed and what the security level is for certain lengths of the keys. Our result is applicable to the BB84 protocol with a single or entangled photon source.

id: 0910.0356
title: The dissipative two-level system under strong ac-driving: a combination of Floquet and Van Vleck perturbation theory
authors: Johannes Hausinger, Milena Grifoni
comments: 21 pages, 18 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022117 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0356
abstract: We study the dissipative dynamics of a two-level system (TLS) exposed to strong ac driving. By combing Floquet theory with Van Vleck perturbation theory in the TLS tunneling matrix element, we diagonalize the time-dependent Hamiltonian and provide corrections to the renormalized Rabi frequency of the TLS, which are valid for both a biased and unbiased TLS and go beyond the known high-frequency and rotating-wave results. In order to mimic environmental influences on the TLS, we couple the system weakly to a thermal bath and solve analytically the corresponding Floquet-Bloch-Redfield master equation. We give a closed expression for the relaxation and dephasing rates of the TLS and discuss their behavior under variation of the driving amplitude. Further, we examine the robustness of coherent destruction of tunneling (CDT) and driving-induced tunneling oscillations (DITO). We show that also for a moderate driving frequency an almost complete suppression of tunneling can be achieved for short times and demonstrate the sensitiveness of DITO to a change of the external parameters.

id: 0910.0362
title: Optimal Control for Open Quantum Systems: Qubits and Quantum Gates
authors: Robert Roloff, Markus Wenin, Walter P?tz
comments: 27 pages, 18 figures
journal: J. Comput. Theor. Nanosci. 6, 1837 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0362
abstract: This article provides a review of recent developments in the formulation and execution of optimal control strategies for the dynamics of quantum systems. A brief introduction to the concept of optimal control, the dynamics of of open quantum systems, and quantum information processing is followed by a presentation of recent developments regarding the two main tasks in this context: state-specific and state-independent optimal control. For the former, we present an extension of conventional theory (Pontryagin's principle) to quantum systems which undergo a non-Markovian time-evolution. Owing to its importance for the realization of quantum information processing, the main body of the review, however, is devoted to state-independent optimal control. Here, we address three different approaches: an approach which treats dissipative effects from the environment in lowest-order perturbation theory, a general method based on the time--evolution superoperator concept, as well as one based on the Kraus representation of the time-evolution superoperator. Applications which illustrate these new methods focus on single and double qubits (quantum gates) whereby the environment is modeled either within the Lindblad equation or a bath of bosons (spin-boson model). While these approaches are widely applicable, we shall focus our attention to solid-state based physical realizations, such as semiconductor- and superconductor-based systems. While an attempt is made to reference relevant and representative work throughout the community, the exposition will focus mainly on work which has emerged from our own group.

id: 0910.0396
title: Geometric phases and hidden gauge symmetry
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 6 pages. To be published in the Bulletin of Asia-Pacific Center for Theoretical Physics (APCTP)
journal: APCTP Bull.23-24:29-35,2009; APCTP Bull.23-24 2009:29-35,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0396
abstract: The second quantized approach to geometric phases is reviewed. The second quantization generally induces a hidden local (time-dependent) gauge symmetry. This gauge symmetry defines the parallel transport and holonomy, and thus it controls all the known geometric phases, either adiabatic or non-adiabatic, in a unified manner. The transitional region from the adiabatic to non-adiabatic phases is thus analyzed in a quantitative way. It is then shown that the topology of the adiabatic Berry's phase is trivial in a precise sense and also the adiabatic phase is rather fragile against the non-adiabatic deformation. In this formulation, the notion such as the projective Hilbert space does not appear.

id: 0910.0414
title: Atom detection in a two-mode optical cavity with intermediate coupling: Autocorrelation studies
authors: D. G. Norris, E. J. Cahoon, L. A. Orozco
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 043830 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0414
abstract: We use an optical cavity in the regime of intermediate coupling between atom and cavity mode to detect single moving atoms. Degenerate polarization modes allow excitation of the atoms in one mode and collection of spontaneous emission in the other, while keeping separate the two sources of light; we obtain a higher confidence and efficiency of detection by adding cavity-enhanced Faraday rotation. Both methods greatly benefit from coincidence detection of photons, attaining fidelities in excess of 99% in less than 1 microsecond. Detailed studies of the second-order intensity autocorrelation function of light from the signal mode reveal evidence of antibunched photon emissions and the dynamics of single-atom transits.

id: 0910.0417
title: Optimized Dynamical Decoupling for Time Dependent Hamiltonians
authors: Stefano Pasini, G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, vol. 43, page 132001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0417
abstract: The validity of optimized dynamical decoupling (DD) is extended to analytically time dependent Hamiltonians. As long as an expansion in time is possible the time dependence of the initial Hamiltonian does not affect the efficiency of optimized dynamical decoupling (UDD, Uhrig DD). This extension provides the analytic basis for (i) applying UDD to effective Hamiltonians in time dependent reference frames, for instance in the interaction picture of fast modes and for (ii) its application in hierarchical DD schemes with $\pi$ pulses about two perpendicular axes in spin space. to suppress general decoherence, i.e., longitudinal relaxation and dephasing.

id: 0910.0418
title: Emission of photon pairs at discontinuities of nonlinearity in spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Antonin Luks, Ondrej Haderka
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 (2009) 043837
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0418
abstract: In order to fulfil the continuity requirements for electric- and magnetic-field amplitudes at discontinuities of chi2 nonlinearity additional photon pairs have to be emitted in the area of discontinuity. Generalized two-photon spectral amplitudes can be used to describe properties of photon pairs generated in this process that we call surface spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The spectral structure of such photon pairs is similar to that derived for photon pairs generated in the volume. Surface and volume contributions to spontaneous down-conversion can be comparable as an example of nonlinear layered structures shows.

id: 0910.0427
title: Ultrafast control of nuclear spins using only microwave pulses: towards switchable solid-state quantum gates
authors: George Mitrikas, Yiannis Sanakis, Georgios Papavassiliou
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0427
abstract: We demonstrate the control of the alpha-proton nuclear spin, I=1/2, coupled to the stable radical CH(COOH)2, S=1/2, in a gamma-irradiated malonic acid single crystal using only microwave pulses. We show that, depending on the state of the electron spin mS=+/-1/2, the nuclear spin can be locked in a desired state or oscillate between mI=+1/2 and mI=-1/2 on the nanosecond time scale. This approach provides a fast and efficient way of controlling nuclear spin qubits and also enables the design of switchable spin-based quantum gates by addressing only the electron spin.

id: 0910.0472
title: Random tensor theory: extending random matrix theory to random product states
authors: Andris Ambainis, Aram W. Harrow, Matthew B. Hastings
comments: 35 pages. v2: added a discussion of related work in convex geometry and a new result about the smallest eigenvalue
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., vol. 310, no. 1, pp. 25-74 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0472
abstract: We consider a problem in random matrix theory that is inspired by quantum information theory: determining the largest eigenvalue of a sum of p random product states in (C^d)^{otimes k}, where k and p/d^k are fixed while d grows. When k=1, the Marcenko-Pastur law determines (up to small corrections) not only the largest eigenvalue ((1+sqrt{p/d^k})^2) but the smallest eigenvalue (min(0,1-sqrt{p/d^k})^2) and the spectral density in between. We use the method of moments to show that for k>1 the largest eigenvalue is still approximately (1+sqrt{p/d^k})^2 and the spectral density approaches that of the Marcenko-Pastur law, generalizing the random matrix theory result to the random tensor case. Our bound on the largest eigenvalue has implications both for sampling from a particular heavy-tailed distribution and for a recently proposed quantum data-hiding and correlation-locking scheme due to Leung and Winter. Since the matrices we consider have neither independent entries nor unitary invariance, we need to develop new techniques for their analysis. The main contribution of this paper is to give three different methods for analyzing mixtures of random product states: a diagrammatic approach based on Gaussian integrals, a combinatorial method that looks at the cycle decompositions of permutations and a recursive method that uses a variant of the Schwinger-Dyson equations.

id: 0910.0497
title: Relativistically invariant photonic wave packets
authors: Kamil Bradler
comments: 16 pages, updated & rewritten & some issues clarified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0497
abstract: We present a photonic wave packet construction which is immune against the decoherence effects induced by the action of the Lorentz group. The amplitudes of a pure quantum state representing the wave packet remain invariant irrespective of the reference frame into which the wave packet has been transformed. Transmitted information is encoded in the helicity degrees of freedom of two correlated momentum modes. The helicity encoding is considered to be particularly suitable for free-space communication. The integral part of the story is information retrieval on the receiver's side. We employed probably the simplest possible helicity (polarization) projection measurement originally studied by Peres and Terno. Remarkably, the same conditions ensuring the invariance of the wave packet also guarantee perfect distinguishability in the process of measuring the helicity.

id: 0910.0551
title: Tipping time of a quantum rod
authors: Onkar Parrikar
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, To appear in Euro. J. Phys
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 31 (2010) 317-324.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0551
abstract: The behaviour of a quantum rod, pivoted at its lower end on an impenetrable floor and restricted to moving in the vertical plane under the gravitational potential is studied analytically under the approximation that the rod is initially localised to a small-enough neighbourhood around the point of classical unstable equilibrium. It is shown that the rod evolves out of this neighbourhood. The time required for this to happen, i.e., the tipping time is calculated using the semi-classical path integral. It is shown that equilibrium is recovered in the classical limit, and that our calculations are consistent with the uncertainty principle.

id: 0910.0573
title: Topological color codes on Union Jack lattices: A stable implementation of the whole Clifford group
authors: Helmut G. Katzgraber, H. Bombin, Ruben S. Andrist, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012319 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0573
abstract: We study the error threshold of topological color codes on Union Jack lattices that allow for the full implementation of the whole Clifford group of quantum gates. After mapping the error-correction process onto a statistical mechanical random 3-body Ising model on a Union Jack lattice, we compute its phase diagram in the temperature-disorder plane using Monte Carlo simulations. Surprisingly, topological color codes on Union Jack lattices have similar error stability than color codes on triangular lattices, as well as the Kitaev toric code. The enhanced computational capabilities of the topological color codes on Union Jack lattices with respect to triangular lattices and the toric code demonstrate the inherent robustness of this implementation.

id: 0910.0585
title: Scalable quantum information processing with atomic ensembles and flying photons
authors: Feng Mei, Mang Feng, Ya-Fei Yu, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0585
abstract: We present a scheme for scalable quantum information processing (QIP) with atomic ensembles and flying photons. Using the Rydberg blockade, we encode the qubits in the collective atomic states, which could be manipulated fast and easily due to the enhanced interaction, in comparison to the single-atom case. We demonstrate that our proposed gating could be applied to generation of two-dimensional cluster states for measurement-based quantum computation. Moreover, the atomic ensembles also function as quantum repeaters useful for long distance quantum state transfer. We show the possibility of our scheme to work in bad cavity or in weak coupling regime, which could much relax the experimental requirement. The efficient coherent operations on the ensemble qubits enable our scheme to be switchable between quantum computation and quantum communication using atomic ensembles.

id: 0910.0630
title: N-qubit states as points on the Bloch sphere
authors: H. M?kel?, A. Messina
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, contribution to CEWQO 2009 proceedings. v2: Minor changes, published version
journal: Physica Scripta T140, 014054 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0630
abstract: We show how the Majorana representation can be used to express the pure states of an N-qubit system as points on the Bloch sphere. We compare this geometrical representation of N-qubit states with an alternative one, proposed recently by the present authors.

id: 0910.0660
title: Universal linear Bogoliubov transformations through one-way quantum computation
authors: Ryuji Ukai, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Noriaki Iwata, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 81 (2010) 032315
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0660
abstract: We show explicitly how to realize an arbitrary linear unitary Bogoliubov transformation (LUBO) on a multi-mode quantum state through homodyne-based one-way quantum computation. Any LUBO can be approximated by means of a fixed, finite-sized, sufficiently squeezed Gaussian cluster state that allows for the implementation of beam splitters (in form of three-mode connection gates) and general one-mode LUBOs. In particular, we demonstrate that a linear four-mode cluster state is a sufficient resource for an arbitrary one-mode LUBO. Arbitrary input quantum states including non-Gaussian states could be efficiently attached to the cluster through quantum teleportation.

id: 0910.0709
title: Fast optimal frictionless atom cooling in harmonic traps
authors: Xi Chen, A. Ruschhaupt, S. Schmidt, A. del Campo, D. Guery-Odelin, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 063002 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0709
abstract: A method is proposed to cool down atoms in a harmonic trap without phase-space compression as in a perfectly slow adiabatic expansion, i.e., keeping the populations of the instantaneous initial and final levels invariant, but in a much shorter time. This may require that the harmonic trap becomes an expulsive parabolic potential in some time interval. The cooling times achieved are also shorter than previous minimal times using optimal-control bang-bang methods and real frequencies.

id: 0910.0729
title: Entanglement of two individual atoms using the Rydberg blockade
authors: A. Browaeys, A. Ga?tan, T. Wilk, C. Evellin, J. Wolters, Y. Miroshnychenko, P. Grangier, P. Pillet, D. Comparat, A. Chotia, M. Viteau
comments: Proceeding of the 19th International Conference on Laser Spectroscopy ICOLS 2009, 7-13 June 2009, Hokkaido, Japan
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0729
abstract: We report on our recent progress on the manipulation of single rubidium atoms trapped in optical tweezers and the generation of entanglement between two atoms, each individually trapped in neighboring tweezers. To create an entangled state of two atoms in their ground states, we make use of the Rydberg blockade mechanism. The degree of entanglement is measured using global rotations of the internal states of both atoms. Such internal state rotations on a single atom are demonstrated with a high fidelity.

id: 0910.0744
title: Non-existence of bipartite bound entanglement with negative partial transposition
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: We provide a more sophisticated proof, since we could not overcome the criticism that the used angles are not angles between vectors. Comments are welcome, 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0744
abstract: Bound entanglement with a nonpositive partial transposition (NPT) does not exist. For any NPT entangled state a distillation procedure can be based on a certain number of copies. This number is the minimal Schmidt rank of a pure state needed to witness the NPT entanglement under study.

id: 0910.0762
title: Machine Learning for Precise Quantum Measurement
authors: Alexander Hentschel, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: Physical Review Letters 104 (2010), 063603
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0762
abstract: Adaptive feedback schemes are promising for quantum-enhanced measurements yet are complicated to design. Machine learning can autonomously generate algorithms in a classical setting. Here we adapt machine learning for quantum information and use our framework to generate autonomous adaptive feedback schemes for quantum measurement. In particular our approach replaces guesswork in quantum measurement by a logical, fully-automatic, programmable routine. We show that our method yields schemes that outperform the best known adaptive scheme for interferometric phase estimation.

id: 0910.0788
title: Macroscopic entanglement between a Bose Einstein condensate and a superconducting loop
authors: Mandip Singh
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17, Issue 4, pp. 2600-2610 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0788
abstract: We theoretically study macroscopic entanglement between a magnetically trapped Bose-Einstein condensate and a superconducting loop. We treat the superconducting loop in a quantum superposition of two different flux states coupling with the magnetic trap to generate macroscopic entanglement. The scheme also provides a platform to investigate interferometry with an entangled Bose Einstein condensate and to explore physics at the quantum-classical interface.

id: 0910.0802
title: Scattering theory of multilevel atoms interacting with arbitrary radiation fields
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Peter Domokos, Peter Horak, Tim Freegarde
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Scr. T140 014010 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0802
abstract: We present a generic transfer matrix approach for the description of the interaction of atoms possessing multiple ground state and excited state sublevels with light fields. This model allows us to treat multi-level atoms as classical scatterers in light fields modified by, in principle, arbitrarily complex optical components such as mirrors, resonators, dispersive or dichroic elements, or filters. We verify our formalism for two prototypical sub-Doppler cooling mechanisms and show that it agrees with the standard literature.

id: 0910.0825
title: Free Particle Eigenfunctions of Schrodinger Equation with Quantized Space-time
authors: Manjit Bhatia, P. Narayana Swamy
comments: submitted for publication, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0825
abstract: It is well-known that the coordinate as a continuous variable, consisting of a set of all points between 0 and $L$ contradicts the observability of measurement. In other words there might exist a fundamental length in nature, such as the Planck length $\lambda_P$, so that it is not possible to measure a position coordinate with accuracy smaller than this fundamental length. It is therefore necessary to investigate the formulation of quantum mechanics using only discrete variables as coordinates. To investigate all of quantum mechanics or any branch of physics from this approach is of course a daunting task and thus it is worthwhile to consider a specific simple problem in order to formulate the basic ideas. In this note we compare the solutions of Schrodinger equation for one-dimensional free particle under the usual space-time continuum with those that are obtained when space-time is assumed to be quantized using a simple model. For this purpose, we replace the derivatives occurring in Schrodinger equation with the corresponding discrete derivatives. We compute the probability density (and the probability current) under the two scenarios; they turn out to be quite different in the two cases. We also obtain the operator identity for the commutator $[p,x]^q$ under the assumption of quantized space-time and contrast it with the usual commutator $[p,x]$.

id: 0910.0913
title: Convergence rates for arbitrary statistical moments of random quantum circuits
authors: Winton G. Brown, Lorenza Viola
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure 2nd revised version with supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0913
abstract: We consider a class of random quantum circuits where at each step a gate from a universal set is applied to a random pair of qubits, and determine how quickly averages of arbitrary finite-degree polynomials in the matrix elements of the resulting unitary converge to Haar measure averages. This is accomplished by establishing an exact mapping between the superoperator that describes t-order moments on n qubits and a multilevel SU(4^t) Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Hamiltonian. For arbitrary fixed t, we find that the spectral gap scales as 1/n in the thermodynamic limit. Our results imply that random quantum circuits yield an efficient implementation of \epsilon-approximate unitary t-designs.

id: 0910.0964
title: Grover Energy Transfer at Relativistic Speeds
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 455301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0964
abstract: Grover's algorithm for quantum search can also be applied to classical energy transfer. The procedure takes a system in which the total energy is equally distributed among $N$ subsystems and transfers most of the it to one marked subsystem. We show that in a relativistic setting the efficiency of this procedure can be improved. We will consider the transfer of relativistic kinetic energy in a series of elastic collisions. In this case, the number of steps of the energy transfer procedure approaches 1 as the initial velocities of the objects become closer to the speed of light. This is a consequence of introducing non-linearities in the procedure. However, the maximum attainable transfer will depend on the particular combination of speed and number of objects. In the procedure, we will use $N$ elements, like in the classical case, instead of the $log_2(N)$ states of the quantum algorithm.

id: 0910.0986
title: The Tensor Rank of the Tripartite State $\ket{W}^{\otimes n}$}
authors: Nengkun Yu, Eric Chitambar, Cheng Guo, Runyao Duan
comments: Comments: 3 pages (Revtex 4). Minor corrections to Theorem 1. Presentation refined. Main results unchanged. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 014301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0986
abstract: Tensor rank refers to the number of product states needed to express a given multipartite quantum state. Its non-additivity as an entanglement measure has recently been observed. In this note, we estimate the tensor rank of multiple copies of the tripartite state $\ket{W}=\tfrac{1}{\sqrt{3}}(\ket{100}+\ket{010}+\ket{001})$. Both an upper bound and a lower bound of this rank are derived. In particular, it is proven that the tensor rank of $\ket{W}^{\otimes 2}$ is seven, thus resolving a previously open problem. Some implications of this result are discussed in terms of transformation rates between $\ket{W}^{\otimes n}$ and multiple copies of the state $\ket{GHZ}=\tfrac{1}{\sqrt{2}}(\ket{000}+\ket{111})$.

id: 0910.0994
title: Distinguishability Measures and Entropies for General Probabilistic Theories
authors: Gen Kimura, Koji Nuida, Hideki Imai
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, Related but independent works (arXiv:0909.4801 and arXiv:0909.5075) have appeared recently while we were completing this paper. In v2, we added the reference (arXiv:0909.4801); In v3, "mimimum" is changed to "infimum" in the definition of fidelity so that it is more rigorous
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 66, 175 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0994
abstract: As a part of the construction of an information theory based on general probabilistic theories, we propose and investigate the several distinguishability measures and "entropies" in general probabilistic theories. As their applications, no-cloning theorems, information-disturbance theorems are reformulated, and a bound of the accessible informations is discussed in any general probabilistic theories, not resorting to quantum theory.

id: 0910.1001
title: Enhanced squeezing with parity kicks
authors: Xiao-Tong Ni, Yu-Xi Liu, L C Kwek, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1001
abstract: Using exponential quadratic operators, we present a general framework for studying the exact dynamics of system-bath interaction in which the Hamiltonian is described by the quadratic form of bosonic operators. To demonstrate the versatility of the approach, we study how the environment affects the squeezing of quadrature components of the system. We further propose that the squeezing can be enhanced when parity kicks are applied to the system.

id: 0910.1023
title: Design of quantum Fourier transforms and quantum algorithms by using circulant Hamiltonians
authors: B. T. Torosov, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022329 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1023
abstract: We propose a technique for design of quantum Fourier transforms, and ensuing quantum algorithms, in a single interaction step by engineered Hamiltonians of circulant symmetry. The method uses adiabatic evolution and is robust against fluctuations of the interaction parameters as long as the Hamiltonian retains a circulant symmetry.

id: 0910.1024
title: Universal quantum computation using the discrete time quantum walk
authors: Neil B. Lovett, Sally Cooper, Matthew Everitt, Matthew Trevers, Viv Kendon
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures. Updated after referee comments - Section V expanded and minor changes to other parts of the text
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 81, 042330 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1024
abstract: A proof that continuous time quantum walks are universal for quantum computation, using unweighted graphs of low degree, has recently been presented by Childs [PRL 102 180501 (2009)]. We present a version based instead on the discrete time quantum walk. We show the discrete time quantum walk is able to implement the same universal gate set and thus both discrete and continuous time quantum walks are computational primitives. Additionally we give a set of components on which the discrete time quantum walk provides perfect state transfer.

id: 0910.1042
title: A 24 km fiber-based discretely signaled continuous variable quantum key distribution system
authors: Quyen Dinh Xuan, Zheshen Zhang, Paul L. Voss
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1042
abstract: We report a continuous variable key distribution system that achieves a final secure key rate of 3.45 kb/sec over a distance of 24.2 km of optical fiber. The protocol uses discrete signaling and post-selection to improve reconciliation speed and quantifies security by means of quantum state tomography. Polarization multiplexing and a frequency translation scheme permit transmission of a continuous wave local oscillator and suppression of noise from guided acoustic wave Brillouin scattering by more than 27 dB.

id: 0910.1052
title: A diode laser stabilization scheme for 40Ca+ single ion spectroscopy
authors: F. Rohde, M. Almendros, C. Schuck, J. Huwer, M. Hennrich, J. Eschner
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1052
abstract: We present a scheme for stabilizing multiple lasers at wavelengths between 795 and 866 nm to the same atomic reference line. A reference laser at 852 nm is stabilized to the Cs D2 line using a Doppler-free frequency modulation technique. Through transfer cavities, four lasers are stabilized to the relevant atomic transitions in 40Ca+. The rms linewidth of a transfer-locked laser is measured to be 123 kHz with respect to an independent atomic reference, the Rb D1 line. This stability is confirmed by the comparison of an excitation spectrum of a single 40Ca+ ion to an eight-level Bloch equation model. The measured Allan variance of 10^(-22) at 10 s demonstrates a high degree of stability for time scales up to 100 s.

id: 0910.1062
title: Pointer basis induced by collisional decoherence
authors: Marc Busse, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 26 pages, 9 figures; v2: minimal corrections, corresponds to published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 015303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1062
abstract: We study the emergence and dynamics of pointer states in the motion of a quantum test particle affected by collisional decoherence. These environmentally distinguished states are shown to be exponentially localized solitonic wave functions which evolve according to the classical equations of motion. We explain their formation using the orthogonal unraveling of the master equation, and we demonstrate that the statistical weights of the arising mixture are given by projections of the initial state onto the pointer basis.

id: 0910.1075
title: Thermalization and ergodicity in many-body open quantum systems
authors: Marko Znidaric, Tomaz Prosen, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati, Davide Rossini
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; v2. one new figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 051135 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1075
abstract: We study thermalization in many-body quantum systems locally coupled to an external bath. It is shown that quantum chaotic systems do thermalize, that is, they exhibit relaxation to an invariant ergodic state which, in the bulk, is well approximated by the grand canonical state. Moreover, the resulting ergodic state in the bulk does not depend on the details of the baths. On the other hand, for integrable systems the invariant state does depend on the bath and is different from the grand canonical state.

id: 0910.1116
title: Measurement-based quantum computation
authors: H. J. Briegel, D. E. Browne, W. D¨¹r, R. Raussendorf, M. Van den Nest
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 5 1, 19-26 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1116
abstract: Quantum computation offers a promising new kind of information processing, where the non-classical features of quantum mechanics can be harnessed and exploited. A number of models of quantum computation exist, including the now well-studied quantum circuit model. Although these models have been shown to be formally equivalent, their underlying elementary concepts and the requirements for their practical realization can differ significantly. The new paradigm of measurement-based quantum computation, where the processing of quantum information takes place by rounds of simple measurements on qubits prepared in a highly entangled state, is particularly exciting in this regard. In this article we discuss a number of recent developments in measurement-based quantum computation in both fundamental and practical issues, in particular regarding the power of quantum computation, the protection against noise (fault tolerance) and steps toward experimental realization. Moreover, we highlight a number of surprising connections between this field and other branches of physics and mathematics.

id: 0910.1118
title: Quantum Process Tomography of a Universal Entangling Gate Implemented with Josephson Phase Qubits
authors: Radoslaw C. Bialczak, Markus Ansmann, Max Hofheinz, Erik Lucero, Matthew Neeley, Aaron O'Connell, Daniel Sank, Haohua Wang, James Wenner, Matthias Steffen, Andrew Cleland, John Martinis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1118
abstract: Quantum logic gates must perform properly when operating on their standard input basis states, as well as when operating on complex superpositions of these states. Experiments using superconducting qubits have validated the truth table for particular implementations of e.g. the controlled-NOT gate [1,2], but have not fully characterized gate operation for arbitrary superpositions of input states. Here we demonstrate the use of quantum process tomography (QPT) [3,4] to fully characterize the performance of a universal entangling gate between two superconducting quantum bits. Process tomography permits complete gate analysis, but requires precise preparation of arbitrary input states, control over the subsequent qubit interaction, and simultaneous single-shot measurement of the output states. We use QPT to measure the fidelity of the entangling gate and to quantify the decoherence mechanisms affecting the gate performance. In addition to demonstrating a promising fidelity, our entangling gate has a on/off ratio of 300, a level of adjustable coupling that will become a requirement for future high-fidelity devices. This is the first solid-state demonstration of QPT in a two-qubit system, as solid-state process tomography has previously only been demonstrated with single qubits [5,6].

id: 0910.1150
title: Quantum Transition State Theory for proton transfer reactions in enzymes
authors: Jacques P. Bothma, Joel Gilmore, Ross H. McKenzie
comments: Aspects of the article are discussed at condensedconcepts.blogspot.com
journal: New Journal of Physics 12, 055002 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1150
abstract: We consider the role of quantum effects in the transfer of hyrogen-like species in enzyme-catalysed reactions. This study is stimulated by claims that the observed magnitude and temperature dependence of kinetic isotope effects imply that quantum tunneling below the energy barrier associated with the transition state significantly enhances the reaction rate in many enzymes. We use a path integral approach which provides a general framework to understand tunneling in a quantum system which interacts with an environment at non-zero temperature. Here the quantum system is the active site of the enzyme and the environment is the surrounding protein and water. Tunneling well below the barrier only occurs for temperatures less than a temperature $T_0$ which is determined by the curvature of potential energy surface near the top of the barrier. We argue that for most enzymes this temperature is less than room temperature. For physically reasonable parameters quantum transition state theory gives a quantitative description of the temperature dependence and magnitude of kinetic isotope effects for two classes of enzymes which have been claimed to exhibit signatures of quantum tunneling. The only quantum effects are those associated with the transition state, both reflection at the barrier top and tunneling just below the barrier. We establish that the friction due to the environment is weak and only slightly modifies the reaction rate. Furthermore, at room temperature and for typical energy barriers environmental degrees of freedom with frequencies much less than 1000 cm$^{-1}$ do not have a significant effect on quantum corrections to the reaction rate.

id: 0910.1155
title: Exchange-assisted tunneling in the classical limit
authors: V.V. Flambaum
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1155
abstract: The exchange interaction and correlations may produce a power-law decay instead of the usual exponential decrease of the wave function under potential barrier. The exchange-assisted tunneling vanishes in the classical limit, however, the dependence on the Planck constant h is different from that for a conventional single-particle tunneling.

id: 0910.1189
title: Non-additivity of Renyi entropy and Dvoretzky's Theorem
authors: Guillaume Aubrun, Stanislaw Szarek, Elisabeth Werner
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX; v2: added and updated references, minor editorial changes, no content changes
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 022102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1189
abstract: The goal of this note is to show that the analysis of the minimum output p-Renyi entropy of a typical quantum channel essentially amounts to applying Milman's version of Dvoretzky's Theorem about almost Euclidean sections of high-dimensional convex bodies. This conceptually simplifies the (nonconstructive) argument by Hayden-Winter disproving the additivity conjecture for the minimal output p-Renyi entropy (for p>1).

id: 0910.1209
title: Exceptional orthogonal polynomials and exactly solvable potentials in position dependent mass Schroedinger Hamiltonians
authors: Bikashkali Midya, Barnana Roy
comments: To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2009) 4117-4122
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1209
abstract: Some exactly solvable potentials in the position dependent mass background are generated whose bound states are given in terms of Laguerre- or Jacobi-type $X_1$ exceptional orthogonal polynomials. These potentials are shown to be shape invariant and isospectral to the potentials whose bound state solutions involve classical Laguerre or Jacobi polynomials.

id: 0910.1287
title: Classical signature of ponderomotive squeezing in a suspended mirror resonator
authors: Francesco Marino, Francesco S. Cataliotti, Alessandro Farsi, Mario Siciliani de Cumis, Francesco Marin
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. Lett. 104, 073601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1287
abstract: The radiation pressure coupling between a low-mass moving mirror and an incident light field has been experimentally studied in a high-finesse Fabry-Perot cavity. Using classical intensity noise in order to mimic radiation pressure quantum fluctuations, the physics of ponderomotive squeezing comes into play as a result of the opto-mechanical correlations between the field quadratures. The same scheme can be used to probe ponderomotive squeezing at the quantum level, thus opening new routes in quantum optics and high sensitivity measurement experiments.

id: 0910.1311
title: New Kochen-Specker Sets in Four Dimensions
authors: Mladen Pavicic, Norman D. Megill, Jean-Pierre Merlet
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, 1 table; doi:10.1016/j.physleta.2010.03.019
journal: Physics letters A. 374 (2010) , 21; 2122-2128
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1311
abstract: We show that all possible 388 4-dim Kochen-Specker (KS) (vector) sets (of yes-no questions) with 18 through 23 vectors and 844 sets with 24 vectors all with component values from \{-1,0,1\} can be obtained by stripping vectors off a single system provided by Peres 20 years ago. In addition to them, we have found a number of other KS sets with 22 through 24 vectors. We present the algorithms we used and features we found, such as, for instance, that Peres' 24-24 KS set has altogether six critical KS subsets.

id: 0910.1315
title: Gate fidelity fluctuations and quantum process invariants
authors: Easwar Magesan, Robin Blume-Kohout, Joseph Emerson
comments: 13 pages, no figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012309 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1315
abstract: We characterize the quantum gate fidelity in a state-independent manner by giving an explicit expression for its variance. The method we provide can be extended to calculate all higher order moments of the gate fidelity. Using these results we obtain a simple expression for the variance of a single qubit system and deduce the asymptotic behavior for large-dimensional quantum systems. Applications of these results to quantum chaos and randomized benchmarking are discussed.

id: 0910.1325
title: Frequency Bin Entangled Photons
authors: L. Olislager, J. Cussey, A.T. Nguyen, Ph. Emplit, S. Massar, J.-M. Merolla, K. Phan Huy
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures (extended version)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1325
abstract: A monochromatic laser pumping a parametric down conversion crystal generates frequency entangled photon pairs. We study this experimentally by addressing such frequency entangled photons at telecommunication wavelengths (around 1550 nm) with fiber optics components such as electro-optic phase modulators and narrow band frequency filters. The theory underlying our approach is developed by introducing the notion of frequency bin entanglement. Our results show that the phase modulators address coherently up to eleven frequency bins, leading to an interference pattern which can violate a Bell inequality adapted to our setup by more than five standard deviations.

id: 0910.1328
title: Uncertainty Relations in Self-Similar Convergent Trajectories
authors: H¨¦ctor Cece?a-?lvarez., Antonio Peimbert-Torres., Ra¨²l W. G¨®mez-Gonz¨¢lez
comments: PDF, fourteen pages, two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1328
abstract: The Koch curve is a self-similar object whose length grows unboundedly when the measuring unit by which is calculated diminishes. If this curve is considered to be the trajectory of a point corpuscle of mass m (a particle) rendering it in a time t, while the measuring unit in the kth scale is associated with the indetermination in the position of the corpuscle, then it is possible to demonstrate that when the indetermination of the corpuscle position diminishes, the indetermination in its linear momentum grows unboundedly. Based on the concept of similarity dimension of a corpuscle trajectory, from the before stated line of reasoning an alternative deduction of Heisenberg's uncertainty relation (Delta)x(Delta)p(sub)x (aprox)h is developed and discussed.

id: 0910.1365
title: On the Geometric Measures of Entanglement
authors: K. Uyanik, S. Turgut
comments: 7 pages, 1 figures, minor content change, references added, 1 figure added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1365
abstract: The geometric measure of entanglement, which expresses the minimum distance to product states, has been generalized to distances to sets that remain invariant under the stochastic reducibility relation. For each such set, an associated entanglement monotone can be defined. The explicit analytical forms of these measures are obtained for bipartite entangled states. Moreover, the three qubit case is discussed and argued that the distance to the W states is a new monotone.

id: 0910.1396
title: Sudden Death of Entanglement
authors: Ting Yu, J. H. Eberly
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Science 323, 598-601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1396
abstract: A new development in the dynamical behavior of elementary quantum systems is the surprising discovery that correlation between two quantum units of information called qubits can be degraded by environmental noise in a way not seen previously in studies of dissipation. This new route for dissipation attacks quantum entanglement, the essential resource for quantum information as well as the central feature in the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen so-called paradox and in discussions of the fate of Schr\"{o}inger's cat. The effect has been labeled ESD, which stands for early-stage disentanglement or, more frequently, entanglement sudden death. We review recent progress in studies focused on this phenomenon.

id: 0910.1405
title: Scaling Separability Criterion: Application To Gaussian States
authors: Alexandr Sergeevich, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Russ. Laser Res., 30, 609 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1405
abstract: We introduce examples of three- and four-mode entangled Gaussian mixed states that are not detected by the scaling and Peres-Horodecki separability criteria. The presented modification of the scaling criterion resolves this problem. Also it is shown that the new criterion reproduces the main features of the scaling pictures for different cases of entangled states, while the previous versions lead to completely different outcomes. This property of the presented scheme is evidence of its higher generality.

id: 0910.1417
title: Mathematical Structure of Discrete Space-time
authors: An-Wei Zhang
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1417
abstract: In this letter we briefly investigate the mathematical structure of space-time in the framework of discretization. It is shown that the discreteness of space-time may result in a new mechanical system which differ from the usual quantum mechanics (QM).

id: 0910.1422
title: Reducible Correlations in Dicke States
authors: Preeti Parashar, Swapan Rana
comments: 12 pages, single column; accepted in J. Phys. A as FTC
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 462003 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1422
abstract: We apply a simple observation to show that the generalized Dicke states can be determined from their reduced subsystems. In this framework, it is sufficient to calculate the expression for only the diagonal elements of the reudced density matrices in terms of the state coefficients. We prove that the correlation in generalized Dicke states $|GD_N^{(\ell)}>$ can be reduced to $2\ell$-partite level. Application to the Quantum Marginal Problem is also discussed.

id: 0910.1439
title: On the connection between mutually unbiased bases and orthogonal Latin squares
authors: T. Paterek, M. Pawlowski, M. Grassl, C. Brukner
comments: 6 pages, submitted to Proceedings of CEWQO 2009
journal: Phys. Scr. T140, 014031 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1439
abstract: We offer a piece of evidence that the problems of finding the number of mutually unbiased bases (MUB) and mutually orthogonal Latin squares (MOLS) might not be equivalent. We study a particular procedure which has been shown to relate the two problems and generates complete sets of MUBs in power-of-prime dimensions and three MUBs in dimension six. For these cases, every square from an augmented set of MOLS has a corresponding MUB. We show that this no longer holds for certain composite dimensions.

id: 0910.1458
title: Quantum benchmarks for the storage or transmission of quantum light from minimal resources
authors: Hauke H?seler, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: replaced by the published version, 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 060306(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1458
abstract: We investigate several recently published benchmark criteria for storage or transmission of continuous-variable quantum information. A comparison reveals that criteria based on a Gaussian distribution of coherent states are most resilient to noise. We then address the issue of experimental resources and derive an equally strong benchmark, solely based on three coherent states and homodyne detection. This benchmark is further simplified in the presence of naturally occurring random phases, which remove the need for active input-state modulation.

id: 0910.1459
title: Fidelity threshold for long-range entanglement in quantum networks
authors: S. Perseguers
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012310 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1459
abstract: We present a strategy to generate long-range entanglement in noisy quantum networks. We consider a cubic lattice whose bonds are partially entangled mixed states of two qubits, and where quantum operations can be applied perfectly at the nodes. In contrast to protocols designed for one- or two-dimensional regular lattices, we find that entanglement can be created between arbitrarily distant qubits if the fidelity of the bonds is higher than a critical value, independent of the system size. Therefore, we show that a constant overhead of local resources, together with connections of finite fidelity, is sufficient to achieve long-distance quantum communication in noisy networks.

id: 0910.1503
title: A space-efficient quantum computer simulator suitable for high-speed FPGA implementation
authors: Michael P. Frank, Liviu Oniciuc, Uwe Meyer-Baese, Irinel Chiorescu
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, presented at Quantum Information and Computation VII, Orlando, April 2009. Author reprint of final submitted manuscript
journal: Proc. of SPIE Vol. 7232, 734203-1 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1503
abstract: Conventional vector-based simulators for quantum computers are quite limited in the size of the quantum circuits they can handle, due to the worst-case exponential growth of even sparse representations of the full quantum state vector as a function of the number of quantum operations applied. However, this exponential-space requirement can be avoided by using general space-time tradeoffs long known to complexity theorists, which can be appropriately optimized for this particular problem in a way that also illustrates some interesting reformulations of quantum mechanics. In this paper, we describe the design and empirical space-time complexity measurements of a working software prototype of a quantum computer simulator that avoids excessive space requirements. Due to its space-efficiency, this design is well-suited to embedding in single-chip environments, permitting especially fast execution that avoids access latencies to main memory. We plan to prototype our design on a standard FPGA development board.

id: 0910.1513
title: Wave Packets and Scattering Probabilities
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1513
abstract: We propose a simple, intuitive alternative method of deriving the rule for connecting asymptotic wave function amplitudes to scattering probabilities. This is illustrated using the standard example of a 1-D particle reflecting or transmitting from a potential step.

id: 0910.1525
title: Estimation of quantum finite mixtures
authors: J. I. de Vicente, J. Calsamiglia, R. Munoz-Tapia, E. Bagan
comments: 14 pages, minor changes, appendix added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012332 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1525
abstract: We consider the problem of determining the weights of a quantum ensemble. That is to say, given a quantum system that is in a set of possible known states according to an unknown probability law, we give strategies to estimate the individual probabilities, weights, or mixing proportions. Such strategies can be used to estimate the frequencies at which different independent signals are emitted by a source. They can also be used to estimate the weights of particular terms in a canonical decomposition of a quantum channel. The quality of these strategies is quantified by a covariance-type error matrix. According with this cost function, we give optimal strategies in both the single-shot and multiple-copy scenarios. The latter is also analyzed in the asymptotic limit of large number of copies. We give closed expressions of the error matrix for two-component quantum mixtures of qubit systems. The Fisher information plays an unusual role in the problem at hand, providing exact expressions of the minimum covariance matrix for any number of copies.

id: 0910.1527
title: Symmetry and composition in probabilistic theories
authors: Alexander Wilce
comments: 16 pp.; presented at QPLVI, Oxford, April 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1527
abstract: The past decade has seen a remarkable resurgence of the old programme of finding more or less a priori axioms for the mathematical framework of quantum mechanics. The new impetus comes largely from quantum information theory; in contrast to work in the older tradition, which tended to concentrate on structural features of individual quantum systems, the newer work is marked by an emphasis on systems in interaction. Within this newer work, one can discerne two distinct approaches: one is "top-down", and attempts to capture in category-theoretic terms what is distinctive about quantum information processing. The other is "bottom up", attempting to construct non-classical models and theories by hand, as it were, and then characterizing those features that mark out quantum-like behavior. This paper blends these approaches. We present a constructive, bottom-up recipe for building probabilistic theories having strong symmetry properties, using as data any uniform enlargement of the symmetric group $S(E)$ of any set, to a larger group $G(E)$. Subject to some natural conditions, our construction leads to a monoidal category of fully symmetric test spaces, in which the monoidal product is "non-signaling".

id: 0910.1549
title: Classical limit of non-Hermitian quantum dynamics - a generalised canonical structure
authors: Eva-Maria Graefe, Michael Hoening, Hans Juergen Korsch
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 43 (2010) 075306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1549
abstract: We investigate the classical limit of non-Hermitian quantum dynamics arising from a coherent state approximation, and show that the resulting classical phase space dynamics can be described by generalised "canonical" equations of motion, for both conservative and dissipative motion. The dynamical equations combine a symplectic flow associated with the Hermitian part of the Hamiltonian with a metric gradient flow associated with the anti-Hermitian part of the Hamiltonian. We derive this structure of the classical limit of quantum systems in the case of a Euclidean phase space geometry. As an example we show that the classical dynamics of a damped and driven oscillator can be linked to a non-Hermitian quantum system, and investigate the quantum classical correspondence. Furthermore, we present an example of an angular momentum system whose classical phase space is spherical and show that the generalised canonical structure persists for this nontrivial phase space geometry.

id: 0910.1553
title: Emergence of equilibrium thermodynamic properties in quantum pure states. I. Theory
authors: Barbara Fresch, Giorgio J. Moro
comments: 30 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 133, 034509 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1553
abstract: Investigation on foundational aspects of quantum statistical mechanics recently entered a renaissance period due to novel intuitions from quantum information theory and to increasing attention on the dynamical aspects of single quantum systems. In the present contribution a simple but effective theoretical framework is introduced to clarify the connections between a purely mechanical description and the thermodynamic characterization of the equilibrium state of an isolated quantum system. A salient feature of our approach is the very transparent distinction between the statistical aspects and the dynamical aspects in the description of isolated quantum systems. Like in the classical statistical mechanics, the equilibrium distribution of any property is identified on the basis of the time evolution of the considered system. As a consequence equilibrium properties of quantum system appear to depend on the details of the initial state due to the abundance of constants of the motion in the Schr\"odinger dynamics. On the other hand the study of the probability distributions of some functions, such as the entropy or the equilibrium state of a subsystem, in statistical ensembles of pure states reveals the crucial role of typicality as the bridge between macroscopic thermodynamics and microscopic quantum dynamics. We shall consider two particular ensembles: the random pure state ensemble and the fixed expectation energy ensemble. The relation between the introduced ensembles, the properties of a given isolated system, and the standard quantum statistical description are discussed throughout the presentation. Finally we point out the conditions which should be satisfied by an ensemble in order to get meaningful thermodynamical characterization of an isolated quantum system.

id: 0910.1561
title: Blackbody radiation with compact and non-compact extra dimensions
authors: Ramaton Ramos, Henrique Boschi-Filho
comments: This paper was superseded by arXiv:1111.2537
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1561
abstract: The problem of blackbody radiation in flat space with non-compact extra dimensions was analysed recently. In the present article we reanalyse this problem with compact (and non-compact) extra dimensions in flat space to observe the consequences of this approach upon Wien's displacement and Stefan-Boltzmann law.

id: 0910.1566
title: The landscape of quantum transitions driven by single-qubit unitary transformations with implications for entanglement
authors: Renan Cabrera, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 No 27 (10 July 2009) 275303 (9pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1566
abstract: This paper considers the control landscape of quantum transitions in multi-qubit systems driven by unitary transformations with single-qubit interaction terms. The two-qubit case is fully analyzed to reveal the features of the landscape including the nature of the absolute maximum and minimum, the saddle points and the absence of traps. The results permit calculating the Schmidt state starting from an arbitrary two-qubit state following the local gradient flow. The analysis of multi-qubit systems is more challenging, but the generalized Schmidt states may also be located by following the local gradient flow. Finally, we show the relation between the generalized Schmidt states and the entanglement measure based on the Bures distance.

id: 0910.1568
title: Emergence of equilibrium thermodynamic properties in quantum pure states. II. Analysis of a spin model system
authors: Barbara Fresch, Giorgio J. Moro
comments: 30 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 133, 034510 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1568
abstract: A system composed of identical spins and described by a quantum mechanical pure state is analyzed within the statistical framework presented in Part I of this work. We explicitly derive the typical values of the entropy, of the energy, and of the equilibrium reduced density matrix of a subsystem for the two different statistics introduced in Part I. In order to analyze their consistency with thermodynamics, these quantities of interest are evaluated in the limit of large number of components of the isolated system. The main results can be summarized as follows: typical values of the entropy and of the equilibrium reduced density matrix as functions of the internal energy in the fixed expectation energy ensemble do not satisfy the requirement of thermodynamics. On the contrary, the thermodynamical description is recovered from the random pure state ensemble (RPSE), provided that one considers systems large enough. The thermodynamic limit of the considered properties for the spin system reveals a number of important features. First canonical statistics (and thus, canonical typicality as long as the fluctuations around the average value are small) emerges without the need of assuming the microcanonical space for the global pure state. Moreover, we rigorously prove (i) the equivalence of the "global temperature," derived from the entropy equation of state, with the "local temperature" determining the canonical state of the subsystems; and (ii) the equivalence between the RPSE typical entropy and the canonical entropy for the overall system.

id: 0910.1600
title: Entanglement and parametric resonance in driven quantum systems
authors: V. M. Bastidas, J. H. Reina, C. Emary, T. Brandes
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012316 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1600
abstract: We study the relationship between entanglement and parametric resonance in a system of two coupled time-dependent oscillators. As a measure of bipartite entanglement, we calculate the linear entropy for the reduced density operator, from which we study the entanglement dynamics. In particular, we find that the bipartite entanglement increases in time up to a maximal mixing scenario, when the set of auxiliary dynamical parameters are under parametric resonance. Moreover, we obtain a closed relationship between the correlations in the ground state, the localisation of the Wigner function in phase space, and the localisation of the wave function of the total system.

id: 0910.1647
title: Quantum Gibbs Sampling Using Szegedy Operators
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: V1-17 pages(8 files:1 .tex, 2 .sty, 5 .eps);V2-many minor changes to improve larity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1647
abstract: We present an algorithm for doing Gibbs sampling on a quantum computer. The algorithm combines phase estimation for a Szegedy operator, and Grover's algorithm. For any $\epsilon>0$, the algorithm will sample a probability distribution in ${\cal O}(\frac{1}{\sqrt{\delta}})$ steps with precision ${\cal O}(\epsilon)$. Here $\delta$ is the distance between the two largest eigenvalue magnitudes of the transition matrix of the Gibbs Markov chain used in the algorithm. It takes ${\cal O}(\frac{1}{\delta})$ steps to achieve the same precision if one does Gibbs sampling on a classical computer.

id: 0910.1658
title: Separability of N-particle Fermionic States for Arbitrary Partitions
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Toshihiko Sasaki, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51 (2010) 062202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1658
abstract: We present a criterion of separability for arbitrary s partitions of N-particle fermionic pure states. We show that, despite the superficial non-factorizability due to the antisymmetry required by the indistinguishability of the particles, the states which meet our criterion have factorizable correlations for a class of observables which are specified consistently with the states. The separable states and the associated class of observables share an orthogonal structure, whose non-uniqueness is found to be intrinsic to the multi-partite separability and leads to the non-transitivity in the factorizability in general. Our result generalizes the previous result obtained by Ghirardi et. al. [J. Stat. Phys. 108 (2002) 49] for the s = 2 and s = N case.

id: 0910.1665
title: Linear atomic quantum coupler
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, Wahiddin M. R. B
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures; comments are most welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1665
abstract: In this paper, we develop the notion of the linear atomic quantum coupler. This device consists of two modes propagating into two waveguides, each of them includes a localized and/or a trapped atom. These waveguides are placed close enough to allow exchanging energy between them via evanescent waves. Each mode interacts with the atom in the same waveguide in the standard way, i.e. as the Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM), and with the atom-mode in the second waveguide via evanescent wave. We present the Hamiltonian for the system and deduce the exact form for the wavefunction. We investigate the atomic inversions and the second-order correlation function. In contrast to the conventional linear coupler, the atomic quantum coupler is able to generate nonclassical effects. The atomic inversions can exhibit long revival-collapse phenomenon as well as subsidiary revivals based on the competition among the switching mechanisms in the system. Finally, under certain conditions, the system can yield the results of the two-mode JCM.

id: 0910.1666
title: Quantum properties of the three-mode squeezed operator: triply concurrent parametric amplifiers
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, Azeddine Messikh, Gharib S. Mahmoud, Wahiddin M. R. B
comments: 21 pages, 14 figures; comments are most welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1666
abstract: In this paper, we study the quantum properties of the three-mode squeezed operator. This operator is constructed from the optical parametric oscillator based on the three concurrent $\chi^{(2)}$ nonlinearities. We give a complete treatment for this operator including the symmetric and asymmetric nonlinearities cases. The action of the operator on the number and coherent states are studied in the framework of squeezing, second-order correlation function, Cauchy-Schwartz inequality and single-mode quasiprobability function. The nonclassical effects are remarkable in all these quantities. We show that the nonclassical effects generated by the asymmetric case--for certain values of the system parameters--are greater than those of the symmetric one. This reflects the important role for the asymmetry in the system. Moreover, the system can generate different types of the Schr\"odinger-cat states.

id: 0910.1673
title: Design and optimisation of quantum logic circuits for a three-qubit Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm implemented with optically-controlled, solid-state quantum logic gates
authors: A. Del Duce, S. Savory, P. Bayvel
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1673
abstract: We analyse the design and optimisation of quantum logic circuits suitable for the experimental demonstration of a three-qubit quantum computation prototype based on optically-controlled, solid-state quantum logic gates. In these gates, the interaction between two qubits carried by the electron-spin of donors is mediated by the optical excitation of a control particle placed in their proximity. First, we use a geometrical approach for analysing the entangling characteristics of these quantum gates. Then, using a genetic programming algorithm, we develop circuits for the refined Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm investigating different strategies for obtaining short total computational times. We test two separate approaches based on using different sets of entangling gates with the shortest possible gate computation time which, however, does not introduce leakage of quantum information to the control particles. The first set exploits fast approximations of controlled-phase gates as entangling gates, while the other one arbitrary entangling gates with a shorter gate computation time compared to the first set. We have identified circuits with consistently shorter total computation times when using controlled-phase gates.

id: 0910.1689
title: Excitation of coherent polaritons in a two-dimensional atomic lattice
authors: I.O. Barinov, A.P. Alodjants, S.M. Arakelian
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: I.O. Barinov, A.P. Alodjants, S.M. Arakelian, Excitation of coherent polaritons, Quantum Electronics 39 (7) 685 - 690 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1689
abstract: We describe a new type of spatially periodic structure (lattice models): a polaritonic crystal (PolC) formed by a two-dimensional lattice of trapped two-level atoms interacting with quantised electromagnetic field in a cavity (or in a one-dimensional array of tunnelling-coupled microcavities), which allows polaritons to be fully localised. Using a one-dimensional polaritonic crystal as an example, we analyse conditions for quantum degeneracy of a low-branch polariton gas and those for quantum optical information recording and storage.

id: 0910.1693
title: Tomographic probability representation for quantum fermion fields
authors: V. A. Andreev, M. A. Man'ko, V. I. Man'ko, Nguyen Hung Son, Nguyen Cong Thanh, Yu.P.Timofeev, S.D.Zakharov
comments: 14 pages, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1693
abstract: Tomographic probability representation is introduced for fermion fields. The states of the fermions are mapped onto probability distribution of discrete random variables (spin projections). The operators acting on the fermion states are described by fermionic tomographic symbols. The product of the operators acting on the fermion states is mapped onto star-product of the fermionic symbols. The kernel of the star-product is obtained. The antisymmetry of the fermion states is formulated as the specific symmetry property of the tomographic joint probability distribution associated with the states.

id: 0910.1743
title: Feedback control of the squeezing of the fluorescence light
authors: Alberto Barchielli, Matteo Gregoratti
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to proceedings of PhysCon09
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1743
abstract: Among the formulations of the theory of quantum measurements in continuous time, quantum trajectory theory is very suitable for the introduction of measurement based feedback and closed loop control of quantum systems. In this paper we present such a construction in the concrete case of a two-level atom stimulated by a coherent, monochromatic laser. In particular, we show how fast feedback \`a la Wiseman and Milburn can be introduced in the formulation of the theory. Then, the spectrum of the free fluorescence light is studied and typical quantum phenomena, squeezing and sub-natural line-narrowing, are presented.

id: 0910.1745
title: Directed quantum communication
authors: Johan Aberg, Stefan Hengl, Renato Renner
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 033025
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1745
abstract: We raise the question whether there is a way to characterize the quantum information transport properties of a medium or material. For this analysis the special features of quantum information have to be taken into account. We find that quantum communication over an isotropic medium, as opposed to classical information transfer, requires the transmitter to direct the signal towards the receiver. Furthermore, for large classes of media there is a threshold, in the sense that `sufficiently much' of the signal has to be collected. Therefore, the medium's capacity for quantum communication can be characterized in terms of how the size of the transmitter and receiver has to scale with the transmission distance to maintain quantum information transmission. To demonstrate the applicability of this concept, an n-dimensional spin lattice is considered, yielding a sufficient scaling of d^(n/3) with the distance d.

id: 0910.1749
title: Fermionisation dynamics of a strongly interacting 1D Bose gas after an interaction quench
authors: Dominik Muth, Bernd Schmidt, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, extended
journal: New Journal of Physics 12, 083065 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1749
abstract: We study the dynamics of a one-dimensional Bose gas after a sudden change of the interaction strength from zero to a finite value using the numerical time-evolving block decimation (TEBD) algorithm. It is shown that despite the integrability of the system, local quantities such as the two-particle correlation $g^{(2)}(x,x)$ attain steady state values in a short characteristic time inversely proportional to the Tonks parameter $\gamma$ and the square of the density. The asymptotic values are very close to those of a finite temperature grand canonical ensemble with a local temperature corresponding to initial energy and density. Non-local density-density correlations on the other hand approach a steady state on a much larger time scale determined by the finite propagation velocity of oscillatory correlation waves.

id: 0910.1750
title: Decoherence in a dynamical quantum phase transition
authors: Sarah Mostame, Gernot Schaller, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1750
abstract: Motivated by the similarity between adiabatic quantum algorithms and quantum phase transitions, we study the impact of decoherence on the sweep through a second-order quantum phase transition for the prototypical example of the Ising chain in a transverse field and compare it to the adiabatic version of Grovers search algorithm, which displays a first order quantum phase transition. For site-independent and site-dependent coupling strengths as well as different operator couplings, the results show that (in contrast to first-order transitions) the impact of decoherence caused by a weak coupling to a rather general environment increases with system size (i.e., number of spins/qubits). This might limit the scalability of the corresponding adiabatic quantum algorithm.

id: 0910.1765
title: Entanglement of two interacting bosons in a two dimensional isotropic harmonic trap
authors: B. Sun, M. Pindzola
comments: 5 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 373, Issue 42, 12 October 2009, Pages 3833-3837
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1765
abstract: We compute the pair entanglement between two interacting bosons in a two dimensional (2D)isotropic harmonic trap. The interaction potential is modeled by a 2D regularized pseudo-potential. By analytically decomposing the wave function into the single particle basis, we show the dependency of the pair entanglement on the scattering length. Our results turn out to be in good agreements with earlier results using a quasi-2D geometry.

id: 0910.1768
title: Gaussianization and eigenvalue statistics for random quantum channels (III)
authors: Beno?t Collins, Ion Nechita
comments: Published in at this http URL the Annals of Applied Probability (this http URL) by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (this http URL)
journal: Annals of Applied Probability 2011, Vol. 21, No. 3, 1136-1179
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1768
abstract: In this paper, we present applications of the calculus developed in Collins and Nechita [Comm. Math. Phys. 297 (2010) 345-370] and obtain an exact formula for the moments of random quantum channels whose input is a pure state thanks to Gaussianization methods. Our main application is an in-depth study of the random matrix model introduced by Hayden and Winter [Comm. Math. Phys. 284 (2008) 263-280] and used recently by Brandao and Horodecki [Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 17 (2010) 31-52] and Fukuda and King [J. Math. Phys. 51 (2010) 042201] to refine the Hastings counterexample to the additivity conjecture in quantum information theory. This model is exotic from the point of view of random matrix theory as its eigenvalues obey two different scalings simultaneously. We study its asymptotic behavior and obtain an asymptotic expansion for its von Neumann entropy.

id: 0910.1771
title: Spectral Line Width Broadening from Pair Fluctuation in a Frozen Rydberg Gas
authors: B. Sun, F. Robicheaux
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 040701 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1771
abstract: Spectral line width broadening in Rydberg gases, a phenomenon previously attributed to the many-body effect, was observed experimentally almost a decade ago. The observed line width was typically 80-100 times larger than the average interaction strength predicted from a binary interaction. The interpretation of such a phenomenon is usually based on the so-called diffusion model, where the line width broadening mostly originates from the diffusion of excitations. In this paper, we present a model calculation to show that diffusion is not the main mechanism to the line width broadening. We find that the rare pair fluctuation at small separation is the dominant factor contributing to this broadening. Our results give a width of about 20-30 times larger than the average interaction strength. More importantly, by turning off the diffusion process, we do not observe order of magnitude change in the spectral line width.

id: 0910.1797
title: Dangling-bond charge qubit on a silicon surface
authors: Lucian Livadaru, Peng Xue, Zahra Shaterzadeh-Yazdi, Gino A. DiLabio, Josh Mutus, Jason L. Pitters, Barry C. Sanders, Robert A. Wolkow
comments: 17 pages, 3 EPS figures, 1 table
journal: New Journal of Physics 12(8): 083018 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1797
abstract: Two closely spaced dangling bonds positioned on a silicon surface and sharing an excess electron are revealed to be a strong candidate for a charge qubit. Based on our study of the coherent dynamics of this qubit, its extremely high tunneling rate ~ 10^14 1/s greatly exceeds the expected decoherence rates for a silicon-based system, thereby overcoming a critical obstacle of charge qubit quantum computing. We investigate possible configurations of dangling bond qubits for quantum computing devices. A first-order analysis of coherent dynamics of dangling bonds shows promise in this respect.

id: 0910.1812
title: Classical and quantum mechanics via supermetrics in time
authors: Ennio Gozzi
comments: To appear in the proceedings of the conference held in Trieste in October 2008 with title: "Theoretical and Experimental aspects of the spin statistics connection and related symmetries"
journal: Found.Phys.40:795-806,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1812
abstract: Koopman-von Neumann in the 30's gave an operatorial formululation of Classical Mechanics. It was shown later on that this formulation could also be written in a path-integral form. We will label this functional approach as CPI (for classical path-integral) to distinguish it from the quantum mechanical one, which we will indicate with QPI. In the CPI two Grassmannian partners of time make their natural appearance and in this manner time becomes something like a three dimensional supermanifold. Next we introduce a metric in this supermanifold and show that a particular choice of the supermetric reproduces the CPI while a different one gives the QPI.

id: 0910.1826
title: Distribution of Interference in the Presence of Decoherence
authors: Ludovic Arnaud, Daniel Braun
comments: 28 pages of pdf
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062329 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1826
abstract: We study the statistics of quantum interference for completely positive maps. We calculate analytically the mean interference and its second moment for finite dimensional quantum systems interacting with a simple environment consisting of one or several spins (qudits). The joint propagation of the entire system is taken as unitary with an evolution operator drawn from the Circular Unitary Ensemble (CUE). We show that the mean interference decays with a power law as function of the dimension of the Hilbert space of the environment, with a power that depends on the temperature of the environment.

id: 0910.1829
title: High Fidelity State Transfer Over an Unmodulated Linear XY Spin Chain
authors: C. Allen Bishop, Yong-Cheng Ou, Zhao-Ming Wang, Mark S. Byrd
comments: Replaced with published version. 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1829
abstract: We provide a class of initial encodings that can be sent with a high fidelity over an unmodulated, linear, XY spin chain. As an example, an average fidelity of ninety-six percent can be obtained using an eleven-spin encoding to transmit a state over a chain containing ten-thousand spins. An analysis of the magnetic field dependence is given, and conditions for field optimization are provided.

id: 0910.1840
title: All reversible dynamics in maximally non-local theories are trivial
authors: David Gross, Markus Mueller, Roger Colbeck, Oscar C. O. Dahlsten
comments: 4+3 pages, 1 figure, minor notational changes to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 080402 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1840
abstract: A remarkable feature of quantum theory is non-locality (i.e. the presence of correlations which violate Bell inequalities). However, quantum correlations are not maximally non-local, and it is natural to ask whether there are compelling reasons for rejecting theories in which stronger violations are possible. To shed light on this question, we consider post-quantum theories in which maximally non-local states (non-local boxes) occur. It has previously been conjectured that the set of dynamical transformations possible in such theories is severely limited. We settle the question affirmatively in the case of reversible dynamics, by completely characterizing all such transformations allowed in this setting. We find that the dynamical group is trivial, in the sense that it is generated solely by local operations and permutations of systems. In particular, no correlations can ever be created; non-local boxes cannot be prepared from product states (in other words, no analogues of entangling unitary operations exist), and classical computers can efficiently simulate all such processes.

id: 0910.1847
title: Limits of quantum speedup in photosynthetic light harvesting
authors: Stephan Hoyer, Mohan Sarovar, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. To appear in New Journal Physics, special issue on "Quantum Effects and Noise in Biomolecules." Updated to accepted version
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 065041 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1847
abstract: It has been suggested that excitation transport in photosynthetic light harvesting complexes features speedups analogous to those found in quantum algorithms. Here we compare the dynamics in these light harvesting systems to the dynamics of quantum walks, in order to elucidate the limits of such quantum speedups. For the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex of green sulfur bacteria, we show that while there is indeed speedup at short times, this is short lived (70 fs) despite longer lived (ps) quantum coherence. Remarkably, this time scale is independent of the details of the decoherence model. More generally, we show that the distinguishing features of light-harvesting complexes not only limit the extent of quantum speedup but also reduce rates of diffusive transport. These results suggest that quantum coherent effects in biological systems are optimized for efficiency or robustness rather than the more elusive goal of quantum speedup.

id: 0910.1900
title: Photon-number selective group delay in cavity induced transparency
authors: Gor Nikoghosyan, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1900
abstract: We show that the group velocity of a probe pulse in an ensemble of $\Lambda$-type atoms driven by a quantized cavity mode depends on the quantum state of the input probe pulse. In the strong-coupling regime of the atom-cavity system the probe group delay is photon number selective. This can be used to spatially separate the single photon from higher photon-number components of a few-photon probe pulse and thus to create a deterministic single-photon source.

id: 0910.1903
title: Continuity and Stability of Partial Entropic Sums
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 9 pages, no figures. Some explanatory and technical improvements are made. The bibliography is extended. Detected errors and typos are corrected
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 94, 229 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1903
abstract: Extensions of Fannes' inequality with partial sums of the Tsallis entropy are obtained for both the classical and quantum cases. The definition of kth partial sum under the prescribed order of terms is given. Basic properties of introduced entropic measures and some applications are discussed. The derived estimates provide a complete characterization of the continuity and stability properties in the refined scale. The results are also reformulated in terms of Uhlmann's partial fidelities.

id: 0910.1910
title: Experimental estimation of one-parameter qubit gates in the presence of phase diffusion
authors: D. Brivio, S. Cialdi, S. Vezzoli, B. Teklu, M. G. Genoni, S. Olivares, M. G. A. Paris
comments: revised version, to appear on PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1910
abstract: We address estimation of one-parameter qubit gates in the presence of phase diffusion. We evaluate the ultimate quantum limits to precision, seek for optimal probes and measurements, and demonstrate an optimal estimation scheme for polarization qubits. An adaptive method to achieve optimal estimation in any working regime is also analyzed in details and experimentally implemented.

id: 0910.1928
title: Measurable lower bounds on concurrence
authors: Iman Sargolzahi, Sayyed Yahya Mirafzali, Mohsen Sarbishaei
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, 1 Appendix
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 11, No. 1&2 (2011) 0079-0094
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1928
abstract: We derive measurable lower bounds on concurrence of arbitrary mixed states, for both bipartite and multipartite cases. First, we construct measurable lower bonds on the purely algebraic bounds of concurrence [F. Mintert et al. (2004), Phys. Rev. lett., 92, 167902]. Then, using the fact that the sum of the square of the algebraic bounds is a lower bound of the squared concurrence, we sum over our measurable bounds to achieve a measurable lower bound on concurrence. With two typical examples, we show that our method can detect more entangled states and also can give sharper lower bonds than the similar ones.

id: 0910.1957
title: Quantum Phase Estimation with Entangled Photons produced by Parametric Down Conversion
authors: Hugo Cable, Gabriel A. Durkin
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures: Extended version (with appendices), updated in response to Referee comments
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 013603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1957
abstract: We explore the advantages offered by twin light beams produced in parametric down-conversion for precision measurement. The symmetry of these bipartite quantum states, even under losses, suggests that monitoring correlations between the divergent beams permits a high-precision inference of any symmetry-breaking effect, e.g. fiber birefringence. We show that the quantity of entanglement is not the key feature for such an instrument. In a lossless setting, scaling of precision at the ultimate `Heisenberg' limit is possible with photon counting alone. Even as photon losses approach 100% the precision is shot-noise limited, and we identify the crossover point between quantum and classical precision as a function of detected flux. The predicted hypersensitivity is demonstrated with a Bayesian simulation.

id: 0910.1986
title: Decoherence in one-dimensional Quantum Walk
authors: Mostafa Annabestani, Seyed Javad Akhtarshenas, Mohamad Reza Abolhassani
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032321 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1986
abstract: In this paper we study decoherence in the quantum walk on the line. We generalize the method of decoherent coin quantum walk, introduced by Brun et al [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 67}, 32304 (2003)]. Our analytical expressions are applicable for all kinds of decoherence. As an example of the coin-position decoherence, we study the broken line quantum walk and compare our results with the numerical one. We also show that our analytical results reduce to the Brun formalism when only the coin is subjected to decoherence.

id: 0910.1990
title: The Deutsch-Jozsa Problem: De-quantisation and Entanglement
authors: Alastair A. Abbott
comments: 17 pages. Presented at the Workshop on Physics and Computation at the conference 'Unconventional Computation 2009'. To Be published in workshop proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1990
abstract: The Deustch-Jozsa problem is one of the most basic ways to demonstrate the power of quantum computation. Consider a Boolean function f : {0,1}^n to {0,1} and suppose we have a black-box to compute f. The Deutsch-Jozsa problem is to determine if f is constant (i.e. f(x) = const forall x in {0,1}^n) or if f is balanced (i.e. f(x) = 0 for exactly half the possible input strings x in {0,1}^n) using as few calls to the black-box computing f as is possible, assuming f is guaranteed to be constant or balanced. Classically it appears that this requires at least 2^{n-1}+1 black-box calls in the worst case, but the well known quantum solution solves the problem with probability one in exactly one black-box call. It has been found that in some cases the algorithm can be de-quantised into an equivalent classical, deterministic solution. We explore the ability to extend this de-quantisation to further cases, and examine with more detail when de-quantisation is possible, both with respect to the Deutsch-Jozsa problem, as well as in more general cases.

id: 0910.2002
title: General individual attack on the ping-pong protocol with completely entangled pairs of qutrits
authors: E.V. Vasiliu
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures; minor corrections in the text, references are updated
journal: Quant. Inf. Proc. (2011) 10:189-202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2002
abstract: The general individual (non-coherent) attack on the ping-pong protocol with completely entangled pairs of three-dimensional quantum systems (qutrits) is analyzed. The expression for amount of the eavesdropper's information as functions from probability of attack detection is derived. It is shown, that the security of the ping-pong protocol with pairs of qutrits is higher the security of the protocol with pairs of qubits. It is also shown, that with the use by legitimate users in a control mode two mutually unbiased measuring bases the ping-pong protocol with pairs of qutrits, similar to the protocol with groups of qubits, possesses only asymptotic security and requires additional methods for its security amplification.

id: 0910.2058
title: On product, generic and random generic quantum satisfiability
authors: C.R. Laumann, A.M. L?uchli, R. Moessner, A. Scardicchio, S.L. Sondhi
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, 1 table. Updated to more closely match published version. New proof in appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062345 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2058
abstract: We report a cluster of results on k-QSAT, the problem of quantum satisfiability for k-qubit projectors which generalizes classical satisfiability with k-bit clauses to the quantum setting. First we define the NP-complete problem of product satisfiability and give a geometrical criterion for deciding when a QSAT interaction graph is product satisfiable with positive probability. We show that the same criterion suffices to establish quantum satisfiability for all projectors. Second, we apply these results to the random graph ensemble with generic projectors and obtain improved lower bounds on the location of the SAT--unSAT transition. Third, we present numerical results on random, generic satisfiability which provide estimates for the location of the transition for k=3 and k=4 and mild evidence for the existence of a phase which is satisfiable by entangled states alone.

id: 0910.2111
title: Entanglement Induced by Tailored Environments
authors: Markus A. Cirone, G. Massimo Palma
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: Advanced Science Letters, Vol. 2, 1-3, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2111
abstract: We analyze a system consisting of two spatially separated quantum objects, here modeled as two pseudo-spins, coupled with a mesoscopic environment modeled as a bosonic bath. We show that by engineering either the dispersion of the spin boson coupling or the environment dimensionality or both one can in principle tailor the spatial dependence of the induced entanglement on the spatial separation between the two spins. In particular we consider one, two and three dimensional reservoirs and we find that while for a two or three dimensional reservoir the induced entanglement shows an inverse power law dependence on the spin separation, the induced entanglement becomes separation independent for a one dimensional reservoir.

id: 0910.2129
title: An algorithm for minimization of quantum cost
authors: Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 09 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2129
abstract: A new algorithm for minimization of quantum cost of quantum circuits has been designed. The quantum cost of different quantum circuits of particular interest (eg. circuits for EPR, quantum teleportation, shor code and different quantum arithmetic operations) are computed by using the proposed algorithm. The quantum costs obtained using the proposed algorithm is compared with the existing results and it is found that the algorithm has produced minimum quantum cost in all cases.

id: 0910.2157
title: Generalized Canonical Form of a Multi-Time Dynamical Theory and Quantization
authors: Natalia Gorobey, Alexander Lukyanenko, Inna Lukyanenko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2157
abstract: A generalized canonical form of multi-time dynamical theories is proposed. This form is a starting point for a modified canonical quantization procedure of theories based on a quantum version of the action principle. As an example, the Fokker theory of a direct electromagnetic interaction of charges is considered.

id: 0910.2197
title: Photons Walking the Line: A quantum walk with adjustable coin operations
authors: A. Schreiber, K. N. Cassemiro, V. Potocek, A. Gabris, P.J. Mosley, E. Andersson, I. Jex, Ch. Silberhorn
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 050502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2197
abstract: We present the first robust implementation of a coined quantum walk over five steps using only passive optical elements. By employing a fiber network loop we keep the amount of required resources constant as the walker's position Hilbert space is increased. We observed a non-Gaussian distribution of the walker's final position, thus characterizing a faster spread of the photon wave-packet in comparison to the classical random walk. The walk is realized for many different coin settings and initial states, which opens the way for the implementation of a quantum walk-based search algorithm.

id: 0910.2205
title: Determination of maximal Gaussian entanglement achievable by feedback-controlled dynamics
authors: Alessio Serafini, Stefano Mancini
comments: 4 pages. Published version
journal: Physical Review Letters 104, 220501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2205
abstract: We determine a general upper bound for the steady-state entanglement achievable by continuous feedback for systems of any number of bosonic degrees of freedom. We apply such a bound to the specific case of parametric interactions - the most common practical way to generate entanglement in quantum optics - and single out optimal feedback strategies that achieve the maximal entanglement. We also consider the case of feedback schemes entirely restricted to local operations and compare their performance to the optimal, generally nonlocal, schemes.

id: 0910.2255
title: Using Wave-Packet Interferometry to Monitor the External Vibrational Control of Electronic Excitation Transfer
authors: Jason D. Biggs, Jeffrey A. Cina
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2255
abstract: We investigate the control of electronic energy transfer in molecular dimers through the preparation of specific vibrational coherences prior to electronic excitation, and its observation by nonlinear wave-packet interferometry. Laser-driven coherent nuclear motion can affect the instantaneous resonance between site-excited electronic states and thereby influence short-time electronic excitation transfer (EET). We first illustrate this control mechanism with calculations on a dimer whose constituent monomers undergo harmonic vibrations. We then consider the use of nonlinear wave-packet interferometry (nl-WPI) experiments to monitor the nuclear dynamics accompanying EET in general dimer complexes following impulsive vibrational excitation by a sub-resonant control pulse (or control pulse sequence). In measurements of this kind, two pairs of polarized phase-related femtosecond pulses following the control pulse generate superpositions of coherent nuclear wave packets in optically accessible electronic states. Interference contributions to the time- and frequency-integrated fluorescence signal due to overlaps among the superposed wave packets provide amplitude-level information on the nuclear and electronic dynamics. We derive the basic expression for a control-pulse-dependent nl-WPI signal. The electronic transition moments of the constituent monomers are assumed to have a fixed relative orientation, while the overall orientation of the complex is distributed isotropically. We include the limiting case of coincident arrival by pulses within each phase-related pair in which control-influenced nl-WPI reduces to a fluorescence-detected pump-probe difference experiment. Numerical calculations of pump-probe signals based on these theoretical expressions are presented in the following paper.

id: 0910.2272
title: Calculations of Nonlinear Wave-Packet Interferometry Signals in the Pump-Probe Limit as Tests for Vibrational Control over Electronic Excitation Transfer
authors: Jason D. Biggs, Jeffrey A. Cina
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2272
abstract: The preceding paper describes a strategy for externally influencing the course of short-time electronic excitation transfer (EET) in molecular dimers and observing the process by nonlinear wave-packet interferometry (nl-WPI). Within a sample of isotropically oriented dimers having a specified internal geometry, a vibrational mode internal to the acceptor chromophore can be preferentially driven by electronically nonresonant impulsive stimulated Raman (or resonant infrared) excitation with a short polarized control pulse. A subsequent electronically resonant polarized pump then preferentially excites the donor, and EET ensues. Here we test both the control strategy and its spectroscopic investigation-with some sacrifice of amplitude-level detail-by calculating the pump-probe difference signal. That signal is the limiting case of the control-influenced nl-WPI signal in which the two pulses in the pump pulse-pair coincide, as do the two pulses in the probe pulse-pair. We present calculated pump-probe difference signals for (1) a model excitation-transfer complex in which two equal-energy monomers each support one moderately Franck-Condon active intramolecular vibration; (2) a simplified model of the covalent dimer dithia-anthracenophane, representing its EET dynamics following selective impulsive excitation of the weakly Franck-Condon active anthracene vibration at 385 cm-1; and (3) a model complex featuring moderate electronic-vibrational coupling in which the site energy of the acceptor chromophore is lower than that of the donor.

id: 0910.2292
title: Collimated blue light generated by four-wave mixing in Rb vapour
authors: Alexander M. Akulshin, Russell J. McLean, Andrei I. Sidorov, Peter Hannaford
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2292
abstract: We investigate frequency up-conversion of low power cw resonant radiation in Rb vapour as a function of various experimental parameters. We present evidence that the process of four wave mixing is responsible for unidirectional blue light generation and that the phase matching conditions along a light-induced waveguide determine the direction and divergence of the blue light. Velocity-selective excitation to the 5D level via step-wise and two-photon processes results in a Doppler-free dependence on the frequency detuning of the applied laser fields from the respective dipole-allowed transitions. Possible schemes for ultraviolet generation are discussed.

id: 0910.2299
title: Coarse grained belief propagation for simulation of interacting quantum systems at all temperatures
authors: Ersen Bilgin, David Poulin
comments: updated references and acknowledgements
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81 054106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2299
abstract: We continue our numerical study of quantum belief propagation initiated in [Phys. Rev. A, 77 (2008), p. 052318]. We demonstrate how the method can be expressed in terms of an effective thermal potential that materializes when the system presents quantum correlations, but is insensitive to classical correlations. The thermal potential provides an efficient means to assess the precision of belief propagation on graphs with no loops. We illustrate these concepts using the one-dimensional quantum Ising model and compare our results with exact solutions. We also use the method to study the transverse field quantum Ising spin glass for which we obtain a phase diagram that is largely in agreement with the one obtained in [arXiv:0706.4391] using a different approach. Finally, we introduce the coarse grained belief propagation (CGBP) algorithm to improve belief propagation at low temperatures. This method combines the reliability of belief propagation at high temperatures with the ability of entanglement renormalization to efficiently describe low energy subspaces of quantum systems with local interactions. With CGBP, thermodynamic properties of quantum systems can be calculated with a high degree of accuracy at all temperatures.

id: 0910.2313
title: Discussing the explanation of the quantum speed up
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli
comments: 6 pages,changed content: explanations of quantum speed up and nonlocality related with one another
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2313
abstract: In former work, we showed that a quantum algorithm is the sum over the histories of a classical algorithm that knows in advance 50% of the information about the solution of the problem - each history is a possible way of getting the advanced information and a possible result of computing the missing information. We gave a theoretical justification of this 50% advanced information rule and checked that it holds for a large variety of quantum algorithms. Now we discuss the theoretical justification in further detail and counter a possible objection. We show that the rule is the generalization of a simple, well known, explanation of quantum nonlocality - where logical correlation between measurement outcomes is physically backed by a causal/deterministic/local process with causality allowed to go backward in time with backdated state vector reduction. The possible objection is that quantum algorithms often produce the solution of the problem in an apparently deterministic way (when their unitary part produces an eigenstate of the observable to be measured and measurement produces the corresponding eigenvalue - the solution - with probability 1), while the present explanation of the speed up relies on the nondeterministic character of quantum measurement. We show that this objection would mistake the nondeterministic production of a definite outcome for a deterministic production.

id: 0910.2322
title: The detection of low-energy Quantum Gravity fluctuations with entangled states
authors: Fabrizio Tamburini
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2322
abstract: We propose a thought experiment to detect low-energy Quantum Gravity phenomena using Quantum Optical Information Technologies. Gravitational field perturbations, such as gravitational waves and quantum gravity fluctuations, decohere the entangled photon pairs, revealing the presence of gravitational field fluctuations including those more speculative sources such as compact extra dimensions and the sub-millimetric hypothetical low-energy quantum gravity phenomena and then set a limit for the decoherence of photon bunches and entangled pairs in space detectable with the current astronomical space technology.

id: 0910.2326
title: Squash Operator and Symmetry
authors: Toyohiro Tsurumaru
comments: 4 pages, no figures; minor grammatical corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012328 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2326
abstract: This paper begins with a simple proof of the existence of squash operators compatible with the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) protocol which suits single-mode as well as multi-mode threshold detectors. The proof shows that, when a given detector is symmetric under cyclic group C_4, and a certain observable associated with it has rank two as a matrix, then there always exists a corresponding squash operator. Next, we go on to investigate whether the above restriction of "rank two" can be eliminated; i.e., is cyclic symmetry alone sufficient to guarantee the existence of a squash operator? The motivation behind this question is that, if this were true, it would imply that one could realize a device-independent and unconditionally secure quantum key distribution protocol. However, the answer turns out to be negative, and moreover, one can instead prove a no-go theorem that any symmetry is, by itself, insufficient to guarantee the existence of a squash operator.

id: 0910.2328
title: Quantum Magellan theorem(the simplest NO-GO Theorem for hidden variables)
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Darko Kapor
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2328
abstract: In this work we study time reversal (that can be realistically simulated using two total mirrors) of the interaction between single photon and beam splitter, without any measuring apparatus (detector). For description of this effect we use, on the one hand, standard quantum mechanical formalism, $SQM$. On the other hand, for description of the same effect, we use a hypothetical extension of the standard quantum mechanical formalism, so-called hidden variables theory, $HVT$, that should satisfy only few following general propositions. First proposition is that at the $SQM$ level of the analysis accuracy there are no effective distinctions between experimental facts, $SQM$ predictions and $HVT$ predictions. Second proposition is that at the hypothetically more accurate $HVT$ level of the analysis accuracy there is deterministic, one-to-one correspondence between initial and final dynamical state of the physical system so that $HVT$ dynamics is principally symmetric in respect to $HVT$ characteristic time reversal transformation. However, we simply demonstrate on mentioned example that such $HVT$ cannon exist that can be simply called quantum Magellan theorem (quantum mechanics represents "unique, Magellan straight" between "Atlantic ocean" of the macroscopic phenomena and "Great, Pacific ocean" of the microscopic phenomena). Obviously Magellan theorem can be considered as the simplest no-go theorem for a wide (potentially physically realistic) class of the hidden variables theories.

id: 0910.2342
title: Continuous variable entanglement dynamics in structured reservoirs
authors: R. Vasile, S. Olivares, M. G. A. Paris, S. Maniscalco
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062324 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2342
abstract: We address the evolution of entanglement in bimodal continuous variable quantum systems interacting with two independent structured reservoirs. We derive an analytic expression for the entanglement of formation without performing the Markov and the secular approximations and study in details the entanglement dynamics for various types of structured reservoirs and for different reservoir temperatures, assuming the two modes initially excited in a twin-beam state. Our analytic solution allows us to identify three dynamical regimes characterized by different behaviors of the entanglement: the entanglement sudden death, the non-Markovian revival and the non-secular revival regimes. Remarkably, we find that, contrarily to the Markovian case, the short-time system-reservoir correlations in some cases destroy quickly the initial entanglement even at zero temperature.

id: 0910.2350
title: Quantum control theory and applications: A survey
authors: Daoyi Dong, Ian R Petersen
comments: 38 pages, invited survey paper from a control systems perspective, some references are added, published version
journal: IET Control Theory & Applications, vol. 4, no. 12, pp.2651-2671, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2350
abstract: This paper presents a survey on quantum control theory and applications from a control systems perspective. Some of the basic concepts and main developments (including open-loop control and closed-loop control) in quantum control theory are reviewed. In the area of open-loop quantum control, the paper surveys the notion of controllability for quantum systems and presents several control design strategies including optimal control, Lyapunov-based methodologies, variable structure control and quantum incoherent control. In the area of closed-loop quantum control, the paper reviews closed-loop learning control and several important issues related to quantum feedback control including quantum filtering, feedback stabilization, LQG control and robust quantum control.

id: 0910.2390
title: Teleportation between distant qudits via scattering of mobile qubits
authors: Francesco Ciccarello, Sougato Bose, Michelangelo Zarcone
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042318 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2390
abstract: We consider a one-dimensional (1D) structure where non-interacting spin-$s$ scattering centers, such as quantum impurities or multi-level atoms, are embedded at given positions. We show that the injection into the structure of unpolarized flying qubits, such as electrons or photons, along with {path} detection suffice to accomplish spin-state teleportation between two centers via a third ancillary one. {No action over the internal quantum state of both the spin-$s$ particles and the flying qubits is required. The protocol enables the transfer of quantum information between well-seperated static entities in nanostructures by exploiting a very low-control mechanism, namely scattering.

id: 0910.2393
title: Big Toy Models: Representing Physical Systems As Chu Spaces
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: 24 pages. Accepted for Synthese 16th April 2010. Published online 20th April 2011
journal: Synthese: Volume 186, Issue 3 (2012), Page 697-718
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2393
abstract: We pursue a model-oriented rather than axiomatic approach to the foundations of Quantum Mechanics, with the idea that new models can often suggest new axioms. This approach has often been fruitful in Logic and Theoretical Computer Science. Rather than seeking to construct a simplified toy model, we aim for a `big toy model', in which both quantum and classical systems can be faithfully represented - as well as, possibly, more exotic kinds of systems. To this end, we show how Chu spaces can be used to represent physical systems of various kinds. In particular, we show how quantum systems can be represented as Chu spaces over the unit interval in such a way that the Chu morphisms correspond exactly to the physically meaningful symmetries of the systems - the unitaries and antiunitaries. In this way we obtain a full and faithful functor from the groupoid of Hilbert spaces and their symmetries to Chu spaces. We also consider whether it is possible to use a finite value set rather than the unit interval; we show that three values suffice, while the two standard possibilistic reductions to two values both fail to preserve fullness.

id: 0910.2401
title: No-Cloning In Categorical Quantum Mechanics
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: 35 pages. Appeared in Semantic Techniques in Quantum Computation, ed. S. Gay and I. Mackie, pages 1--28, Cambridge University Press 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2401
abstract: Recently, the author and Bob Coecke have introduced a categorical formulation of Quantum Mechanics. In the present paper, we shall use it to open up a novel perspective on No-Cloning. What we shall find, quite unexpectedly, is a link to some fundamental issues in logic, computation, and the foundations of mathematics. A striking feature of our results is that they are visibly in the same genre as a well-known result by Joyal in categorical logic showing that a `Boolean cartesian closed category' trivializes, which provides a major road-block to the computational interpretation of classical logic. In fact, they strengthen Joyal's result, insofar as the assumption of a full categorical product (both diagonals and projections) in the presence of a classical duality is weakened. This shows a heretofore unsuspected connection between limitative results in proof theory and No-Go theorems in quantum mechanics.

id: 0910.2409
title: Tripartite quantum state mapping and discontinuous entanglement transfer in a cavity QED open system
authors: Matteo Bina, Federico Casagrande, Marco G. Genoni, Alfredo Lulli, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Scr. T140 (2010) 014015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2409
abstract: We describe the transfer of quantum information and entanglement from three flying (radiation) to three localized (atomic) qubits via cavity modes resonantly coupled to the atoms, in the presence of a common reservoir. Upon addressing the full dynamics of the resulting nine-qubit open system, we find that once the cavities are fed, fidelity and transferred entanglement are optimal, while their peak values exponentially decrease due to dissipative processes. The external radiation is then turned off and quantum correlations oscillate between atomic and cavity qubits. For a class of mixtures of W and GHZ input states we deal with a discontinuous exchange of entanglement among the subsystems, facing the still open problem of entanglement sudden death and birth in a multipartite system.

id: 0910.2410
title: Optimizing the Signal to Noise Ratio of a Beam Deflection Measurement with Interferometric Weak Values
authors: David J. Starling, P. Ben Dixon, Andrew N. Jordan, John C. Howell
comments: 
journal: D. J. Starling, P. B. Dixon, A. N. Jordan, and J. C. Howell, Physical Review A (Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics) 80, 041803 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2410
abstract: The amplification obtained using weak values is quantified through a detailed investigation of the signal to noise ratio for an optical beam deflection measurement. We show that for a given deflection, input power and beam radius, the use of interferometric weak values allows one to obtain the optimum signal to noise ratio using a coherent beam. This method has the advantage of reduced technical noise and allows for the use of detectors with a low saturation intensity. We report on an experiment which improves the signal to noise ratio for a beam deflection measurement by a factor of 54 when compared to a measurement using the same beam size and a quantum limited detector.

id: 0910.2423
title: Supersymmetry, PT-symmetry and Spectral Bifurcation
authors: Kumar Abhinav, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 9 pages, 1 table
journal: Annals Phys.325:1198-1206,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2423
abstract: We demonstrate that large class of PT-symmetric complex potentials, which can have isospectral real partner potentials, possess two different superpotentials. In the parameter domain, where the superpotential is unique, the spectrum is real and shape-invariant, leading to translational shift in a suitable parameter by \textit{real} units. The case of two different superpotentials, leading to same potential, yields broken PT-symmetry, the energy spectra in the two phases being separated by a bifurcation. Interestingly, these two superpotentials generate the two disjoint sectors of the Hilbert space. In the broken case, shape invariance produces \textit{complex} parametric shifts.

id: 0910.2427
title: Composite anyon coding and the initialization of a topological quantum computer
authors: Robert Koenig
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, v2: updated to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052309 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2427
abstract: Schemes for topological quantum computation are usually based on the assumption that the system is initially prepared in a specific state. In practice, this state preparation is expected to be challenging as it involves non-topological operations which heavily depend on the experimental realization and are not naturally robust against noise. Here we show that this assumption can be relaxed by using composite anyons: starting from an unknown state with reasonable physical properties, it is possible to efficiently distill suitable initial states for computation purely by braiding. This is achieved by encoding logical information in a subsystem code with gauge system corresponding to the internal degrees of freedom of composite objects.

id: 0910.2438
title: Multipartite entanglement percolation
authors: S. Perseguers, D. Cavalcanti, G. J. Lapeyre Jr, M. Lewenstein, A. Ac¨ªn
comments: revtex4, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032327 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2438
abstract: We present percolation strategies based on multipartite measurements to propagate entanglement in quantum networks. We consider networks spanned on regular lattices whose bonds correspond to pure but non-maximally entangled pairs of qubits, with any quantum operation allowed at the nodes. Despite significant effort in the past, improvements over naive (classical) percolation strategies have been found for only few lattices, often with restrictions on the initial amount of entanglement in the bonds. In contrast, multipartite entanglement percolation outperform the classical percolation protocols, as well as all previously known quantum ones, over the entire range of initial entanglement and for every lattice that we considered.

id: 0910.2440
title: Limits of heralded single photon sources based on parametric photon pair generation
authors: St¨¦phane Virally, Suzanne Lacroix, Nicolas Godbout
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2440
abstract: We derive calculations on the statistics of a heralded single photon source based on parametric photon pair generation. These calculations highlight fundamental and practical limits for these sources, and show which physical parameters can be optimized to improve the quality of a real source.

id: 0910.2444
title: Origin of the Correspondence Rules of Quantum Theory
authors: Philip Goyal
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2444
abstract: To apply the abstract quantum formalism to a particular physical system, one must specify the precise form of the relevant measurement and symmetry transformation operators. These operators are determined by a set of rules, the correspondence rules of quantum theory. The physical origin of these rules is obscure, and their physical interpretation and their degree of generality is presently unclear. In this paper, we show that all of the commonly-used correspondence rules can be systematically derived from a new physical principle, the Average-Value Correspondence Principle. This principle shows that the correspondence rules result from the systematic translation of relations between measurement results known to hold in a classical model of a system, providing these rules with a clear physical interpretation, and clearly demarcating their domain of applicability.

id: 0910.2457
title: State transformation in photon-echo quantum memory
authors: A. Delfan Abazari, E. Saglamyurek, R. Ricken, W. Sohler, C. La Mela, W. Tittel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2457
abstract: Quantum memory is a key element for quantum repeaters and linear optical quantum computers. In addition to memory, repeaters and computers also require manipulating quantum states by means of unitary transformations, which is generally accomplished using interferometric optical setups. We experimentally investigate photon-echo type atom-light interaction for the possibility to combine storage with controlled transformation of quantum states. As an example, we demonstrate unambiguous state discrimination of qubits and qutrits in an Ti:Er:LiNbO$_3$ waveguide cooled to 3K using states encoded into large ensembles of identically prepared photons in superposition of different temporal modes. The high robustness and flexibility of our approach makes it promising for quantum communication and computation as well as precision measurements.

id: 0910.2499
title: Reduction and Emergence in Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Richard Healey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2499
abstract: A closer look at some proposed Gedanken-experiments on BECs promises to shed light on several aspects of reduction and emergence in physics. These include the relations between classical descriptions and different quantum treatments of macroscopic systems, and the emergence of new properties and even new objects as a result of spontaneous symmetry breaking.

id: 0910.2530
title: Quantum Addition Circuits and Unbounded Fan-Out
authors: Yasuhiro Takahashi, Seiichiro Tani, Noboru Kunihiro
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, 1 table, presented at the 9th Asian Conference on Quantum Information Science, 2009
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 10, No. 9&10, (2010) 0872-0890
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2530
abstract: We first show how to construct an O(n)-depth O(n)-size quantum circuit for addition of two n-bit binary numbers with no ancillary qubits. The exact size is 7n-6, which is smaller than that of any other quantum circuit ever constructed for addition with no ancillary qubits. Using the circuit, we then propose a method for constructing an O(d(n))-depth O(n)-size quantum circuit for addition with O(n/d(n)) ancillary qubits for any d(n)=\Omega(log n). If we are allowed to use unbounded fan-out gates with length O(n^c) for an arbitrary small positive constant c, we can modify the method and construct an O(e(n))-depth O(n)-size circuit with o(n) ancillary qubits for any e(n)=\Omega(log* n). In particular, these methods yield efficient circuits with depth O(log n) and with depth O(log* n), respectively. We apply our circuits to constructing efficient quantum circuits for Shor's discrete logarithm algorithm.

id: 0910.2577
title: A novel general mapping for bosonic and fermionic operators in Fock space
authors: Alexej I. Streltsov, Ofir E. Alon, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 29 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022124 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2577
abstract: In this paper we provide a novel and general way to construct the result of the action of any bosonic or fermionic operator represented in second quantized form on a state vector, without resorting to the matrix representation of operators and even to its elements. The new approach is based on our proposal to compactly enumerate the configurations (i.e., determinants for fermions, permanents for bosons) which are the elements of the state vector. This extremely simplifies the calculation of the action of an operator on a state vector. The computations of statical properties and of the evolution dynamics of a system become much more efficient and applications to systems made of more particles become feasible. Explicit formulations are given for spin-polarized fermionic systems and spinless bosonic systems, as well as to general (two-component) fermionic systems, two-component bosonic systems, and mixtures thereof.

id: 0910.2578
title: Quantum Key Distribution Highly Sensitive to Eavesdropping
authors: Stephen Brierley
comments: 19 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2578
abstract: We introduce a new quantum key distribution protocol that uses d-level quantum systems to encode an alphabet with c letters. It has the property that the error rate introduced by an intercept-and-resend attack tends to one as the numbers c and d increase. In dimension d=2, when the legitimate parties use a complete set of three mutually unbiased bases, the protocol achieves a quantum bit error rate of 57.1%. This represents a significant improvement over the 25% quantum bit error rate achieved in the BB84 protocol or 33% in the six-state protocol.

id: 0910.2598
title: Nanowire atomchip traps for sub-micron atom-surface distances
authors: R. Salem, Y. Japha, J. Chab¨¦, B. Hadad, M. Keil, K. A. Milton, R. Folman
comments: 19 pages, 10 figure in 14 files
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2598
abstract: We present an analysis of magnetic traps for ultracold atoms based on current-carrying wires with sub-micron dimensions. We analyze the physical limitations of these conducting wires, as well as how such miniaturized magnetic traps are affected by the nearby surface due to tunneling to the surface, surface thermal noise, electron scattering within the wire, and the Casimir-Polder force. We show that wires with cross sections as small as a few tens of nanometers should enable robust operating conditions for coherent atom optics (e.g. tunneling barriers for interferometry). In particular, trap sizes on the order of the deBroglie wavelength become accessible, based solely on static magnetic fields, thereby bringing the atomchip a step closer to fulfilling its promise of a compact device for complex and accurate quantum optics with ultracold atoms.

id: 0910.2645
title: Unconditionally Secure Quantum Bit Commitment Using Neutron Double-Slit Interference
authors: Chi-Yee Cheung
comments: Revised protocol, 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2645
abstract: Using a neutron double-slit setup, we construct a quantum bit commitment scheme in which time development of quantum states plays an essential role. Our scheme evades the widely accepted no-go theorem by the fact that it is neither possible to stop the time evolution of spreading wave packets, nor is it possible to evolve them backward in time. Moreover, for unstable particles such as neutrons, one cannot delay detecting their positions indefinitely, or they would disintegrate spontaneously and escape detection. We find that using non-stationary states instead of stationary ones, unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment is possible.

id: 0910.2646
title: Energy Gaps in a Spacetime Crystal
authors: L.P. Horwitz, E.Z. Engelberg
comments: 8 pages. 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2009), pp. 40-43
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2646
abstract: This paper presents an analysis of the band structure of a spacetime potential lattice created by a standing electromagnetic wave. We show that there are energy band gaps. We estimate the effect, and propose a measurement that could confirm the existence of such phenomena.

id: 0910.2648
title: Reflectance of a quantum mirror
authors: Pablo L. Saldanha
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to an error on the treatment that invalidates the conclusions of the paper.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2648
abstract: The problem of the reflectance of a photon by a metallic mirror whose position is treated quantum mechanically is considered. The interaction between the metallic surface and the light is treated classically. It is shown that the reflectance depends on the spread of the wavefunction describing the reflecting surface along its normal. Considering this decrease on the mirror reflectance, it is shown by first principles that it is impossible to achieve a highly entangled state between a photon and a mirror when the photon can be reflected only once.

id: 0910.2679
title: Time evolution of a two-atom dressed entangled state in a cavity
authors: E.R. Granhen, C.A. Linhares, A.P.C. Malbouisson, J.M.C. Malbouisson
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2679
abstract: We study the time evolution of superposition of product states of two dressed atoms in a spherical cavity in the extreme situations of an arbitrarily large cavity (free space) and of a small one. In the large-cavity case, the system dissipates, whereas, for the small finite cavity, the system evolves in an oscillating way and never completely decays. We also compute the von Neumann entropy for such a system, a measurement of the degree of entanglement of the two atoms, as the superposed state evolves in time. We find that this entropy does not depend on time, nor on the size of the cavity.

id: 0910.2689
title: Multipartite W states for chains of atoms conveyed through an optical cavity
authors: D. Gonta, S. Fritzsche
comments: 12 pages, revised version accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022326 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2689
abstract: We propose and work out a scheme to generate the entangled W states for a chain of N four-level atoms which are transported through an optical cavity by means of an optical lattice. This scheme is based on the combined laser-cavity mediated interaction between distant and equally separated atoms and works in a completely deterministic way for qubits encoded by two hyperfine levels of the atoms. Only two parameters, namely the distance between the atoms and the velocity of the chain, determine the effective interaction among the atoms and, therefore, the degree of entanglement that is obtained for the overall chain of N qubits. In particular, we work out the parameter regions for which the W states are generated most reliably for chains of N = 2,3,4 and 5 atoms. In addition, we analyze the sensitivity in the formation of entanglement for such chains of qubits due to uncertainties produced by the oscillations of atoms in optical lattices.

id: 0910.2713
title: Realistic continuous-variable quantum teleportation with non-Gaussian resources
authors: Fabio Dell'Anno, Silvio De Siena, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012333 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2713
abstract: We present a comprehensive investigation of nonideal continuous-variable quantum teleportation implemented with entangled non-Gaussian resources. We discuss in a unified framework the main decoherence mechanisms, including imperfect Bell measurements and propagation of optical fields in lossy fibers, applying the formalism of the characteristic function. By exploiting appropriate displacement strategies, we compute analytically the success probability of teleportation for input coherent states, and two classes of non-Gaussian entangled resources: Two-mode squeezed Bell-like states (that include as particular cases photon-added and photon-subtracted de-Gaussified states), and two-mode squeezed cat-like states. We discuss the optimization procedure on the free parameters of the non-Gaussian resources at fixed values of the squeezing and of the experimental quantities determining the inefficiencies of the non-ideal protocol. It is found that non-Gaussian resources enhance significantly the efficiency of teleportation and are more robust against decoherence than the corresponding Gaussian ones. Partial information on the alphabet of input states allows further significant improvement in the performance of the non-ideal teleportation protocol.

id: 0910.2737
title: Temperley-Lieb Algebra: From Knot Theory to Logic and Computation via Quantum Mechanics
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: 45 pages
journal: In Mathematics of Quantum Computing and Technology, ed. G. Chen, L. Kauffman and S. Lomonaco. Taylor and Francis, 415--458, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2737
abstract: Our aim in this paper is to trace some of the surprising and beautiful connections which are beginning to emerge between a number of apparently disparate topics: Knot Theory, Categorical Quantum Mechanics, and Logic and Computation. We shall focus in particular on the following two topics: - The Temperley-Lieb algebra has always hitherto been presented as a quotient of some sort: either algebraically by generators and relations as in Jones' original presentation, or as a diagram algebra modulo planar isotopy as in Kauffman's presentation. We shall use tools from Geometry of Interaction, a dynamical interpretation of proofs under Cut Elimination developed as an off-shoot of Linear Logic, to give a direct description of the Temperley-Lieb category -- a "fully abstract presentation", in Computer Science terminology. This also brings something new to the Geometry of Interaction, since we are led to develop a planar version of it, and to verify that the interpretation of Cut-Elimination (the "Execution Formula", or "composition by feedback") preserves planarity. - We shall also show how the Temperley-Lieb algebra provides a natural setting in which computation can be performed diagrammatically as geometric simplification -- "yanking lines straight". We shall introduce a "planar lambda-calculus" for this purpose, and show how it can be interpreted in the Temperley-Lieb category.

id: 0910.2750
title: Properties of QBist State Spaces
authors: D. M. Appleby, Asa Ericsson, Christopher A. Fuchs
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, a few additions in v2 on QBism ideas
journal: Found. of Phys. 41, 3 (2011) p 564
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2750
abstract: Every quantum state can be represented as a probability distribution over the outcomes of an informationally complete measurement. But not all probability distributions correspond to quantum states. Quantum state space may thus be thought of as a restricted subset of all potentially available probabilities. A recent publication [1] advocates such a representation using symmetric informationally complete (SIC) measurements. Building upon this work we study how this subset--quantum-state space--might be characterized. Our leading characteristic is that the inner products of the probabilities are bounded, a simple condition with nontrivial consequences. To get quantum-state space something more detailed about the extreme points is needed. No definitive characterization is reached, but we see several new interesting features over those in [1], and all in conformity with quantum theory.

id: 0910.2791
title: Vortex Turbulence in Linear Schroedinger Wave Mechanics
authors: Tzihong Chiueh, Tak-Pong Woo, Hung-Yu Jian, Hsi-Yu Schive
comments: 9 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 115101 (9pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2791
abstract: Quantum turbulence that exhibits vortex creation, annihilation and interactions is demonstrated as an exact solution of the time-dependent, free-particle Schr\"odinger equation evolved from a smooth random-phased initial condition. Relaxed quantum turbulence in 2D and 3D exhibits universal scaling in the steady-state energy spectrum as k-1 in small scales. Due to the lack of dissipation, no evidence of the Kolmogorov-type forward energy cascade in 3D or the inverse energy cascade in 2D is found, but the rotational and potential flow components do approach equi-partition in the scaling regime. In addition, the 3D vortex line-line correlation exhibits universal behaviour, scaled as \Deltar^-2, where \Deltar is the separation between any two vortex line elements, in fully developed turbulence. We also show that the quantum vortex is not frozen to the matter, nor is the vortex motion induced by other vortices via Biot-Savart's law. Thus, the quantum vortex is actually a nonlinear wave, propagating at a speed very different from a classical vortex.

id: 0910.2823
title: Coexistence in interval effect algebras
authors: Gejza Jen?a
comments: 
journal: Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 139 (2011), 331-344
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2823
abstract: Motivated by the notion of coexistence of effect-valued observables, we give a characterization of coexistent subsets of interval effect algebras.

id: 0910.2834
title: Energy Content of Quantum Systems and the Alleged Collapse of the Wavefunction
authors: Peter J. Riggs
comments: 10 pages, no figures, also published in: Quantum Causality: Conceptual Issues in the Causal Theory of Quantum Mechanics (Springer, 2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2834
abstract: It is shown that within a quantum system, the wave field has a (potential) energy content that can be exchanged with quantum particles. Energy conservation in quantum systems holds if potential energy is correctly taken to be a field attribute. From this perspective, a transfer of energy occurs on measurement from the wave field to a quantum particle and this provides a physical explanation of what is commonly referred to as the collapse of the wavefunction.

id: 0910.2850
title: New approach for deriving operator identities by alternately using normally, antinormally, and Weyl ordered integration
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Hong-chun Yuan
comments: 6 figures, submitted to Am. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2850
abstract: Dirac's ket-bra formalism is the "language" of quantum mechanics and quantum field theory. In Refs.(Fan et al, Ann. Phys. 321 (2006) 480; 323 (2008) 500) we have reviewed how to apply Newton-Leibniz integration rules to Dirac's ket-bra projectors. In this work by alternately using the technique of integration within normal, antinormal, and Weyl ordering of operators we not only derive some new operator ordering identities, but also deduce some useful integration formulas regarding to Laguerre and Hermite polynomials. This opens a new route of deriving mathematical integration formulas by virtue of the quantum mechanical operator ordering technique.

id: 0910.2871
title: Interacting quantum walks
authors: Dario Tamascelli
comments: Ph.D. Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2871
abstract: In this work we present the quantum mechanical computer proposed by Feynman in 1985 and, since then, widely cited but seldom used. The main feature of the model is the presence of a built in clocking mechanism managing for the ordered application of the computational primitives to the input/output register.

id: 0910.2910
title: Calculation of the unitary part of the Bures measure for N-level quantum systems
authors: Renan Cabrera, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: Renan Cabrera et al 2009 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 445302 (8pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2910
abstract: We use the canonical coset parameterization and provide a formula with the unitary part of the Bures measure for non-degenerate systems in terms of the product of even Euclidean balls. This formula is shown to be consistent with the sampling of random states through the generation of random unitary matrices.

id: 0910.2912
title: Universally Composable Quantum Multi-Party Computation
authors: Dominique Unruh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2912
abstract: The Universal Composability model (UC) by Canetti (FOCS 2001) allows for secure composition of arbitrary protocols. We present a quantum version of the UC model which enjoys the same compositionality guarantees. We prove that in this model statistically secure oblivious transfer protocols can be constructed from commitments. Furthermore, we show that every statistically classically UC secure protocol is also statistically quantum UC secure. Such implications are not known for other quantum security definitions. As a corollary, we get that quantum UC secure protocols for general multi-party computation can be constructed from commitments.

id: 0910.2930
title: Thermal Effects on the Stability of Excited Atoms in Cavities
authors: F.C. Khanna, A.P.C. Malbouisson, J.M.C. Malbouisson, A.E. Santana
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:032119,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2930
abstract: An atom, coupled linearly to an environment, is considered in a harmonic approximation in thermal equilibrium inside a cavity. The environment is modeled by an infinite set of harmonic oscillators. We employ the notion of dressed states to investigate the time evolution of the atom initially in the first excited level. In a very large cavity (free space) for a long elapsed time, the atom decays and the value of its occupation number is the physically expected one at a given temperature. For a small cavity the excited atom never completely decays and the stability rate depends on temperature.

id: 0910.2931
title: Abstract Scalars, Loops, and Free Traced and Strongly Compact Closed Categories
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: 32 pages
journal: In Proceedings of CALCO 2005, Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol. 3629, 1--31, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2931
abstract: We study structures which have arisen in recent work by the present author and Bob Coecke on a categorical axiomatics for Quantum Mechanics; in particular, the notion of strongly compact closed category. We explain how these structures support a notion of scalar which allows quantitative aspects of physical theory to be expressed, and how the notion of strong compact closure emerges as a significant refinement of the more classical notion of compact closed category. We then proceed to an extended discussion of free constructions for a sequence of progressively more complex kinds of structured category, culminating in the strongly compact closed case. The simple geometric and combinatorial ideas underlying these constructions are emphasized. We also discuss variations where a prescribed monoid of scalars can be "glued in" to the free construction.

id: 0910.2939
title: Approaches in evaluating two-time correlation function
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2939
abstract: Derivation of the procedures that can be applied in evaluating two-time correlation function in terms of coherent-state propagator and corresponding Q-function is presented. On the basis that the involved functions are generally exponential in nature, obtaining the two-time second-order correlation function is essentially claimed to be reduced to carrying out relatively simple integrations. Fundamentally, the time dependence of the operators is transferred to the density operator. Moreover, manipulation in reordering the operators is performed by applying the usual trace operation. With all details, it is basically observed that the two-time correlation can be readily determined once the pertinent coherent-state propagator or Q-function is known. Since working with c-number equation is far more handy than the associated operator equation, it is expected that the results derived in this contribution can aid in easing the otherwise involving mathematical rigor.

id: 0910.2974
title: Anyonic Quantum Walks
authors: Gavin K. Brennen, Demosthenes Ellinas, Viv Kendon, Jiannis K. Pachos, Ioannis Tsohantjis, Zhenghan Wang
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures
journal: Annals of Physics (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2974
abstract: The one dimensional quantum walk of anyonic systems is presented. The anyonic walker performs braiding operations with stationary anyons of the same type ordered canonically on the line of the walk. Abelian as well as non-Abelian anyons are studied and it is shown that they have very different properties. Abelian anyonic walks demonstrate the expected quadratic quantum speedup. Non-Abelian anyonic walks are much more subtle. The exponential increase of the system's Hilbert space and the particular statistical evolution of non-Abelian anyons give a variety of new behaviors. The position distribution of the walker is related to Jones polynomials, topological invariants of the links created by the anyonic world-lines during the walk. Several examples such as the SU(2) level k and the quantum double models are considered that provide insight to the rich diffusion properties of anyons.

id: 0910.2979
title: On the influence of resonance photon scattering on atom interference
authors: M. Bozic, D. Arsenovic, A. S. Sanz, M. Davidovic
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Scr. T140, 014017 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2979
abstract: Here, the influence of resonance photon-atom scattering on the atom interference pattern at the exit of a three-grating Mach-Zehnder interferometer is studied. It is assumed that the scattering process does not destroy the atomic wave function describing the state of the atom before the scattering process takes place, but only induces a certain shift and change of its phase. We find that the visibility of the interference strongly depends on the statistical distribution of transferred momenta to the atom during the photon-atom scattering event. This also explains the experimentally observed (Chapman et al 1995 Phys. Rev. Lett. 75 2783) dependence of the visibility on the ratio d_p/\lambda_i = y'_{12} (2\pi/kd\lambda_i), where y'_{12} is distance between the place where the scattering event occurs and the first grating, k is the wave number of the atomic center-of-mass motion, $d$ is the grating constant and \lambda_i is the photon wavelength. Furthermore, it is remarkable that photon-atom scattering events happen experimentally within the Fresnel region, i.e. the near field region, associated with the first grating, which should be taken into account when drawing conclusions about the relevance of "which-way" information for the interference visibility.

id: 0910.2992
title: Frictionless dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensates under fast trap variations
authors: J. G. Muga, Xi Chen, A. Ruschhaupt, D. Guery-Odelin
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B 42, 241001 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2992
abstract: A method is proposed to design the time dependence of the trap frequency and achieve in a short time an adiabatic-like (frictionless) evolution of Bose-Einstein condensates governed by the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. Different cases depending on the effective dimension of the trap and the interaction regimes are considered. 2D traps are particularly suitable as the method can be applied without the need to impose any additional time-dependent change in the strength of the interatomic interaction or a Thomas-Fermi regime as it occurs for 1D and 3D traps.

id: 0910.3027
title: Quantum Theory Approach for Neutron Single and Double-Slit Diffraction
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bai-Jun Zhang, Zhong Hua, Xiao-Jing Liu, Yi-Heng Wu, Hou-Li Tang, Yan Wang, Qing-Cai Wang, Li-Xin Chi
comments: 10 pages
journal: Int J Theor Phys (2010) 49: 2191-2199
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3027
abstract: We provide a quantum approach description of neutron single and double-slit diffraction, with specific attention to the cold neutron diffraction ($\lambda \approx 20$\AA) carried out by Zeilinger et al. in 1988. We find the theoretical results are good agreement with experimental data.

id: 0910.3035
title: Maximally Entangled States via Mutual Unbiased collective Bases
authors: M. Revzen
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3035
abstract: Relative and center of mass cordinates are used to generalize mutually unbiased bases (MUB) and define mutually unbiased bases (MUCB). Maximal entangled states are given as product staes in the collective varibles

id: 0910.3042
title: Modified l-states of diatomic molecules subject to central potentials plus an angle-dependent potential
authors: Cuneyt Berkdemir, Ramazan Sever
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Math. Chem. 46, 1122(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3042
abstract: We present modified $\ell$-states of diatomic molecules by solving the radial and angle-dependent parts of the Schr\"odinger equation for central potentials, such as Morse and Kratzer, plus an exactly solvable angle-dependent potential $V_{\theta}(\theta)/r^2$ within the framework of the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. We emphasize that the contribution which comes from the solution of the Schr\"odinger equation for the angle-dependent potential modifies the usual angular momentum quantum number $\ell$. We calculate explicitly bound state energies of a number of neutral diatomic molecules composed of a first-row transition metal and main-group elements for both Morse and Kratzer potentials plus an angle-dependent potential.

id: 0910.3066
title: Qubit-induced phonon blockade as a signature of quantum behavior in nanomechanical resonators
authors: Yu-xi Liu, Adam Miranowicz, Y. B. Gao, J. Bajer, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3066
abstract: The observation of quantized nanomechanical oscillations by detecting femtometer-scale displacements is a significant challenge for experimentalists. We propose that phonon blockade can serve as a signature of quantum behavior in nanomechanical resonators. In analogy to photon blockade and Coulomb blockade for electrons, the main idea for phonon blockade is that the second phonon cannot be excited when there is one phonon in the nonlinear oscillator. To realize phonon blockade, a superconducting quantum two-level system is coupled to the nanomechanical resonator and is used to induce the phonon self-interaction. Using Monte Carlo simulations, the dynamics of the induced nonlinear oscillator is studied via the Cahill-Glauber $s$-parametrized quasiprobability distributions. We show how the oscillation of the resonator can occur in the quantum regime and demonstrate how the phonon blockade can be observed with currently accessible experimental parameters.

id: 0910.3075
title: Geometry of pure states of N spin-J system
authors: Piotr Kolenderski
comments: 
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, Vol. 17, No. 2 (2010) 107- 119
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3075
abstract: We present the geometry of pure states of an ensemble of N spin-J systems using a generalisation of the Majorana representation. The approach is based on Schur-Weyl duality that allows for simple interpretation of the state transformation under the action of general linear and permutation groups. We show an exemplary application in theory of decoherence free subspaces and noiseless subsystems.

id: 0910.3131
title: Cryptographic encryption scheme for solving the trusted courier problem based on metastable excited nuclei
authors: Thomas Durt, Alex Hermanne
comments: 8 pages, Key words: key distribution, radio-isotope elements, confidentiality
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3131
abstract: Quantum cryptography makes it possible to expand a short shared key (of e.g. 256 bits[1]) into an arbitrary long shared key. The novelty of quantum cryptography is that whenever a spy tries to eavesdrop the communication he causes disturbances in the transmission of the message. Ultimately this unavoidable disturbance is a consequence of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle that limits the joint knowledge of complementary observables. Now, a problem remains: in order to initialize quantum key distribution, Alice and Bob need to share a short shared key in order to be able to identify each other unambiguously. Therefore a trusted courier is needed. We propose in this paper a solution to the trusted courrier problem that was inspired by quantum cryptography. The idea is to encode the key that Alice sends to Bob into unstable nuclei in such a way that the message gets revealed only after the courrier has delivered it to Bob. In this approach, we replace Heisenberg uncertainties by another type of uncertainty, that characterizes the knowledge of the time at which an unstable nucleus decays. As we shall show, this scheme makes it possible to refresh a key even in the case that we do not trust the courier who carries the key.

id: 0910.3133
title: Temperature dependence of the magnetic Casimir-Polder interaction
authors: H. Haakh, F. Intravaia, C. Henkel, S. Spagnolo, R. Passante, B. Power, F. Sols
comments: 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A80:062905,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3133
abstract: We analyze the magnetic dipole contribution to atom-surface dispersion forces. Unlike its electrical counterpart, it involves small transition frequencies that are comparable to thermal energy scales. A significant temperature dependence is found near surfaces with a nonzero DC conductivity, leading to a strong suppression of the dispersion force at T > 0. We use thermal response theory for the surface material and discuss both normal metals and superconductors. The asymptotes of the free energy of interaction and of the entropy are calculated analytically over a large range of distances. Near a superconductor, the onset of dissipation at the phase transition strongly changes the interaction, including a discontinuous entropy. We discuss the similarities with the Casimir interaction beween two surfaces and suggest that precision measurements of the atom-surface interaction may shed new light upon open questions around the temperature dependence of dispersion forces between lossy media.

id: 0910.3134
title: Multipartite Entanglement and Frustration
authors: P. Facchi, G. Florio, U. Marzolino, G. Parisi, S. Pascazio
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 12, 025015 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3134
abstract: Some features of the global entanglement of a composed quantum system can be quantified in terms of the purity of a balanced bipartition, made up of half of its subsystems. For the given bipartition, purity can always be minimized by taking a suitable (pure) state. When many bipartitions are considered, the requirement that purity be minimal for all bipartitions can engender conflicts and frustration arises. This unearths an interesting link between frustration and multipartite entanglement, defined as the average purity over all (balanced) bipartitions.

id: 0910.3144
title: Abstract Physical Traces
authors: Samson Abramsky, Bob Coecke
comments: 14 pages
journal: Theory and Applications of Categories, vol 14, pages 111--124, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3144
abstract: We revise our "Physical Traces" paper in the light of the results in "A Categorical Semantics of Quantum Protocols". The key fact is that the notion of a strongly compact closed category allows abstract notions of adjoint, bipartite projector and inner product to be defined, and their key properties to be proved. In this paper we improve on the definition of strong compact closure as compared to the one presented in Categorical Semantics of Quantum Protocols. This modification enables an elegant characterization of strong compact closure in terms of adjoints and a Yanking axiom, and a better treatment of bipartite projectors.

id: 0910.3179
title: A generalized quantum nonlinear oscillator
authors: Bikashkali Midya, Barnana Roy
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 285301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3179
abstract: We examine various generalizations, e.g. exactly solvable, quasi-exactly solvable and non-Hermitian variants, of a quantum nonlinear oscillator. For all these cases, the same mass function has been used and it has also been shown that the new exactly solvable potentials possess shape invariance symmetry. The solutions are obtained in terms of classical orthogonal polynomials.

id: 0910.3198
title: Necessity of negativity in quantum theory
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Ryan Morris, Joseph Emerson
comments: v2: new title, new author, new content
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 044103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3198
abstract: A unification of the set of quasiprobability representations using the mathematical theory of frames was recently developed for quantum systems with finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces, in which it was proven that such representations require negative probability in either the states or the effects. In this article we extend those results to Hilbert spaces of infinite dimension, for which the celebrated Wigner function is a special case. Hence, this article presents a unified framework for describing the set of possible quasiprobability representations of quantum theory, and a proof that the presence of negativity is a necessary feature of such representations.

id: 0910.3253
title: An anhomomorphic logic for quantum mechanics
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: manuscript of 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3253
abstract: Although various schemes for anhomomorphic logics for quantum mechanics have been considered in the past we shall mainly concentrate on the quadratic or grade-2 scheme. In this scheme, the grade-2 truth functions are called coevents. We discuss properties of coevents, projections on the space of coevents and the master observable. We show that the set of projections forms an orthomodular poset. We introduce the concept of precluding coevents and show that this is stronger than the previously studied concept of preclusive coevents. Precluding coevents are defined naturally in terms of the master observable. A result that exhibits a duality between preclusive and precluding coevents is given. Some simple examples are presented.

id: 0910.3289
title: The Crucial Role of Inert Source in the Magnetic Aharonov-Bohm Effect
authors: E. Comay
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3289
abstract: The role of the inert magnetic source used in the Tonomura experiment that has confirmed the magnetic Aharonov-Bohm effect is discussed. For this purpose, an analysis of a thought experiment is carried out. Here the permanent magnet is replaced by a classical source which is made of an ideal coil. A detailed calculation of this noninert source proves that in this case the effect disappears. This outcome provides another support for the crucial role of an inert source in the Aharonov-Bohm effect. A new aspect of quantum nonlocality is pointed out.

id: 0910.3295
title: Bounds on probability of transformations between multi-partite pure states
authors: Wei Cui, Wolfram Helwig, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012111 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3295
abstract: For a tripartite pure state of three qubits, it is well known that there are two inequivalent classes of genuine tripartite entanglement, namely the GHZ-class and the W-class. Any two states within the same class can be transformed into each other with stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) with a non-zero probability. The optimal conversion probability, however, is only known for special cases. Here, we derive new lower and upper bounds for the optimal probability of transformation from a GHZ-state to other states of the GHZ-class. A key idea in the derivation of the upper bounds is to consider the action of the LOCC protocol on a different input state, namely $1/\sqrt{2} [\ket{000} - \ket{111}]$, and demand that the probability of an outcome remains bounded by 1. We also find an upper bound for more general cases by using the constraints of the so-called interference term and 3-tangle. Moreover, we generalize some of our results to the case where each party holds a higher-dimensional system. In particular, we found that the GHZ state generalized to three qutrits, i.e., $\ket{\mathrm{GHZ}_3} = 1/\sqrt{3} [ \ket{000} + \ket{111} + \ket{222} ] $, shared among three parties can be transformed to {\it any} tripartite 3-qubit pure state with probability 1 via LOCC. Some of our results can also be generalized to the case of a multipartite state shared by more than three parties.

id: 0910.3364
title: New transformation of Wigner operator in phase space quantum mechanics for the two-mode entangled case
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Hong-chun Yuan
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3364
abstract: As a natural extension of Fan's paper (arXiv: 0903.1769vl [quant-ph]) by employing the formula of operators' Weyl ordering expansion and the bipartite entangled state representation we find new two-fold complex integration transformation about the Wigner operator (in its entangled form) in phase space quantum mechanics and its inverse transformation. In this way, some operator ordering problems can be solved and the contents of phase space quantum mechanics can be enriched.

id: 0910.3376
title: Quantum Proofs for Classical Theorems
authors: Andrew Drucker, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 50 pages LaTeX. Updated based on journal version; the journal version is open-access and has nicer typesetting (this http URL)
journal: Theory of Computing, Graduate surveys 2, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3376
abstract: Alongside the development of quantum algorithms and quantum complexity theory in recent years, quantum techniques have also proved instrumental in obtaining results in classical (non-quantum) areas. In this paper we survey these results and the quantum toolbox they use.

id: 0910.3425
title: Stability of Exponential Tails in the Scattering on Wedges and Impurities
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Pawel O. Mazur
comments: 6 pages, pdf file of an article written more than 10 years ago
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3425
abstract: We study a simple exactly solvable 2D model describing the interaction of a localized particle with an impurity. The localization potential $V(x)=-\alpha \delta (x)$ causes the particle to be trapped in the y-axis, and the `impurity' is modeled by a straight impenetrable edge extending along the positive x-axis. We show that the problem described can be treated as the Sommerfeld diffraction from an infinite edge. We use the model to present qualitative arguments on the nature of interaction of polarized light traveling along an optical fiber with external impurities.

id: 0910.3452
title: Adiabatic quantum computation along quasienergies
authors: Atushi Tanaka, Kae Nemoto
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3452
abstract: The parametric deformations of quasienergies and eigenvectors of unitary operators are applied to the design of quantum adiabatic algorithms. The conventional, standard adiabatic quantum computation proceeds along eigenenergies of parameter-dependent Hamiltonians. By contrast, discrete adiabatic computation utilizes adiabatic passage along the quasienergies of parameter-dependent unitary operators. For example, such computation can be realized by a concatenation of parameterized quantum circuits, with an adiabatic though inevitably discrete change of the parameter. A design principle of adiabatic passage along quasienergy is recently proposed: Cheon's quasienergy and eigenspace anholonomies on unitary operators is available to realize anholonomic adiabatic algorithms [Tanaka and Miyamoto, Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 160407 (2007)], which compose a nontrivial family of discrete adiabatic algorithms. It is straightforward to port a standard adiabatic algorithm to an anholonomic adiabatic one, except an introduction of a parameter |v>, which is available to adjust the gaps of the quasienergies to control the running time steps. In Grover's database search problem, the costs to prepare |v> for the qualitatively different, i.e., power or exponential, running time steps are shown to be qualitatively different. Curiously, in establishing the equivalence between the standard quantum computation based on the circuit model and the anholonomic adiabatic quantum computation model, it is shown that the cost for |v> to enlarge the gaps of the eigenvalue is qualitatively negligible.

id: 0910.3473
title: Purity and Gaussianity bounded uncertainty relation
authors: A. Mandilara, E. Karpov, N. J. Cerf
comments: Major changes in the presentation of the results but also in the proofs which have become more compact. Submitted to Journal of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3473
abstract: Bounded uncertainty relations provide the minimum value of the uncertainty assuming some additional information on the state. We derive analytically an uncertainty relation bounded by a pair of constraints, those of purity and Gaussianity. In a limiting case this uncertainty relation reproduces the purity-bounded derived by V I Man'ko and V V Dodonov and the Gaussianity-bounded one [Phys. Rev. A 86, 030102R (2012)].

id: 0910.3508
title: Quantum radiation from superluminal refractive index perturbations
authors: F. Belgiorno, S.L. Cacciatori, G. Ortenzi, V.G. Sala, D. Faccio
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:140403,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3508
abstract: We analyze in detail photon production induced by a superluminal refractive index perturbation in realistic experimental operating conditions. The interaction between the refractive index perturbation and the quantum vacuum fluctuations of the electromagnetic field leads to the production of photon pairs.

id: 0910.3571
title: Density matrix reconstruction from displaced photon number distributions
authors: Jukka Kiukas, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??, Jussi Schultz
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 095303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3571
abstract: We consider state reconstruction from the measurement statistics of phase space observables generated by photon number states. The results are obtained by inverting certain infinite matrices. In particular, we obtain reconstruction formulas, each of which involves only a single phase space observable.

id: 0910.3622
title: Electronic structure of superposition states in flux qubits
authors: J. I. Korsbakken, F. K. Wilhelm, K. B. Whaley
comments: Minor cosmetic changes. Published version.
journal: Physica Scripta T137, 014022 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3622
abstract: Flux qubits, small superconducting loops interrupted by Josephson junctions, are successful realizations of quantum coherence for macroscopic variables. Superconductivity in these loops is carried by $\sim 10^6$ -- $10^{10}$ electrons, which has been interpreted as suggesting that coherent superpositions of such current states are macroscopic superpositions analogous to Schr\"odinger's cat. We provide a full microscopic analysis of such qubits, from which the macroscopic quantum description can be derived. This reveals that the number of microscopic constituents participating in superposition states for experimentally accessible flux qubits is surprisingly but not trivially small. The combination of this relatively small size with large differences between macroscopic observables in the two branches is seen to result from the Fermi statistics of the electrons and the large disparity between the values of superfluid and Fermi velocity in these systems.

id: 0910.3675
title: Index theory of one dimensional quantum walks and cellular automata
authors: D. Gross, V. Nesme, H. Vogts, R.F. Werner
comments: 38 pages. v2: added examples, terminology clarified
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 310, 419-454 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3675
abstract: If a one-dimensional quantum lattice system is subject to one step of a reversible discrete-time dynamics, it is intuitive that as much "quantum information" as moves into any given block of cells from the left, has to exit that block to the right. For two types of such systems - namely quantum walks and cellular automata - we make this intuition precise by defining an index, a quantity that measures the "net flow of quantum information" through the system. The index supplies a complete characterization of two properties of the discrete dynamics. First, two systems S_1, S_2 can be pieced together, in the sense that there is a system S which locally acts like S_1 in one region and like S_2 in some other region, if and only if S_1 and S_2 have the same index. Second, the index labels connected components of such systems: equality of the index is necessary and sufficient for the existence of a continuous deformation of S_1 into S_2. In the case of quantum walks, the index is integer-valued, whereas for cellular automata, it takes values in the group of positive rationals. In both cases, the map S -> ind S is a group homomorphism if composition of the discrete dynamics is taken as the group law of the quantum systems. Systems with trivial index are precisely those which can be realized by partitioned unitaries, and the prototypes of systems with non-trivial index are shifts.

id: 0910.3713
title: On Learning Finite-State Quantum Sources
authors: Brendan Juba
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3713
abstract: We examine the complexity of learning the distributions produced by finite-state quantum sources. We show how prior techniques for learning hidden Markov models can be adapted to the quantum generator model to find that the analogous state of affairs holds: information-theoretically, a polynomial number of samples suffice to approximately identify the distribution, but computationally, the problem is as hard as learning parities with noise, a notorious open question in computational learning theory.

id: 0910.3727
title: Effects of photon losses on phase estimation near the Heisenberg limit using coherent light and squeezed vacuum
authors: Takafumi Ono, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 7 pages, including 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3727
abstract: Two path interferometry with coherent states and squeezed vacuum can achieve phase sensitivities close to the Heisenberg limit when the average photon number of the squeezed vacuum is close to the average photon number of the coherent light. Here, we investigate the phase sensitivity of such states in the presence of photon losses. It is shown that the Cramer-Rao bound of phase sensitivity can be achieved experimentally by using a weak local oscillator and photon counting in the output. The phase sensitivity is then given by the Fisher information F of the state. In the limit of high squeezing, the ratio (F-N)/N^2 of Fisher information above shot noise to the square of the average photon number N depends only on the average number of photons lost, n_loss, and the fraction of squeezed vacuum photons mu. For mu=1/2, the effect of losses is given by (F-N)/N^2=1/(1+2 n_loss). The possibility of increasing the robustness against losses by lowering the squeezing fraction mu is considered and an optimized result is derived. However, the improvements are rather small, with a maximal improvement by a factor of two at high losses.

id: 0910.3740
title: Testing non-isometry is QMA-complete
authors: Bill Rosgen
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. Presentation improved, results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3740
abstract: Determining the worst-case uncertainty added by a quantum circuit is shown to be computationally intractable. This is the problem of detecting when a quantum channel implemented as a circuit is close to a linear isometry, and it is shown to be complete for the complexity class QMA of verifiable quantum computation. This is done by relating the problem of detecting when a channel is close to an isometry to the problem of determining how mixed the output of the channel can be when the input is a pure state. How mixed the output of the channel is can be detected by a protocol making use of the swap test: this follows from the fact that an isometry applied twice in parallel does not affect the symmetry of the input state under the swap operation.

id: 0910.3798
title: Communication in quantum networks of logical bus topology
authors: T. Brougham, G. M. Nikolopoulos, I. Jex
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052325 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3798
abstract: Perfect state transfer (PST) is discussed in the context of passive quantum networks with logical bus topology, where many logical nodes communicate using the same shared media, without any external control. The conditions under which, a number of point-to-point PST links may serve as building blocks for the design of such multi-node networks are investigated. The implications of our results are discussed in the context of various Hamiltonians that act on the entire network, and are capable of providing PST between the logical nodes of a prescribed set in a deterministic manner.

id: 0910.3822
title: Direct derivation of the Peres-Horodecki criterion for the two-qubit states from the Hill-Wootters formula for the entanglement of formation
authors: Hiroo Azuma, Masashi Ban
comments: 14 pages, latex2e; v2: some equations in the appendix are modified
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 57, 677-684 (2010); J. Mod. Opt. 57, 2203 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3822
abstract: In this paper, we show a direct method of deriving the Peres-Horodecki criterion for the two-qubit states from the Hill-Wootters formula for the entanglement of formation. Although the Peres-Horodecki criterion and the Hill-Wootters formula are established results in the field of quantum information theory, they are proved independently and connections between them are not discussed precisely. In this paper, we clarify these connections. First, we replace the original Peres-Horodecki criterion with its another equivalent statement found by Augusiak et al. Second, we obtain an analytical form of the concurrence of an arbitrary two-qubit state $\rho$, using Ferrari's method to solve a quartic equation for eigenvalues $\rho\tilde{\rho}$. Finally, with the above preparations, we accomplish the direct derivation of the Peres-Horodecki criterion from the Hill-Wootters formula.

id: 0910.3850
title: General principles in the interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3850
abstract: The three major theoretical principles of quantum mechanics relevant to its interpretation are: (T1), linearity; (T2), invariance under certain groups; and (T3) the orthogonality and isolation of the different branches of the state vector. These three imply the particle-like properties of mass, energy, momentum, spin, charge, and locality are actually properties of the state vector; and this in turn implies there is no evidence for the existence of particles. Experimentally there is no evidence for collapse (E1) and theoretically linearity prohibits collapse. One also has the experimentally verified probability law (E2), which is found to rule out the many-worlds interpretation. The failure of these three major interpretation, particles, collapse, and many-worlds, apparently implies an acceptable interpretation must be based on perception. Rather than being a separate principle, probability follows in this interpretation from a weak assumption on perception plus the combinatorics when an experiment is run many times. This suggests a relatively simple experimental test of the perception interpretation.

id: 0910.3861
title: Optimized experimental settings for the best detection of quantum nonlocality
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 374, 3007 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3861
abstract: Nonlocality lies at the core of quantum mechanics from both a fundamental and applicative point of view. It is typically revealed by a Bell test, that is by violation of a Bell inequality, whose success depends both on the state of the system and on parameters linked to experimental settings. This leads to find, given the state, optimized parameters for a successful test. Here we provide, for a quite general class of quantum states, the explicit expressions of these optimized parameters and point out that, for a continuous change of the state, the corresponding suitable experimental settings may unexpectedly vary discontinuously. We finally show in a paradigmatic open quantum system that this abrupt "jump" of the experimental settings may even occur during the time evolution of the system. These jumps must be taken into account in order not to compromise the correct detection of nonlocality in the system.

id: 0910.3868
title: Short-time vs. long-time dynamics of entanglement in quantum lattice models
authors: R. G. Unanyan, D. Muth, M. Fleischhauer
comments: some minor additions, 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022119 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3868
abstract: We study the short-time evolution of the bipartite entanglement in quantum lattice systems with local interactions in terms of the purity of the reduced density matrix. A lower bound for the purity is derived in terms of the eigenvalue spread of the interaction Hamiltonian between the partitions. Starting from an initially separable state the purity decreases as $1 - (t/\tau)^2$, i.e. quadratically in time, with a characteristic time scale $\tau$ that is inversly proportional to the boundary size of the subsystem, i.e., as an area-law. For larger times an exponential lower bound is derived corresponding to the well-known linear-in-time bound of the entanglement entropy. The validity of the derived lower bound is illustrated by comparison to the exact dynamics of a 1D spin lattice system as well as a pair of coupled spin ladders obtained from numerical simulations.

id: 0910.3895
title: Continuous Measurement of Spin Systems with Spatially-Distinguishable Particles
authors: Ben Q. Baragiola, Bradley A. Chase, JM Geremia
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3895
abstract: It is generally believed that dispersive polarimetric detection of collective angular momentum in large atomic spin systems gives rise to: squeezing in the measured observable, anti-squeezing in a conjugate observable, and collective spin eigenstates in the long-time limit (provided that decoherence is suitably controlled). We show that such behavior only holds when the particles in the ensemble cannot be spatially distinguished-- even in principle-- regardless of whether the measurement is only sensitive to collective observables. While measuring a cloud of spatially-distinguishable spin-1/2 particles does reduce the uncertainty in the measured spin component, it generates neither squeezing nor anti-squeezing. The steady state of the measurement is highly mixed, albeit with a well-defined value of the measured collective angular momentum observable.

id: 0910.3897
title: Collective Uncertainty in Partially-Polarized and Partially-Decohered Spin-1/2 Systems
authors: Ben Q. Baragiola, Bradley A. Chase, JM Geremia
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032104 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3897
abstract: It has become common practice to model large spin ensembles as an effective pseudospin with total angular momentum J = N x j, where j is the spin per particle. Such approaches (at least implicitly) restrict the quantum state of the ensemble to the so-called symmetric Hilbert space. Here, we argue that symmetric states are not generally well-preserved under the type of decoherence typical of experiments involving large clouds of atoms or ions. In particular, symmetric states are rapidly degraded under models of decoherence that act identically but locally on the different members of the ensemble. Using an approach [Phys. Rev. A 78, 052101 (2008)] that is not limited to the symmetric Hilbert space, we explore potential pitfalls in the design and interpretation of experiments on spin-squeezing and collective atomic phenomena when the properties of the symmetric states are extended to systems where they do not apply.

id: 0910.3920
title: High-Level Methods for Quantum Computation and Information
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: 5 pages
journal: In Proceedings of the 19th Annual IEEE Symposium on Logic in Computer Science: LICS 2004 pages 410-414. IEEE Computer Society, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3920
abstract: A research programme is set out for developing the use of high-level methods for quantum computation and information, based on the categorical formulation of quantum mechanics introduced by the author and Bob Coecke.

id: 0910.3952
title: Local Quantum Measurement and No-Signaling Imply Quantum Correlations
authors: H. Barnum, S. Beigi, S. Boixo, M. B. Elliott, S. Wehner
comments: Published version. 5 pages, 1 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 140401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3952
abstract: We show that, assuming that quantum mechanics holds locally, the finite speed of information is the principle that limits all possible correlations between distant parties to be quantum mechanical as well. Local quantum mechanics means that a Hilbert space is assigned to each party, and then all local positive-operator-valued measurements are (in principle) available; however, the joint system is not necessarily described by a Hilbert space. In particular, we do not assume the tensor product formalism between the joint systems. Our result shows that if any experiment would give nonlocal correlations beyond quantum mechanics, quantum theory would be invalidated even locally.

id: 0910.3959
title: Coalgebras, Chu Spaces, and Representations of Physical Systems
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3959
abstract: We revisit our earlier work on the representation of quantum systems as Chu spaces, and investigate the use of coalgebra as an alternative framework. On the one hand, coalgebras allow the dynamics of repeated measurement to be captured, and provide mathematical tools such as final coalgebras, bisimulation and coalgebraic logic. However, the standard coalgebraic framework does not accommodate contravariance, and is too rigid to allow physical symmetries to be represented. We introduce a fibrational structure on coalgebras in which contravariance is represented by indexing. We use this structure to give a universal semantics for quantum systems based on a final coalgebra construction. We characterize equality in this semantics as projective equivalence. We also define an analogous indexed structure for Chu spaces, and use this to obtain a novel categorical description of the category of Chu spaces. We use the indexed structures of Chu spaces and coalgebras over a common base to define a truncation functor from coalgebras to Chu spaces. This truncation functor is used to lift the full and faithful representation of the groupoid of physical symmetries on Hilbert spaces into Chu spaces, obtained in our previous work, to the coalgebraic semantics.

id: 0910.3984
title: Properly Quantized History Dependent Parrondo Games, Markov Processes, and Multiplexing Circuits
authors: Steven A. Bleiler, Faisal Shah Khan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3984
abstract: In the context of quantum information theory, "quantization" of various mathematical and computational constructions is said to occur upon the replacement, at various points in the construction, of the classical randomization notion of probability distribution with higher order randomization notions from quantum mechanics such as quantum superposition with measurement. For this to be done "properly", a faithful copy of the original construction is required to exist within the new "quantum" one, just as is required when a function is extended to a larger domain. Here procedures for extending history dependent Parrondo games, Markov processes and multiplexing circuits to their "quantum" versions are analyzed from a game theoretic viewpoint, and from this viewpoint, proper quantizations developed.

id: 0910.3996
title: Effects of squeezing on quantum nonlocality of superpositions of coherent states
authors: Chang-Woo Lee, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3996
abstract: We analyze effects of squeezing upon superpositions of coherent states (SCSs) and entangled coherent states (ECSs) for Bell-inequality tests. We find that external squeezing can always increase the degrees of Bell violations, if the squeezing direction is properly chosen, for the case of photon parity measurements. On the other hand, when photon on/off measurements are used, the squeezing operation can enhance the degree of Bell violations only for moderate values of amplitudes and squeezing. We point out that a significant improvement is required over currently available squeezed SCSs in order to directly demonstrate a Bell-inequality violation in a real experiment.

id: 0910.4021
title: Environment induced entanglement in a refined weak-coupling limit
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, U. Marzolino
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX
journal: EPL 88 (2009) 20011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4021
abstract: Two non-directly interacting qubits with equal frequencies can become entangled via a Markovian, dissipative dynamics through the action of a weakly coupled Ohmic heat bath. In the standard weak-coupling limit derivation, this purely dissipative effect disappears if the frequencies are different because of the "ergodic average" used by this approach. However, there are physical situations where this technique is too rough to capture all the relevant aspects of the dissipative dynamics. In these cases, in order to better describe the physical behavior of the open system, it is necessary to go beyond the "ergodic average". We show that, in this more refined framework, the entanglement capability of the environment persists also in the case of different frequencies.

id: 0910.4034
title: Equivalence Principle and Field Quantization in Curved Spacetime
authors: H. Kleinert
comments: 2 pages, extended and corrected
journal: EJTP 6, 1 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4034
abstract: To comply with the equivalence principle, fields in curved spacetime can be quantized only in the neighborhood of each point, where one can construct a freely falling M i n k o w s k i frame with z e r o curvature. In each such frame, the geometric forces of gravity can be replaced by a selfinteracting spin-2 field, as proposed by Feynman in 1962. At a n y fixed distance $R$ from a black hole, the vacuum in each freely falling volume element acts like a thermal bath of all particles with Unruh temperature T_U=\hbar GM/2\pi c R^2. At the horizon R=2GM/c^2, the falling vacua show the Hawking temperature T_H=\hbar c^3/8\pi GMk_B.

id: 0910.4038
title: From quantum fusiliers to high-performance networks
authors: W. J. Munro, K. A. Harrison, A. M. Stephens, S. J. Devitt, Kae Nemoto
comments: 2 figures, Comments welcome
journal: Nature Photonics, vol 4, pp 792-796 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4038
abstract: Our objective was to design a quantum repeater capable of achieving one million entangled pairs per second over a distance of 1000km. We failed, but not by much. In this letter we will describe the series of developments that permitted us to approach our goal. We will describe a mechanism that permits the creation of entanglement between two qubits, connected by fibre, with probability arbitrarily close to one and in constant time. This mechanism may be extended to ensure that the entanglement has high fidelity without compromising these properties. Finally, we describe how this may be used to construct a quantum repeater that is capable of creating a linear quantum network connecting two distant qubits with high fidelity. The creation rate is shown to be a function of the maximum distance between two adjacent quantum repeaters.

id: 0910.4061
title: Dynamics of quantum-classical hybrid system: effect of matter-wave pressure
authors: J. Shen, X. L. Huang, X. X. Yi, Chunfeng Wu, C. H. Oh
comments: 7 pages, 6 figues
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062107 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4061
abstract: Radiation pressure affects the kinetics of a system exposed to the radiation and it constitutes the basis of laser cooling. In this paper, we study {\it matter-wave pressure} through examining the dynamics of a quantum-classical hybrid system. The quantum and classical subsystem have no explicit coupling to each other, but affect mutually via a changing boundary condition. Two systems, i.e., an atom and a Bose-Einstein condensate(BEC), are considered as the quantum subsystems, while an oscillating wall is taken as the classical subsystem. We show that the classical subsystem would experience a force proportional to $Q^{-3}$ from the quantum atom, whereas it acquires an additional force proportional to $Q^{-2}$ from the BEC due to the atom-atom interaction in the BEC. These forces can be understood as the {\it matter-wave pressure}.

id: 0910.4074
title: Surface code quantum communication
authors: Austin G. Fowler, David S. Wang, Charles D. Hill, Thaddeus D. Ladd, Rodney Van Meter, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures, 35% loss and 5% error sufficiently low to permit quantum data to be efficiently transmitted arbitrarily far and reliably at a rate limited only by the local gate speed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 180503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4074
abstract: Quantum communication typically involves a linear chain of repeater stations, each capable of reliable local quantum computation and connected to their nearest neighbors by unreliable communication links. The communication rate in existing protocols is low as two-way classical communication is used. We show that, if Bell pairs are generated between neighboring stations with a probability of heralded success greater than 0.65 and fidelity greater than 0.96, two-way classical communication can be entirely avoided and quantum information can be sent over arbitrary distances with arbitrarily low error at a rate limited only by the local gate speed. The number of qubits per repeater scales logarithmically with the communication distance. If the probability of heralded success is less than 0.65 and Bell pairs between neighboring stations with fidelity no less than 0.92 are generated only every T_B seconds, the logarithmic resource scaling remains and the communication rate through N links is proportional to 1/(T_B log^2 N).

id: 0910.4104
title: Engineering quantum operations on traveling light beams by multiple photon addition and subtraction
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 053822 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4104
abstract: We propose and investigate an optical scheme for probabilistic implementation of an arbitrary single-mode quantum operation that can be expressed as a function of photon number operator. The scheme coherently combines multiple photon addition and subtraction and is feasible with current technology. As concrete examples, we demonstrate that the device can perform approximate noiseless linear amplification of light and can emulate Kerr nonlinearity.

id: 0910.4129
title: Graph Concatenation for Quantum Codes
authors: Salman Beigi, Isaac Chuang, Markus Grassl, Peter Shor, Bei Zeng
comments: 26 pages, 12 figures. Figures of concatenated [[5,1,3]] and [[7,1,3]] are added. Submitted to JMP
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, vol. 52, no. 2, February 2011, 022201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4129
abstract: Graphs are closely related to quantum error-correcting codes: every stabilizer code is locally equivalent to a graph code, and every codeword stabilized code can be described by a graph and a classical code. For the construction of good quantum codes of relatively large block length, concatenated quantum codes and their generalizations play an important role. We develop a systematic method for constructing concatenated quantum codes based on "graph concatenation", where graphs representing the inner and outer codes are concatenated via a simple graph operation called "generalized local complementation." Our method applies to both binary and non-binary concatenated quantum codes as well as their generalizations.

id: 0910.4133
title: Weak Interactions ,Tunneling Racemization and Chiral Stability
authors: M.Cattani, J.M.F.Bassalo
comments: 17 pages 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4133
abstract: We study in the framework of the Schrodinger equation the effect of intermolecular interactions on the tunneling racemization of the active molecule. The active molecule is assumed as a two-level system and the left-right isomerism is viewed in terms of a double-bottomed harmonic potential well. The active molecule is assumed to be embedded in a gas, liquid or solid, submitted to a perturbing potential U created by the molecules of the sample. In our model we take into account the difference of energy E due to the weak interactions between the left (L) and right (R) configurations. We have shown that when E is equal to zero the system cannot be optically stable: the optical activity tends asymptotically to zero in the case of dilute gases or compressed gases and liquids or oscillates periodically around zero when the molecules are isolated or submitted to a static potential. Only when E is different of zero the system can be optically stable depending on the strength parameters of the potential U and on the magnitude of the spontaneous tunneling.

id: 0910.4143
title: Rapid adiabatic passage without level crossing
authors: A. A. Rangelov, N. V. Vitanov, B. W. Shore
comments: 
journal: Opt. Commun. 283 (2010) 1346
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4143
abstract: We present a method for achieving complete population transfer in a two-state quantum system via adiabatic time evolution in which, contrary to conventional rapid adiabatic passage produced by chirped pulses, there occurs no crossing of diabatic energy curves: there is no sign change of the detuning. Instead, we use structured pulses, in which, in addition to satisfying conditions for adiabatic evolution, there occurs a sign change of the Rabi frequency when the detuning is zero. We present simulations that offer simple geometrical interpretation of the two-dimensional motion of the Bloch vector for this system, illustrating how both complete population inversion and complete population return occur for different choices of structured pulses.

id: 0910.4145
title: Randomized Algorithms and Lower Bounds for Quantum Simulation
authors: Chi Zhang
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4145
abstract: We consider deterministic and {\em randomized} quantum algorithms simulating $e^{-iHt}$ by a product of unitary operators $e^{-iA_jt_j}$, $j=1,...,N$, where $A_j\in\{H_1,...,H_m\}$, $H=\sum_{i=1}^m H_i$ and $t_j > 0$ for every $j$. Randomized algorithms are algorithms approximating the final state of the system by a mixed quantum state. First, we provide a scheme to bound the trace distance of the final quantum states of randomized algorithms. Then, we show some randomized algorithms, which have the same efficiency as certain deterministic algorithms, but are less complicated than their opponentes. Moreover, we prove that both deterministic and randomized algorithms simulating $e^{-iHt}$ with error $\e$ at least have $\Omega(t^{3/2}\e^{-1/2})$ exponentials.

id: 0910.4151
title: Entanglement of the Antisymmetric State
authors: Matthias Christandl, Norbert Schuch, Andreas Winter
comments: 19 pages, 2 plethysms, not a single figure; requires young.sty and youngtab.sty; v2 has some small errors corrected and contains a new result regarding relative entropy of entanglement; v3 has a new title, v4 published version
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 311, 397-422 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4151
abstract: We analyse the entanglement of the antisymmetric state in dimension d x d and present two main results. First, we show that the amount of secrecy that can be extracted from the state is low, more precisely, the distillable key is bounded by O(1/d). Second, we show that the state is highly entangled in the sense that a large number of ebits are needed in order to create the state: entanglement cost is larger than a constant, independent of d. The second result is shown to imply that the regularised relative entropy with respect to separable states is also lower bounded by a constant. Finally, we note that the regularised relative entropy of entanglement is asymptotically continuous in the state. Elementary and advanced facts from the representation theory of the unitary group, including the concept of plethysm, play a central role in the proofs of the main results.

id: 0910.4153
title: Noise-assisted energy transfer in quantum networks and light-harvesting complexes
authors: Alex W. Chin, Animesh Datta, Filippo Caruso, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: Version published in NJP. Contains a comprehensive new section on non-markovian dynamics and also efficient FMO transport induced by local low frequency vibrations
journal: New J. Phys. 12 065002 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4153
abstract: We provide physically intuitive mechanisms for the effect of noise on excitation energy transfer (EET) in networks. Using these mechanisms of dephasing-assisted transport (DAT) in a hybrid basis of both excitons and sites, we develop a detailed picture of how noise enables energy transfer with efficiencies well above $90%$ across the Fenna-Matthew-Olson (FMO) complex, a type of light harvesting molecule. We demonstrate explicitly how noise alters the pathways of energy transfer across the complex, suppressing ineffective pathways and facilitating direct ones to the reaction centre. We explain that the fundamental mechanisms underpinning DAT are expected to be robust with respect to the considered noise model but show that the specific details of the exciton-phonon coupling, which remain largely unknown in these type of complexes, and in particular the impact of non-Markovian effects, results in variations of dynamical features that should be amenable to experimental verification within current or planned technology. A detailed understanding of DAT in natural compounds should open up a new paradigm of `noise-engineering' by which EET can be optimized in artificial light-harvesting structures.

id: 0910.4157
title: Black-box Hamiltonian simulation and unitary implementation
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Andrew M. Childs
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures, minor corrections
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 12, 29 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4157
abstract: We present general methods for simulating black-box Hamiltonians using quantum walks. These techniques have two main applications: simulating sparse Hamiltonians and implementing black-box unitary operations. In particular, we give the best known simulation of sparse Hamiltonians with constant precision. Our method has complexity linear in both the sparseness D (the maximum number of nonzero elements in a column) and the evolution time t, whereas previous methods had complexity scaling as D^4 and were superlinear in t. We also consider the task of implementing an arbitrary unitary operation given a black-box description of its matrix elements. Whereas standard methods for performing an explicitly specified N x N unitary operation use O(N^2) elementary gates, we show that a black-box unitary can be performed with bounded error using O(N^{2/3} (log log N)^{4/3}) queries to its matrix elements. In fact, except for pathological cases, it appears that most unitaries can be performed with only O(sqrt{N}) queries, which is optimal.

id: 0910.4216
title: Single atom-scale diamond defect allows large Aharonov-Casher phase
authors: D. Maclaurin, A.D. Greentree, J.H. Cole, L.C.L. Hollenberg, A.M. Martin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 040104(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4216
abstract: We propose an experiment that would produce and measure a large Aharonov-Casher (A-C) phase in a solid-state system under macroscopic motion. A diamond crystal is mounted on a spinning disk in the presence of a uniform electric field. Internal magnetic states of a single NV defect, replacing interferometer trajectories, are coherently controlled by microwave pulses. The A-C phase shift is manifested as a relative phase, of up to 17 radians, between components of a superposition of magnetic substates, which is two orders of magnitude larger than that measured in any other atom-scale quantum system.

id: 0910.4222
title: Quantum information: primitive notions and quantum correlations
authors: Valerio Scarani
comments: Six Lectures in a Les Houches Summer school (Singapore, 29 June - 24 July 2009). Many topics missing because they were covered by other lecturers. Many references missing because this is not a review article
journal: Published in: C. Miniatura et al. (eds), Ultracold Gases and Quantum Information (Oxford UP, Oxford, 2011), pages 105-177
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4222
abstract: This series of introductory lectures consists of two parts. In the first part, I rapidly review the basic notions of quantum physics and many primitives of quantum information (i.e. notions that one must be somehow familiar with in the field, like cloning, teleportation, state estimation...). The second part is devoted to a detailed introduction to the topic of quantum correlations, covering the evidence for failure of alternative theories, some aspects of the formalism of no-signaling probability distributions and some hints towards some current research topics in the field.

id: 0910.4227
title: Quantum interference experiments, modular variables and weak measurements
authors: Jeff Tollaksen, Yakir Aharonov, Aharon Casher, Tirzah Kaufherr, Shmuel Nussinov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4227
abstract: We address the problem of interference using the Heisenberg picture and highlight some new aspects through the use of pre-selection, post-selection, weak measurements, and modular variables, We present a physical explanation for the different behaviors of a single particle when the distant slit is open or closed: instead of having a quantum wave that passes through all slits, we have a localized particle with non-local interactions with the other slit(s). We introduce a Gedankenexperiment to measure this non-local exchange. While the Heisenberg picture and the Schrodinger pictures are equivalent formulations of quantum mechanics, nevertheless, the results discussed here support a new approach which has led to new insights, new intuitions, new experiments, and even the possibility of new devices that were missed from the old perspective.

id: 0910.4228
title: Unbounded violations of bipartite Bell Inequalities via Operator Space theory
authors: M. Junge, C. Palazuelos, D. Perez-Garcia, I. Villanueva, M.M. Wolf
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4228
abstract: In this work we show that bipartite quantum states with local Hilbert space dimension n can violate a Bell inequality by a factor of order $\sqrt{n}$ (up to a logarithmic factor) when observables with n possible outcomes are used. A central tool in the analysis is a close relation between this problem and operator space theory and, in particular, the very recent noncommutative $L_p$ embedding theory. As a consequence of this result, we obtain better Hilbert space dimension witnesses and quantum violations of Bell inequalities with better resistance to noise.

id: 0910.4264
title: Matrix Product State and mean field solutions for one-dimensional systems can be found efficiently
authors: Norbert Schuch, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 5 pages; v2: accepted version, Journal-ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012314 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4264
abstract: We consider the problem of approximating ground states of one-dimensional quantum systems within the two most common variational ansatzes, namely the mean field ansatz and Matrix Product States. We show that both for mean field and for Matrix Product States of fixed bond dimension, the optimal solutions can be found in a way which is provably efficient (i.e., scales polynomially). This implies that the corresponding variational methods can be in principle recast in a way which scales provably polynomially. Moreover, our findings imply that ground states of one-dimensional commuting Hamiltonians can be found efficiently.

id: 0910.4276
title: Stochastic local operations and classical communication equations and classification of even $n$ qubits
authors: X. Li, D. Li
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 155304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4276
abstract: For any even $n$ qubits we establish four SLOCC equations and construct four SLOCC polynomials (not complete) of degree $2^{n/2}$, which can be exploited for SLOCC classification (not complete) of any even $n$ qubits. In light of the SLOCC equations, we propose several different genuine entangled states of even $n$ qubits and show that they are inequivalent to the $|GHZ>$, $|W>$, or $|l,n>$ (the symmetric Dicke states with $l$ excitations) under SLOCC via the vanishing or not of the polynomials. The absolute values of the polynomials can be considered as entanglement measures.

id: 0910.4288
title: Quantum teleportation of electrons in quantum wires with surface acoustic waves
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Andrea Bertoni
comments: 7 pages,4 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 045312 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4288
abstract: We propose and numerically simulate a semiconductor device based on coupled quantum wires, suitable for deterministic quantum teleportation of electrons trapped in the minima of surface acoustic waves.We exploit a network of interacting semiconductor quantum wires able to provide the universal set of gates for quantum information processing, with the qubit defined by the localization of a single electron in one of two coupled channels.The numerical approach is based on a time-dependent solution of the three-particle Schr\"odinger equation. First, a maximally entangled pair of electrons is obtained via Coulomb interaction between carriers in different channels. Then, a complete Bell-state measurement involving one electron from this pair and a third electron is performed. Finally, the teleported state is reconstructed by means of local one-qubit operations. The large estimated fidelity explicitely suggests that an efficient teleportation process could be reached in an experimental setup.

id: 0910.4365
title: Superscars in the LiNC=LiCN isomerization reaction
authors: S. D. Prado, E. Vergini, R. M. Benito, F. Borondo
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. to appear in EPL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4365
abstract: We demonstrate the existence of superscarring in the LiNC=LiCN isomerization reaction described by a realistic potential interaction in the range of readily attainable experimental energies. This phenomenon arises as the effect of two periodic orbits appearing "out of the blue"in a saddle--node bifurcation taking place in the dynamics of the system. Potential practical consequences of this superlocalization in the corresponding wave functions are also considered.

id: 0910.4369
title: Non-Markovian expansion in quantum dissipative systems
authors: E. S. Fraga, G. Krein, L. F. Palhares
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4369
abstract: We consider the non-Markovian Langevin evolution of a dissipative dynamical system in quantum mechanics in the path integral formalism. After discussing the role of the frequency cutoff for the interaction of the system with the heat bath and the kernel and noise correlator that follow from the most common choices, we derive an analytic expansion for the exact non-Markovian dissipation kernel and the corresponding colored noise in the general case that is consistent with the fluctuation-dissipation theorem and incorporates systematically non-local corrections. We illustrate the modifications to results obtained using the traditional (Markovian) Langevin approach in the case of the exponential kernel and analyze the case of the non-Markovian Brownian motion.

id: 0910.4373
title: Atom reflection echoes and surface matter waves in atom meta-optics
authors: V. Bocvarski, J. Baudon, M. Hamamda, M. Boustimi, F. Perales, G. Dutier, C. Mainos, M. Ducloy
comments: 4 pages, 3 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4373
abstract: Evanescent matter-waves produced by an atom wave packet incident onto a repulsive barrier edge can be back-refracted and reconstructed by the application of negative-index "comoving" potential pulses. One shows that those collapses and revivals of evanescent matter waves give rise to surface matter waves and should be observable via atom reflection echoes issued from the barrier interface. This property, together with the property of inducing negative refraction, makes such potentials the matter-wave counterpart of negative-index materials in light optics.

id: 0910.4459
title: Ground state energy of large atoms and quantum dots
authors: Herv¨¦ Kunz, Rico Rueedi
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4459
abstract: We determine the ground state energy of atoms and quantum dots whose number N of electrons is large. We show that the dominant terms of the energy are those given by a semiclassical Hartree-Fock theory. Correlation effects appear at the order N ln N for atoms and the order N for quantum dots. We compute them. The semiclassical Hartree-Fock theory creates oscillations in the ground state energy as a function of N . These oscillations reflect the dynamics of a classical particle moving in the presence of the Thomas-Fermi potential. The dynamics is regular for atoms and some dots, but we present the case of a dot where this dynamics is fully chaotic and we compute the oscillating part of the ground state energy in this case.

id: 0910.4461
title: Bounds on the Speedup in Quantum signalling
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Vincent Nesme, Reinhard Werner
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4461
abstract: Given a discrete classical dynamical system, we can define a quantum dynamics, which acts on basis states like the classical one, but also allows superpositions of basis states. It is a curious fact that in the quantum version local changes in the initial state, after a single dynamical step, can sometimes can be detected much farther away than classically. Here we show that this effect is no use for generating faster signals. In a run of many steps the quantum propagation neighborhood can only increase by a constant fringe, so there is no asymptotic increase in speed.

id: 0910.4495
title: Correcting errors in a quantum gate with pushed ions via optimal control
authors: U. V. Poulsen, S. Sklarz, D. Tannor, T. Calarco
comments: Published i PRA
journal: Phys. Rev A, vol 82, 012339 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4495
abstract: We analyze in detail the so-called "pushing gate" for trapped ions, introducing a time dependent harmonic approximation for the external motion. We show how to extract the average fidelity for the gate from the resulting semi-classical simulations. We characterize and quantify precisely all types of errors coming from the quantum dynamics and reveal for the first time that slight nonlinearities in the ion-pushing force can have a dramatic effect on the adiabaticity of gate operation. By means of quantum optimal control techniques, we show how to suppress each of the resulting gate errors in order to reach a high fidelity compatible with scalable fault-tolerant quantum computing.

id: 0910.4501
title: Collective Enhancement and Suppression of Excitation Decay in Optical Lattices
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: EPL 90, 23001 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4501
abstract: We calculate radiative lifetimes of collective electronic excitations of atoms in an infinite one dimensional lattice. The translational symmetry along the lattice restricts the photon wave vector component parallel to the lattice to the exciton wave number and thus the possible emission directions. The resulting radiation damping rate and emission pattern of the exciton strongly deviates from independent atom. For some wave numbers and polarizations the excitons superradiantly decay very fast, while other excitons show zero radiation damping rate and form propagating meta-stable excitations. Such states could be directly coupled via tailored evanescent fields from a nearby fiber.

id: 0910.4504
title: Entanglement optimizing mixtures of two-qubit states
authors: K. V. Shuddhodan, M. S. Ramkarthik, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: Significant modifications, including an additional author, a new section, an appendix and a figure. Published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 345301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4504
abstract: Entanglement in incoherent mixtures of pure states of two qubits is considered via the concurrence measure. A set of pure states is optimal if the concurrence for any mixture of them is the weighted sum of the concurrences of the generating states. When two or three pure real states are mixed it is shown that 28.5% and 5.12% of the cases respectively, are optimal. Conditions that are obeyed by the pure states generating such optimally entangled mixtures are derived. For four or more pure states it is shown that there are no such sets of real states. The implications of these on superposition of two or more dimerized states is discussed. A corollary of these results also show in how many cases rebit concurrence can be the same as that of qubit concurrence.

id: 0910.4517
title: Electrostatics of Gapped and Finite Surface Electrodes
authors: Roman Schmied
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures (minor changes)
journal: New Journal of Physics 12 (2010) 023038 (16pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4517
abstract: We present approximate methods for calculating the three-dimensional electric potentials of finite surface electrodes including gaps between electrodes, and estimate the effects of finite electrode thickness and an underlying dielectric substrate. As an example we optimize a radio-frequency surface-electrode ring ion trap, and find that each of these factors reduces the trapping secular frequencies by less than 5% in realistic situations. This small magnitude validates the usual assumption of neglecting the influences of gaps between electrodes and finite electrode extent.

id: 0910.4543
title: Atmospheric Channel Characteristics for Quantum Communication with Continuous Polarization Variables
authors: Bettina Heim, Dominique Elser, Tim Bartley, Metin Sabuncu, Christoffer Wittmann, Denis Sych, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Applied Physics B following an invitation for the special issue "Selected Papers Presented at the 2009 Spring Meeting of the Quantum Optics and Photonics Section of the German Physical Society"
journal: Appl. Phys. B 98, 635 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4543
abstract: We investigate the properties of an atmospheric channel for free space quantum communication with continuous polarization variables. In our prepare-and-measure setup, coherent polarization states are transmitted through an atmospheric quantum channel of 100m length on the roof of our institute's building. The signal states are measured by homodyne detection with the help of a local oscillator (LO) which propagates in the same spatial mode as the signal, orthogonally polarized to it. Thus the interference of signal and LO is excellent and atmospheric fluctuations are autocompensated. The LO also acts as spatial and spectral filter, which allows for unrestrained daylight operation. Important characteristics for our system are atmospheric channel influences that could cause polarization, intensity and position excess noise. Therefore we study these influences in detail. Our results indicate that the channel is suitable for our quantum communication system in most weather conditions.

id: 0910.4547
title: Atom chip for BEC interferometry
authors: R. J. Sewell, J. Dingjan, F. Baumgartner, I. Llorente-Garcia, S. Eriksson, E. A. Hinds, G. Lewis, P. Srinivasan, Z. Moktadir, C. O. Gollasch, M. Kraft
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 051003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4547
abstract: We have fabricated and tested an atom chip that operates as a matter wave interferometer. In this communication we describe the fabrication of the chip by ion-beam milling of gold evaporated onto a silicon substrate. We present data on the quality of the wires, on the current density that can be reached in the wires and on the smoothness of the magnetic traps that are formed. We demonstrate the operation of the interferometer, showing that we can coherently split and recombine a Bose-Einstein condensate with good phase stability.

id: 0910.4549
title: The entanglement beam splitter: a quantum-dot spin in a double-sided optical microcavity
authors: C.Y. Hu, W.J. Munro, J.L.O'Brien, J.G. Rarity
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 205326 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4549
abstract: We propose an entanglement beam splitter (EBS) using a quantum-dot spin in a double-sided optical microcavity. In contrast to the conventional optical beam splitter, the EBS can directly split a photon-spin product state into two constituent entangled states via transmission and reflection with high fidelity and high efficiency (up to 100 percent). This device is based on giant optical circular birefringence induced by a single spin as a result of cavity quantum electrodynamics and the spin selection rule of trion transition (Pauli blocking). The EBS is robust and it is immune to the fine structure splitting in a realistic quantum dot. This quantum device can be used for deterministically creating photon-spin, photon-photon and spin-spin entanglement as well as a single-shot quantum non-demolition measurement of a single spin. Therefore, the EBS can find wide applications in quantum information science and technology.

id: 0910.4564
title: Reflection above the barrier as tunneling in momentum space
authors: R. L. Jaffe
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, submitted to American Journal of Physics. Version 2: MIT preprint number added, typographical error in caption to Figure 2 corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4564
abstract: Quantum mechanics predicts an exponentially small probability that a particle with energy greater than the height of a potential barrier will nevertheless reflect from the barrier in violation of classical expectations. This process can be regarded as tunneling in momentum space, leading to a simple derivation of the reflection probability.

id: 0910.4567
title: Detecting entanglement with non-hermitian operators
authors: Mark Hillery, Ho Trung Dung, Julien Niset
comments: Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 052335 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4567
abstract: We derive several entanglement conditions employing non-hermitian operators. We start with two conditions that were derived previously for field mode operators, and use them to derive conditions that can be used to show the existence of field-atom entanglement and entanglement between groups of atoms. The original conditions can be strengthened by making them invariant under certain sets of local unitary transformations, such as Gaussian operations. We then apply these conditions to several examples, such as the Dicke model. We conclude with a short discussion of how local uncertainty relations with non-hermitian operators can be used to derive entanglement conditions.

id: 0910.4603
title: Quantum communication using quantum game theory
authors: M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4603
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author(s), due to some technical problem.

id: 0910.4609
title: Simplified Quantum Process Tomography
authors: M. P. A. Branderhorst, J. Nunn, I. A. Walmsley, R. L. Kosut
comments: Added references to interesting related work by Bendersky et al
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4609
abstract: We propose and evaluate experimentally an approach to quantum process tomography that completely removes the scaling problem plaguing the standard approach. The key to this simplification is the incorporation of prior knowledge of the class of physical interactions involved in generating the dynamics, which reduces the problem to one of parameter estimation. This allows part of the problem to be tackled using efficient convex methods, which, when coupled with a constraint on some parameters allows globally optimal estimates for the Kraus operators to be determined from experimental data. Parameterising the maps provides further advantages: it allows the incorporation of mixed states of the environment as well as some initial correlation between the system and environment, both of which are common physical situations following excitation of the system away from thermal equilibrium. Although the approach is not universal, in cases where it is valid it returns a complete set of positive maps for the dynamical evolution of a quantum system at all times.

id: 0910.4649
title: Casimir Force at a Knife's Edge
authors: Noah Graham, Alexander Shpunt, Thorsten Emig, Sahand Jamal Rahi, Robert L. Jaffe, Mehran Kardar
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, uses RevTeX; v2: expanded conclusions; v3: fixed missing factor in Eq. (3) and incorrect diagram label (no changes to results); v4: fix similar factor in Eq. (16) (again no changes to results)
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:061701,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4649
abstract: The Casimir force has been computed exactly for only a few simple geometries, such as infinite plates, cylinders, and spheres. We show that a parabolic cylinder, for which analytic solutions to the Helmholtz equation are available, is another case where such a calculation is possible. We compute the interaction energy of a parabolic cylinder and an infinite plate (both perfect mirrors), as a function of their separation and inclination, $H$ and $\theta$, and the cylinder's parabolic radius $R$. As $H/R\to 0$, the proximity force approximation becomes exact. The opposite limit of $R/H\to 0$ corresponds to a semi-infinite plate, where the effects of edge and inclination can be probed.

id: 0910.4670
title: Angular performance measure for tighter uncertainty relations
authors: Z. Hradil, J. Rehacek, A. B. Klimov, I. Rigas, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures. Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 014103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4670
abstract: The uncertainty principle places a fundamental limit on the accuracy with which we can measure conjugate physical quantities. However, the fluctuations of these variables can be assessed in terms of different estimators. We propose a new angular performance that allows for tighter uncertainty relations for angle and angular momentum. The differences with previous bounds can be significant for particular states and indeed may be amenable to experimental measurement with the present technology.

id: 0910.4694
title: The permanent spatial decomposition of the wave function
authors: Bruno Galvan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4694
abstract: Permanent spatial decomposition (PSD) is the (hypothesized) property of the wave function of a macroscopic system of decomposing into localized permanently non-overlapping parts when it spreads over a macroscopic region. The typical example of this phenomenon is the measurement process, in which the wave function of the laboratory (quantum system + apparatus + environment) decomposes into n parts, corresponding to the n outcomes of the measurement: the parts are non-overlapping, because they represent a macroscopic pointer in different positions, and they are permanently non-overlapping due to the irreversible interaction with the environment. PSD is often mentioned in the literature, but until now no formal definition or systematic study of this phenomenon has been undertaken. The aim of this paper is to partially fill this gap by giving a formal definition of PSD and studying its possible connection with scattering theory. The predictive and explanatory powers of this phenomenon are also discussed and compared with those of Bohmian mechanics.

id: 0910.4698
title: BQP and the Polynomial Hierarchy
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4698
abstract: The relationship between BQP and PH has been an open problem since the earliest days of quantum computing. We present evidence that quantum computers can solve problems outside the entire polynomial hierarchy, by relating this question to topics in circuit complexity, pseudorandomness, and Fourier analysis. First, we show that there exists an oracle relation problem (i.e., a problem with many valid outputs) that is solvable in BQP, but not in PH. This also yields a non-oracle relation problem that is solvable in quantum logarithmic time, but not in AC0. Second, we show that an oracle decision problem separating BQP from PH would follow from the Generalized Linial-Nisan Conjecture, which we formulate here and which is likely of independent interest. The original Linial-Nisan Conjecture (about pseudorandomness against constant-depth circuits) was recently proved by Braverman, after being open for twenty years.

id: 0910.4702
title: The role of controllability in optimizing quantum dynamics
authors: Re-Bing Wu, Michael A. Hsieh, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4702
abstract: This paper discusses the important role of controllability played on the complexity of optimizing quantum mechanical control systems. The study is based on a topology analysis of the corresponding quantum control landscape, which is referred to as the optimization objective as a functional of control fields. We find that the degree of controllability is closely relevant with the ruggedness of the landscape, which determines the search efficiency for global optima. This effect is demonstrated via the gate fidelity control landscape of a system whose controllability is restricted on a SU(2) dynamic symmetry group. We show that multiple local false traps (i.e., non-global suboptima) exist even if the target gate is realizable and that the number of these traps is increased by the loss of controllability, while the controllable systems are always devoid of false traps.

id: 0910.4737
title: A note on Hardy's paradox
authors: J.F. Geurdes
comments: 3 pages 0 figures
journal: Adv. Studies Theor. Phys. 5(11), 545-549. 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4737
abstract: A classical probabilistic explanation for Hardy's quantum paradox is demonstrated.

id: 0910.4740
title: Comments on Schulz
authors: I. Schmelzer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4740
abstract: Schulz claims to have constructed an actively local stochastic theory which violates Bell's inequality. This is unjustified.

id: 0910.4764
title: Entangled States and Entropy Remnants of a Photon-Electron System
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physica Scripta T140 (2010) 014038 (8pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4764
abstract: In the present paper an example of entanglement between two different kinds of interacting particles, photons and electrons is analysed. The initial-value problem of the Schroedinger equation is solved non-perturbatively for the system of a free electron interacting with a quantized mode of the electromagnetic radiation. Wave packets of the dressed states so obtained are constructed in order to describe the spatio-temporal separation of the subsystems before and after the interaction. The joint probability amplitudes are calculated for the detection of the electron at some space-time location and the detection of a definite number of photons. The analytical study of the time evolution of entanglement between the initially separated electron wave packet and the radiation mode leads to the conclusion that in general there are non-vanishing entropy remnants in the subsystems after the interaction. On the basis of the simple model to be presented here, the calculated values of the entropy remnants crucially depend on the character of the switching-on and off of the interaction.

id: 0910.4772
title: Intracavity weak nonlinear phase shifts with single photon driving
authors: W. J. Munro, K. Nemoto, G. J. Milburn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4772
abstract: We investigate a doubly resonant optical cavity containing a Kerr nonlinear medium that couples two modes by a cross phase modulation. One of these modes is driven by a single photon pulsed field, and the other mode is driven by a coherent state. We find an intrinsic phase noise mechanism for the cross phase shift on the coherent beam which can be attributed to the random emission times of single photons from the cavity. An application to a weak nonlinearity phase gate is discussed.

id: 0910.4786
title: Photon-number statistics with Silicon photomultipliers
authors: Marco Ramilli, Alessia Allevi, Valery Chmill, Maria Bondani, Massimo Caccia, Alessandra Andreoni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4786
abstract: We present a description of the operation of a multi-pixel detector in the presence of non-negligible dark-count and cross-talk effects. We apply the model to devise self-consistent calibration strategies to be performed on the very light under investigation.

id: 0910.4798
title: Spectroscopy of drums and quantum billiards: perturbative and non-perturbative results
authors: Paolo Amore
comments: 29 pages, 12 figures, 7 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4798
abstract: We develop powerful numerical and analytical techniques for the solution of the Helmholtz equation on general domains. We prove two theorems: the first theorem provides an exact formula for the ground state of an arbirtrary membrane, while the second theorem generalizes this result to any excited state of the membrane. We also develop a systematic perturbative scheme which can be used to study the small deformations of a membrane of circular or square shapes. We discuss several applications, obtaining numerical and analytical results.

id: 0910.4811
title: Dirac equation with ultraviolet cutoff and quantum walk
authors: Fumihito Sato, Makoto Katori
comments: v2: REVTeX4, 21 pages, 7 figures, some corrections made for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A81 (2010) 012314/1-10
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4811
abstract: The weak convergence theorems of the one- and two-dimensional simple quantum walks, SQW$^{(d)}, d=1,2$, show a striking contrast to the classical counterparts, the simple random walks, SRW$^{(d)}$. The limit distributions have novel structures such that they are inverted-bell shaped and the supports of them are bounded. In the present paper we claim that these properties of the SQW$^{(d)}$ can be explained by the theory of relativistic quantum mechanics. We show that the Dirac equation with a proper ultraviolet cutoff can provide a quantum walk model in three dimensions, where the walker has a four-component qubit. We clarify that the pseudovelocity $\V(t)$ of the quantum walker, which solves the Dirac equation, is identified with the relativistic velocity. Since the quantum walker should be a tardyon, not a tachyon, $|\V(t)| < c$, where $c$ is the speed of light, and this restriction (the causality) is the origin of the finiteness of supports of the limit distributions universally found in quantum walk models. By reducing the number of components of momentum in the Dirac equation, we obtain the limit distributions of pseudovelocities for the lower dimensional quantum walks. We show that the obtained limit distributions for the one- and two-dimensional systems have the common features with those of SQW$^{(1)}$ and SQW$^{(2)}$.

id: 0910.4823
title: Super-resolution ghost imaging via compressive sampling reconstruction
authors: Wenlin Gong, Shensheng Han
comments: 4pages,3figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4823
abstract: For ghost imaging, pursuing high resolution images and short acquisition times required for reconstructing images are always two main goals. We report an image reconstruction algorithm called compressive sampling (CS) reconstruction to recover ghost images. By CS reconstruction, ghost imaging with both super-resolution and a good signal-to-noise ratio can be obtained via short acquisition times. Both effect influencing and approaches further improving the resolution of ghost images via CS reconstruction, relationship between ghost imaging and CS theory are also discussed.

id: 0910.4831
title: Two-Color Bright Squeezed Vacuum
authors: Ivan N. Agafonov, Maria V. Chekhova, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 011801(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4831
abstract: In a strongly pumped non-degenerate traveling-wave OPA, we produce two-color squeezed vacuum with up to millions of photons per pulse. Our approach to registering this macroscopic quantum state is direct detection of a large number of transverse and longitudinal modes, which is achieved by making the detection time and area much larger than the coherence time and area, respectively. Using this approach, we obtain a record value of twin-beam squeezing for direct detection of bright squeezed vacuum. This makes direct detection of macroscopic squeezed vacuum a practical tool for quantum information applications.

id: 0910.4847
title: Bures measure of entanglement of an arbitrary state of two qubits
authors: Alexander Streltsov
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4847
abstract: In Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 2245 (1998) an explicit expression for entanglement of formation for any two qubit state was given. Based on this result we present an expression for the Bures measure of entanglement for two qubit states. This measure was proposed in Phys. Rev. A 57, 1619 (1998), where the authors showed that it satisfies all properties every entanglement measure must have.

id: 0910.4908
title: Optimal dynamical control of many-body entanglement
authors: Felix Platzer, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 020501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4908
abstract: The preparation of highly entangled many-body systems is one of the central challenges of both basic and applied science. The complexity of interparticle interaction and environment coupling increases rapidly with the number of to-be-entangled subsystems, rendering the requirements on the control of many-body quantum systems ever more restrictive. We propose an approach that allows to derive optimal control Hamiltonians in a purely algebraic fashion. These drive a composite quantum system rapidly into that highly entangled state which can be created most efficiently for a given interaction mechanism, and which bears entanglement that is robust against decoherence.

id: 0910.4926
title: Quantum Work Relations under Trial Hamiltonians
authors: Arun Kumar Pati, Mamata Sahoo, Biswajit Pradhan
comments: Latex file, 10 pages, no figs
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 031112 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4926
abstract: The universal quantum work relation connects a functional of an arbitrary observable averaged over the forward process to the free energy difference and another functional averaged over the time-reversed process. Here, we ask the question if the system is driven out of equilibrium by a different Hamiltonian rather than the original one during the forward process and similarly during the reversed process then how accurate is the quantum work relation. We present an inequality that must be satisfied when the system is driven out by such a trial Hamiltonian. This also answers the issue of accuracy of the Jarzynski relation with a trial Hamiltonian. We have shown that the correction term can be expressed as the averages of the difference operator between the accurate and trial Hamiltonians. This leads to a generalized version of the Bogoliubov inequality for the free energy differences.

id: 0910.4929
title: Multimode Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion in the Lossy Medium
authors: Radoslaw Chrapkiewicz, Wojciech Wasilewski
comments: 
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Volume 57, Issue 5, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4929
abstract: We study the process of multimode Spontaneous Parametric Down--Conversion (SPDC) in the lossy, one dimensional waveguide. We propose a description using first order Correlation Functions (CF) in the fluorescence fields, as a very fruitful and easy approach providing us with a complete information about the final multimode state. We formulate the equation of the evolution of the multimode CF along the crystal using four characteristic length scales. We solve it analytically in the one mode case and numerically in the multimode case. We capture simultaneous effects of three wave mixing with ultrashort pump, linear propagation and attenuation, and we are able to divide the evolution into three stages and predict it qualitatively. We find that losses do not destroy the quantum properties of SPDC but stabilize the final state.

id: 0910.4952
title: Quantum Leader Election
authors: Maor Ganz
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4952
abstract: A group of n individuals who do not trust each other and are located far away from each other, want to select a leader. This is the leader election problem, a natural extension of the coin flipping problem to n players. We want a protocol which will guarantee that an honest player will have almost 1/n chance of winning, regardless of what the other players do (whether they are honest, cheating alone or in groups). It is known to be impossible classically. This work gives a simple algorithm that does it, based on the weak coin flipping protocol with arbitrarily small bias recently derived by Mochon [2007]. The protocol is quite simple to achieve if the number of rounds is linear; We provide an improvement to logarithmic number of rounds.

id: 0910.4988
title: A simple, robust, and scalable quantum logic gate with quantum dot cavity QED systems
authors: T. D. Ladd, Y. Yamamoto
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4988
abstract: We present a method to enact a deterministic, measurement-free, optically generated controlled-phase gate on two qubits defined by single electrons trapped in large-area quantum dots in a planar microcavity. This method is robust to optical quantum dot inhomogeneity, requires only a modest-$Q$ planar cavity, employs only a single laser pulse, and allows the integration of many entangled qubits on one semiconductor chip. We present the gate in the contexts of both adiabatic evolution and geometric phases, and calculate the degradation of performance in the presence of both spontaneous emission and cavity loss.

id: 0910.5032
title: Asymmetric Two-dimensional Magnetic Lattices for Ultracold Atoms Trapping and Confinement
authors: A. Abdelrahman, P. Hannaford M. Vasiliev, K. Alameh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5032
abstract: A new method to implement an asymmetrical two-dimensional magnetic lattice is proposed. The asymmetrical two-dimensional magnetic lattice can be created by periodically distributing magnetic minima across the surface of magnetic thin film where the periodicity can be achieved by milling $n\times n$ square holes on the surface of the film. The quantum device is proposed for trapping and confining ultracold atoms and quantum degenerate gases prepared in the low magnetic field seeking-state at low temperature, such as the Bose-Einstein Condensate (BEC) and ultracold fermions. We present detailed analysis of the analytical expressions and the numerical simulation procedure used to calculate the external magnetic field. We also, describe the magnetic band gap structure exhibited by the asymmetric effect of the magnetic minima and show some of the possible application. We analyze the effect of changing the characteristic parameters of the magnetic lattice, such as the separating periodicity length and the hole size along with the applications of the external magnetic bias fields to maintain and allocate a suitable non-zero magnetic local minima at effective $z$-distance above the thin film surface. Suitable values are shown which keep the trapped ultracold atoms away from the thermal Majorana spin-flip and the surface Casimir-Polder effect.

id: 0910.5034
title: Phase Locked Photon Echoes for Extended Storage Time
authors: B.S. Ham
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5034
abstract: We report a quantum optical storage time-extended near perfect photon echo protocol using a phase locking method via an auxiliary spin state, where the phase locking acts as a conditional stopper of the rephasing process resulting in extension of storage time determined by the spin dephasing process. The near perfect retrieval efficiency is owing to phase conjugate scheme, which gives the important benefit of aberration corrections when dealing with quantum images.

id: 0910.5055
title: An Efficient Algorithm for approximating 1D Ground States
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Itai Arad, Sandy Irani
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures. Replaced with updated version + link to PRA journal
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012315 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5055
abstract: The DMRG method is very effective at finding ground states of 1D quantum systems in practice, but it is a heuristic method, and there is no known proof for when it works. In this paper we describe an efficient classical algorithm which provably finds a good approximation of the ground state of 1D systems under well defined conditions. More precisely, our algorithm finds a Matrix Product State of bond dimension $D$ whose energy approximates the minimal energy such states can achieve. The running time is exponential in D, and so the algorithm can be considered tractable even for D which is logarithmic in the size of the chain. The result also implies trivially that the ground state of any local commuting Hamiltonian in 1D can be approximated efficiently; we improve this to an exact algorithm.

id: 0910.5116
title: Fluid moment hierarchy equations derived from quantum kinetic theory
authors: F. Haas, M. Marklund, G. Brodin, J. Zamanian
comments: 5 pages, three figures, uses elsarticle.cls
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5116
abstract: A set of quantum hydrodynamic equations are derived from the moments of the electrostatic mean-field Wigner kinetic equation. No assumptions are made on the particular local equilibrium or on the statistical ensemble wave functions. Quantum diffraction effects appear explicitly only in the transport equation for the heat flux triad, which is the third-order moment of the Wigner pseudo-distribution. The general linear dispersion relation is derived, from which a quantum modified Bohm-Gross relation is recovered in the long wave-length limit. Nonlinear, traveling wave solutions are numerically found in the one-dimensional case. The results shed light on the relation between quantum kinetic theory, the Bohm-de Broglie-Madelung eikonal approach, and quantum fluid transport around given equilibrium distribution functions.

id: 0910.5137
title: Casimir experiments showing saturation effects
authors: Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 043828 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5137
abstract: We address several different Casimir experiments where theory and experiment disagree. First out is the classical Casimir force measurement between two metal half spaces; here both in the form of the torsion pendulum experiment by Lamoreaux and in the form of the Casimir pressure measurement between a gold sphere and a gold plate as performed by Decca et al.; theory predicts a large negative thermal correction, absent in the high precision experiments. The third experiment is the measurement of the Casimir force between a metal plate and a laser irradiated semiconductor membrane as performed by Chen et al.; the change in force with laser intensity is larger than predicted by theory. The fourth experiment is the measurement of the Casimir force between an atom and a wall in the form of the measurement by Obrecht et al. of the change in oscillation frequency of a 87 Rb Bose-Einstein condensate trapped to a fused silica wall; the change is smaller than predicted by theory. We show that saturation effects can explain the discrepancies between theory and experiment observed in all these cases.

id: 0910.5160
title: The Quantum Wave Packet of the Non-Linear Gross-Pitaevskii Equation
authors: J.M.F. Bassalo, P.T.S. Alencar, D.G.da Silva, A. Nassar, M. Cattani
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5160
abstract: In this paper we study the quantum wave packet of the non-linear Gross-Pitaevskii equation.

id: 0910.5163
title: Entanglement preservation on two coupled cavities
authors: R. Rossi Jr
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters. A , v. 374, p. 2331-2334, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5163
abstract: The dynamics of two coupled modes sharing one excitation is considered. A scheme to inhibit the evolution of any initial state in subspace $\{|1_{a},0_{b} >, |0_{a},1_{b}>\}$ is presented. The scheme is based on the unitary interactions with an auxiliary subsystem, and it can be used to preserve the initial entanglement of the system.

id: 0910.5208
title: Optimal Decoherence Control in non-Markovian Open, Dissipative Quantum Systems
authors: Wei Cui, Zairong Xi, Yu Pan
comments: 12pages,7figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032117 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5208
abstract: We investigate the optimal control problem for non-Markovian open, dissipative quantum system. Optimal control using Pontryagin maximum principle is specifically derived. The influences of Ohmic reservoir with Lorentz-Drude regularization are numerically studied in a two-level system under the following three conditions: \omega_0\ll\omega_c, \omega_0\approx\omega_c or \omega_0\gg\omega_c, where \omega_0 is the characteristic frequency of the quantum system of interest, and \omega_c the cut-off frequency of Ohmic reservoir. The optimal control process shows its remarkable influences on the decoherence dynamics. The temperature is a key factor in the decoherence dynamics. We analyze the optimal decoherence control in high temperature, intermediate temperature, and low temperature reservoirs respectively. It implies that designing some engineered reservoirs with the controlled coupling and state of the environment can slow down the decoherence rate and delay the decoherence time. Moreover, we compare the non-Markovian optimal decoherence control with the Markovian one and find that with non-Markovian the engineered artificial reservoirs are better than with the Markovian approximation in controlling the open, dissipative quantum system's decoherence.

id: 0910.5210
title: The entanglement dynamics of the bipartite quantum system: toward entanglement sudden death
authors: Wei Cui, Zairong Xi, Yu Pan
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: J.Phys.A Math. Theor 42 025303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5210
abstract: We investigate the entanglement dynamics of bipartite quantum system between two qubits with the dissipative environment. We begin with the standard Markovian master equation in the Lindblad form and the initial state which is prepared in the extended Werner-like state: $\rho^{\Phi}_{AB}(0)$. We examine the conditions for entanglement sudden death (ESD) and calculate the corresponding ESD time by the Wootters' concurrence. We observe that ESD is determined by the parameters like the mean occupation number of the environment $N$, amount of initial entanglement $\alpha$, and the purity $r$. For N=0, we get the analytical expression of both ESD condition and ESD time. For $N>0$ we give a theoretical analysis that ESD always occurs, and simulate the concurrence as a function of $\gamma_0t$ and one of the parameters $N, \alpha$, and $r$.

id: 0910.5275
title: Uniqueness of Nash equilibria in quantum Cournot duopoly game
authors: Yohei Sekiguchi, Kiri Sakahara, Takashi Sato
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5275
abstract: A quantum Cournot game of which classical form game has multiple Nash equilibria is examined. Although the classical equilibria fail to be Pareto optimal, the quantum equilibrium exhibits the following two properties, (i) if the measurement of entanglement between strategic variables chosen by the competing firms is sufficiently large, the multiplicity of equilibria vanishes, and, (ii) the more strongly the strategic variables are entangled, the more closely the unique equilibrium approaches to the optimal one.

id: 0910.5276
title: Cavity-enhanced channeling of emission from an atom into a nanofiber
authors: Fam Le Kien, K. Hakuta
comments: Accepted for Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5276
abstract: We study spontaneous emission of an atom near a nanofiber with two fiber-Bragg-grating (FBG) mirrors. We show that the coupling between the atom and the guided modes of the nanofiber can be significantly enhanced by the FBG cavity even when the cavity finesse is moderate. We find that, when the fiber radius is 200 nm and the cavity finesse is about 30, up to 94% of spontaneous emission from the atom can be channeled into the guided modes in the overdamped-cavity regime. We show numerically and analytically that vacuum Rabi oscillations and strong coupling can occur in the FBG cavity even when the cavity finesse is moderate (about 30) and the cavity length is large (on the order of 10 cm to 1 m), unlike the case of planar and curved Fabry-Perot cavities.

id: 0910.5297
title: Relation between the Dynamics of the Reduced Purity and Correlations
authors: Gen Kimura, Hiromichi Ohno, Milan Mosonyi
comments: 7 pages
journal: Open Sys. Information Dyn. 17, 233-243 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5297
abstract: A general property of the relation between the dynamics of the reduced purity and correlations is investigated in quantum mechanical systems. We show that a non-zero time-derivative of the reduced purity of a system implies the existence of non-zero correlations with its environment under any unbounded Hamiltonians with finite variance. This shows the role of local dynamical information on the correlations, as well as the role of correlations in the mechanism of purity change.

id: 0910.5324
title: Quantum Preferred Frame: Does It Really Exist?
authors: J. Rembielinski, K. A. Smolinski
comments: 5 pp., 6 figs
journal: EPL, 88 (2009) 10005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5324
abstract: The idea of the preferred frame as a remedy for difficulties of the relativistic quantum mechanics in description of the non-local quantum phenomena was undertaken by such physicists as J. S. Bell and D. Bohm. The possibility of the existence of preferred frame was also seriously treated by P. A. M. Dirac. In this paper, we propose an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-type experiment for testing the possible existence of a quantum preferred frame. Our analysis suggests that to verify whether a preferred frame of reference in the quantum world exists it is enough to perform an EPR type experiment with pair of observers staying in the same inertial frame and with use of the massive EPR pair of spin one-half or spin one particles.

id: 0910.5329
title: Classical fields as statistical states
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Twistor Newsletter 45, 40-43 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5329
abstract: We present a rough outline for an idea that characterises the observed, macroscopic realisation of the electromagnetic field in terms of a probability distribution on the underlying quantum electrodynamic state space.

id: 0910.5354
title: Inversion formula and Parsval theorem for complex continuous wavelet transforms studied by entangled state representation
authors: Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 4 pages no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5354
abstract: In a preceding Letter (Opt. Lett. 32, 554 (2007)) we have proposed complex continuous wavelet transforms (CCWTs) and found Laguerre--Gaussian mother wavelets family. In this work we present the inversion formula and Parsval theorem for CCWT by virtue of the entangled state representation, which makes the CCWT theory complete. A new orthogonal property of mother wavelet in parameter space is revealed.

id: 0910.5358
title: Nonclassicality of photon-added squeezed vacuum and its decoherence in thermal environment
authors: Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 14 pages and 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5358
abstract: We study the nonclassicality of photon-added squeezed vacuum (PASV) and its decoherence in thermal environment in terms of the sub-Poissonian statistics and the negativity of Wigner function (WF). By converting the PASV to a squeezed Hermite polynomial excitation state, we derive a compact expression for the normalization factor of m-PASV, which is an m-order Legendre polynomial of squeezing parameter r. We also derive the explicit expression of WF of m-PASV and find the negative region of WF in phase space. We show that there is an upper bound value of r for this state to exhibit sub-Poissonian statistics increasing as m increases. Then we derive the explicit analytical expression of time evolution of WF of m-PASV in the thermal channel and discuss the loss of nonclassicality using the negativity of WF. The threshold value of decay time is presented for the single PASV.

id: 0910.5364
title: Quantum Decoherence of Two Qubits
authors: Julius Helm, Walter T. Strunz
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 80, 042108 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5364
abstract: It is commonly stated that decoherence in open quantum systems is due to growing entanglement with an environment. In practice, however, surprisingly often decoherence may equally well be described by random unitary dynamics without invoking a quantum environment at all. For a single qubit, for instance, pure decoherence (or phase damping) is always of random unitary type. Here, we construct a simple example of true quantum decoherence of two qubits: we present a feasible phase damping channel of which we show that it cannot be understood in terms of random unitary dynamics. We give a very intuitive geometrical measure for the positive distance of our channel to the convex set of random unitary channels and find remarkable agreement with the so-called Birkhoff defect based on the norm of complete boundedness.

id: 0910.5375
title: Efficient quantum key distribution with trines of reference-frame-free qubits
authors: Gelo Tabia, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, 3 tables
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011) 817-822
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5375
abstract: We propose a rotationally-invariant quantum key distribution scheme that uses a pair of orthogonal qubit trines, realized as mixed states of three physical qubits. The measurement outcomes do not depend on how Alice and Bob choose their individual reference frames. The efficient key generation by two-way communication produces two independent raw keys, a bit key and a trit key. For a noiseless channel, Alice and Bob get a total of 0.573 key bits per trine state sent (98% of the Shannon limit). This exceeds by a considerable amount the yield of standard trine schemes, which ideally attain half a key bit per trine state. Eavesdropping introduces an $\epsilon$-fraction of unbiased noise, ensured by twirling if necessary. The security analysis reveals an asymmetry in Eve's conditioned ancillas for Alice and Bob resulting from their inequivalent roles in the key generation. Upon simplifying the analysis by a plausible symmetry assumption, we find that a secret key can be generated if the noise is below the threshold set by $\epsilon = 0.197$.

id: 0910.5391
title: Randomness in Classical Mechanics and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Igor V. Volovich
comments: 12 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5391
abstract: The Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics assumes the existence of the classical deterministic Newtonian world. We argue that in fact the Newton determinism in classical world does not hold and in classical mechanics there is fundamental and irreducible randomness. The classical Newtonian trajectory does not have a direct physical meaning since arbitrary real numbers are not observable. There are classical uncertainty relations, i.e. the uncertainty (errors of observation) in the determination of coordinate and momentum is always positive (non zero). A "functional" formulation of classical mechanics was suggested. The fundamental equation of the microscopic dynamics in the functional approach is not the Newton equation but the Liouville equation for the distribution function of the single particle. Solutions of the Liouville equation have the property of delocalization which accounts for irreversibility. The Newton equation in this approach appears as an approximate equation describing the dynamics of the average values of the position and momenta for not too long time intervals. Corrections to the Newton trajectories are computed. An interpretation of quantum mechanics is attempted in which both classical and quantum mechanics contain fundamental randomness. Instead of an ensemble of events one introduces an ensemble of observers.

id: 0910.5397
title: Control by quantum dynamics on graphs
authors: Chris Godsil, Simone Severini
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052316 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5397
abstract: We address the study of controllability of a closed quantum system whose dynamical Lie algebra is generated by adjacency matrices of graphs. We characterize a large family of graphs that renders a system controllable. The key property is a novel graph-theoretic feature consisting of a particularly disordered cycle structure. Disregarding efficiency of control functions, but choosing subfamilies of sparse graphs, the results translate into continuous-time quantum walks for universal computation.

id: 0910.5411
title: Examples of quantum integrals
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: I would like to submit this article for posting on Archive
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5411
abstract: We first consider a method of centering and a change of variable formula for a quantum integral. We then present three types of quantum integrals. The first considers the expectation of the number of heads in $n$ flips of a "quantum coin". The next computes quantum integrals for destructive pairs examples. The last computes quantum integrals for a (Lebesgue)^2 quantum measure. For this last type we prove some quantum counterparts of the fundamental theorem of calculus.

id: 0910.5413
title: Nonlinear and linear entanglement witnesses for bipartite systems via exact convex optimization
authors: M.A. Jafarizadeh, A. Heshmati, K. Aghayara
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5413
abstract: Linear and nonlinear entanglement witnesses for a given bipartite quantum systems are constructed. Using single particle feasible region, a way of constructing effective entanglement witnesses for bipartite systems is provided by exact convex optimization. Examples for some well known two qutrit quantum systems show these entanglement witnesses in most cases, provide necessary and sufficient conditions for separability of given bipartite system. Also this method is applied to a class of bipartite qudit quantum systems with details for d=3, 4 and 5. Keywords: non-linear and linear entanglement witnesses PACS number(s): 03.67.Mn, 03.65.Ud

id: 0910.5414
title: Dual Symmetric Solution of Maxwell Equations and Correct Quantization of Electromagnetic Field
authors: A. Dovlatova, D. Yearchuck, Y. Yerchak, A. Alexandrov
comments: 5 oages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5414
abstract: It has been found, that free electromagnetic (EM) field in restricted volume (typical experimental case) consists of two independent and equally possible components with different parity under spatial inversion transformations. Either of the two components indicated represents the system of also two independent and equally possible fields, which are even and uneven under time reversal transformations. The rules for local quantization of EM-field in Minkowski space are obtained.

id: 0910.5415
title: The minimum-error discrimination via Helstrom family of ensembles and Convex Optimization
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, Y. Mazhari, M. Aali
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5415
abstract: Using the convex optimization method and Helstrom family of ensembles introduced in Ref. [1], we have discussed optimal ambiguous discrimination in qubit systems. We have analyzed the problem of the optimal discrimination of N known quantum states and have obtained maximum success probability and optimal measurement for N known quantum states with equiprobable prior probabilities and equidistant from center of the Bloch ball, not all of which are on the one half of the Bloch ball and all of the conjugate states are pure. An exact solution has also been given for arbitrary three known quantum states. The given examples which use our method include: 1. Diagonal N mixed states; 2. N equiprobable states and equidistant from center of the Bloch ball which their corresponding Bloch vectors are inclined at the equal angle from z axis; 3. Three mirror-symmetric states; 4. States that have been prepared with equal prior probabilities on vertices of a Platonic solid. Keywords: minimum-error discrimination, success probability, measurement, POVM elements, Helstrom family of ensembles, convex optimization, conjugate states PACS Nos: 03.67.Hk, 03.65.Ta

id: 0910.5448
title: Shirokov's contracting lifetimes and the interpretation of velocity eigenstates for unstable quantons
authors: Gordon N. Fleming
comments: 14 pages, three figures, section 5 revised, appendix added, sequel to arXiv:0903.1831
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5448
abstract: This paper is concerned with the interpretation of velocity eigenstates for unstable quantons, their relationship to space like momentum eigenstates for such quantons and the explanation of Shirokovs contracting lifetimes for such velocity eigenstates. It is an elaboration of a portion of the authors earlier study.

id: 0910.5498
title: Efficient measurement of quantum dynamics via compressive sensing
authors: A. Shabani, R. L. Kosut, M. Mohseni, H. Rabitz, M. A. Broome, M. P. Almeida, A. Fedrizzi, A. G. White
comments: New title and authors. A new experimental section. Significant rewrite of the theory
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 100401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5498
abstract: The resources required to characterise the dynamics of engineered quantum systems-such as quantum computers and quantum sensors-grow exponentially with system size. Here we adapt techniques from compressive sensing to exponentially reduce the experimental configurations required for quantum process tomography. Our method is applicable to dynamical processes that are known to be nearly-sparse in a certain basis and it can be implemented using only single-body preparations and measurements. We perform efficient, high-fidelity estimation of process matrices on an experiment attempting to implement a photonic two-qubit logic-gate. The data base is obtained under various decoherence strengths. We find that our technique is both accurate and noise robust, thus removing a key roadblock to the development and scaling of quantum technologies.

id: 0910.5507
title: Proposal for revealing quantum nonlocality via local contextuality
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4-1, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:220401,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5507
abstract: Two distant systems can exhibit quantum nonlocality even though the correlations between them admit a local model. This nonlocality can be revealed by testing extra correlations between successive measurements on one of the systems which do not admit a noncontextual model whatever the reduced state of this system is. This shows that quantum contextuality plays a fundamental role in quantum nonlocality, and allows an experimental test of the Kochen-Specker with locality theorem.

id: 0910.5568
title: Linear Assignment Maps for Correlated System-Environment States
authors: C¨¦sar A. Rodr¨ªguez-Rosario, Kavan Modi, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 6 pages, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5568
abstract: An assignment map is a mathematical operator that describes initial system-environment states for open quantum systems. We reexamine the notion of assignments, introduced by Pechukas, and show the conditions assignments can account for correlations between the system and the environment, concluding that assignment maps can be made linear at the expense of positivity or consistency is more reasonable. We study the role of other conditions, such as consistency and positivity of the map, and show the effects of relaxing these. Finally, we establish a connection between the violation of positivity of linear assignments and the no-broadcasting theorem.

id: 0910.5587
title: Time complexity and gate complexity
authors: Tatsuhiko Koike, Yosuke Okudaira
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A82, 042305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5587
abstract: We formulate and investigate the simplest version of time-optimal quantum computation theory (t-QCT), where the computation time is defined by the physical one and the Hamiltonian contains only one- and two-qubit interactions. This version of t-QCT is also considered as optimality by sub-Riemannian geodesic length. The work has two aims: one is to develop a t-QCT itself based on physically natural concept of time, and the other is to pursue the possibility of using t-QCT as a tool to estimate the complexity in conventional gate-optimal quantum computation theory (g-QCT). In particular, we investigate to what extent is true the statement: time complexity is polynomial in the number of qubits if and only if so is gate complexity. In the analysis, we relate t-QCT and optimal control theory (OCT) through fidelity-optimal computation theory (f-QCT); f-QCT is equivalent to t-QCT in the limit of unit optimal fidelity, while it is formally similar to OCT. We then develop an efficient numerical scheme for f-QCT by modifying Krotov's method in OCT, which has monotonic convergence property. We implemented the scheme and obtained solutions of f-QCT and of t-QCT for the quantum Fourier transform and a unitary operator that does not have an apparent symmetry. The former has a polynomial gate complexity and the latter is expected to have exponential one because a series of generic unitary operators has a exponential gate complexity. The time complexity for the former is found to be linear in the number of qubits, which is understood naturally by the existence of an upper bound. The time complexity for the latter is exponential. Thus the both targets are examples satisfyng the statement above. The typical characteristics of the optimal Hamiltonians are symmetry under time-reversal and constancy of one-qubit operation, which are mathematically shown to hold in fairly general situations.

id: 0910.5592
title: Entanglement sudden death and sudden birth in two uncoupled spins
authors: E. Ferraro, A. Napoli, M. Guccione, A. Messina
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta Special Topics T135, 014032 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5592
abstract: We investigate the entanglement evolution of two qubits interacting with a common environment trough an Heisenberg XX mechanism. We reveal the possibility of realizing the phenomenon of entanglement sudden death as well as the entanglement sudden birth acting on the environment. Such analysis is of maximal interest at the light of the large applications that spin systems have in quantum information theory.

id: 0910.5601
title: Reply to Comment on "Non Hermitian Quantum Mechanics with Minimal Length Uncertainty", arXiv:0908.2341
authors: T.K. Jana, P. Roy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5601
abstract: It is shown that the results of ref [1] are consistent.

id: 0910.5608
title: Casimir-Polder Potential in Thermal Non-Equilibrium
authors: Simen ?. Ellingsen, Yury Sherkunov, Stefan Y. Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: Contribution to Proceedings of QFEXT09, Norman Oklahoma, September 2009. 10 pages, 2 figures. Section 2 revised; final, accepted version.
journal: Proceedings of the Ninth Conference on Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT09) (World Scientific, 2010) pp.168-177
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5608
abstract: Different non-equilibrium situations have recently been considered when studying the thermal Casimir--Polder interaction with a body. We show that the Keldysh Green function method provides a very general common framework for such studies where non-equilibrium of either the atom or the body with the environment can be accounted for. We apply the results to the case of ground state polar molecules out of equilibrium with their environment, observing several striking effects. We consider thermal Casimir--Polder potentials in planar configurations, and new results for a molecule in a cylindrical cavity are reported, showing similar characteristic behaviour as found in planar geometry.

id: 0910.5622
title: Mechanism of entanglement preservation
authors: Qing-Jun Tong, Jun-Hong An, Hong-Gang Luo, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052330 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5622
abstract: We study the entanglement preservation of two qubits locally interacting with their reservoirs. We show that the existence of a bound state of the qubit and its reservoir and the non-Markovian effect are two essential ingredients and their interplay plays a crucial role in preserving the entanglement in the steady state. When the non-Markovian effect is neglected, the entanglement sudden death (ESD) is reproduced. On the other hand, when the non-Markovian is significantly strong but the bound state is absent, the phenomenon of the ESD and its revival is recovered. Our formulation presents a unified picture about the entanglement preservation and provides a clear clue on how to preserve the entanglement in quantum information processing.

id: 0910.5644
title: Quantum Annealing of Hard Problems
authors: Thomas Jorg, Florent Krzakala, Jorge Kurchan, A. C. Maggs
comments: Proceedings of the "YKIS 2009 : Frontiers in Nonequilibrium Physics" conference in Kyoto, August 2009. A shorter version can found in arXiv:0806.4144v3
journal: Progress of Theoretical Physics Supplement No. 184 (2010) pp. 290-303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5644
abstract: Quantum annealing is analogous to simulated annealing with a tunneling mechanism substituting for thermal activation. Its performance has been tested in numerical simulation with mixed conclusions. There is a class of optimization problems for which the efficiency can be studied analytically using techniques based on the statistical mechanics of spin glasses.

id: 0910.5660
title: Reply to a comment of I. Schmelzer
authors: Benjamin Schulz
comments: The correct parts of this article are now in a separate article at arxiv.org. The stochastic model in this article must be described in more detail before it is suitable for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5660
abstract: This is a reply to the comment of Schmelzer on my earlier paper. In contrast to Schmelzer's claims, it is shown that passive locality does not correspond to the completeness condition of EPR. Nevertheless, it is argued that Schmelzer has found several errors in my article which, fortunately, can be corrected. In spite of Schmelzer's arguments, the Fritsche-Haugk theory can be used to define a local hidden variable theory for the singlet state.

id: 0910.5694
title: Comment on "Nongeometric Conditional Phase Shift via Adiabatic Evolution of Dark Eigenstates: A New Approach to Quantum Computation"
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, John Calsamiglia
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 188901 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5694
abstract: In [Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 080502 (2005)], Zheng proposed a scheme for implementing a conditional phase shift via adiabatic passages. The author claims that the gate is "neither of dynamical nor geometric origin" on the grounds that the Hamiltonian does not follow a cyclic change. He further argues that "in comparison with the adiabatic geometric gates, the nontrivial cyclic loop is unnecessary, and thus the errors in obtaining the required solid angle are avoided, which makes this new kind of phase gates superior to the geometric gates." In this Comment, we point out that geometric operations, including adiabatic holonomies, can be induced by noncyclic Hamiltonians, and show that Zheng's gate is geometric. We also argue that the nontrivial loop responsible for the phase shift is there, and it requires the same precision as in any adiabatic geometric gate.

id: 0910.5711
title: System-reservoir dynamics of quantum and classical correlations
authors: J. Maziero, T. Werlang, F. F. Fanchini, L. C. Celeri, R. M. Serra
comments: To appear in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 81, 022116 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5711
abstract: We address the system-reservoir dynamics of classical and quantum correlations in the decoherence phenomenon, regarding a two qubit composite system interacting with two independent environments. The most common noise channels (amplitude damping, phase damping, bit flip, bit-phase flip, and phase flip) was studied. By analytical and numerical analysis we found that, contrary to what is usually stated in the literature, decoherence may occurs without entanglement between the system and the environment. We also found that, in some cases, the bipartite quantum correlation initially presented in the system is completely evaporated, it is not transferred to the environments.

id: 0910.5754
title: Environment-induced entanglement with a single photon
authors: Malena Hor-Meyll, Adriana Auyuanet, Carolina Borges, Adriano Arag?o, Jos¨¦ Augusto Huguenin, Antonio Khoury, Luiz Davidovich
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 042327 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5754
abstract: We propose an all-optical setup, which couples different degrees of freedom of a single photon, to investigate entanglement generation by a common environment. The two qubits are represented by the photon polarization and Hermite-Gauss transverse modes, while the environment corresponds to the photon path. For an initially two-qubit separable state, the increase of entanglement is analyzed, as the probability of an environment-induced transition ranges from zero to one. An entanglement witness that is invariant throughout the evolution of the system yields a direct measurement of the concurrence of the two-qubit state.

id: 0910.5769
title: A new entanglement measure: D-concurrence
authors: ZhiHao Ma, Xiao-Dong Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5769
abstract: A new entanglement measure, which is called D-concurrence, is proposed. Then the upper and lower bounds for D-concurrence are obtained and the relationship between D-concurrence and the usual concurrence of Wootters was established. In addition, comparing with the usual concurrence, D-concurrence has some special merits.

id: 0910.5784
title: SIC-POVMs: A new computer study
authors: A. J. Scott, M. Grassl
comments: 20 pages + 189 pages of raw data (also accessible in the source in plain text files); further algebraic solutions for d=11 and d=14 added
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 042203 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5784
abstract: We report on a new computer study into the existence of d^2 equiangular lines in d complex dimensions. Such maximal complex projective codes are conjectured to exist in all finite dimensions and are the underlying mathematical objects defining symmetric informationally complete measurements in quantum theory. We provide numerical solutions in all dimensions d <= 67 and, moreover, a putatively complete list of Weyl-Heisenberg covariant solutions for d <= 50. A symmetry analysis of this list leads to new algebraic solutions in dimensions d = 24, 35 and 48, which are given together with algebraic solutions for d = 4,..., 15 and 19.

id: 0910.5793
title: Non-Markovian entanglement dynamics between two coupled qubits in the same environment
authors: Wei Cui, Zairong Xi, Yu Pan
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 155303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5793
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of the entanglement in two independent non-Markovian channels. In particular, we focus on the entanglement dynamics as a function of the initial states and the channel parameters like the temperature and the ratio $r$ between $\omega_0$ the characteristic frequency of the quantum system of interest, and $\omega_c$ the cut-off frequency of Ohmic reservoir. We give a stationary analysis of the concurrence and find that the dynamic of non-markovian entanglement concurrence $\mathcal{C}_{\rho}(t)$ at temperature $k_BT=0$ is different from the $k_BT>0$ case. We find that "entanglement sudden death" (ESD) depends on the initial state when $k_BT=0$, otherwise the concurrence always disappear at finite time when $k_BT>0$, which means that ESD must happen. The main result of this paper is that the non-Markovian entanglement dynamic is fundamentally different from the Markovian one. In the Markovian channel, entanglement decays exponentially and vanishes only asymptotically, but in the non-Markovian channel the concurrence $\mathcal{C}_{\rho}(t)$ oscillates, especially in the high temperature case. Then an open-loop controller adjusted by the temperature is proposed to control the entanglement and prolong the ESD time.

id: 0910.5795
title: The effect of large-decoherence on mixing-time in Continuous-time quantum walks on long-range interacting cycles
authors: S. Salimi, R. Radgohar
comments: 16 Pages, 2 Figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 025503.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5795
abstract: In this paper, we consider decoherence in continuous-time quantum walks on long-range interacting cycles (LRICs), which are the extensions of the cycle graphs. For this purpose, we use Gurvitz's model and assume that every node is monitored by the corresponding point contact induced the decoherence process. Then, we focus on large rates of decoherence and calculate the probability distribution analytically and obtain the lower and upper bounds of the mixing time. Our results prove that the mixing time is proportional to the rate of decoherence and the inverse of the distance parameter ($\emph{m}$) squared. This shows that the mixing time decreases with increasing the range of interaction. Also, what we obtain for $\emph{m}=0$ is in agreement with Fedichkin, Solenov and Tamon's results \cite{FST} for cycle, and see that the mixing time of CTQWs on cycle improves with adding interacting edges.

id: 0910.5797
title: Observing photonic de Broglie waves without the NOON state
authors: Osung Kwon, Young-Sik Ra, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 81, 063801 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5797
abstract: The photonic de Broglie wave, in which an ensemble of $N$ identical photons with wavelength $\lambda$ reveals $\lambda/N$ interference fringes, has been known to be a unique feature exhibited by the photon number-path entangled state or the NOON state. Here, we report the observation of the photonic de Broglie wave for a pair of photons, generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion, that are not photon number-path entangled. We also show that the photonic de Broglie wave can even be observed for a pair of photons that are completely separable (i.e., no entanglement in all degrees of freedom) and distinguishable. The experimental and theoretical results suggest that the photonic de Broglie wave is, in fact, not related to the entanglement of the photons, rather it is related to the indistinguishable pathways established by the measurement scheme.

id: 0910.5798
title: Energy and Eigenstate Using First Order Perturbation Theory
authors: Raghu Ramachandran, Rama Komaragiri
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5798
abstract: The first order estimate of energy and eigenstate of a perturbed system are found by summation over its basis.

id: 0910.5858
title: Entanglement creation between two causally-disconnected objects
authors: Shih-Yuin Lin, B. L. Hu
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures; added Ref.[7] and related discussions
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:045019,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5858
abstract: We study the full entanglement dynamics of two uniformly accelerated Unruh-DeWitt detectors with no direct interaction in between but each coupled to a common quantum field and moving back-to-back in the field vacuum. For two detectors initially prepared in a separable state our exact results show that quantum entanglement between the detectors can be created by the quantum field under some specific circumstances, though each detector never enters the other's light cone in this setup. In the weak coupling limit, this entanglement creation can occur only if the initial moment is placed early enough and the proper acceleration of the detectors is not too large or too small compared to the natural frequency of the detectors. Once entanglement is created it lasts only a finite duration, and always disappears at late times. Prior result by Reznik derived using the time-dependent perturbation theory with extended integration domain is shown to be a limiting case of our exact solutions at some specific moment. In the strong coupling and high acceleration regime, vacuum fluctuations experienced by each detector locally always dominate over the cross correlations between the detectors, so entanglement between the detectors will never be generated.

id: 0910.5859
title: Adiabatic evolution under quantum control
authors: W. Wang, S. C. Hou, X. X. Yi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Annals of Physics, Volume 327, Issue 5, May 2012, Pages 1293-1303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5859
abstract: One of the difficulties in adiabatic quantum computation is the limit on the computation time. Here we propose two schemes to speed-up the adiabatic evolution. To apply this controlled adiabatic evolution to adiabatic quantum computation, we design one of the schemes without any prior knowledge of the instantaneous eigenstates of the final Hamiltonian. Whereas in another scheme, the control is constructed with the instantaneous eigenstate that is the target state of the control. As an illustration, we study a two-level system driven by a time-dependent magnetic field under the control. The physics behind the control scheme is explained.

id: 0910.5869
title: Nonlinear metrology with a quantum interface
authors: M. Napolitano, M. W. Mitchell
comments: 8 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5869
abstract: We describe nonlinear quantum atom-light interfaces and nonlinear quantum metrology in the collective continuous variable formalism. We develop a nonlinear effective Hamiltonian in terms of spin and polarization collective variables and show that model Hamiltonians of interest for nonlinear quantum metrology can be produced in $^{87}$Rb ensembles. With these Hamiltonians, metrologically relevant atomic properties, e.g. the collective spin, can be measured better than the "Heisenberg limit" $\propto 1/N$. In contrast to other proposed nonlinear metrology systems, the atom-light interface allows both linear and non-linear estimation of the same atomic quantities.

id: 0910.5889
title: Nonperturbative access to Casimir-Polder forces
authors: Babette D?brich, Maarten DeKieviet, Holger Gies
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Talk given by B.D. at the Ninth Conference on Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT 09), 21-25 September 2009, Oklahoma, USA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5889
abstract: We discuss the scalar analogue of the Casimir-Polder force between a sphere and a uniaxially corrugated surface with Dirichlet boundary conditions. Presenting a formulation that is nonperturbative in the height profile of the surface, we give explicit numerical results for a sinuosoidal corrugation profile.

id: 0910.5891
title: Quantum Knots and Lattices, or a Blueprint for Quantum Systems that Do Rope Tricks
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco, Louis H. Kauffman
comments: 128 graphics files
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5891
abstract: Using the cubic honeycomb (cubic tessellation) of Euclidean 3-space, we define a quantum system whose states, called quantum knots, represent a closed knotted piece of rope, i.e., represent the particular spatial configuration of a knot tied in a rope in 3-space. This quantum system, called a quantum knot system, is physically implementable in the same sense as Shor's quantum factoring algorithm is implementable. To define a quantum knot system, we replace the standard three Reidemeister knot moves with an equivalent set of three moves, called respectively wiggle, wag, and tug, so named because they mimic how a dog might wag its tail. We argue that these moves are in fact more "physics friendly" because, unlike the Reidemeister moves, they respect the differential geometry of 3-space, and moreover they can be transformed into infinitesimal moves. These three moves wiggle, wag, and tug generate a unitary group, called the lattice ambient group, which acts on the state space of the quantum system. The lattice ambient group represents all possible ways of moving a rope around in 3-space without cutting the rope, and without letting the rope pass through itself. We then investigate those quantum observables of the quantum knot system which are knot invariants. We also study Hamiltonians associated with the generators of the lattice ambient group. We conclude with a list of open questions.

id: 0910.5937
title: Infrared nullification of the effective electromagnetic field at finite temperature
authors: Kirill A. Kazakov, Vladimir V. Nikitin
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5937
abstract: The problem of infrared divergence of the effective electromagnetic field at finite temperature (T) is revisited. A model of single spatially localized electron interacting with thermal photons is considered in the limit T to 0 using two different regularization schemes. The first is based on the shift i 0 to i varepsilon of the electron propagator pole in the complex energy plane, and is used to explicitly calculate the effective field in the one-loop approximation. We show that the matrix-valued imaginary part of the electron self-energy can be consistently related to the pole shift, and that the presence of the heat bath leads to appearance of an effective varepsilon sim T, thus providing a natural infrared regulator of the theory. We find that the one-loop effective Coulomb field calculated using this varepsilon vanishes. The other scheme combines an infrared momentum cutoff with smearing of the delta-functions in the interaction vertices. We prove that this regularization admits factorization of the infrared contributions in multi-loop diagrams, and sum the corresponding infinite series. The effective electromagnetic field is found to vanish in this case too. An essentially perturbative nature of this result is emphasized and discussed in connection with the long-range expansion of the effective field.

id: 0910.5942
title: Quantum Metrology with Two-Mode Squeezed Vacuum: Parity Detection Beats the Heisenberg Limit
authors: Petr M. Anisimov, Gretchen M. Raterman, Aravind Chiruvelli, William N. Plick, Sean D. Huver, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5942
abstract: We study the sensitivity and resolution of phase measurement in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer with two-mode squeezed vacuum (<n> photons on average). We show that super-resolution and sub-Heisenberg sensitivity is obtained with parity detection. In particular, in our setup, dependence of the signal on the phase evolves <n> times faster than in traditional schemes, and uncertainty in the phase estimation is better than 1/<n>.

id: 0910.5943
title: Quantum tomography via equidistant states
authors: C. Paiva-S¨¢nchez, E. Burgos-Inostroza, O. Jim¨¦nez, A. Delgado
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5943
abstract: We study the possibility of performing quantum state tomography via equidistant states. This class of states allows us to propose a non-symmetric informationally complete POVM based tomographic scheme. The scheme is defined for odd dimensions and involves an inversion which can be analytically carried out by Fourier transform.

id: 0910.5952
title: Streaming universal distortion-free entanglement concentration
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout, Sarah Croke, Daniel Gottesman
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5952
abstract: This paper presents a streaming (sequential) protocol for universal entanglement concentration at the Shannon bound. Alice and Bob begin with N identical (but unknown) two-qubit pure states, each containing E ebits of entanglement. They each run a reversible algorithm on their qubits, and end up with Y perfect EPR pairs, where Y = NE +- O(\sqrt N). Our protocol is streaming, so the N input systems are fed in one at a time, and perfect EPR pairs start popping out almost immediately. It matches the optimal block protocol exactly at each stage, so the average yield after n inputs is <Y> = nE - O(log n). So, somewhat surprisingly, there is no tradeoff between yield and lag -- our protocol optimizes both. In contrast, the optimal N-qubit block protocol achieves the same yield, but since no EPR pairs are produced until the entire input block is read, its lag is O(N). Finally, our algorithm runs in O(log N) space, so a lot of entanglement can be efficiently concentrated using a very small (e.g., current or near-future technology) quantum processor. Along the way, we find an optimal streaming protocol for extracting randomness from classical i.i.d. sources and a more space-efficient implementation of the Schur transform.

id: 0910.0295
title: A lattice model related to the nonlinear Schroedinger equation
authors: A. G. Izergin, V. E. Korepin
comments: 3pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0295
abstract: This is a historical note. In 1981 we constructed a discrete version of quantum nonlinear Schroedinger equation. This led to our discovery of quantum determinant: it appeared in construction of anti-pod (11). Later these became important in quantum groups: it describes the center of Yang-Baxter algebra. Our paper was published in Doklady Akademii Nauk vol 259, page 76 (July l981) in Russian language.

id: 0910.0299
title: Periodic orbits for an infinite family of classical superintegrable systems
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦rick Tremblay, Alexander V. Turbiner, Pavel Winternitz
comments: 16 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0299
abstract: We show that all bounded trajectories in the two dimensional classical system with the potential $V(r,\phi)=\omega^2 r^2+ \frac{\al k^2}{r^2 \cos^2 {k \phi}}+ \frac{\beta k^2}{r^2 \sin^2 {k \phi}}$ are closed for all integer and rational values of $k$. The period is $T=\frac{\pi}{2\omega}$ and does not depend on $k$. This agrees with our earlier conjecture suggesting that the quantum version of this system is superintegrable.

id: 0910.0328
title: N-fold Supersymmetry and Quasi-solvability Associated with X_2-Laguerre Polynomials
authors: Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 22 pages, no figures; minor corrections, to appear in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J. Math. Phys.51:032101, 2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0328
abstract: We construct a new family of quasi-solvable and N-fold supersymmetric quantum systems where each Hamiltonian preserves an exceptional polynomial subspace of codimension 2. We show that the family includes as a particular case the recently reported rational radial oscillator potential whose eigenfunctions are expressed in terms of the X_2-Laguerre polynomials of the second kind. In addition, we find that the two kinds of the X_2-Laguerre polynomials are ingeniously connected with each other by the N-fold supercharge.

id: 0910.0352
title: Quantum Physics, Relativity, and Complex Spacetime: Towards a New Synthesis
authors: Gerald Kaiser
comments: 252 pages, no figures. Originally published as a book by North-Holland, 1990. Reviewed by Robert Hermann in Bulletin of the AMS Vol. 28 #1, January 1993, pp. 130-132; see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0352
abstract: The positivity of the energy in relativistic quantum mechanics implies that wave functions can be continued analytically to the forward tube T in complex spacetime. For Klein-Gordon particles, we interpret T as an extended (8D) classical phase space containing all 6D classical phase spaces as symplectic submanifolds. The evaluation maps $e_z: f\to f(z)$ of wave functions on T are relativistic coherent states reducing to the Gaussian coherent states in the nonrelativistic limit. It is known that no covariant probability interpretation exists for Klein-Gordon particles in real spacetime because the time component of the conserved "probability current" can attain negative values even for positive-energy solutions. We show that this problem is solved very naturally in complex spacetime, where $|f(x-iy)|^2$ is interpreted as a probability density on all 6D phase spaces in T which, when integrated over the "momentum" variables y, gives a conserved spacetime probability current whose time component is a positive regularization of the usual one. Similar results are obtained for Dirac particles, where the evaluation maps $e_z$ are spinor-valued relativistic coherent states. For free quantized Klein-Gordon and Dirac fields, the above formalism extends to n-particle/antiparticle coherent states whose scalar products are Wightman functions. The 2-point function plays the role of a reproducing kernel for the one-particle and antiparticle subspaces.

id: 0910.0494
title: Observation of the dynamic Jahn-Teller effect in the excited states of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: Kai-Mei C. Fu, Charles Santori, Paul E. Barclay, Lachlan J. Rogers, Neil B. Manson, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 256404 (2009)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0494
abstract: The optical transition linewidth and emission polarization of single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers are measured from 5 K to room temperature. Inter-excited state population relaxation is shown to broaden the zero-phonon line and both the relaxation and linewidth are found to follow a T^5 dependence for T up to 100 K. This dependence indicates that the dynamic Jahn-Teller effect is the dominant dephasing mechanism for the NV optical transitions at low temperatures.

id: 0910.0590
title: Exactly Solvable Non-Separable and Non-Diagonalizable 2-Dim Model with Quadratic Complex Interaction
authors: F.Cannata, M.V.Ioffe, D.N.Nishnianidze
comments: 20 pages; minor corrections were made; new Appendix was added
journal: J.Math.Phys.51:022108,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0590
abstract: We study a quantum model with non-isotropic two-dimensional oscillator potential but with additional quadratic interaction $x_1x_2$ with imaginary coupling constant. It is shown, that for a specific connection between coupling constant and oscillator frequences, the model {\it is not} amenable to a conventional separation of variables. The property of shape invariance allows to find analytically all eigenfunctions and the spectrum is found to be equidistant. It is shown that the Hamiltonian is non-diagonalizable, and the resolution of the identity must include also the corresponding associated functions. These functions are constructed explicitly, and their properties are investigated. The problem of $R-$separation of variables in two-dimensional systems is discussed.

id: 0910.0665
title: Cracking the Liu key exchange protocol in its most secure state with Lorentzian spectra
authors: Lazar L. Kish, Bruce Zhang, Laszlo B. Kish
comments: Accepted for publication at November 18, 2009
journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters Vol. 9, No. 1 (2010) 37-45
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0665
abstract: We have found a security risk in the Liu's cypher based on random signals and feedback, when it utilizes a large class of noises for communication in its most secure state, the steady state. For the vulnerability to exist, the noise must have a spectrum which can be transformed to white-like noise by linear filtering. For the cracking, we utilize the natural properties of power density spectra and autocorrelation functions. We introduce and demonstrate the method for Lorentzian spectra. Some of the implications of the results concern the transient operation during changing bits, where the modulation products of noise cannot be band-limited therefore the cypher is vulnerable. We propose the application of line filters to provide a proper spectral shape and to improve the security.

id: 0910.0695
title: Statistics on Graphs, Exponential Formula and Combinatorial Physics
authors: L. Poinsot, G. H. E. Duchamp, S. Goodenough, K. A. Penson
comments: 
journal: Journal of Nonlinear Systems and Applications 1, 1 (2010) 58-62
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0695
abstract: The concern of this paper is a famous combinatorial formula known under the name "exponential formula". It occurs quite naturally in many contexts (physics, mathematics, computer science). Roughly speaking, it expresses that the exponential generating function of a whole structure is equal to the exponential of those of connected substructures. Keeping this descriptive statement as a guideline, we develop a general framework to handle many different situations in which the exponential formula can be applied.

id: 0910.0706
title: Entanglement entropy of two disjoint blocks in critical Ising models
authors: Vincenzo Alba, Luca Tagliacozzo, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. Revised version accepted for publication in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 060411(R) (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0706
abstract: We study the scaling of the Renyi and entanglement entropy of two disjoint blocks of critical Ising models, as function of their sizes and separations. We present analytic results based on conformal field theory that are quantitatively checked in numerical simulations of both the quantum spin chain and the classical two dimensional Ising model. Theoretical results match the ones obtained from numerical simulations only after taking properly into account the corrections induced by the finite length of the blocks to their leading scaling behavior.

id: 0910.0769
title: Constraint-induced mean curvature dependence of Cartesian momentum operators
authors: Q. H. Liu, C. L. Tong, M. M. Lai
comments: 7 pages. Revtex
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 4161
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0769
abstract: The Hermitian Cartesian quantum momentum operator $\mathbf{p}$ for an embedded surface $M$ in $R^{3}$ is proved to be a constant factor $-i\hbar $ times the mean curvature vector field $H\mathbf{n}$ added to the usual differential term. With use of this form of momentum operators, the operator-ordering ambiguity exists in the construction of the correct kinetic energy operator and three different operator-orderings lead to the same result. PACS: 03.65.-w Quantum mechanics, 04.60.Ds Canonical quantization

id: 0910.0953
title: Dynamics of reflection of ultracold atoms from a periodic 1D magnetic lattice potential
authors: Mandip Singh, Russell McLean, Andrei Sidorov, Peter Hannaford
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 053407 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0953
abstract: We report on an experimental study of the dynamics of the reflection of ultracold atoms from a periodic one-dimensional magnetic lattice potential. The magnetic lattice potential of period 10 \textmu m is generated by applying a uniform bias magnetic field to a microfabricated periodic structure on a silicon wafer coated with a multilayered TbGdFeCo/Cr magneto-optical film. The effective thickness of the magnetic film is about 960 nm. A detailed study of the profile of the reflected atoms as a function of externally induced periodic corrugation in the potential is described. The effect of angle of incidence is investigated in detail. The experimental observations are supported by numerical simulations.

id: 0910.1011
title: Universality of the negativity in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model
authors: H. Wichterich, J. Vidal, S. Bose
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032311 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1011
abstract: The entanglement between noncomplementary blocks of a many-body system, where a part of the system forms an ignored environment, is a largely untouched problem without analytic results. We rectify this gap by studying the logarithmic negativity between two macroscopic sets of spins in an arbitrary tripartition of a collection of mutually interacting spins described by the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Hamiltonian. This entanglement measure is found to be finite and universal at the critical point for any tripartition whereas it diverges for a bipartition. In this limiting case, we show that it behaves as the entanglement entropy, suggesting a deep relation between the scaling exponents of these two independently defined quantities which may be valid for other systems.

id: 0910.1163
title: Recovery of chaotic tunneling due to destruction of dynamical localization by external noise
authors: Akiyuki Ishikawa, Atushi Tanaka, Akira Shudo
comments: 14 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 046204 (2009)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1163
abstract: Quantum tunneling in the presence of chaos is analyzed, focusing especially on the interplay between quantum tunneling and dynamical localization. We observed flooding of potentially existing tunneling amplitude by adding noise to the chaotic sea to attenuate the destructive interference generating dynamical localization. This phenomenon is related to the nature of complex orbits describing tunneling between torus and chaotic regions. The tunneling rate is found to obey a perturbative scaling with noise intensity when the noise intensity is sufficiently small and then saturate in a large noise intensity regime. A relation between the tunneling rate and the localization length of the chaotic states is also demonstrated. It is shown that due to the competition between dynamical tunneling and dynamical localization, the tunneling rate is not a monotonically increasing function of Planck's constant. The above results are obtained for a system with a sharp border between torus and chaotic regions. The validity of the results for a system with a smoothed border is also explained.

id: 0910.1227
title: Entanglement in a spin system with inverse square statistical interaction
authors: D. Giuliano, A. Sindona, G. Falcone, F. Plastina, L. Amico
comments: 11 pages, 7 eps figures. Submitted to New. J. Phys, special issue "Quantum Information and Many-Body Theory"(co-edited by J Eisert and M Plenio)
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 025021
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1227
abstract: We investigate the entanglement content of the ground state of a system characterized by effective elementary degrees of freedom with fractional statistics. To this end, we explicitly construct the ground state for a chain of $N$ spins with inverse square interaction (the Haldane-Shastry model) in the presence of an external uniform magnetic field. For such a system at zero temperature, we evaluate the entanglement in the ground state both at finite size and in the thermodynamic limit. We relate the behavior of the quantum correlations with the spinon condensation phenomenon occurring at the saturation field.

id: 0910.1378
title: First order phase transition in the Quantum Adiabatic Algorithm
authors: A. P. Young, S. Knysh, V. N. Smelyanskiy
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Replaced with published version; two figures slightly changed and some small changes to the text
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 020502 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1378
abstract: We simulate the quantum adiabatic algorithm (QAA) for the exact cover problem for sizes up to N=256 using quantum Monte Carlo simulations incorporating parallel tempering. At large N we find that some instances have a discontinuous (first order) quantum phase transition during the evolution of the QAA. This fraction increases with increasing N and may tend to 1 for N -> infinity.

id: 0910.1715
title: Quantum Teleportation with an Accelerated Observer and Black Hole Information
authors: K. Shiokawa
comments: 35 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1715
abstract: Nonperturbative analysis of quantum entanglement and quantum teleportation protocol using oscillator variables carried by observers in relativistic motion under the continuous influence of the environment is given. The full time evolution of quantum entanglement among static and accelerated observers is studied. The environment plays a dual role. While it creates bipartite and tripartite entanglement among observers even when the initial state is separable, it suppresses the entanglement via decoherence. Motivated by the black hole information problem, we consider quantum teleportation between static and accelerated observers. Acceleration of the observer suppresses fidelity of teleportation. Some of the quantum information escapes outside of the horizon in the form of bipartite and tripartite entanglement during the teleportation process. Explicit calculation of information loss is provided. In addition to the loss due to the interaction with the environment, there is an intrinsic loss originated in a measurement process. We discuss the implications of our results on the black hole case.

id: 0910.1879
title: Recovering low-rank matrices from few coefficients in any basis
authors: David Gross
comments: See also arxiv:0909.3304. v1=v2. v3: Some bounds substantially improved. v4, v5: presentation improved. To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Trans. on Information Theory, vol. 57, pages 1548 - 1566 (2011)
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Numerical Analysis (cs.NA); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1879
abstract: We present novel techniques for analyzing the problem of low-rank matrix recovery. The methods are both considerably simpler and more general than previous approaches. It is shown that an unknown (n x n) matrix of rank r can be efficiently reconstructed from only O(n r nu log^2 n) randomly sampled expansion coefficients with respect to any given matrix basis. The number nu quantifies the "degree of incoherence" between the unknown matrix and the basis. Existing work concentrated mostly on the problem of "matrix completion" where one aims to recover a low-rank matrix from randomly selected matrix elements. Our result covers this situation as a special case. The proof consists of a series of relatively elementary steps, which stands in contrast to the highly involved methods previously employed to obtain comparable results. In cases where bounds had been known before, our estimates are slightly tighter. We discuss operator bases which are incoherent to all low-rank matrices simultaneously. For these bases, we show that O(n r nu log n) randomly sampled expansion coefficients suffice to recover any low-rank matrix with high probability. The latter bound is tight up to multiplicative constants.

id: 0910.1881
title: The Electron Propagator in External Electromagnetic Fields in Lower Dimensions
authors: Gabriela Murguia, Alfredo Raya, Angel Sanchez, Edward Reyes
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures, accepted in Am. J. Phys
journal: Am.J.Phys.78:700-707,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1881
abstract: We study the electron propagator in quantum electrodynamics in lower dimensions. In the case of free electrons, it is well known that the propagator in momentum space takes the simple form $S_F(p)=1/(\gamma\cdot p-m)$. In the presence of external electromagnetic fields, electron asymptotic states are no longer plane-waves, and hence the propagator in the basis of momentum eigenstates has a more intricate form. Nevertheless, in the basis of the eigenfunctions of the operator $(\gamma\cdot \Pi)^2$, where $\Pi_\mu$ is the canonical momentum operator, it acquires the free form $S_F(p)=1/(\gamma\cdot \bar{p}-m)$ where $\bar{p}_\mu$ depends on the dynamical quantum numbers. We construct the electron propagator in the basis of the $(\gamma\cdot \Pi)^2$ eigenfunctions. In the (2+1)-dimensional case, we obtain it in an irreducible representation of the Clifford algebra incorporating to all orders the effects of a magnetic field of arbitrary spatial shape pointing perpendicularly to the plane of motion of the electrons. Such an exercise is of relevance in graphene in the massless limit. The specific examples considered include the uniform magnetic field and the exponentially damped static magnetic field. We further consider the electron propagator for the massive Schwinger model incorporating the effects of a constant electric field to all orders within this framework.

id: 0910.1940
title: Suspended graphene films and their Casimir interaction with ideal conductor
authors: I. V. Fialkovsky
comments: 5 pages, 1 fig., presented at the Ninth Conference on Quantum Field Theory under the influence of External Conditions, Oklahoma, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.1940
abstract: We adopt the Dirac model for graphene and calculate the Casimir interaction energy between a plane suspended graphene sample and a parallel plane ideal conductor. We employ both the Quantum Field Theory (QFT) approach, and the Lifshitz formula generalizations. The first approach turns out to be the leading order in the coupling constant of the second one. The Casimir interaction for this system appears to be rather weak but experimentally measurable. It exhibits a strong dependence on the mass of the quasi-particles in graphene.

id: 0910.2151
title: Exchange operator formalism for an infinite family of solvable and integrable quantum systems on a plane
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 12 pages, no figure; minor changes; published version
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 25 (2010) 15-24
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2151
abstract: The exchange operator formalism in polar coordinates, previously considered for the Calogero-Marchioro-Wolfes problem, is generalized to a recently introduced, infinite family of exactly solvable and integrable Hamiltonians $H_k$, $k=1$, 2, 3,..., on a plane. The elements of the dihedral group $D_{2k}$ are realized as operators on this plane and used to define some differential-difference operators $D_r$ and $D_{\varphi}$. The latter serve to construct $D_{2k}$-extended and invariant Hamiltonians $\chh_k$, from which the starting Hamiltonians $H_k$ can be retrieved by projection in the $D_{2k}$ identity representation space.

id: 0910.2202
title: Concerning the Quantum Interference Effects Associated with Electric and Magnetic Potentials [Letter Submitted to the Editor, Physics Today]
authors: Peter A. Sturrock, Timothy R. Groves
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2202
abstract: The magnetic version of the effects commonly attributed to Aharonov and Bohm had been published ten years earlier by Ehrenberg and Siday. We compare the two articles, and conclude that their essential contents are identical. We therefore advocate that the magnetic effect be referred to as the Ehrenberg-Siday Effect, and that the term Aharonov-Bohm Effect be reserved for the electrical case.

id: 0910.2291
title: Directional emission of light from a nano-optical Yagi-Uda antenna
authors: Terukazu Kosako, Holger F. Hofmann, Yutaka Kadoya
comments: 4 pages, including 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 312 - 315 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2291
abstract: The plasmon resonance of metal nanoparticles can enhance and direct light from optical emitters in much the same way that radio frequency (RF) antennas enhance and direct the emission from electrical circuits. In the RF regime, a typical antenna design for high directivity is the Yagi-Uda antenna, which basically consists of a one-dimensional array of antenna elements driven by a single feed element. Here, we present the experimental demonstration of directional light emission from a nano-optical Yagi-Uda antenna composed of an array of appropriately tuned gold nanorods. Our results indicate that nano-optical antenna arrays are a simple but efficient tool for the spatial control of light emission.

id: 0910.2332
title: Trapping of ultra-cold atoms with the magnetic field of vortices in a thin film superconducting micro-structure
authors: T. M¨¹ller, B. Zhang, R. Fermani, K.S. Chan, Z.W. Wang, C.B. Zhang, M.J. Lim, R. Dumke
comments: 4pages, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2332
abstract: We store and control ultra-cold atoms in a new type of trap using magnetic fields of vortices in a high temperature superconducting micro-structure. This is the first time ultra-cold atoms have been trapped in the field of magnetic flux quanta. We generate the attractive trapping potential for the atoms by combining the magnetic field of a superconductor in the remanent state with external homogeneous magnetic fields. We show the control of crucial atom trap characteristics such as an efficient intrinsic loading mechanism, spatial positioning of the trapped atoms and the vortex density in the superconductor. The measured trap characteristics are in good agreement with our numerical simulations.

id: 0910.2432
title: Quantum states of p-band bosons in optical lattices
authors: Anssi Collin, Jonas Larson, Jani-Petri Martikainen
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 023605 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2432
abstract: We study a gas of repulsively interacting bosons in the first excited band of an optical lattice. We explore this p-band physics both within the framework of a standard mean-field theory as well as with the more accurate generalized Gutzwiller ansatz. We find the phase diagrams for two- and three-dimensional systems and characterize the first Mott-states in detail. Furthermore, we find that even though the p-band model has strongly anisotropic kinetic energies and inter-flavor interaction terms are missing in the lowest band theory, the mean-field theory becomes useful quite rapidly once the transition from the Mott-insulator to the superfluid is crossed.

id: 0910.2600
title: Reformulating the Schrodinger equation as a Shabat-Zakharov system
authors: Petarpa Boonserm, Matt Visser
comments: 18 pages, plain LaTeX
journal: J.Math.Phys.51:022105,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2600
abstract: We reformulate the second-order Schrodinger equation as a set of two coupled first order differential equations, a so-called "Shabat-Zakharov system", (sometimes called a "Zakharov-Shabat" system). There is considerable flexibility in this approach, and we emphasise the utility of introducing an "auxiliary condition" or "gauge condition" that is used to cut down the degrees of freedom. Using this formalism, we derive the explicit (but formal) general solution to the Schrodinger equation. The general solution depends on three arbitrarily chosen functions, and a path-ordered exponential matrix. If one considers path ordering to be an "elementary" process, then this represents complete quadrature, albeit formal, of the second-order linear ODE.

id: 0910.2680
title: Polynomially deformed oscillators as k-bonacci oscillators
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, A.P. Rebesh
comments: 16 pages; minor revisions, references added, to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 095203 (15pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2680
abstract: A family of multi-parameter, polynomially deformed oscillators (PDOs) given by polynomial structure function \phi(n) is studied from the viewpoint of being (or not) in the class of Fibonacci oscillators. These obey the Fibonacci relation/property (FR/FP) meaning that the n-th level energy E_n is given linearly, with real coefficients, by the two preceding ones E_{n-1}, E_{n-2}. We first prove that the PDOs do not fall in the Fibonacci class. Then, three different paths of generalizing the usual FP are developed for these oscillators: we prove that the PDOs satisfy respective k-term generalized Fibonacci (or "k-bonacci") relations; for these same oscillators we examine two other generalizations of the FR, the inhomogeneous FR and the "quasi-Fibonacci" relation. Extended families of deformed oscillators are studied too: the (q;\mu)-oscillator with \phi(n) quadratic in the basic q-number [n]_q is shown to be Tribonacci one, while the (p,q;\mu)-oscillators with \phi(n) quadratic (cubic) in the p,q-number [n]_{p,q} are proven to obey the Pentanacci (Nine-bonacci) relations. Oscillators with general \phi(n), polynomial in [n]_{q} or [n]_{p,q}, are also studied.

id: 0910.2949
title: Distortion of the Poisson Bracket by the Noncommutative Planck Constants
authors: Artur E. Ruuge, Freddy van Oystaeyen
comments: 
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 304, 369 -- 393 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2949
abstract: In this paper we introduce a kind of "noncommutative neighbourhood" of a semiclassical parameter corresponding to the Planck constant. This construction is defined as a certain filtered and graded algebra with an infinite number of generators indexed by planar binary leaf-labelled trees. The associated graded algebra (the classical shadow) is interpreted as a "distortion" of the algebra of classical observables of a physical system. It is proven that there exists a q-analogue of the Weyl quantization, where q is a matrix of formal variables, which induces a nontrivial noncommutative analogue of a Poisson bracket on the classical shadow.

id: 0910.3003
title: Entanglement entropy and the complex plane of replicas
authors: F. Gliozzi, L. Tagliacozzo
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures. v2: typos corrected, two figures replaced
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2010) P01002
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3003
abstract: The entanglement entropy of a subsystem $A$ of a quantum system is expressed, in the replica method, through analytic continuation with respect to n of the trace of the n-th power of the reduced density matrix $\tr\rho_A^n$. We study the analytic properties of this quantity as a function of n in some quantum critical Ising-like models in 1+1 and 2+1 dimensions. Although we find no true singularities for n>0, there is a threshold value of n close to 2 which separates two very different `phases'. The region with larger n is characterized by rapidly convergent Taylor expansions and is very smooth. The region with smaller n has a very rich and varied structure in the complex n plane and is characterized by Taylor coefficients which instead of being monotone decreasing, have a maximum growing with the size of the subsystem. Finite truncations of the Taylor expansion in this region lead to increasingly poor approximations of $\tr\rho_A^n$. The computation of the entanglement entropy from the knowledge of $\tr\rho^n_A$ for positive integer n becomes extremely difficult particularly in spatial dimensions larger than one, where one cannot use conformal field theory as a guidance in the extrapolations to n=1.

id: 0910.3063
title: Enhanced free space beam capture by improved optical tapers
authors: Tim Bartley, Bettina Heim, Dominique Elser, Denis Sych, Metin Sabuncu, Christoffer Wittmann, Norbert Lindlein, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. Version 2: references added, minor content revisions. To appear in QuantumComm 2009, LNICST 36, Springer (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3063
abstract: In our continuous variable quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme, the homodyne detection set-up requires balancing the intensity of an incident beam between two photodiodes. Realistic lens systems are insufficient to provide a spatially stable focus in the presence of large spatial beam-jitter caused by atmospheric transmission. We therefore present an improved geometry for optical tapers which offer up to four times the angular tolerance of a lens. The effective area of a photodiode can thus be increased, without decreasing its bandwidth. This makes them suitable for use in our free space QKD experiment and in free space optical communication in general.

id: 0910.3215
title: Multiple Scattering Casimir Force Calculations: Layered and Corrugated Materials, Wedges, and Casimir-Polder Forces
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Prachi Parashar, Jef Wagner, Ines Cavero-Pelaez
comments: 22 pages, 23 figures, submitted to the proceedings for the Casimir 2009 workshop in Yale, August 2009
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3215
abstract: Various applications of the multiple scattering technique to calculating Casimir energy are described. These include the interaction between dilute bodies of various sizes and shapes, temperature dependence, interactions with multilayered and corrugated bodies, and new examples of exactly solvable separable bodies.

id: 0910.3881
title: Strange Attractors in Dissipative Nambu Mechanics : Classical and Quantum Aspects
authors: Minos Axenides, Emmanuel Floratos
comments: 35 pages, 4 figures, LaTex
journal: JHEP 1004:036,2010
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3881
abstract: We extend the framework of Nambu-Hamiltonian Mechanics to include dissipation in $R^{3}$ phase space. We demonstrate that it accommodates the phase space dynamics of low dimensional dissipative systems such as the much studied Lorenz and R\"{o}ssler Strange attractors, as well as the more recent constructions of Chen and Leipnik-Newton. The rotational, volume preserving part of the flow preserves in time a family of two intersecting surfaces, the so called {\em Nambu Hamiltonians}. They foliate the entire phase space and are, in turn, deformed in time by Dissipation which represents their irrotational part of the flow. It is given by the gradient of a scalar function and is responsible for the emergence of the Strange Attractors. Based on our recent work on Quantum Nambu Mechanics, we provide an explicit quantization of the Lorenz attractor through the introduction of Non-commutative phase space coordinates as Hermitian $ N \times N $ matrices in $ R^{3}$. They satisfy the commutation relations induced by one of the two Nambu Hamiltonians, the second one generating a unique time evolution. Dissipation is incorporated quantum mechanically in a self-consistent way having the correct classical limit without the introduction of external degrees of freedom. Due to its volume phase space contraction it violates the quantum commutation relations. We demonstrate that the Heisenberg-Nambu evolution equations for the Quantum Lorenz system give rise to an attracting ellipsoid in the $3 N^{2}$ dimensional phase space.

id: 0910.4174
title: Casimir energy of finite width mirrors: renormalization, self-interaction limit and Lifshitz formula
authors: I. V. Fialkovsky, V. N. Markov, Yu. M. Pis'mak
comments: 5 pages, based on the presentation on the Ninth Conference on Quantum Field Theory under the influence of External Conditions, Oklahoma, 2009
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4174
abstract: We study the field theoretical model of a scalar field in presence of spacial inhomogeneities in form of one and two finite width mirrors (material slabs). The interaction of the scalar field with the defect is described with position-dependent mass term. Within this model we derive the interaction of two finite width mirrors, establish the correspondence of the model to the Lifshitz formula and construct limiting procedure to obtain finite self-energy of a single mirror without any normalization condition.

id: 0910.4289
title: Aspects of nonrelativistic quantum gravity
authors: Johan Hansson
comments: Accepted for publication
journal: Braz.J.Phys.39:707-710,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4289
abstract: A nonrelativistic approach to quantum gravity is studied. At least for weak gravitational fields it should be a valid approximation. Such an approach can be used to point out problems and prospects inherent in a more exact theory of quantum gravity, yet to be discovered. Nonrelativistic quantum gravity, e.g., shows promise for prohibiting black holes altogether (which would eliminate singularities and also solve the black hole information paradox), gives gravitational radiation even in the spherically symmetric case, and supports non-locality (quantum entanglement). Its predictions should also be testable at length scales well above the "Planck scale", by high-precision experiments feasible with existing technology.

id: 0910.4423
title: Generating a Fractal Butterfly Floquet Spectrum in a Class of Driven SU(2) Systems: Eigenstate Statistics
authors: Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay, Jiao Wang, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 066212 (2010)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4423
abstract: The Floquet spectra of a class of driven SU(2) systems have been shown to display butterfly patterns with multifractal properties. The implication of such critical spectral behavior for the Floquet eigenstate statistics is studied in this work. Following the methodologies for understanding the fractal behavior of energy eigenstates of time-independent systems on the Anderson transition point, we analyze the distribution profile, the mean value, and the variance of the logarithm of the inverse participation ratio of the Floquet eigenstates associated with multifractal Floquet spectra. The results show that the Floquet eigenstates also display fractal behavior, but with features markedly different from those in time-independent Anderson-transition models. This motivated us to propose a new type of random unitary matrix ensemble, called "power-law random banded unitary matrix" ensemble, to illuminate the Floquet eigenstate statistics of critical driven systems. The results based on the proposed random matrix model are consistent with those obtained from our dynamical examples with or without time-reversal symmetry.

id: 0910.4476
title: A semi-empirical formula for the eigenspectrum of the 2-dimensional Helmholtz equation with Dirichlet or Neumann condition on a supercircular boundary
authors: S. Panda, S. Chakraborty, S. P. Khastgir
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. A more extended version of this with complete analytical calculations will appear soon
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4476
abstract: In a recent paper \cite{chak} Chakraborty et al have put forward a perturbative formulation for solving the 2 dimensional homogeneous Helmholtz equation with the Dirichlet condition on a supercircular boundary. In this note a single parameter (supercircular exponent or exponent) semi-empirical formula, giving the eigenspectrum, is presented for the same problem. The same formula now is also applicable for the Neumann type boundary condition. The formula is put to test by comparing the obtained eigenvalues for several low lying states with their corresponding numerical estimates. It is seen that the formula gives results with a remarkable accuracy for a wide range of the supercircular exponent.

id: 0910.4512
title: Nonvanishing of Kronecker coefficients for rectangular shapes
authors: Peter B¨¹rgisser, Matthias Christandl, Christian Ikenmeyer
comments: Added Section 1.1 containing motivation coming from geometric complexity theory. Added a result on symmetric Kronecker coefficients. Fixed a bug that made the paper appear twice in v3
journal: Advances in Mathematics 227, 2082--2091 (2011)
subjects: Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4512
abstract: We prove that for any partition $(\lambda_1,...,\lambda_{d^2})$ of size $\ell d$ there exists $k\ge 1$ such that the tensor square of the irreducible representation of the symmetric group $S_{k\ell d}$ with respect to the rectangular partition $(k\ell,...,k\ell)$ contains the irreducible representation corresponding to the stretched partition $(k\lambda_1,...,k\lambda_{d^2})$. We also prove a related approximate version of this statement in which the stretching factor $k$ is effectively bounded in terms of $d$. This investigation is motivated by questions of geometric complexity theory.

id: 0910.4642
title: Identical Particles in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Andrea Lubberdink
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4642
abstract: If, in a system of identical particles, the one particle state is defined by the partial trace to one of the component spaces of the total Hilbert space, then all one particle states are identical. The particles are indistinguishable. This is often thought to be a typical quantum mechanical phenomenon. I will show however that an analogous procedure to define particle states exists in classical mechanics, which results in classical indistinguishable identical particles. From this analogy it follows that the indistinguishability of identical particles depends on how we define particle states. It is not an inevitable result of the symmetry postulate. Indeed, if particles are defined by partial traces, consistent use of the symmetry postulate leads to the conclusion that all identical particles in the universe are indistinguishable, so that particles can never be pointed at, not even in the classical limit. This does not correspond to the way the term particle is actually used in practice. I will argue that a particle should be defined in such a way that in the classical limit the quantum particle state becomes the state of a classical particle. This will lead us to a definition of particles which is in line with the way the term particle is actually used by physicists.

id: 0910.4810
title: Rational solutions for the Riccati-Schr?dinger equations associated to translationally shape invariant potentials
authors: Yves Grandati, Alain B¨¦rard
comments: 
journal: Annals Phys.325:1235-1259,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4810
abstract: We develop a new approach to build the eigenfunctions of a translationally shape-invariant potential. For this we show that their logarithmic derivatives can be expressed as terminating continued fractions in an appropriate variable. We give explicit formulas for all the eigenstates, their specific form depending on the Barclay-Maxwell class to which the considered potential belongs.

id: 0910.5071
title: Finite-Range Scaling Method to Analyze Systems with Infinite-Range Interactions
authors: Ken-Ichi Aoki, Tamao Kobayashi, Hiroshi Tomita
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 119-3 (2008), 509-514
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5071
abstract: We propose a new practical method for evaluating the critical coupling constant in one-dimensional long-range interacting systems. We assume a finite-range scaling and define its exponent for the logarithm of the susceptibility. We find criticality in the form of a zeta function singularity. As an example, we present results for a long-range Ising model.

id: 0910.5196
title: Quantum heat-up operation and violation of the second law of thermodynamics
authors: Mozhgan Sabzehzari, Yuki Aoyaghi, Sumiyoshi Abe
comments: Withdrawn due to some points remaining to be clarified
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5196
abstract: Toward the formulation of the operational approach to quantum thermodynamics, the heat-up operator is explicitly constructed. This quantum operation generates for a generic system an irreversible transformation from a pure ground state at zero temperature to a state at finite temperature. The fixed point analysis shows that repeated applications of the operation map from an arbitrary state to the completely random state realized in the high-temperature limit. The change of the von Neumann entropy is evaluated for a simple bipartite spin-1/2 system. It is shown that remarkably, the second law of thermodynamics may be violated along processes generated by the present quantum operation.

id: 0910.5388
title: Superconducting Source of the Kerr-Newman Electron
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 3p. 1 figure, talk at DSPIN-09 Conference (Dubna), minor correction of text, typos and sign mismatches improved
journal: Proc. of the XIII Adv. Res.Workshop on HEP (DSPIN-09), Dubna 2010, p.439
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5388
abstract: Regular superconducting solution for interior of the Kerr-Newman (KN) spinning particle is obtained. For parameters of electron it represents a highly oblated rotating bubble formed by Higgs field which expels the electromagnetic (em) field and currents from interior to domain wall boundary of the bubble. The external em and gravitational fields correspond exactly to Kerr-Newman solution, while interior of the bubble is flat and forms a `false' vacuum with zero energy density. Vortex of the KN em field forms a quantum Wilson loop on the edge of the rotating disk-like bubble.

id: 0910.5490
title: Almost Commuting Matrices, Localized Wannier Functions, and the Quantum Hall Effect
authors: M. B. Hastings, T. A. Loring
comments: 35 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 015214 (2010).
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5490
abstract: For models of non-interacting fermions moving within sites arranged on a surface in three dimensional space, there can be obstructions to finding localized Wannier functions. We show that such obstructions are $K$-theoretic obstructions to approximating almost commuting, complex-valued matrices by commuting matrices, and we demonstrate numerically the presence of this obstruction for a lattice model of the quantum Hall effect in a spherical geometry. The numerical calculation of the obstruction is straightforward, and does not require translational invariance or introducing a flux torus. We further show that there is a $Z_2$ index obstruction to approximating almost commuting self-dual matrices by exactly commuting self-dual matrices, and present additional conjectures regarding the approximation of almost commuting real and self-dual matrices by exactly commuting real and self-dual matrices. The motivation for considering this problem is the case of physical systems with additional antiunitary symmetries such as time reversal or particle-hole conjugation. Finally, in the case of the sphere--mathematically speaking three almost commuting Hermitians whose sum of square is near the identity--we give the first quantitative result showing this index is the only obstruction to finding commuting approximations. We review the known non-quantitative results for the torus.

id: 0910.5871
title: Gap symmetries from the neighbor coupling in square-lattice superconductors
authors: W. Liming
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5871
abstract: The gap symmetries of superconductivity are studied in this work. It is found that the gap symmetries are simply determined by the 4-fold rotational symmetries of the coupling potential on neighbor sites. A local on-site coupling potential results in the on-site pairing with the conventional s-wave symmetry, but a coupling potential between the nearest neighbors or the next-nearest neighbors results in the pairing on neighbor sites with the $s^-$, $d_{x^2-y^2}$, $d_{xy}$, or $s_{x^2y^2}$ gap symmetries. It is proved that both isotropic and anisotropic gap functions are allowed by the 4-fold rotational symmetries of the coupling potential. Finally a numerical computation is performed to demonstrate the gap symmetries. This neighbor coupling provides a unified picture for the gap functions of the conventional and the high Tc superconductivity.

id: 0910.5893
title: Assessment of proposed electromagnetic quantum vacuum energy extraction methods
authors: Garret Moddel
comments: 15 pages including 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5893
abstract: In research articles and patents several methods have been proposed for the extraction of zero-point energy from the vacuum. None has been reliably demonstrated, but the proposals remain largely unchallenged. In this paper the feasibility of these methods is assessed in terms of underlying thermodynamics principles of equilibrium, detailed balance, and conservation laws. The methods are separated into three classes: nonlinear processing of the zero-point field, mechanical extraction using Casimir cavities, and the pumping of atoms through Casimir cavities. The first two approaches are shown to violate thermodynamics principles, and therefore appear not to be feasible, no matter how innovative their execution. The third approach does not appear to violate these principles.

id: 0910.5733
title: Decoherence in an Interacting Quantum Field Theory: The Vacuum Case
authors: Jurjen F. Koksma, Tomislav Prokopec, Michael G. Schmidt
comments: 40 pages, published version
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5733
abstract: We apply the decoherence formalism to an interacting scalar field theory. In the spirit of the decoherence literature, we consider a "system field" and an "environment field" that interact via a cubic coupling. We solve for the propagator of the system field, where we include the self-energy corrections due to the interaction with the environment field. In this paper, we consider an environment in the vacuum state (T=0). We show that neglecting inaccessible non-Gaussian correlators increases the entropy of the system as perceived by the observer. Moreover, we consider the effect of a changing mass of the system field in the adiabatic regime, and we find that at late times no additional entropy has been generated.

id: 0910.3809
title: Spreading lengths of Hermite polynomials
authors: P. S¨¢nchez-Moreno, J.S. Dehesa, D. Manzano, R. Y¨¢?ez
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures. Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics (2009), doi:10.1016/j.cam.2009.09.043
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3809
abstract: The Renyi, Shannon and Fisher spreading lengths of the classical or hypergeometric orthogonal polynomials, which are quantifiers of their distribution all over the orthogonality interval, are defined and investigated. These information-theoretic measures of the associated Rakhmanov probability density, which are direct measures of the polynomial spreading in the sense of having the same units as the variable, share interesting properties: invariance under translations and reflections, linear scaling and vanishing in the limit that the variable tends towards a given definite value. The expressions of the Renyi and Fisher lengths for the Hermite polynomials are computed in terms of the polynomial degree. The combinatorial multivariable Bell polynomials, which are shown to characterize the finite power of an arbitrary polynomial, play a relevant role for the computation of these information-theoretic lengths. Indeed these polynomials allow us to design an error-free computing approach for the entropic moments (weighted L^q-norms) of Hermite polynomials and subsequently for the Renyi and Tsallis entropies, as well as for the Renyi spreading lengths. Sharp bounds for the Shannon length of these polynomials are also given by means of an information-theoretic-based optimization procedure. Moreover, it is computationally proved the existence of a linear correlation between the Shannon length (as well as the second-order Renyi length) and the standard deviation. Finally, the application to the most popular quantum-mechanical prototype system, the harmonic oscillator, is discussed and some relevant asymptotical open issues related to the entropic moments mentioned previously are posed.

id: 0910.0169
title: Quantum Behavior in Machian Model
authors: Merab Gogberashvili
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0169
abstract: The essentials of quantum theory, the Schr\"odinger equation and the Planck constant, are derived using classical statistical mechanics within the non-local Machan model. The appearance of complex wave function is connected with the necessity of quantization condition when one neglects the existence of the preferred frame and assumes Galilean symmetry of the model.

id: 0910.5382
title: Entanglement transfer from electrons to photons in quantum dots: An open quantum system approach
authors: Jan C. Budich, Bjoern Trauzettel
comments: 13 pages, 17 figures
journal: Nanotechnology 21 (2010) 274001
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5382
abstract: We investigate entanglement transfer from a system of two spin-entangled electron-hole pairs, each placed in a separate single mode cavity, to the photons emitted during their recombination process. Dipole selection rules and a splitting between the light-hole and the heavy-hole subbands are the crucial ingredients establishing a one-to-one correspondence between electron spins and circular photon polarizations. To account for the measurement of the photons as well as dephasing effects, we choose a stochastic Schroedinger equation and a conditional master equation approach, respectively. The influence of interactions with the environment as well as asymmetries in the coherent couplings on the photon-entanglement is analyzed for two concrete measurement schemes. The first one is designed to violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality, while the second one employs the visibility of interference fringes to prove the entanglement of the photons. Because of the spatial separation of the entangled electronic system over two quantum dots, a successful verification of entangled photons emitted by this system would imply the detection of nonlocal spin-entanglement of massive particles in a solid state structure.

id: 0910.4300
title: Quantum features of consciousness, computers and brain
authors: Michael B. Mensky
comments: LATEX, 6 pages; the paper is reported at The 9th WSEAS International Conference on Applied Computer Science (ACS'09), Genova, Italy, October 17-19, 2009
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4300
abstract: Many people believe that mysterious phenomenon of consciousness may be connected with quantum features of our world. The present author proposed so-called Extended Everett's Concept (EEC) that allowed to explain consciousness and super-consciousness (intuitive knowledge). Brain, according to EEC, is an interface between consciousness and super-consciousness on the one part and body on the other part. Relations between all these components of the human cognitive system are analyzed in the framework of EEC. It is concluded that technical devices improving usage of super-consciousness (intuition) may exist.

id: 0910.3375
title: Casimir Energy, Holographic Dark Energy and Electromagnetic Metamaterial Mimicking de Sitter
authors: Miao Li, Rong-Xin Miao, Yi Pang
comments: 14 pages, improved version, references added
journal: Phys.Lett.B689:55-59,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3375
abstract: We compute the Casimir energy of the photon field in a de Sitter space and find it to be proportional to the size of the horizon, the same form of the holographic dark energy. We suggest to make metamaterials to mimic de Sitter space in laboratory and measure the predicted Casimir energy.

id: 0910.2930
title: Thermal Effects on the Stability of Excited Atoms in Cavities
authors: F.C. Khanna, A.P.C. Malbouisson, J.M.C. Malbouisson, A.E. Santana
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:032119,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.2930
abstract: An atom, coupled linearly to an environment, is considered in a harmonic approximation in thermal equilibrium inside a cavity. The environment is modeled by an infinite set of harmonic oscillators. We employ the notion of dressed states to investigate the time evolution of the atom initially in the first excited level. In a very large cavity (free space) for a long elapsed time, the atom decays and the value of its occupation number is the physically expected one at a given temperature. For a small cavity the excited atom never completely decays and the stability rate depends on temperature.

id: 0910.4225
title: Vortex Formation in Two-Dimensional Bose Gas
authors: Esteban Calzetta, Kwan-yuet Ho, B. L. Hu
comments: RevTeX, 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 095004 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4225
abstract: We discuss the stability of a homogeneous two-dimensional Bose gas at finite temperature against formation of isolated vortices. We consider a patch of several healing lengths in size and compute its free energy using the Euclidean formalism. Since we deal with an open system, which is able to exchange particles and angular momentum with the rest of the condensate, we use the symmetry-breaking (as opposed to the particle number conserving) formalism, and include configurations with all values of angular momenta in the partition function. At finite temperature, there appear sphaleron configurations associated to isolated vortices. The contribution from these configurations to the free energy is computed in the dilute gas approximation. We show that the Euclidean action of linearized perturbations of a vortex is not positive definite. As a consequence the free energy of the 2D Bose gas acquires an imaginary part. This signals the instability of the gas. This instability may be identified with the Berezinskii, Kosterlitz and Thouless (BKT) transition.

id: 0910.0052
title: Stability of a Fully Polarized Ultracold Fermi Gas near Zero-Crossing of a p-wave Feshbach Resonance
authors: N. T. Zinner
comments: Published version, 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 57, 235 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.0052
abstract: We consider a fully polarized ultracold Fermi gas interacting through a p-wave Feshbach resonance. Using a two-channel model, we find the effective potential at the point where the p-wave scattering length goes to zero. Here the effective interaction provides attraction and one can therefore ask about the stability of the system. We calculate the energy density of the system in the Thomas-Fermi approximation, determine the profile of the gas, and the critical number of particle in the system as function of the relevant interaction parameters. The instability can be deduced from a simple breathing mode argument which explains the scaling found numerically. The critical particle number turns out to be extremely large unless the external confinement is very tight. We therefore conclude that the effect is insignificant for standard trapping potentials and that the magnetic dipole interaction is the important term at zero scattering length. However, for tight confinement as in an optical lattice higher-order corrections can become important.

id: 0910.4739
title: Weak continuous monitoring of a flux qubit using coplanar waveguide resonator
authors: G. Oelsner, S. H.W. van der Ploeg, P. Macha, U. H¨¹bner, D. Born, E. Il'ichev, H.-G. Meyer, M. Grajcar, S. W¨¹nsch, M. Siegel, A. N. Omelyanchouk, O. Astafiev
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 172505 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4739
abstract: We study a flux qubit in a coplanar waveguide resonator by measuring transmission through the system. In our system with the flux qubit decoupled galvanically from the resonator, the intermediate coupling regime is achieved. In this regime dispersive readout is possible with weak backaction on the qubit. The detailed theoretical analysis and simulations give a good agreement with the experimental data and allow to make the qubit characterization.

id: 0910.3662
title: Link between the hierarchy of fractional quantum Hall states and Haldane's conjecture for quantum spin chains
authors: Masaaki Nakamura, Emil J. Bergholtz, Juha Suorsa
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 165102 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3662
abstract: We study a strong coupling expansion of the $\nu=1/3$ fractional quantum Hall state away from the Tao-Thouless limit and show that the leading quantum fluctuations lead to an effective spin-1 Hamiltonian that lacks parity symmetry. By analyzing the energetics, discrete symmetries of low-lying excitations, and string order parameters, we demonstrate that the $\nu=1/3$ fractional quantum Hall state is adiabatically connected to both Haldane and large-$D$ phases, and is characterized by a string order parameter which is dual to the ordinary one. This result indicates a close relation between (a generalized form of) the Haldane conjecture for spin chains and the fractional quantum Hall effect.

id: 0910.4586
title: Renormalization group study of the four-body problem
authors: Richard Schmidt, Sergej Moroz
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures; v2: revised and published version
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:052709,2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.4586
abstract: We perform a renormalization group analysis of the non-relativistic four-boson problem by means of a simple model with pointlike three- and four-body interactions. We investigate in particular the unitarity point where the scattering length is infinite and all energies are at the atom threshold. We find that the four-body problem behaves truly universally, independent of any four-body parameter. Our findings confirm the recent conjectures of Platter et al. and von Stecher et al. that the four-body problem is universal, now also from a renormalization group perspective. We calculate the corresponding relations between the four- and three-body bound states, as well as the full bound state spectrum and comment on the influence of effective range corrections.

id: 0910.5337
title: Fluctuations and stochastic processes in one-dimensional many-body quantum systems
authors: H.-P. Stimming, N. J. Mauser, J. Schmiedmayer, I. E. Mazets
comments: 4 pages (revtex4), 4 color figures. Text substantially rewritten, two figures added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 015301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5337
abstract: We study the fluctuation properties of a one-dimensional many-body quantum system composed of interacting bosons, and investigate the regimes where quantum noise or, respectively, thermal excitations are dominant. For the latter we develop a semiclassical description of the fluctuation properties based on the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck stochastic process. As an illustration, we analyze the phase correlation functions and the full statistical distributions of the interference between two one-dimensional systems, either independent or tunnel-coupled and compare with the Luttinger-liquid theory.

id: 0910.5332
title: Ferromagnetism of electron gas
authors: H. Gholizade, D.Momeni
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, Accepted to Publish in "Journal of Statistical physics(Springer)",In press
journal: J.Statist.Phys.141:957-969,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.5332
abstract: In current work, we investigate the density and temperature dependence of polarization parameter; using the relativistic formalism for the electron-electron interaction within the Fermi liquid model. we calculate the spin dependent scattering matrix elements in relativistic region, and then obtain the non-relativistic behavior to study the magnetic properties of an electron gas. By varying the polarization parameter, we minimized the free energy and then obtain the polarization of the system as a function of density and temperature. At zero temperature the exact results for polarization and magnetic susceptibility have obtained. It has been shown that for a given temperature (density) there is critical density (temperature) that the ferromagnetic phase can appears in electron gas. Our results show that at nonzero temperatures and in very low and very high densities the ferromagnetism phase can not be exist.

id: 0910.3424
title: Bremermann's Limit and cGh-physics
authors: Gennady Gorelik
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0910.3424
abstract: Do physical laws limit rate of any serial data processor? A positive answer suggested by H. J. Bremermann in 1962 has to be corrected to make it compatible with general relativity. As a result, Bremermann's limit, proportional to mass M of system, Mc^2/h = ~ (M/gram) 10^47 bits per second, should be replaced by an absolute limit (c^5/Gh)^1/2= ~ 10^43 bits per second, where universal constants c, G, and h are the speed of light, the gravitational constant, and Planck's constant.

