id: 0911.0042
title: Equivalence between discrete quantum walk models in arbitrary topologies
authors: F. M. Andrade, M. G. E. da Luz
comments: Revtex, 5 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0042
abstract: Coin and scattering are the two major formulations for discrete quantum walks models, each believed to have its own advantages in different applications. Although they are related in some cases, it was an open question their equivalence in arbitrary topologies. Here we present a general construction for the two models for any graph and also for position dependent transition amplitudes. We then prove constructively their unitary equivalence. Defining appropriate projector operators, we moreover show how to obtain the probabilities for one model from the evolution of the other.

id: 0911.0996
title: The Need for Structure in Quantum Speedups
authors: Scott Aaronson, Andris Ambainis
comments: 31 pages; journal version; fixed several significant errors (which were indeed fixable); improved main result from a 9th-power to a 7th-power relation. Conference version in Proceedings of ICS (Innovations in Computer Science) 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0996
abstract: Is there a general theorem that tells us when we can hope for exponential speedups from quantum algorithms, and when we cannot? In this paper, we make two advances toward such a theorem, in the black-box model where most quantum algorithms operate. First, we show that for any problem that is invariant under permuting inputs and outputs (like the collision or the element distinctness problems), the quantum query complexity is at least the 7th root of the classical randomized query complexity. (An earlier version of this paper gave the 9th root.) This resolves a conjecture of Watrous from 2002. Second, inspired by recent work of O'Donnell et al. (2005) and Dinur et al. (2006), we conjecture that every bounded low-degree polynomial has a "highly influential" variable. Assuming this conjecture, we show that every T-query quantum algorithm can be simulated on most inputs by a poly(T)-query classical algorithm, and that one essentially cannot hope to prove P!=BQP relative to a random oracle.

id: 0911.1102
title: Searching via walking: How to find a marked subgraph of a graph using quantum walks
authors: Mark Hillery, Daniel Reitzner, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1102
abstract: We show how a quantum walk can be used to find a marked edge or a marked complete subgraph of a complete graph. We employ a version of a quantum walk, the scattering walk, which lends itself to experimental implementation. The edges are marked by adding elements to them that impart a specific phase shift to the particle as it enters or leaves the edge. If the complete graph has N vertices and the subgraph has K vertices, the particle becomes localized on the subgraph in O(N/K) steps. This leads to a quantum search that is quadratically faster than a corresponding classical search. We show how to implement the quantum walk using a quantum circuit and a quantum oracle, which allows us to specify the resource needed for a quantitative comparison of the efficiency of classical and quantum searches -- the number of oracle calls.

id: 0911.1653
title: One Dimensional Quantum Walks with Memory
authors: Michael McGettrick
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures: second version has small changes: some corrections, extra references, better diagrams.
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 10, No. 5&6 (2010) 0509-0524
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1653
abstract: We investigate the quantum versions of a one-dimensional random walk, whose corresponding Markov Chain is of order 2. This corresponds to the walk having a memory of up to two previous steps. We derive the amplitudes and probabilities for these walks, and point out how they differ from both classical random walks, and quantum walks without memory.

id: 0911.1696
title: A Quantum Lovasz Local Lemma
authors: Andris Ambainis, Julia Kempe, Or Sattath
comments: 19 pages
journal: Journal of the ACM, Volume 59 Issue 5, October 2012, Article No. 24
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1696
abstract: The Lovasz Local Lemma (LLL) is a powerful tool in probability theory to show the existence of combinatorial objects meeting a prescribed collection of "weakly dependent" criteria. We show that the LLL extends to a much more general geometric setting, where events are replaced with subspaces and probability is replaced with relative dimension, which allows to lower bound the dimension of the intersection of vector spaces under certain independence conditions. Our result immediately applies to the k-QSAT problem: For instance we show that any collection of rank 1 projectors with the property that each qubit appears in at most $2^k/(e \cdot k)$ of them, has a joint satisfiable state. We then apply our results to the recently studied model of random k-QSAT. Recent works have shown that the satisfiable region extends up to a density of 1 in the large k limit, where the density is the ratio of projectors to qubits. Using a hybrid approach building on work by Laumann et al. we greatly extend the known satisfiable region for random k-QSAT to a density of $\Omega(2^k/k^2)$. Since our tool allows us to show the existence of joint satisfying states without the need to construct them, we are able to penetrate into regions where the satisfying states are conjectured to be entangled, avoiding the need to construct them, which has limited previous approaches to product states.

id: 0911.1876
title: Realization of a quantum walk with one and two trapped ions
authors: F. Z?hringer, G. Kirchmair, R. Gerritsma, E. Solano, R. Blatt, C. F. Roos
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, minor changes and references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 100503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1876
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a quantum walk on a line in phase space using one and two trapped ion. A walk with up to 23 steps is realized by subjecting an ion to state-dependent displacement operations interleaved with quantum coin tossing operations. To analyze the ion's motional state after each step we apply a technique that directly maps the probability density distribution onto the ion's internal state. The measured probability distributions and the position's second moment clearly show the non-classical character of the quantum walk. To further highlight the difference between the classical (random) and the quantum walk, we demonstrate the reversibility of the latter. Finally, we extend the quantum walk by using two ions, giving the walker the additional possibility to stay instead of taking a step.

id: 0911.4898
title: The effect of decoherence on mixing time in continuous-time quantum walks on one-dimension regular networks
authors: S. Salimi, R. Radgohar
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures. Accepted for publication in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 8, No. 5 (2010) 795-806
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4898
abstract: In this paper, we study decoherence in continuous-time quantum walks (CTQWs) on one-dimension regular networks. For this purpose, we assume that every node is represented by a quantum dot continuously monitored by an individual point contact(Gurvitz's model). This measuring process induces decoherence. We focus on small rates of decoherence and then obtain the mixing time bound of the CTQWs on one-dimension regular network which its distance parameter is $l\geq 2$. Our results show that the mixing time is inversely proportional to rate of decoherence which is in agreement with the mentioned results for cycles in \cite{FST,VKR}. Also, the same result is provided in \cite{SSRR} for long-range interacting cycles. Moreover, we find that this quantity is independent of distance parameter $l(l\geq 2)$ and that the small values of decoherence make short the mixing time on these networks.

