id: 0911.0031
title: Generation of polarization entangled photons using type-II doubly periodically poled lithium niobate waveguides
authors: K. Thyagarajan, K. Sinha, J. Lugani, S. Ghosh, A. Martin, D. B. Ostrowsky, O. Alibart, S. Tanzilli
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052321 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0031
abstract: In this paper, we address the issue of the generation of non-degenerate cross-polarization-entangled photon pairs using type-II periodically poled lithium niobate. We show that, by an appropriate engineering of the quasi-phase-matching grating, it is possible to simultaneously satisfy the conditions for two spontaneous parametric down-conversion processes, namely ordinary pump photon down-conversion to either extraordinary signal and ordinary idler paired photons, or to ordinary signal and extraordinary idler paired photons. In contrast to single type-II phase-matching, these two processes, when enabled together, can lead to the direct production of cross-polarization-entangled state for non degenerate signal and idler wavelengths. Such a scheme should be of great interest in applications requiring polarization-entangled non degenerate paired photons with, for instance, one of the entangled photons at an appropriate wavelength being used for local operation or for quantum storage in an atomic ensemble, and the other one at the typical wavelength of 1550 nm for propagation through an optical fiber.

id: 0911.0032
title: Semiconductor ridge microcavity source of quantum light at room temperature
authors: X. Caillet, A. Orieux, A. Lemaitre, P. Filloux, I. Favero, G. Leo, S. Ducci
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0032
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate an integrated semiconductor ridge microcavity source of counterpropagating twin photons at room temperature in the telecom range. Based on parametric down conversion with a counterpropagating phase-matching, pump photons generate photon pairs with an efficiency of about 10^(-11) and a spectral linewidth of 0.3 nm for a 1mm long sample. The indistiguishability of the photons of the pair are measured via a two-photon interference experiment showing a visibility of 85%. This work opens a route towards new guided-wave semiconductor quantum devices.

id: 0911.0042
title: Equivalence between discrete quantum walk models in arbitrary topologies
authors: F. M. Andrade, M. G. E. da Luz
comments: Revtex, 5 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0042
abstract: Coin and scattering are the two major formulations for discrete quantum walks models, each believed to have its own advantages in different applications. Although they are related in some cases, it was an open question their equivalence in arbitrary topologies. Here we present a general construction for the two models for any graph and also for position dependent transition amplitudes. We then prove constructively their unitary equivalence. Defining appropriate projector operators, we moreover show how to obtain the probabilities for one model from the evolution of the other.

id: 0911.0052
title: Observation of Anti-correlation of Classical Chaotic Light
authors: Hui Chen, Sanjit Karmakar, Zhenda Xie, Yanhua Shih
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0052
abstract: We wish to report an experimental observation of anti-correlation from first-order incoherent classical chaotic light. We explain why the classical statistical theory does not apply and provide a quantum interpretation. In quantum theory, either correlation or anti-correlation is a two-photon interference phenomenon, which involves the superposition of two-photon amplitudes, a nonclassical entity corresponding to different yet indistinguishable alternative ways of producing a joint-photodetection event.

id: 0911.0062
title: Sliding mode control of quantum systems
authors: Daoyi Dong, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 11 (2009) 105033
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0062
abstract: This paper proposes a new robust control method for quantum systems with uncertainties involving sliding mode control (SMC). Sliding mode control is a widely used approach in classical control theory and industrial applications. We show that SMC is also a useful method for robust control of quantum systems. In this paper, we define two specific classes of sliding modes (i.e., eigenstates and state subspaces) and propose two novel methods combining unitary control and periodic projective measurements for the design of quantum sliding mode control systems. Two examples including a two-level system and a three-level system are presented to demonstrate the proposed SMC method. One of main features of the proposed method is that the designed control laws can guarantee desired control performance in the presence of uncertainties in the system Hamiltonian. This sliding mode control approach provides a useful control theoretic tool for robust quantum information processing with uncertainties.

id: 0911.0071
title: On the resolution of quantum paradoxes by weak measurements
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 5 pages, contribution to the proceedings of QIT21, held Nov. 4-5 2009 in Tokyo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0071
abstract: In this presentation, I argue that weak measurements empirically support the notion of quantum superpositions as statistical alternatives. In short, weak measurements show that Schroedinger's cat is already dead or alive before the measurement. The collapse of the wavefunction in a strong measurement should therefore be separated into the statistical selection of one of the available alternatives and a physical interaction that causes decoherence. The application to entanglement reveals that measurements in A have no physical effect in B, resolving the paradox of Bell`s inequality violation in favor of locality and against (non-empirical) realism.

id: 0911.0073
title: Coherent state of a nonlinear oscillator and its revival dynamics
authors: Bikashkali Midya, Barnana Roy, Atreyee Biswas
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta 79 (2009) 065003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0073
abstract: The coherent state of a nonlinear oscillator having a nonlinear spectrum is constructed using Gazeau Klauder formalism. The weighting distribution and the Mandel parameter are studied. Details of the revival structure arising from different time scales underlying the quadratic energy spectrum are investigated by the phase analysis of the autocorrelation function.

id: 0911.0125
title: Entangled Husimi distribution and Complex Wavelet transformation
authors: Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0125
abstract: Based on the proceding Letter [Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48, 1539 (2009)], we expand the relation between wavelet transformation and Husimi distribution function to the entangled case. We find that the optical complex wavelet transformation can be used to study the entangled Husimi distribution function in phase space theory of quantum optics. We prove that the entangled Husimi distribution function of a two-mode quantum state |phi> is just the modulus square of the complex wavelet transform of exp{-(|eta|^2)/2} with phi(eta)being the mother wavelet up to a Gaussian function.

id: 0911.0144
title: Quantum mechanics of a constrained electrically charged particle in the presence of electric currents
authors: B. Jensen, R. Dandoloff
comments: to appear in Phys.Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A 80 (2009) p.052109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0144
abstract: We discuss the dynamics of a classical spinless quantum particle carrying electric charge and constrained to move on a non singular static surface in ordinary three dimensional space in the presence of arbitrary configurations of time independent electric currents. Starting from the canonical action in the embedding space we show that a charged particle with charge $q$ couples to a term linear in $qA^3M$, where $A^3$ is the transverse component of the electromagnetic vector potential and $M$ is the mean curvature in the surface. This term cancels exactly a curvature contribution to the orbital magnetic moment of the particle. It is shown that particles, independently of the value of the charge, in addition to the known couplings to the geometry also couple to the mean curvature in the surface when a Neumann type of constraint is applied on the transverse fluctuations of the wave function. In contrast to a Dirrichlet constraint on the transverse fluctuations a Neumann type of constraint on these degrees of freedom will in general make the equations of motion non separable. The exceptions are the equations of motion for electrically neutral particles on surfaces with constant mean curvature. In the presence of electric currents the equation of motion of a charged particle is generally non separable independently of the coupling to the geometry and the boundary constraints.

id: 0911.0147
title: Radon transform and kinetic equations in tomographic representation
authors: V.N.Chernega, V.I.Man'ko, B.I.Sadovnikov
comments: 8 pages, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0147
abstract: Statistical properties of classical random process are considered in tomographic representation. The Radon integral transform is used to construct the tomographic form of kinetic equations. Relation of probability density on phase space for classical systems with tomographic probability distributions is elucidated. Examples of simple kinetic equations like Liouville equations for one and many particles are studied in detail.

id: 0911.0155
title: Quantum physics meets biology
authors: Markus Arndt, Thomas Juffmann, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures, Perspective article for the HFSP Journal
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0155
abstract: Quantum physics and biology have long been regarded as unrelated disciplines, describing nature at the inanimate microlevel on the one hand and living species on the other hand. Over the last decades the life sciences have succeeded in providing ever more and refined explanations of macroscopic phenomena that were based on an improved understanding of molecular structures and mechanisms. Simultaneously, quantum physics, originally rooted in a world view of quantum coherences, entanglement and other non-classical effects, has been heading towards systems of increasing complexity. The present perspective article shall serve as a pedestrian guide to the growing interconnections between the two fields. We recapitulate the generic and sometimes unintuitive characteristics of quantum physics and point to a number of applications in the life sciences. We discuss our criteria for a future quantum biology, its current status, recent experimental progress and also the restrictions that nature imposes on bold extrapolations of quantum theory to macroscopic phenomena.

id: 0911.0201
title: No Strong Parallel Repetition with Entangled and Non-signaling Provers
authors: Julia Kempe, Oded Regev
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0201
abstract: We consider one-round games between a classical verifier and two provers. One of the main questions in this area is the \emph{parallel repetition question}: If the game is played $\ell$ times in parallel, does the maximum winning probability decay exponentially in $\ell$? In the classical setting, this question was answered in the affirmative by Raz. More recently the question arose whether the decay is of the form $(1-\Theta(\eps))^\ell$ where $1-\eps$ is the value of the game and $\ell$ is the number of repetitions. This question is known as the \emph{strong parallel repetition question} and was motivated by its connections to the unique games conjecture. It was resolved by Raz who showed that strong parallel repetition does \emph{not} hold, even in the very special case of games known as XOR games. This opens the question whether strong parallel repetition holds in the case when the provers share entanglement. Evidence for this is provided by the behavior of XOR games, which have strong (in fact \emph{perfect}) parallel repetition, and by the recently proved strong parallel repetition of linear unique games. A similar question was open for games with so-called non-signaling provers. Here the best known parallel repetition theorem is due to Holenstein, and is of the form $(1-\Theta(\eps^2))^\ell$. We show that strong parallel repetition holds neither with entangled provers nor with non-signaling provers. In particular we obtain that Holenstein's bound is tight. Along the way we also provide a tight characterization of the asymptotic behavior of the entangled value under parallel repetition of unique games in terms of a semidefinite program.

id: 0911.0249
title: Quantum phase measurement and Gauss sum factorization of large integers in a superconducting circuit
authors: H. T. Ng, Franco Nori
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042317 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0249
abstract: We study the implementation of quantum phase measurement in a superconducting circuit, where two Josephson phase qubits are coupled to the photon field inside a resonator. We show that the relative phase of the superposition of two Fock states can be imprinted in one of the qubits. The qubit can thus be used to probe and store the quantum coherence of two distinguishable Fock states of the single-mode photon field inside the resonator. The effects of dissipation of the photon field on the phase detection are investigated. We find that the visibilities can be greatly enhanced if the Kerr nonlinearity is exploited. We also show that the phase measurement method can be used to perform the Gauss sum factorization of numbers (${\geq} 10^4$) into a product of prime integers, as well as to precisely measure both the resonator's frequency and the nonlinear interaction strength. The largest factorizable number is mainly limited by the coherence time. If the relaxation time of the resonator were to be ${\sim} 10$ $\mu$s (${\sim} 1$ ms), then the largest factorizable number can be ${\geq} 10^4N$ (${\geq} 10^{7}N$), where $N$ is the number of photons in the resonator.

id: 0911.0259
title: Multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree-Fock calculations for photoionization of one-dimensional Helium
authors: D. Hochstuhl, S. Bauch, M. Bonitz
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0259
abstract: The multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree-Fock equations are discussed and solved for a one-dimensional model of the Helium atom. Results for the ground state energy and two-particle density as well as the absorption spectrum are presented and compared to direct solutions of the time-dependent Schroedinger equation.

id: 0911.0330
title: Decoherence in a double-slit quantum eraser
authors: F. A. Torres-Ruiz, G. Lima, A. Delgado, S. Pивdua, C. Saavedra
comments: Accepted in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0330
abstract: We study and experimentally implement a double-slit quantum eraser in the presence of a controlled decoherence mechanism. A two-photon state, produced in a spontaneous parametric down conversion process, is prepared in a maximally entangled polarization state. A birefringent double-slit is illuminated by one of the down-converted photons, and it acts as a single-photon two-qubits controlled not gate that couples the polarization with the transversal momentum of these photons. The other photon, that acts as a which-path marker, is sent through a Mach-Zehnder-like interferometer. When the interferometer is partially unbalanced, it behaves as a controlled source of decoherence for polarization states of down-converted photons. We show the transition from wave-like to particle-like behavior of the signal photons crossing the double-slit as a function of the decoherence parameter, which depends on the length path difference at the interferometer.

id: 0911.0347
title: Quantum mechanics in the general quantum systems (V): Hamiltonian eigenvalues
authors: Zhou Li, An Min Wang
comments: 18 pages, No figure. This is the fifth manuscript. Previous manuscripts see arXiv:quant-ph/0611216, arXiv:quant-ph/0611217, arXiv:quant-ph/0601051 and arXiv:quant-ph/0612068
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0347
abstract: We derive out a complete series expression of Hamiltonian eigenvalues without any approximation and cut in the general quantum systems based on Wang's formal framework \cite{wang1}. In particular, we then propose a calculating approach of eigenvalues of arbitrary Hamiltonian via solving an algebra equation satisfied by a kernal function, which involves the contributions from all order perturbations. In order to verify the validity of our expressions and reveal the power of our approach, we calculate the ground state energy of a quartic anharmonic oscillator and have obtained good enough results comparing with the known one.

id: 0911.0389
title: Quantum optical measurements in ultracold gases: macroscopic Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Igor B. Mekhov, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Laser Physics 20, 694-699 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0389
abstract: We consider an ultracold quantum degenerate gas in an optical lattice inside a cavity. This system represents a simple but key model for "quantum optics with quantum gases," where a quantum description of both light and atomic motion is equally important. Due to the dynamical entanglement of atomic motion and light, the measurement of light affects the many-body atomic state as well. The conditional atomic dynamics can be described using the Quantum Monte Carlo Wave Function Simulation method. In this paper, we emphasize how this usually complicated numerical procedure can be reduced to an analytical solution after some assumptions and approximations valid for macroscopic Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) with large atom numbers. The theory can be applied for lattices with both low filling factors (e.g. one atom per lattice site in average) and very high filling factors (e.g. a BEC in a double-well potential). The purity of the resulting multipartite entangled atomic state is analyzed.

id: 0911.0433
title: Gently modulating opto-mechanical systems
authors: A. Mari, J. Eisert
comments: 4+3 pages, 2 figures, additional brief appendix compared to version in press in Phys. Rev. Lett.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 213603 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0433
abstract: We introduce a framework of opto-mechanical systems that are driven with a mildly amplitude modulated light field, but that are not subject to classical feedback or squeezed input light. We find that in such a system one can achieve large degrees of squeezing of a mechanical micromirror signifying quantum properties of opto-mechanical systems - without the need of any feedback and control, and within parameters reasonable in experimental settings. Entanglement dynamics is shown of states following classical quasi-periodic orbits in their first moments. We discuss the complex time dependence of the modes of a cavity-light field and a mechanical mode in phase space. Such settings give rise to certifiable quantum properties within experimental conditions feasible with present technology.

id: 0911.0471
title: Weak value measurement with an incoherent measuring device
authors: Young-Wook Cho, Hyang-Tag Lim, Young-Sik Ra, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, corrected typo (email address)
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 023036 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0471
abstract: In the Aharonov-Albert-Vaidman (AAV) weak measurement, it is assumed that the measuring device or the pointer is in a quantum mechanical pure state. In reality, however, it is often not the case. In this paper, we generalize the AAV weak measurement scheme to include more generalized situations in which the measuring device is in a mixed state. We also report an optical implementation of the weak value measurement in which the incoherent pointer is realized with the pseudo-thermal light. The theoretical and experimental results show that the measuring device under the influence of partial decoherence could still be used for amplified detection of minute physical changes and are applicable for implementing the weak value measurement for massive particles.

id: 0911.0544
title: Single-photon spin-orbit entanglement violating a Bell-like inequality
authors: Lixiang Chen, Weilong She
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures,final version accepted for publication in JOSAB
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0544
abstract: Single photons emerging from q-plates (or Pancharatnam-Berry phase optical element) exhibit entanglement in the degrees of freedom of spin and orbital angular momentum. We put forward an experimental scheme for probing the spin-orbit correlations of single photons. It is found that the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) parameter S for the single-photon spin-orbit entangled state could be up to 2.828, evidently violating the Bell-like inequality and thus invalidating the noncontextual hidden variable (NCHV) theories.

id: 0911.0549
title: The Role of Rotational Invariance in the Properties of Hamiltonians
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 040301(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0549
abstract: Is it possible to prove that the properties of Hamiltonians, such as the ground state energy, results of dynamical evolution, or thermal state expectation values, can be efficiently calculated when the Hamiltonians have physically motivated constraints such as translational or rotational invariance? We report that rotational invariance does not reduce the difficulty of finding the ground state energy of the system. Crucially, the construction it preserves the translational invariance of a Hamiltonian. The failure of the construction for the properties of thermal states at finite temperatures is discussed.

id: 0911.0567
title: Experimentally feasible measures of distance between quantum operations
authors: Zbigniew Pucha?a, Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak, Piotr Gawron, Bart?omiej Gardas
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Proc. Vol. 10, Issue 1 (2011), pp. 1-12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0567
abstract: We present two measures of distance between quantum processes based on the superfidelity, introduced recently to provide an upper bound for quantum fidelity. We show that the introduced measures partially fulfill the requirements for distance measure between quantum processes. We also argue that they can be especially useful as diagnostic measures to get preliminary knowledge about imperfections in an experimental setup. In particular we provide quantum circuit which can be used to measure the superfidelity between quantum processes. As the behavior of the superfidelity between quantum processes is crucial for the properties of the introduced measures, we study its behavior for several families of quantum channels. We calculate superfidelity between arbitrary one-qubit channels using affine parametrization and superfidelity between generalized Pauli channels in arbitrary dimensions. Statistical behavior of the proposed quantities for the ensembles of quantum operations in low dimensions indicates that the proposed measures can be indeed used to distinguish quantum processes.

id: 0911.0574
title: Extreme phase and rotated quadrature measurements
authors: Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. T140 (2010) 014032 (4 pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0574
abstract: We determine the extreme points of the convex set of covariant phase observables. Such extremals describe the best phase parameter measurements of laser light - the best in the sense that they are free from classical randomness due to fluctuations in the measuring procedure. We also characterize extreme fuzzy rotated quadratures.

id: 0911.0579
title: Remarks on the Configuration Space Approach to Spin-Statistics
authors: A.F. Reyes-Lega, C. Benavides
comments: 18 pages
journal: Found Phys (2010) 40: 1004-1029
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0579
abstract: The angular momentum operators for a system of two spin-zero indistinguishable particles are constructed, using Isham's Canonical Group Quantization method. This mathematically rigorous method provides a hint at the correct definition of (total) angular momentum operators, for arbitrary spin, in a system of indistinguishable particles. The connection with other configuration space approaches to spin-statistics is discussed, as well as the relevance of the obtained results in view of a possible alternative proof of the spin-statistics theorem.

id: 0911.0581
title: Fast Decoders for Topological Quantum Codes
authors: Guillaume Duclos-Cianci, David Poulin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 050504 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0581
abstract: We present a family of algorithms, combining real-space renormalization methods and belief propagation, to estimate the free energy of a topologically ordered system in the presence of defects. Such an algorithm is needed to preserve the quantum information stored in the ground space of a topologically ordered system and to decode topological error-correcting codes. For a system of linear size L, our algorithm runs in time log L compared to L^6 needed for the minimum-weight perfect matching algorithm previously used in this context and achieves a higher depolarizing error threshold.

id: 0911.0598
title: On the derivation of reduction from the Schrodinger equation. A disproof of no-go theorems and a proposal
authors: Roland Omnes
comments: Didactic rewriting with improvements in proofs and inclusion of EPR measurements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0598
abstract: The possibility of a fundamental consistency between the basic quantum principles and reduction (so-called wave function reduction) is reexamined. The mathematical description of an organized macroscopic device is constructed explicitly as a convenient tool for this investigation. Previous no-go theorems excluding consistency are disproved on this ground, because their assumptions neglected the occurrence of organization in a real measuring apparatus. A scheme for deriving reduction from quantum mechanics is also proposed as a conjecture.

id: 0911.0624
title: Quantum kinetic Ising models
authors: R. Augusiak, F. M. Cucchietti, F. Haake, M. Lewenstein
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures, minor improvements, accepted in New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics 12, 025021 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0624
abstract: We introduce a quantum generalization of classical kinetic Ising models, described by a certain class of quantum many body master equations. Similarly to kinetic Ising models with detailed balance that are equivalent to certain Hamiltonian systems, our models reduce to a set of Hamiltonian systems determining the dynamics of the elements of the many body density matrix. The ground states of these Hamiltonians are well described by matrix product, or pair entangled projected states. We discuss critical properties of such Hamiltonians, as well as entanglement properties of their low energy states.

id: 0911.0632
title: Quantum State Tomography and Quantum Games
authors: Ahmad Nawaz
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0632
abstract: We develop a technique for single qubit quantum state tomography using the mathematical setup of generalized quantization scheme for games. In our technique Alice sends an unknown pure quantum state to Bob who appends it with |0><0| and then applies the unitary operators on the appended quantum state and finds the payoffs for Alice and himself. It is shown that for a particular set of unitary operators these elements become equal to Stokes parameters for an unknown quantum state. In this way an unknown quantum state can be measured and reconstructed. Strictly speaking this technique is not a game as no strategic competitions are involved.

id: 0911.0655
title: Noise in Bose Josephson junctions: Decoherence and phase relaxation
authors: G. Ferrini, D. Spehner, A. Minguzzi, F.W.J. Hekking
comments: Fig 2 added; version accepted for publication
journal: PRA 82, 033621 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0655
abstract: Squeezed states and macroscopic superpositions of coherent states have been predicted to be generated dynamically in Bose Josephson junctions. We solve exactly the quantum dynamics of such a junction in the presence of a classical noise coupled to the population-imbalance number operator (phase noise), accounting for, for example, the experimentally relevant fluctuations of the magnetic field. We calculate the correction to the decay of the visibility induced by the noise in the non-Markovian regime. Furthermore, we predict that such a noise induces an anomalous rate of decoherence among the components of the macroscopic superpositions, which is independent of the total number of atoms, leading to potential interferometric applications.

id: 0911.0657
title: Quantum Model for Electro-Optical Phase Modulation
authors: Jose Capmany, Carlos R. Fernandez-Pousa
comments: 31 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Amer. B, 27 A119-A129 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0657
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of the quantum description of electro-optical phase modulation. The results define a black-box type model for this device which may be especially useful in the engineering steps leading to the design of complex quantum information systems incorporating one or more of these devices. By constructing an explicit representation of the phase modulation scattering operator, it is shown that an approach based entirely on its classical description leads to unphysical modes associated to non-positive frequencies. After modifying this operator, phase modulation is described, for the first time to the best of our knowledge, in terms of a unitary scattering operator defined over positive-frequency modes. The modifications introduced by in the process of sideband generation by phase modulation are shown to be not significant when the radiation belongs to optical bands, thus being consistent with the classical description. Finally, the model is employed to characterize the important case of multitone radiofrequency modulation of an optical signal.

id: 0911.0695
title: Quantum Theory and Beyond: Is Entanglement Special?
authors: Borivoje Dakic, Caslav Brukner
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Deep Beauty: Understanding the Quantum World through Mathematical Innovation, Ed. H. Halvorson (Cambridge University Press, 2011) 365-392
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0695
abstract: Quantum theory makes the most accurate empirical predictions and yet it lacks simple, comprehensible physical principles from which the theory can be uniquely derived. A broad class of probabilistic theories exist which all share some features with quantum theory, such as probabilistic predictions for individual outcomes (indeterminism), the impossibility of information transfer faster than speed of light (no-signaling) or the impossibility of copying of unknown states (no-cloning). A vast majority of attempts to find physical principles behind quantum theory either fall short of deriving the theory uniquely from the principles or are based on abstract mathematical assumptions that require themselves a more conclusive physical motivation. Here, we show that classical probability theory and quantum theory can be reconstructed from three reasonable axioms: (1) (Information capacity) All systems with information carrying capacity of one bit are equivalent. (2) (Locality) The state of a composite system is completely determined by measurements on its subsystems. (3) (Reversibility) Between any two pure states there exists a reversible transformation. If one requires the transformation from the last axiom to be continuous, one separates quantum theory from the classical probabilistic one. A remarkable result following from our reconstruction is that no probability theory other than quantum theory can exhibit entanglement without contradicting one or more axioms.

id: 0911.0743
title: Theoretical and experimental investigation on tandem Theoretical and experimental investigation on tandem modulator configurations for Frequency Coded Quantum Key Distribution systems
authors: J. Mora, A. Ruiz-Alba, W. Amaya, V. Garcia-Munoz, J. Capmany
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0743
abstract: We have theoretically and experimentally address the possible tandem electro-optical modulator configurations that can be employed to implement Frequency Coded Quantum Key Distribution systems (FC-QKD). A closed and general formulation of the end to end field propagation in a dispersion compensated FC-QKD optical fiber system under the low modulation index regime is presented which accounts for all the possible tandem combinations. The properties and the parameter selection of the modulators to achieve each one are summarized. We also address which protocol (B92, BB84 or either) is feasible to be implemented with each configuration. The results confirm those reported for the configurations previously reported in the literature and, at the same time, show the existence of four novel tandem modulator configurations that can also be employed. We have also provided experimental evidence of the successful operation of the novel configurations that confirm the behavior predicted by the theoretical results.

id: 0911.0745
title: Optimum design for BB84 quantum key distribution in tree-type passive optical networks
authors: Jose Capmany, Carlos R. Fernandez-Pousa
comments: Published in the Journal of the Optical Society of America B
journal: Journal of the Optical Society of America B, 27, A146-A151 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0745
abstract: We show that there is a tradeoff between the useful key distribution bit rate and the total length of deployed fiber in tree-type passive optical networks for BB84 quantum key distribution applications. A two stage splitting architecture where one splitting is carried in the central office and a second in the outside plant and figure of merit to account for the tradeoff are proposed. We find that there is an optimum solution for the splitting ratios of both stages in the case of Photon Number Splitting (PNS) attacks and Decoy State transmission. We then analyze the effects of the different relevant physical parameters of the PON on the optimum solution.

id: 0911.0767
title: Distillability sudden death in qutrit-qutrit systems under global decoherence
authors: Mazhar Ali
comments: 6 pages, 6 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042303 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0767
abstract: Recently Song {\it et al}., Phys. Rev. A {\bf 80}, 012331 (2009), have discovered that certain two-qutrit entangled states interacting with multi-local decoherence undergo distillability sudden death whereas their locally equivalent states do not exhibit such behavior. We have found that their basic equation of motion missed some terms and therefore the subsequent calculations and conclusions are not correct/valid except that distillability sudden death may occur. We provide the missing terms and point out the corrections which must be done in the literature to remove confusion. Moreover, we have studied this feature for certain entangled states under global, collective and multi-local decoherence. We have found that entanglement sudden death and distillability sudden death may happen under global and multi-local noises. Moreover, local unitary transformations can not avoid distillability sudden death.

id: 0911.0770
title: Extreme nonlocality with one photon
authors: Libby Heaney, Adan Cabello, Marcelo F. Santos, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 11 single column pages, 2 figures; v3 now includes a Bell inequality in addition to the results in the previous version
journal: New Journal of Physics, 13 (2011) 053054 (11p)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0770
abstract: Quantum nonlocality is typically assigned to systems of two or more well separated particles, but nonlocality can also exist in systems consisting of just a single particle, when one considers the subsystems to be distant spatial field modes. Single particle nonlocality has been confirmed experimentally via a bipartite Bell inequality. In this paper, we introduce an N-party Hardy-like proof of impossibility of local elements of reality and a Bell inequality for local realistic theories for a single particle superposed symmetrical over N spatial field modes (i.e. a N qubit W state). We show that, in the limit of large N, the Hardy-like proof effectively becomes an all-versus nothing (or GHZ-like) proof, and the quantum-classical gap of the Bell inequality tends to be same of the one in a three-particle GHZ experiment. We detail how to test the nonlocality in realistic systems.

id: 0911.0842
title: Quantum Computing in Non Euclidean Geometry
authors: Germano Resconi, Ignazio Licata
comments: 34 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0842
abstract: The recent debate on hyper-computation has raised new questions both on the computational abilities of quantum systems and the Church-Turing Thesis role in Physics. We propose here the idea of geometry of effective physical process as the essentially physical notion of computation. In Quantum mechanics we cannot use the traditional Euclidean geometry but we introduce more sophisticate non Euclidean geometry which include a new kind of information diffuse in the entire universe and that we can represent as Fisher information or active information. We remark that from the Fisher information we can obtain the Bohm and Hiley quantum potential and the classical Schrodinger equation. We can see the quantum phenomena do not affect a limited region of the space but is reflected in a change of the geometry of all the universe. In conclusion any local physical change or physical process is reflected in all the universe by the change of its geometry, This is the deepest meaning of the entanglement in Quantum mechanics and quantum computing. We stress the connection between metric and information as measure of change. Because computation is not restricted to calculus but is the environment changing via physical processes, super-Turing potentialities derive from an incomputable information source embedded into the geometry of the universe in accordance with Bell's constraints. In the general relativity we define the geometry of the space time. In our approach quantum phenomena define the geometry of the parameters of the probability distribution that include also the space time parameters. To study this new approach to the computation we use the new theory of Morphogenic systems.

id: 0911.0863
title: Influence of Complex Exciton-Phonon Coupling on Optical Absorption and Energy Transfer of Quantum Aggregates
authors: Jan Roden, Alexander Eisfeld, Wolfgang Wolff, Walter T. Strunz
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 058301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0863
abstract: We present a theory that efficiently describes the quantum dynamics of an electronic excitation that is coupled to a continuous, highly structured phonon environment. Based on a stochastic approach to non-Markovian open quantum systems, we develop a dynamical framework that allows us to handle realistic systems where a fully quantum treatment is desired yet the usual approximation schemes fail. The capability of the method is demonstrated by calculating spectra and energy transfer dynamics of mesoscopic molecular aggregates, elucidating the transition from fully coherent to incoherent transfer.

id: 0911.0879
title: When is there a multipartite maximum entangled state?
authors: Runyao Duan, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 10 pages, no figure. We know the answer is quite simple, but the proof is somewhat involved. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0879
abstract: For a multipartite quantum system of the dimension $d_1\otimes d_2\otimes... d_n$, $d_1\ge d_2\ge...\ge d_n$, is there an entangled state {\em maximum} in the sense that all other states in the system can be obtained from the state through local quantum operations and classical communications (LOCC)? When $d_1\ge\Pi_{i=2}^n d_i$, such state exists. We show that this condition is also necessary. Our proof, somewhat surprisingly, uses results from algebraic complexity theory.

id: 0911.0906
title: Unitary Braid Matrices: Bridge between Topological and Quantum Entanglements
authors: B. Abdesselam, A. Chakrabarti
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0906
abstract: Braiding operators corresponding to the third Reidemeister move in the theory of knots and links are realized in terms of parametrized unitary matrices for all dimensions. Two distinct classes are considered. Their (non-local) unitary actions on separable pure product states of three identical subsystems (say, the spin projections of three particles) are explicitly evaluated for all dimensions. This, for our classes, is shown to generate entangled superposition of four terms in the base space. The 3-body and 2-body entanglements (in three 2-body subsystems), the 3-tangles and 2-tangles are explicitly evaluated for each class. For our matrices, these are parametrized. Varying parameters they can be made to sweep over the domain (0,1).Thus braiding operators corresponding to over- and under-crossings of three braids and, on closing ends, to topologically entangled Borromean rings are shown, in another context, to generate quantum entanglements. For higher dimensions, starting with different initial triplets one can entangle by turns, each state with all the rest. A specific coupling of three angular momenta is briefly discussed to throw more light on three body entanglements.

id: 0911.0913
title: Thermal Casimir Effect in the Plane-Sphere Geometry
authors: Antoine Canaguier-Durand, Paulo A Maia Neto, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:040403,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0913
abstract: The thermal Casimir force between two metallic plates is known to depend on the description of material properties. For large separations the dissipative Drude model leads to a force a factor of 2 smaller than the lossless plasma model. Here we show that the plane-sphere geometry, in which current experiment are performed, decreases this ratio to a factor of 3/2, as revealed by exact numerical and large distance analytical calculations. For perfect reflectors, we find a repulsive contribution of thermal photons to the force and negative entropy values at intermediate distances.

id: 0911.0946
title: Self-adjoint Schrodinger and Dirac operators with Aharonov-Bohm and magnetic-solenoid fields
authors: D.M. Gitman, A. Smirnov, I.V. Tyutin, B.L. Voronov
comments: 38 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0946
abstract: We study all the s.a. Schrodinger and Dirac operators (Hamiltonians) both with pure AB field and with magnetic-solenoid field. Then, we perform a complete spectral analysis for these operators, which includes finding spectra and spectral decompositions, or inversion formulas. In constructing the Hamiltonians and performing their spectral analysis, we respectively follow the von Neumann theory of s.a. extensions of symmetric differential operators and the Krein method of guiding functionals. The examples of similar consideration are given by us in arXiv:0903.5277, where a nonrelativistic particle in the Calogero potential field is considered and in Theor. Math. Phys. 150 (1) (2007) 34, where a Dirac particle in the Coulomb field of arbitrary charge is considered. However, due to peculiarities of the three-dimensional problems under consideration, we elaborated a generalization of the approach used in the study of the Dirac particle.

id: 0911.0950
title: Gaussian-state quantum-illumination receivers for target detection
authors: Saikat Guha, Baris I. Erkmen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052310 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0950
abstract: The signal half of an entangled twin-beam, generated using spontaneous parametric downconversion, interrogates a region of space that is suspected of containing a target, and has high loss and high (entanglement-breaking) background noise. A joint measurement is performed on the returned light and the idler beam that was retained at the transmitter. An optimal quantum receiver, whose implementation is not yet known, was shown to achieve 6 dB gain in the error-probability exponent relative to that achieved with a single coherent-state (classical) laser transmitter and the optimum receiver. We present two structured optical receivers that achieve up to 3 dB gain in the error exponent over that attained with the classical sensor. These are to our knowledge the first designs of quantum-optical sensors for target detection, which can be readily implemented in a proof-of-concept experiment, that appreciably outperform the best classical sensor in the low-signal-brightness, high-loss and high-noise operating regime.

id: 0911.0990
title: Bell's experiment with intra- and inter-pair entanglement: Single-particle mode entanglement as a case study
authors: S. Ashhab, Koji Maruyama, Caslav Brukner, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages (two column), 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062106 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0990
abstract: Theoretical considerations of Bell-inequality experiments usually assume identically prepared and independent pairs of particles. Here we consider pairs that exhibit both intra- and inter-pair entanglement. The pairs are taken from a large many-body system where all the pairs are generally entangled with each other. Using an explicit example based on single mode entanglement and an ancillary Bose-Einstein condensate, we show that the Bell-inequality violation in such systems can display statistical properties that are remarkably different from those obtained using identically prepared, independent pairs. In particular, one can have probabilistic violation of Bell's inequalities in which a finite fraction of all the runs result in violation, even though there could be no violation when averaging over all the runs. Whether or not a particular run of results will end up being local realistically explainable is "decided" by a sequence of quantum (random) outcomes.

id: 0911.0996
title: The Need for Structure in Quantum Speedups
authors: Scott Aaronson, Andris Ambainis
comments: 31 pages; journal version; fixed several significant errors (which were indeed fixable); improved main result from a 9th-power to a 7th-power relation. Conference version in Proceedings of ICS (Innovations in Computer Science) 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0996
abstract: Is there a general theorem that tells us when we can hope for exponential speedups from quantum algorithms, and when we cannot? In this paper, we make two advances toward such a theorem, in the black-box model where most quantum algorithms operate. First, we show that for any problem that is invariant under permuting inputs and outputs (like the collision or the element distinctness problems), the quantum query complexity is at least the 7th root of the classical randomized query complexity. (An earlier version of this paper gave the 9th root.) This resolves a conjecture of Watrous from 2002. Second, inspired by recent work of O'Donnell et al. (2005) and Dinur et al. (2006), we conjecture that every bounded low-degree polynomial has a "highly influential" variable. Assuming this conjecture, we show that every T-query quantum algorithm can be simulated on most inputs by a poly(T)-query classical algorithm, and that one essentially cannot hope to prove P!=BQP relative to a random oracle.

id: 0911.1050
title: Multi-pass classical vs. quantum strategies in lossy phase estimation
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Laser Physics 20, 1197-1202 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1050
abstract: The use of classical multiple-pass approach for phase estimation which mimics the behavior of the N00N states, is compared with quantum techniques. It is shown that in the presence of losses its performance is significantly worse than the one of the optimal quantum strategy.

id: 0911.1096
title: Non-Markovian Dynamics of Quantum Discord
authors: F. F. Fanchini, T. Werlang, C. A. Brasil, L. G. E. Arruda, A. O. Caldeira
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 81, 052107 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1096
abstract: We evaluate the quantum discord dynamics of two qubits in independent and common non-Markovian environments. We compare the dynamics of entanglement with that of quantum discord. For independent reservoirs the quantum discord vanishes only at discrete instants whereas the entanglement can disappear during a finite time interval. For a common reservoir, quantum discord and entanglement can behave very differently with sudden birth of the former but not of the latter. Furthermore, in this case the quantum discord dynamics presents sudden changes in the derivative of its time evolution which is evidenced by the presence of kinks in its behavior at discrete instants of time.

id: 0911.1097
title: Could light harvesting complexes exhibit non-classical effects at room temperature?
authors: Mark M. Wilde, James M. McCracken, Ari Mizel
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables, submitted to the Proceedings of the Royal Society A
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society A vol. 466, no. 2117, pp. 1347-1363 (May 2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1097
abstract: Mounting experimental and theoretical evidence suggests that coherent quantum effects play a role in the efficient transfer of an excitation from a chlorosome antenna to a reaction center in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson protein complex. However, it is conceivable that a satisfying alternate interpretation of the results is possible in terms of a classical theory. To address this possibility, we consider a class of classical theories satisfying the minimal postulates of macrorealism and frame Leggett-Garg-type tests that could rule them out. Our numerical simulations indicate that even in the presence of decoherence, several tests could exhibit the required violations of the Leggett-Garg inequality. Remarkably, some violations persist even at room temperature for our decoherence model.

id: 0911.1102
title: Searching via walking: How to find a marked subgraph of a graph using quantum walks
authors: Mark Hillery, Daniel Reitzner, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1102
abstract: We show how a quantum walk can be used to find a marked edge or a marked complete subgraph of a complete graph. We employ a version of a quantum walk, the scattering walk, which lends itself to experimental implementation. The edges are marked by adding elements to them that impart a specific phase shift to the particle as it enters or leaves the edge. If the complete graph has N vertices and the subgraph has K vertices, the particle becomes localized on the subgraph in O(N/K) steps. This leads to a quantum search that is quadratically faster than a corresponding classical search. We show how to implement the quantum walk using a quantum circuit and a quantum oracle, which allows us to specify the resource needed for a quantitative comparison of the efficiency of classical and quantum searches -- the number of oracle calls.

id: 0911.1109
title: Fractal Weyl law behavior in an open, chaotic Hamiltonian system
authors: Jordan A. Ramilowski, S. D. Prado, F. Borondo, David Farrelly
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. to appear in Phys Rev E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1109
abstract: We numerically show fractal Weyl law behavior in an open Hamiltonian system that is described by a smooth potential and which supports numerous above-barrier resonances. This behavior holds even relatively far away from the classical limit. The complex resonance wave functions are found to be localized on the fractal classical repeller.

id: 0911.1142
title: Quantum Mechanics of Consecutive Measurements
authors: Christoph Adami
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Improved discussion of the non-Markovian nature of the sequence of measurements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1142
abstract: I analyze consecutive projective measurements in quantum mechanics in terms of quantum information theory and a no-collapse picture of measurement. I show that the entropy of all detectors that consecutively measured a quantum state is given by the entropy of the last measurement, while the amount of information that any of the consecutive measurements has about the quantum state is equal to the entropy of the preparation, that is, the first measurement of the pure state. Because the entropy of consecutive measurements cannot decrease, the entropy of the last detector tends to its maximum irrespective of the preparation. The formalism leads to a succinct description of the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects.

id: 0911.1147
title: Quantum Reality and Measurement: A Quantum Logical Approach
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 16 pages, Latex. Presented at the Conference "Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations, 5 (QTRF5)," Vaxjo, Sweden, 15 June 2009. To appear in Foundations of Physics.
journal: Found. Phys. 41, 592--607 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1147
abstract: The recently established universal uncertainty principle revealed that two nowhere commuting observables can be measured simultaneously in some state, whereas they have no joint probability distribution in any state. Thus, one measuring apparatus can simultaneously measure two observables that have no simultaneous reality. In order to reconcile this discrepancy, an approach based on quantum logic is proposed to establish the relation between quantum reality and measurement. We provide a language speaking of values of observables independent of measurement based on quantum logic and we construct in this language the state-dependent notions of joint determinateness, value identity, and simultaneous measurability. This naturally provides a contextual interpretation, in which we can safely claim such a statement that one measuring apparatus measures one observable in one context and simultaneously it measures another nowhere commuting observable in another incompatible context.

id: 0911.1171
title: Spherical-box approach for resonances in presence of Coulomb interaction
authors: Shan-Gui Zhou, Jie Meng, En-Guang Zhao
comments: 10 pages, 5 EPS figures; to be published in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 (2009) 245001-5
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1171
abstract: The spherical-box approach is extended to calculate the resonance parameters and the real part of the wave function for single particle resonances in a potential containing the long-range Coulomb interaction. A model potential is taken to demonstrate the ability and accuracy of this approach. The calculated resonance parameters are compared with available results from other methods. It is shown that in the presence of the Coulomb interaction, the spherical-box approach works well for not so broad resonances. In particular, for very narrow resonances, the present method gives resonance parameters in a very high precision.

id: 0911.1223
title: Quantum entanglement in dense multiqubit systems
authors: M. Macovei, J. Evers, C. H. Keitel
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Jr. of Modern Optics 14&15, 1287-1292 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1223
abstract: The pairwise entanglement of an arbitrary atomic pair randomly extracted from a laser-driven dense multiqubit sample in the presence of quantum dissipation due to spontaneous emission is considered. The dipole-dipole interaction between the particles shifts the laser-qubit resonance frequency and consequently modifies the quantum entanglement. By means of an appropriate tuning of the laser frequency, one can optimize the entanglement in this system. For large ensembles, the maximum entanglement occurs near the laser parameters where the steady-state sample exhibits phase transition phenomena.

id: 0911.1227
title: Experimental demonstration of optimal universal asymmetric quantum cloning of polarization states of single photons by partial symmetrization
authors: Antonin Cernoch, Jan Soubusta, Lucie Celechovska, Miloslav Dusek, Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, REVTeX 4, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062306 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1227
abstract: We report on experimental implementation of the optimal universal asymmetric 1->2 quantum cloning machine for qubits encoded into polarization states of single photons. Our linear optical machine performs asymmetric cloning by partially symmetrizing the input polarization state of signal photon and a blank copy idler photon prepared in a maximally mixed state. We show that the employed method of measurement of mean clone fidelities exhibits strong resilience to imperfect calibration of the relative efficiencies of single-photon detectors used in the experiment. Reliable characterization of the quantum cloner is thus possible even when precise detector calibration is difficult to achieve.

id: 0911.1239
title: Non-disturbance criteria of quantum measurements
authors: Wu Zhaoqi, Zhang Shifang, Wu Junde
comments: 10 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1239
abstract: Using the general sequential product proposed by Shen and Wu in [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 345203, 2009], we derive three criteria for describing non-disturbance between quantum measurements that may be unsharp with such new sequential products, which generalizes Gudder's results.

id: 0911.1242
title: Shor's quantum factoring algorithm on a photonic chip
authors: Alberto Politi, Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: Science, 325, 1221 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1242
abstract: Shor's quantum factoring algorithm finds the prime factors of a large number exponentially faster than any other known method a task that lies at the heart of modern information security, particularly on the internet. This algorithm requires a quantum computer a device which harnesses the `massive parallelism' afforded by quantum superposition and entanglement of quantum bits (or qubits). We report the demonstration of a compiled version of Shor's algorithm on an integrated waveguide silica-on-silicon chip that guides four single-photon qubits through the computation to factor 15.

id: 0911.1257
title: Manipulating multi-photon entanglement in waveguide quantum circuits
authors: Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Alberto Politi, Andre Stefanov, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Nature Photonics, 3, 346-350 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1257
abstract: On-chip integrated photonic circuits are crucial to further progress towards quantum technologies and in the science of quantum optics. Here we report precise control of single photon states and multi-photon entanglement directly on-chip. We manipulate the state of path-encoded qubits using integrated optical phase control based on resistive elements, observing an interference contrast of 98.2+/-0.3%. We demonstrate integrated quantum metrology by observing interference fringes with 2- and 4-photon entangled states generated in a waveguide circuit, with respective interference contrasts of 97.2+/-0.4% and 92+/-4%, sufficient to beat the standard quantum limit. Finally, we demonstrate a reconfigurable circuit that continuously and accurately tunes the degree of quantum interference, yielding a maximum visibility of 98.2+/- 0.9%. These results open up adaptive and fully reconfigurable photonic quantum circuits not just for single photons, but for all quantum states of light.

id: 0911.1261
title: Zwitters: particles between quantum and classical
authors: C. Wetterich
comments: extended discussion of possible realizations of zwitters, including macroscopic droplets or BEC condensates
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1261
abstract: We describe both quantum particles and classical particles in terms of a classical statistical ensemble, characterized by a probability distribution in phase space. By use of a wave function in phase space both can be treated in the same quantum formalism. The different dynamics of quantum and classical particles resides then only from different evolution equations for the probability distribution. Quantum particles are characterized by a specific choice of observables and time evolution of the probability density. All relations for a quantum particle in a potential, including interference and tunneling, can be described in terms of the classical probability distribution. We formulate the concept of zwitters - particles for which the time evolution interpolates between quantum and classical particles. Experiments can test a small parameter which quantifies possible deviations from quantum mechanics.

id: 0911.1284
title: On Domains of PT Symmetric Operators Related to -y''(x) + (-1)^n x^{2n}y(x)
authors: Tomas Ya. Azizov, Carsten Trunk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1284
abstract: In the recent years a generalization of Hermiticity was investigated using a complex deformation H=p^2 +x^2(ix)^\epsilon of the harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian, where \epsilon is a real parameter. These complex Hamiltonians, possessing PT symmetry (the product of parity and time reversal), can have real spectrum. We will consider the most simple case: \epsilon even. In this paper we describe all self-adjoint (Hermitian) and at the same time PT symmetric operators associated to H=p^2 +x^2(ix)^\epsilon. Surprisingly it turns out that there are a large class of self-adjoint operators associated to H=p^2 +x^2(ix)^\epsilon which are not PT symmetric.

id: 0911.1295
title: Quantum Coins
authors: Michele Mosca, Douglas Stebila
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Error-Correcting Codes, Finite Geometries and Cryptography. Contemporary Mathematics, volume 523, pages 35-47. American Mathematical Society, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1295
abstract: One of the earliest cryptographic applications of quantum information was to create quantum digital cash that could not be counterfeited. In this paper, we describe a new type of quantum money: quantum coins, where all coins of the same denomination are represented by identical quantum states. We state desirable security properties such as anonymity and unforgeability and propose two candidate quantum coin schemes: one using black box operations, and another using blind quantum computation.

id: 0911.1314
title: Characterizing the nonlocal correlations of particles that never interacted
authors: Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin, Stefano Pironio
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 170401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1314
abstract: Quantum systems that have never interacted can become nonlocally correlated through a process called entanglement swapping. To characterize nonlocality in this context, we introduce local models where quantum systems that are initially uncorrelated are described by uncorrelated local variables. While a pair of maximally entangled qubits prepared in the usual way (i.e., emitted from a common source) requires a visibility close to 70% to violate a Bell inequality, we show that an entangled pair generated through entanglement swapping will already violate a Bell inequality for visibilities as low as 50% under our assumption.

id: 0911.1321
title: Dissipative Quantum Systems in ThermoField Dynamics
authors: J.L. Tomazelli, G.G. Gomes
comments: 6 pages. Work presented in the Workshop on Quantum Nonstationary Systems, held in the International Centre for Condensed Matter Physics at the University of Brasilia, from October 19th-23rd
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1321
abstract: We investigate a class of microscopic systems in interaction with a macroscopic system in thermal equilibrium, following the construction of Dalibard, Dupont-Roc and Cohen-Tannoudji (DDC). By considering self-adjoint operators as elements of Schwinger's Measurement Algebra (SMA), we construct statistical mean values of the relevant observables as matrix elements in a suitable operator basis, which correspond to the vacuum states of ThermoField Dynamics (TFD).

id: 0911.1362
title: Necessary Condition for the Quantum Adiabatic Approximation
authors: S. Boixo, R. D. Somma
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032308 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1362
abstract: A gapped quantum system that is adiabatically perturbed remains approximately in its eigenstate after the evolution. We prove that, for constant gap, general quantum processes that approximately prepare the final eigenstate require a minimum time proportional to the ratio of the length of the eigenstate path to the gap. Thus, no rigorous adiabatic condition can yield a smaller cost. We also give a necessary condition for the adiabatic approximation that depends on local properties of the path, which is appropriate when the gap varies.

id: 0911.1367
title: Quantum System Identification by Bayesian Analysis of Noisy Data: Beyond Hamiltonian Tomography
authors: S. G. Schirmer, D. K. L. Oi
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Laser physics 20 (5), 1203-1209 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1367
abstract: We consider how to characterize the dynamics of a quantum system from a restricted set of initial states and measurements using Bayesian analysis. Previous work has shown that Hamiltonian systems can be well estimated from analysis of noisy data. Here we show how to generalize this approach to systems with moderate dephasing in the eigenbasis of the Hamiltonian. We illustrate the process for a range of three-level quantum systems. The results suggest that the Bayesian estimation of the frequencies and dephasing rates is generally highly accurate and the main source of errors are errors in the reconstructed Hamiltonian basis.

id: 0911.1372
title: Low-loss nonlinear polaritonics
authors: Sergey A. Moiseev, Ali A. Kamli, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 033839 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1372
abstract: We propose large low-loss cross-phase modulation between two coupled surface polaritons propagating through a double electromagnetically-induced transparency medium situated close to a negative-index metamaterial. In particular a mutual $\pi$ phase shift is attainable between the two pulses at the single photon level.

id: 0911.1414
title: Distances between quantum states in the tomographic-probability representation
authors: S.N. Filippov, V.I. Man'ko
comments: 10 pages, Contribution to the 16th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (CEWQO'09), May 23-27, 2009, Turku, Finland
journal: Physica Scripta T140 (2010) 014043
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1414
abstract: Distances between quantum states are reviewed within the framework of the tomographic-probability representation. Tomographic approach is based on observed probabilities and is straightforward for data processing. Different states are distinguished by comparing corresponding probability-distribution functions. Fidelity as well as other distance measures are expressed in terms of tomograms.

id: 0911.1430
title: Continuous-variable teleportation: a new look
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: Contribution to the special issue of Romanian Journal of Physics dedicated to the centenary of Serban Titeica (1908-1985), the founder of the school of theoretical physics in Romania
journal: Romanian Journal of Physics 53, 1153-1163 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1430
abstract: In contrast to discrete-variable teleportation, a quantum state is imperfectly transferred from a sender to a remote receiver in a continuous-variable setting. We recall the ingenious scheme proposed by Braunstein and Kimble for teleporting a one-mode state of the quantum radiation field. By analyzing this protocol, we have previously proven the factorization of the characteristic function of the output state. This indicates that teleportation is a noisy process that alters, to some extent, the input state. Teleportation with a two-mode Gaussian EPR state can be described in terms of the superposition of a distorting field with the input one. Here we analyze the one-mode Gaussian distorting-field state. Some of its most important properties are determined by the statistics of a positive EPR operator in the two-mode Gaussian resource state. We finally examine the fidelity of teleportation of a coherent state when using an arbitrary resource state.

id: 0911.1442
title: Excitation mapping of whispering gallery modes in silica microcavities
authors: Guoping Lin, Bo Qian, Fedja Orucevic, Yves Candela, Jean-Baptiste Jager, Zhiping Cai, Valижrie Lefииvre-Seguin, Jean Hare
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 35, 4 (2010) 583-585
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1442
abstract: We report the direct observation of the electromagnetic-field distribution of whispering?gallery modes in silica microcavities (spheres and toroids). It is revealed by their excitation efficiency with a tapered fiber coupler swept along the meridian. The originality of this method lies in the use of the coupler itself for the near field mapping, eliminating the need of additional tools used in previous work. This method is successfully applied to microspheres and microtoroids

id: 0911.1478
title: Comment on "Coherence measures for heralded single-photon sources"
authors: Stefano Bettelli
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Phys.Rev.A (on hold, waiting for Reply)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 037801 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1478
abstract: A recent Brief Report [Phys. Rev. A 79, 035801 (2009)] investigates two figures of merit for heralded photon sources based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion with a continuous pump, namely the time-averaged temporal coherence between the signal and idler beams and the time-averaged conditioned second-order degree of coherence for photons in the heralded arm. However, contrary to what is claimed, no one-arm second-order effect is actually measured.

id: 0911.1493
title: Geometric measure of entanglement for pure multipartite states
authors: Lin Chen, Aimin Xu, Huangjun Zhu
comments: A minor error on the explanation of three-qubit GHZ state has been corrected in the fourth paragraph of page 1. Thanks for Martin Aulbach pointing out this error
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1493
abstract: We provide methods for computing the geometric measure of entanglement for two families of pure states with both experimental and theoretical interests: symmetric multiqubit states with non-negative amplitudes in the Dicke basis and symmetric three-qubit states. In addition, we study the geometric measure of pure three-qubit states systematically in virtue of a canonical form of their two-qubit reduced states, and derive analytical formulae for a three-parameter family of three-qubit states. Based on this result, we further show that the W state is the maximally entangled three-qubit state with respect to the geometric measure.

id: 0911.1525
title: Classical description of quantum randomness using stochastic gauge systems
authors: Michel Feldmann
comments: 40 pages, 1 figure. Important corrections. Emphase on entanglement entropy and non-quantum systems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1525
abstract: We present a classical probability model appropriate to the description of quantum randomness. This tool, that we have called stochastic gauge system, constitutes a contextual scheme in which the Kolmogorov probability space depends upon the experimental setup, in accordance with quantum mechanics. Therefore, the probability space behaves like a gauge parameter. We discuss the technical issues of this theory and apply the concept to classically emulate quantum entangled states and even `super-quantum' systems. We exhibit bipartite examples leading to maximum violation of Bell-CHSH inequalities like EPR pairs or exceeding the Tsirelson bound like PR-boxes, as well as tripartite cases simulating GHZ or W-states. We address also the question of partially correlated systems and multipartite entanglements. In this model, the classical equivalent of the entanglement entropy is identified with the Kullback-Leibler divergence. Hence, we propose a natural generalisation of this function to multipartite systems, leading to a simple evaluation of the degree of entanglement and determining the bounds of maximum entanglement. Finally, we obtain a constructive necessary and sufficient condition of multipartite entanglement.

id: 0911.1558
title: Information geometry of Gaussian channels
authors: Alex Monras, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062326 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1558
abstract: We define a local Riemannian metric tensor in the manifold of Gaussian channels and the distance that it induces. We adopt an information-geometric approach and define a metric derived from the Bures-Fisher metric for quantum states. The resulting metric inherits several desirable properties from the Bures-Fisher metric and is operationally motivated from distinguishability considerations: It serves as an upper bound to the attainable quantum Fisher information for the channel parameters using Gaussian states, under generic constraints on the physically available resources. Our approach naturally includes the use of entangled Gaussian probe states. We prove that the metric enjoys some desirable properties like stability and covariance. As a byproduct, we also obtain some general results in Gaussian channel estimation that are the continuous-variable analogs of previously known results in finite dimensions. We prove that optimal probe states are always pure and bounded in the number of ancillary modes, even in the presence of constraints on the reduced state input in the channel. This has experimental and computational implications: It limits the complexity of optimal experimental setups for channel estimation and reduces the computational requirements for the evaluation of the metric: Indeed, we construct a converging algorithm for its computation. We provide explicit formulae for computing the multiparametric quantum Fisher information for dissipative channels probed with arbitrary Gaussian states, and provide the optimal observables for the estimation of the channel parameters (e.g. bath couplings, squeezing, and temperature).

id: 0911.1571
title: On Local Equivalence, Surface Code States and Matroids
authors: Pradeep Sarvepalli, Robert Raussendorf
comments: LaTeX, 13 pages; Revised introduction, minor changes and corrections mainly in section V.
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1571
abstract: Recently, Ji et al disproved the LU-LC conjecture and showed that the local unitary and local Clifford equivalence classes of the stabilizer states are not always the same. Despite the fact this settles the LU-LC conjecture, a sufficient condition for stabilizer states that violate the LU-LC conjecture is missing. In this paper, we investigate further the properties of stabilizer states with respect to local equivalence. Our first result shows that there exist infinitely many stabilizer states which violate the LU-LC conjecture. In particular, we show that for all numbers of qubits $n\geq 28$, there exist distance two stabilizer states which are counterexamples to the LU-LC conjecture. We prove that for all odd $n\geq 195$, there exist stabilizer states with distance greater than two which are LU equivalent but not LC equivalent. Two important classes of stabilizer states that are of great interest in quantum computation are the cluster states and stabilizer states of the surface codes. To date, the status of these states with respect to the LU-LC conjecture was not studied. We show that, under some minimal restrictions, both these classes of states preclude any counterexamples. In this context, we also show that the associated surface codes do not have any encoded non-Clifford transversal gates. We characterize the CSS surface code states in terms of a class of minor closed binary matroids. In addition to making connection with an important open problem in binary matroid theory, this characterization does in some cases provide an efficient test for CSS states that are not counterexamples.

id: 0911.1572
title: Quantum integrals and anhomomorphic logics
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 37 page manuscript
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1572
abstract: The full anhomomorphic logic of coevents $\ascript ^*$ is introduced. Atoms of $\ascript ^*$ and embeddings of the event set $\ascript$ into $\ascript ^*$ are discussed. The quantum integral over an event $A$ with respect to a coevent $\phi$ is defined and its properties are treated. Integrals with respect to various coevents are computed. Reality filters such as preclusivity and regularity of coevents are considered. A quantum measure $\mu$ that can be represented as a quantum integral with respect to a coevent $\phi$ is said to 1-generate $\phi$. This gives a stronger reality filter that may produce a unique coevent called the ``actual reality'' for a physical system. What we believe to be a more general filter is defined in terms of a double quantum integral and is called 2-generation. It is shown that ordinary measures do not 1 or 2-generate coevents except in a few simple cases. Examples are given which show that there are quantum measures that 2-generate but do not 1-generate coevents. Examples also show that there are coevents that are 2-generated but not 1-generated. For simplicity only finite systems are considered.

id: 0911.1596
title: Relation between Optical Fresnel transformation and quantum tomography in two-mode entangled case
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Li-yun Hu
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1596
abstract: Similar in spirit to the preceding work [Opt. Commun. 282 (2009) 3734] where the relation between optical Fresnel transformation and quantum tomography is revealed, we study this kind of relationship in the two-mode entangled case. We show that under the two-mode Fresnel transformation the bipartite entangled state density |eta><eta| becomes density operator F_2|eta><eta|F_2 ^{dag}=|eta>_{r,s}<eta|, which is just the Radon transform of the two-mode Wigner operator (sigma,gama) in entangled form, where F_2 is an two-mode Fresnel operator in quantum optics, and s,r are the complex-value expression of (A, B, C,D). So the probability distribution for the Fresnel quadrature phase is the {tomography (Radon transform of the two-mode Wigner function), correspondingly, {s,r}_<eta|phi>=<eta|F_2{dag}|phi>. Similarly, we find a simial conclusion in the `frequency` domain.

id: 0911.1607
title: Casimir forces between spheres and loop integrals
authors: James Babington
comments: 5 pages, Contribution to Proceedings of QFEXT09, Norman OK
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1607
abstract: A summary of recent calculations of Casimir forces between a collection of $N$-dielectric spheres is presented. This is done by evaluating directly the force on a sphere constructed from a stress tensor, rather than an interaction energy. A loop integral formulation is also discussed where we rewrite the expressions for the force in terms of loop integrals for the effective classical propagation of the electric and magnetic fields.

id: 0911.1624
title: Simulating quantum computers with probabilistic methods
authors: M. Van den Nest
comments: 26 pages, updated references
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 11, 9-10 pp. 784-812 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1624
abstract: We investigate the boundary between classical and quantum computational power. This work consists of two parts. First we develop new classical simulation algorithms that are centered on sampling methods. Using these techniques we generate new classes of classically simulatable quantum circuits where standard techniques relying on the exact computation of measurement probabilities fail to provide efficient simulations. For example, we show how various concatenations of matchgate, Toffoli, Clifford, bounded-depth, Fourier transform and other circuits are classically simulatable. We also prove that sparse quantum circuits as well as circuits composed of CNOT and exp[iaX] gates can be simulated classically. In a second part, we apply our results to the simulation of quantum algorithms. It is shown that a recent quantum algorithm, concerned with the estimation of Potts model partition functions, can be simulated efficiently classically. Finally, we show that the exponential speed-ups of Simon's and Shor's algorithms crucially depend on the very last stage in these algorithms, dealing with the classical postprocessing of the measurement outcomes. Specifically, we prove that both algorithms would be classically simulatable if the function classically computed in this step had a sufficiently peaked Fourier spectrum.

id: 0911.1630
title: Interaction of quantum dot molecules with multi-mode radiation fields
authors: Amir Hossein Sadeghi, Ali Naqavi, Sina Khorasani
comments: accepted for publication in Scientia Iranica
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1630
abstract: In this article, the interaction of an arbitrary number of quantum dots, behaving as artificial molecules, with different energy levels and multi-mode electromagnetic field is studied. We make the assumption that each quantum dot can be represented as an atom with zero kinetic energy, and that all excitonic effects except dipole-dipole interactions may be disregarded. We use Jaynes-Cummings-Paul model with applications to quantum systems based on a time-dependent Hamiltonian and entangled states. We obtain a system of equations describing the interaction and present a method to solve the equations analytically for a single mode field within the Rotating-Wave Approximation. As an example of the applicability of this approach, we solve the system of two two-level quantum dots in a lossless cavity with two modes of electromagnetic field. We furthermore study the evolution of entanglement by defining and computing the concurrency.

id: 0911.1653
title: One Dimensional Quantum Walks with Memory
authors: Michael McGettrick
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures: second version has small changes: some corrections, extra references, better diagrams.
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 10, No. 5&6 (2010) 0509-0524
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1653
abstract: We investigate the quantum versions of a one-dimensional random walk, whose corresponding Markov Chain is of order 2. This corresponds to the walk having a memory of up to two previous steps. We derive the amplitudes and probabilities for these walks, and point out how they differ from both classical random walks, and quantum walks without memory.

id: 0911.1663
title: Tensor rank problem in statistical high-dimensional data and quantum information theory:their comparisons on the methods and the results
authors: Toshio Sakata, Lin Chen, Toshio Sumi, Mitsuhiro Miyazaki
comments: 6 pages, presented at "The 21st Quantum Information Technology Symposium (QIT21)", Chofugaoka Chofu-shi, Tokyo, Japan, November 4th, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1663
abstract: Quantum communication is concerned with the complexity of entanglement of a state and statistical data analysis is concerned with the complexity of a model. A common key word for both is "rank". In this paper we will show that both community is tracing the same target and that the methods used are slightly different. Two different methods, the range criterion method from quantum communication and the determinant polynomial method, are shown as an examples.

id: 0911.1676
title: Universal Dynamical Decoupling: Two-Qubit States and Beyond
authors: Musawwadah Mukhtar, Thuan Beng Saw, Wee Tee Soh, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, minor changes made, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012331 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1676
abstract: Uhrig's dynamical decoupling pulse sequence has emerged as one universal and highly promising approach to decoherence suppression. So far both the theoretical and experimental studies have examined single-qubit decoherence only. This work extends Uhrig's universal dynamical decoupling from one-qubit to two-qubit systems and even to general multi-level quantum systems. In particular, we show that by designing appropriate control Hamiltonians for a two-qubit or a multi-level system, Uhrig's pulse sequence can also preserve a generalized quantum coherence measure to the order of $1+O(T^{N+1})$, with only $N$ pulses. Our results lead to a very useful scheme for efficiently locking two-qubit entangled states. Future important applications of Uhrig's pulse sequence in preserving the quantum coherence of multi-level quantum systems can also be anticipated.

id: 0911.1690
title: Canonical quantization of a dissipative system interacting with an anisotropic non-linear absorbing environment
authors: M. Amooshahi, E. Amooghorban
comments: 18 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1690
abstract: A canonical quantization scheme is represented for a quantum system interacting with a nonlinear absorbing environment. The environment is taken anisotropic and the main system is coupled to its environment through some coupling tensors of various ranks. The nonlinear response equation of the environment against the motion of the main system is obtained. The nonlinear Langevin-schr\"{o}dinger equation is concluded as the macroscopic equation of motion of the dissipative system. The effect of nonlinearity of the environment is investigated on the spontaneous emission of an initially excited two level-atom imbedded in such an environmrnt.

id: 0911.1696
title: A Quantum Lovasz Local Lemma
authors: Andris Ambainis, Julia Kempe, Or Sattath
comments: 19 pages
journal: Journal of the ACM, Volume 59 Issue 5, October 2012, Article No. 24
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1696
abstract: The Lovasz Local Lemma (LLL) is a powerful tool in probability theory to show the existence of combinatorial objects meeting a prescribed collection of "weakly dependent" criteria. We show that the LLL extends to a much more general geometric setting, where events are replaced with subspaces and probability is replaced with relative dimension, which allows to lower bound the dimension of the intersection of vector spaces under certain independence conditions. Our result immediately applies to the k-QSAT problem: For instance we show that any collection of rank 1 projectors with the property that each qubit appears in at most $2^k/(e \cdot k)$ of them, has a joint satisfiable state. We then apply our results to the recently studied model of random k-QSAT. Recent works have shown that the satisfiable region extends up to a density of 1 in the large k limit, where the density is the ratio of projectors to qubits. Using a hybrid approach building on work by Laumann et al. we greatly extend the known satisfiable region for random k-QSAT to a density of $\Omega(2^k/k^2)$. Since our tool allows us to show the existence of joint satisfying states without the need to construct them, we are able to penetrate into regions where the satisfying states are conjectured to be entangled, avoiding the need to construct them, which has limited previous approaches to product states.

id: 0911.1724
title: On the Approach to Thermal Equilibrium of Macroscopic Quantum Systems
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Joel L. Lebowitz, Christian Mastrodonato, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 19 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81: 011109 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1724
abstract: We consider an isolated, macroscopic quantum system. Let H be a micro-canonical "energy shell," i.e., a subspace of the system's Hilbert space spanned by the (finitely) many energy eigenstates with energies between E and E + delta E. The thermal equilibrium macro-state at energy E corresponds to a subspace H_{eq} of H such that dim H_{eq}/dim H is close to 1. We say that a system with state vector psi in H is in thermal equilibrium if psi is "close" to H_{eq}. We show that for "typical" Hamiltonians with given eigenvalues, all initial state vectors psi_0 evolve in such a way that psi_t is in thermal equilibrium for most times t. This result is closely related to von Neumann's quantum ergodic theorem of 1929.

id: 0911.1746
title: Environment assisted electron capture
authors: Kirill Gokhberg, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42, 231001(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1746
abstract: Electron capture by {\it isolated} atoms and ions proceeds by photorecombination. In this process a species captures a free electron by emitting a photon which carries away the excess energy. It is shown here that in the presence of an {\it environment} a competing non-radiative electron capture process can take place due to long range electron correlation. In this interatomic (intermolecular) process the excess energy is transferred to neighboring species. The asymptotic expression for the cross section of this process is derived. We demonstrate by explicit examples that under realizable conditions the cross section of this interatomic process can clearly dominate that of photorecombination.

id: 0911.1761
title: Quaternionic quantum mechanics allows non-local boxes
authors: Matthew McKague
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1761
abstract: We consider non-local properties of quanternionic quantum mechanics, in which the complex numbers are replaced by the quaternions as the underlying algebra. Specifically, we show that it is possible to construct a non-local box. This allows one to rule out quaternionic quantum mechanics using assumptions about communication complexity or information causality.

id: 0911.1796
title: Geometric measure of entanglement compared to measures based on fidelity
authors: Alexander Streltsov
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1796
abstract: One of the biggest problems in the theory of quantum information is the quantification of amount of entanglement in an arbitrary multipartite mixed state. Different axiomatic and operational measures were proposed so far. In this work we will establish a connection between geometric measure of entanglement proposed in [Phys. Rev. A 68, 042307 (2003)] and measures based on fidelity. One result will be, that geometric and revised geometric measure of entanglement proposed in [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 3507 (2007)] are equal. Further a useful expression for fidelity is derived.

id: 0911.1803
title: Matrix Pencils and Entanglement Classification
authors: Eric Chitambar, Carl A. Miller, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 072205 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1803
abstract: In this paper, we study pure state entanglement in systems of dimension $2\otimes m\otimes n$. Two states are considered equivalent if they can be reversibly converted from one to the other with a nonzero probability using only local quantum resources and classical communication (SLOCC). We introduce a connection between entanglement manipulations in these systems and the well-studied theory of matrix pencils. All previous attempts to study general SLOCC equivalence in such systems have relied on somewhat contrived techniques which fail to reveal the elegant structure of the problem that can be seen from the matrix pencil approach. Based on this method, we report the first polynomial-time algorithm for deciding when two $2\otimes m\otimes n$ states are SLOCC equivalent. Besides recovering the previously known 26 distinct SLOCC equivalence classes in $2\otimes 3\otimes n$ systems, we also determine the hierarchy between these classes.

id: 0911.1845
title: Non-Markovian effect on the quantum discord
authors: Bo Wang, Zhen-Yu Xu, Ze-Qian Chen, Mang Feng
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 014101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1845
abstract: We study the non-Markovian effect on the dynamics of the quantum discord by exactly solving a model consisting of two independent qubits subject to two zero-temperature non-Markovian reservoirs, respectively. Considering the two qubits initially prepared in Bell-like or extended Werner-like states, we show that there is no occurrence of the sudden death, but only instantaneous disappearance of the quantum discord at some time points, in comparison to the entanglement sudden death in the same range of the parameters of interest. It implies that the quantum discord is more useful than the entanglement to describe quantum correlation involved in quantum systems.

id: 0911.1876
title: Realization of a quantum walk with one and two trapped ions
authors: F. Z?hringer, G. Kirchmair, R. Gerritsma, E. Solano, R. Blatt, C. F. Roos
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, minor changes and references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 100503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1876
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a quantum walk on a line in phase space using one and two trapped ion. A walk with up to 23 steps is realized by subjecting an ion to state-dependent displacement operations interleaved with quantum coin tossing operations. To analyze the ion's motional state after each step we apply a technique that directly maps the probability density distribution onto the ion's internal state. The measured probability distributions and the position's second moment clearly show the non-classical character of the quantum walk. To further highlight the difference between the classical (random) and the quantum walk, we demonstrate the reversibility of the latter. Finally, we extend the quantum walk by using two ions, giving the walker the additional possibility to stay instead of taking a step.

id: 0911.1910
title: Entanglement Sudden Death in Band Gaps
authors: Ying-Jie Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1910
abstract: Using the pseudomode method, we evaluate exactly time-dependent entanglement for two independent qubits, each coupled to a non-Markovian structured environment. Our results suggest a possible way to control entanglement sudden death by modifying the qubit-pseudomode detuning and the spectrum of the reservoirs. Particularly, in environments structured by a model of a density-of-states gap which has two poles, entanglement trapping and prevention of entanglement sudden death occur in the weak-coupling regime.

id: 0911.1950
title: On the validity of constraints on light elementary particles and extra-dimensional physics from the Casimir effect
authors: E. Fischbach, G.L. Klimchitskaya, D.E. Krause, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 4 pages; to appear in Eur. Phys. J. C. Compared with arXiv:0911.1950v1, update and additions have been made in accordance with the Journal version.
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C68:223-226,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1950
abstract: We discuss the constraints on the parameters of a Yukawa interaction obtained from the indirect measurements of the Casimir pressure between parallel plates using the sphere-plate configuration. Recently, it was claimed in the literature that the application of the proximity force approximation (PFA) to the calculation of a Yukawa interaction in the sphere-plate configuration could lead to a large error of order 100\% in the constraints obtained. Here we re-calculate the constraints both exactly and using the PFA, and arrive at identical results. We elucidate the reasons why an incorrect conclusion was obtained suggesting that the PFA is inapplicable to calculate the Yukawa force.

id: 0911.1993
title: Wavelets as q-bits and q-bit states as wavelets
authors: Pawel Steblinski, Tomasz Blachowicz
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1993
abstract: In this short report it is argued that by the use of wavelets formalism it is possible to describe the q-bit state. The wavelet formalism address the real-valued physical signals, for example, obtained during typical physical measurements.

id: 0911.2072
title: Entanglement, which-way measurements, and a quantum erasure
authors: Christian Ferrari, Bernd Braunecker
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; with some clarifications and added references
journal: Am. J. Phys. 78, 792 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2072
abstract: We present a didactical approach to the which-way experiment and the counterintuitive effect of the quantum erasure for one-particle quantum interferences. The fundamental concept of entanglement plays a central role and highlights the complementarity between quantum interference and knowledge of which path is followed by the particle.

id: 0911.2096
title: Mapping all classical spin models to a lattice gauge theory
authors: G. De las Cuevas, W. Dи╣r, H. J. Briegel, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: 21 pages, 21 figures; published version
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 043014 (2010); New J.Phys.12:043014,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2096
abstract: In our recent work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 230502 (2009)] we showed that the partition function of all classical spin models, including all discrete standard statistical models and all Abelian discrete lattice gauge theories (LGTs), can be expressed as a special instance of the partition function of a 4-dimensional pure LGT with gauge group Z_2 (4D Z_2 LGT). This provides a unification of models with apparently very different features into a single complete model. The result uses an equality between the Hamilton function of any classical spin model and the Hamilton function of a model with all possible k-body Ising-type interactions, for all k, which we also prove. Here, we elaborate on the proof of the result, and we illustrate it by computing quantities of a specific model as a function of the partition function of the 4D Z_2 LGT. The result also allows one to establish a new method to compute the mean-field theory of Z_2 LGTs with d > 3, and to show that computing the partition function of the 4D Z_2 LGT is computationally hard (#P hard). The proof uses techniques from quantum information.

id: 0911.2109
title: Computational distinguishability of degradable and antidegradable channels
authors: Bill Rosgen
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 10 (2010) 735-746
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2109
abstract: A channel is degradable if there exists a second channel that maps the output state of the channel to the environment state. These channels satisfy the property that the output state contains more information about the input than the environment does. A complementary class of channels is the antidegradable channels, which admit channels that map the environment state to the output state of the channel. In this paper we show that the computational problem of distinguishing two channels remains PSPACE-complete when restricted to these classes of channels. This is shown using a construction of Cubitt, Ruskai, and Smith that embeds any channel into a degradable channel, and a related construction for the case of antidegradable channels.

id: 0911.2110
title: Emergence of canonical ensembles from pure quantum states
authors: Jaeyoon Cho, M. S. Kim
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 170402 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2110
abstract: We consider a system weakly interacting with a bath as a thermodynamic setting to establish a quantum foundation of statistical physics. It is shown that even if the composite system is initially in an arbitrary nonequilibrium pure quantum state, the unitary dynamics of a generic weak interaction almost always drives the subsystem into the canonical ensemble, in the usual sense of typicality. A crucial step is taken by assuming that the matrix elements of the interaction Hamiltonian have random phases, while their amplitudes are left unrestricted.

id: 0911.2119
title: Information of a qubit interacting with a multilevel environment
authors: A. Perez
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052326 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2119
abstract: We consider the interaction of a small quantum system (a qubit) with a structured environment consisting on many levels. The qubit will experience a decoherence process, which implies that its initial information will be transferred to the environment. We investigate how this information is distributed on a given subset of levels as a function of its size, using the mutual information between both entities, in the spirit of the partial information plots studied by Zurek. In this case we observe some differences, which arise from the fact that we are partitioning just one quantum system, and not a collection of them. However some similar features, like a redundancy (in the sense that a given amount of information is shared by many subsets), which increases with the size of the environment, are also found here.

id: 0911.2144
title: Quantum Mechanics in the general quantum systems (VI): exact series solution of stationary Schr?dinger's equation
authors: An Min Wang
comments: Add the new rsults to the third version. 7 pages. No figure. This is the sixth manuscript. Previous manuscripts see arXiv:quant-ph/0611216, arXiv:quant-ph/0611217, arXiv:quant-ph/0601051, arXiv:quant-ph/0612068 and arXiv:0911.0347
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2144
abstract: We obtain a complete series solution of stationary Schr\"odinger's equation in the general quantum systems. It is exact in the sense that any approximation means is not used, or that the whole corrections or contributions from all order perturbations are involved if the perturbation concept is introduced. Furthermore, the useful forms of our exact solution and a new expression the complete Green operator are given out. As a universal and analytical solution, it is helpful for the theoretical derivations and practical calculations in quantum theory.

id: 0911.2145
title: Towards an eficient atomic frequency comb quantum memory
authors: A. Amari, A. Walther, M. Sabooni, M. Huang, S. Kr?ll, M. Afzelius, I. Usmani, B. Lauritzen, N. Sangouard, H. de Riedmatten, N. Gisin
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2145
abstract: We present an efficient photon-echo experiment based on atomic frequency combs [Phys. Rev. A 79, 052329 (2009)]. Echoes containing an energy of up to 35% of that of the input pulse are observed in a Pr3+-doped Y2SiO5 crystal. This material allows for the precise spectral holeburning needed to make a sharp and highly absorbing comb structure. We compare our results with a simple theoretical model with satisfactory agreement. Our results show that atomic frequency combs has the potential for high-efficiency storage of single photons as required in future long-distance communication based on quantum repeaters.

id: 0911.2155
title: Radium ion: A possible candidate for measuring atomic parity violation
authors: P. Mandal, A. Sen, M. Mukherjee
comments: Conference proceeding
journal: Hyperfine Interaction 196, 261-267, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2155
abstract: Single trapped and laser cooled Radium ion as a possible candidate for measuring the parity violation induced frequency shift has been discussed here. Even though the technique to be used is similar to that proposed by Fortson [1], Radium has its own advantages and disadvantages. The most attractive part of Radium ion as compared to that of Barium ion is its mass which comes along with added complexity of instability as well as other issues which are discussed here

id: 0911.2217
title: The Quantum-Classical Boundary: from Opto-Mechanics to Solid-State
authors: A. Ferreira
comments: PhD thesis, University of Porto, Sep 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2217
abstract: The present thesis shows that Quantum Information concepts can be used to better understand the quantum-to-classical boundary in mesoscopic and macroscopic systems. Our findings suggest a way to push this boundary towards the macroscopic domain by coupling a moveable mirror to a confined quasi-classical electromagnetic field (Chapters 2 and 3), and opens new possibilities towards quantum computation and information processing with strongly-correlated systems at realistic temperatures by demonstrating the opening of robust gaps in 2D antiferromagnetic lattices due to the presence of additional spin-1/2 probes (Chapters 4 and 5).

id: 0911.2264
title: Short-time-interaction quantum measurement through an incoherent mediator
authors: J. Casanova, G. Romero, I. Lizuain, J. C. Retamal, C. F. Roos, J. G. Muga, E. Solano
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062126 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2264
abstract: We develop a theory of indirect measurements where a probe is able to read, in short interaction times, the quantum state of a remote system through an incoherent wall. The probe and the system can interact with an ancilla in an incoherent state but not directly among themselves and, nevertheless, the fast transfer of quantum information can be achieved with robustness. We exemplify our measurement scheme with a paradigmatic example of this tripartite problem: qubit-oscillator-qubit, and discuss different physical scenarios pointing out the associated advantages and limitations.

id: 0911.2289
title: Critical noncolorings of the 600-cell proving the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem
authors: Mordecai Waegell, P.K. Aravind
comments: 2 new references added, caption to Table 9 corrected
journal: J.Phys.A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 105304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2289
abstract: Aravind and Lee-Elkin (1997) gave a proof of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem by showing that it is impossible to color the 60 directions from the center of a 600-cell to its vertices in a certain way. This paper refines that result by showing that the 60 directions contain many subsets of 36 and 30 directions that cannot be similarly colored, and so provide more economical demonstrations of the theorem. Further, these subsets are shown to be critical in the sense that deleting even a single direction from any of them causes the proof to fail. The critical sets of size 36 and 30 are shown to belong to orbits of 200 and 240 members, respectively, under the symmetries of the polytope. A comparison is made between these critical sets and other such sets in four dimensions, and the significance of these results is discussed.

id: 0911.2302
title: Implementation of two-party protocols in the noisy-storage model
authors: Stephanie Wehner, Marcos Curty, Christian Schaffner, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 41 pages, 33 figures, this is a companion paper to arXiv:0906.1030 considering practical aspects, v2: published version, title changed in accordance with PRA guidelines
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052336 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2302
abstract: The noisy-storage model allows the implementation of secure two-party protocols under the sole assumption that no large-scale reliable quantum storage is available to the cheating party. No quantum storage is thereby required for the honest parties. Examples of such protocols include bit commitment, oblivious transfer and secure identification. Here, we provide a guideline for the practical implementation of such protocols. In particular, we analyze security in a practical setting where the honest parties themselves are unable to perform perfect operations and need to deal with practical problems such as errors during transmission and detector inefficiencies. We provide explicit security parameters for two different experimental setups using weak coherent, and parametric down conversion sources. In addition, we analyze a modification of the protocols based on decoy states.

id: 0911.2307
title: Quantifying entanglement of two relativistic particles via decomposable optimal entanglement witnesses
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, M. Mahdian
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2307
abstract: The study of Entanglement of Formation of a mixed state of a bipartite system in high-dimensional Hilbert space is not easy in general. So, we focus on determining the amount of entanglement for a bipartite mixed state based on the concept of decomposable optimal entanglement witness (DOEW), that can be calculated as a minimum distance of an entangled state from the edge of positive partial transpose (PPT) states which has the most negative (positive) expectation value for non-PPT (bound) entangled states. We have constructed DOEWs based on the convex optimization method, then by using of it we quantify the degree of entanglement for two spin half particles under the Lorentz transformations. For convenience, we restrict ourselves to 2D momentum subspace and under this constraint when the momentum and the Lorentz boost are parallel, we have shown that the entanglement is not relativistic invariant. Keywords : Relativistic entanglement, Measure of entanglement, Optimal entanglement witnesses, Convex optimization PACS numbers: 03.67.Hk, 03.65.Ta

id: 0911.2335
title: Creating collective many-body states with highly excited atoms
authors: B. Olmos, R. Gonzивlez-Fижrez, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 023604 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2335
abstract: We study the collective excitation of a gas of highly excited atoms confined to a large spacing ring lattice, where the ground and the excited states are coupled resonantly via a laser field. Our attention is focused on the regime where the interaction between the highly excited atoms is very weak in comparison to the Rabi frequency of the laser. We demonstrate that in this case the many-body excitations of the system can be expressed in terms of free spinless fermions. The complex many-particle states arising in this regime are characterized and their properties, e.g. their correlation functions, are studied. In addition we investigate how one can actually experimentally access some of these many-particle states by a temporal variation of the laser parameters.

id: 0911.2347
title: The thermal Casimir effect for conducting plates and the Bohr-van Leeuwen theorem
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 3 pages, contribution to the proceedings of the QFEXT09 conference, 21-25 September, 2009, Norman, Oklahoma, USA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2347
abstract: We examine recent prescriptions for estimating the thermal Casimir force between two metallic plates from the point of view of their consistency with the Bohr-van Leeuwen theorem of classical statistical physics. We find that prescriptions including the effect of ohmic dissipation satisfy the theorem, while prescriptions that neglect ohmic dissipation do not.

id: 0911.2360
title: All-versus-nothing violation of local realism in the one-dimensional Ising model
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2360
abstract: We show all-versus-nothing proofs of Bell's theorem in the one-dimensional transverse-field Ising model, which is one of the most important exactly solvable models in the field of condensed matter physics. Since this model can be simulated with nuclear magnetic resonance, our work might lead to a fresh approach to experimental test of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger contradiction between local realism and quantum mechanics.

id: 0911.2361
title: Heavy electrons: Electron droplets generated by photogalvanic and pyroelectric effects
authors: V. Krasnoholovets, N. Kukhtarev, T. Kukhtareva
comments: 15 p., 3 figs
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B, vol. 20, no. 16, 2323-2337 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2361
abstract: Electron clusters, X-rays and nanosecond radio-frequency pulses are produced by 100 mW continuous-wave laser illuminating ferroelectric crystal of LiNbO_3. A long-living stable electron droplet with the size of about 100 mcm has freely moved with the velocity 0.5 cm/s in the air near the surface of the crystal experiencing the Earth gravitational field. The microscopic model of cluster stability, which is based on submicroscopic mechanics developed in the real physical space, is suggested. The role of a restraining force plays the inerton field, a substructure of the particles' matter waves, which a solitary one can elastically withstand the Coulomb repulsion of electrons. It is shown that electrons in the droplet are heavy electrons whose mass at least 1 million of times exceeds the rest mass of free electron. Application for X-ray imaging and lithography is discussed.

id: 0911.2365
title: Six-qubit two-photon hyperentangled cluster states: characterization and application to quantum computation
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Gaia Donati, Raino Ceccarelli, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures, 4 Tables, RevTex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2365
abstract: Six-qubit cluster states built on the simultaneous entanglement of two photons in three independent degrees of freedom, i.e. polarization and a double longitudinal momentum, have been recently demonstrated. We present here the peculiar entanglement properties of the linear cluster state $\LCtilde$ related to the three degrees of freedom. This state has been adopted to realize various kinds of Controlled NOT (CNOT) gates, obtaining in all the cases high values of the gate fidelity. Our results demonstrate that a number of qubits $\leq$10 in cluster states of two photons entangled in multiple degrees of freedom is achievable. Furthermore, these states represent a promising approach towards scalable quantum computation in a medium term time scale. The future perspectives of a hybrid approach to one-way quantum computing based on multi-degree of freedom and multi-photon cluster states are also discussed in the conclusions of this paper.

id: 0911.2398
title: High fidelity quantum memory via dynamical decoupling: theory and experiment
authors: Xinhua Peng, Dieter Suter, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Published version. This paper was initially entitled "Quantum gates via concatenated dynamical decoupling: theory and experiment", by Jacob R. West, Daniel A. Lidar, Bryan H. Fong, Mark F. Gyure, Xinhua Peng, and Dieter Suter. That original version split into two papers: this http URL (theory only) and the current paper
journal: J. Phys. B 44, 154003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2398
abstract: Quantum information processing requires overcoming decoherence---the loss of "quantumness" due to the inevitable interaction between the quantum system and its environment. One approach towards a solution is quantum dynamical decoupling---a method employing strong and frequent pulses applied to the qubits. Here we report on the first experimental test of the concatenated dynamical decoupling (CDD) scheme, which invokes recursively constructed pulse sequences. Using nuclear magnetic resonance, we demonstrate a near order of magnitude improvement in the decay time of stored quantum states. In conjunction with recent results on high fidelity quantum gates using CDD, our results suggest that quantum dynamical decoupling should be used as a first layer of defense against decoherence in quantum information processing implementations, and can be a stand-alone solution in the right parameter regime.

id: 0911.2416
title: An experimentally testable proof of the discreteness of time
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: Added an appendix on another solution of the evolution of the wavefunction, which satisfies the normalization condition but still violates quantum mechanics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2416
abstract: By proposing a paradox between the impossibility of superluminal signal transfer and the normalization condition of wavefunctions, we predict that when a change happens to the conditions that determining the status of a quantum system, the system will show no response to this change at all, until after a certain time interval. Otherwise either special relativity or quantum mechanics will be violated. As a consequence, no physical process can actually happen within Planck time. Therefore time is discrete, with Planck time being the smallest unit. More intriguingly, systems with a larger size and a slower speed will have a larger unit of time. Unlike many other interpretations of the discreteness of time, our proof can be tested, at less partly, by experiments. Our result also sets a limit on the speed of computers, and gives instruction to the search of quantum gravity theories.

id: 0911.2440
title: Bell-like inequality for spin-orbit separability of a classical laser beam
authors: C. V. S. Borges, M. Hor-Meyll, J. A. O. Huguenin, A. Z. Khoury
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033833 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2440
abstract: In analogy with Bell's inequality for two-qubit quantum states we propose an inequality criterion for the non-separability of the spin-orbit degrees of freedom of a classical laser beam. A definition of separable and non-separable spin-orbit modes is used in consonance with the one presented in Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 160401 (2007). As the usual Bell's inequality can be violated for entangled two-qubit quantum states, we show both theoretically and experimentally that the proposed spin-orbit inequality criterion can be violated for non-separable modes. A discussion on the classical-quantum transition is also presented.

id: 0911.2475
title: A quantum central limit theorem for non-equilibrium systems: Exact local relaxation of correlated states
authors: M. Cramer, J. Eisert
comments: 27 pages, final version
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 055020 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2475
abstract: We prove that quantum many-body systems on a one-dimensional lattice locally relax to Gaussian states under non-equilibrium dynamics generated by a bosonic quadratic Hamiltonian. This is true for a large class of initial states - pure or mixed - which have to satisfy merely weak conditions concerning the decay of correlations. The considered setting is a proven instance of a situation where dynamically evolving closed quantum systems locally appear as if they had truly relaxed, to maximum entropy states for fixed second moments. This furthers the understanding of relaxation in suddenly quenched quantum many-body systems. The proof features a non-commutative central limit theorem for non-i.i.d. random variables, showing convergence to Gaussian characteristic functions, giving rise to trace-norm closeness. We briefly relate our findings to ideas of typicality and concentration of measure.

id: 0911.2482
title: Entanglement quantification from incomplete measurements: Applications using photon-number-resolving weak homodyne detectors
authors: G. Puentes, A. Datta, A. Feito, J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio, I.A. Walmsley
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 033042 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2482
abstract: The certificate of success for a number of important quantum information processing protocols, such as entanglement distillation, is based on the difference in the entanglement content of the quantum states before and after the protocol. In such cases, effective bounds need to be placed on the entanglement of non-local states consistent with statistics obtained from local measurements. In this work, we study numerically the ability of a novel type of homodyne detector which combines phase sensitivity and photon-number resolution to set accurate bounds on the entanglement content of two-mode quadrature squeezed states without the need for full state tomography. We show that it is possible to set tight lower bounds on the entanglement of a family of two-mode degaussified states using only a few measurements. This presents a significant improvement over the resource requirements for the experimental demonstration of continuous-variable entanglement distillation, which traditionally relies on full quantum state tomography.

id: 0911.2500
title: Causation, decision theory, and Bell's theorem: a quantum analogue of the Newcomb problem
authors: Eric G. Cavalcanti
comments: Cross-posted in this http URL
journal: Br J Philos Sci 61 (3), 569-597 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2500
abstract: I apply some of the lessons from quantum theory, in particular from Bell's theorem, to a debate on the foundations of decision theory and causation. By tracing a formal analogy between the basic assumptions of Causal Decision Theory (CDT)--which was developed partly in response to Newcomb's problem-- and those of a Local Hidden Variable (LHV) theory in the context of quantum mechanics, I show that an agent who acts according to CDT and gives any nonzero credence to some possible causal interpretations underlying quantum phenomena should bet against quantum mechanics in some feasible game scenarios involving entangled systems, no matter what evidence they acquire. As a consequence, either the most accepted version of decision theory is wrong, or it provides a practical distinction, in terms of the prescribed behaviour of rational agents, between some metaphysical hypotheses regarding the causal structure underlying quantum mechanics.

id: 0911.2504
title: Bell nonlocality, signal locality and unpredictability (or What Bohr could have told Einstein at Solvay had he known about Bell experiments)
authors: Eric G. Cavalcanti, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: Substantially modified version; added HMW as co-author
journal: Foundations of Physics, Volume 42, Number 10 (2012), 1329-1338
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2504
abstract: The 1964 theorem of John Bell shows that no model that reproduces the predictions of quantum mechanics can simultaneously satisfy the assumptions of locality and determinism. On the other hand, the assumptions of \emph{signal locality} plus \emph{predictability} are also sufficient to derive Bell inequalities. This simple theorem, previously noted but published only relatively recently by Masanes, Acin and Gisin, has fundamental implications not entirely appreciated. Firstly, nothing can be concluded about the ontological assumptions of locality or determinism independently of each other -- it is possible to reproduce quantum mechanics with deterministic models that violate locality as well as indeterministic models that satisfy locality. On the other hand, the operational assumption of signal locality is an empirically testable (and well-tested) consequence of relativity. Thus Bell inequality violations imply that we can trust that some events are fundamentally \emph{unpredictable}, even if we cannot trust that they are indeterministic. This result grounds the quantum-mechanical prohibition of arbitrarily accurate predictions on the assumption of no superluminal signalling, regardless of any postulates of quantum mechanics. It also sheds a new light on an early stage of the historical debate between Einstein and Bohr.

id: 0911.2515
title: Constructive counterexamples to additivity of minimum output Rижnyi entropy of quantum channels for all p>2
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Micha? Horodecki, ?ukasz Pankowski
comments: 4 pages; a reference added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 425304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2515
abstract: We present a constructive example of violation of additivity of minimum output R\'enyi entropy for each p>2. The example is provided by antisymmetric subspace of a suitable dimension. We discuss possibility of extension of the result to go beyond p>2 and obtain additivity for p=0 for a class of entanglement breaking channels.

id: 0911.2532
title: Testing for Multipartite Quantum Nonlocality Using Functional Bell Inequalities
authors: Q. Y. He, E. G. Cavalcanti, M. D. Reid, P. D. Drummond
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 180402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2532
abstract: We show that arbitrary functions of continuous variables, e.g. position and momentum, can be used to generate tests that distinguish quantum theory from local hidden variable theories. By optimising these functions, we obtain more robust violations of local causality than obtained previously. We analytically calculate the optimal function and include the effect of nonideal detectors and noise, revealing that optimized functional inequalities are resistant to standard forms of decoherence. These inequalities could allow a loophole-free Bell test with efficient homodyne detection.

id: 0911.2536
title: Necessary and sufficient condition for a realistic theory of quantum systems
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2536
abstract: We study the possibility to describe pure quantum states and evens with classical probability distributions and conditional probabilities and show that the distributions and/or conditional probabilities have to assume negative values, except for a simple model whose realistic space dimension is not smaller than the Hilbert space dimension of the quantum system. This gives a negative answer to a question proposed by Montina [Phys.Rev.Lett.{\bf 97}, 180401 (2006)] whether or not does there exist a classical theory whose phase-space dimension is much smaller than the Hilbert space dimension for any quantum system. Thus, any realistic theory of quantum mechanics with nonnegative probability distributions and conditional probabilities requires a number of variables grows exponentially with the physical size.

id: 0911.2539
title: Vectorization of quantum operations and its use
authors: Alexei Gilchrist, Daniel R. Terno, Christopher J. Wood
comments: 12 pages, long-overdue modifications + corrections following the feedback
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2539
abstract: We give a detailed exposition of the "vectorized" notation for dealing with quantum operations. This notation is used to highlight the relationships between representations of completely-positive dynamics. Vectorization considerably simplifies the analysis of different methods of quantum process tomography, and enables us to derive compact representation of the investigated quantum operations in terms of the resulting data.

id: 0911.2554
title: Stochastic Schr?dinger equations with coloured noise
authors: A. Barchielli, C. Pellegrini, F. Petruccione
comments: 4pages, revtex
journal: EPL 91 (2010) 24001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2554
abstract: A natural non-Markovian extension of the theory of white noise quantum trajectories is presented. In order to introduce memory effects in the formalism an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck coloured noise is considered as the output driving process. Under certain conditions a random Hamiltonian evolution is recovered. Moreover, non-Markovian stochastic Schr\"odinger equations which unravel non-Markovian master equations are derived.

id: 0911.2584
title: Casimir forces between spheres
authors: James Babington
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, talk presented at CEWQO09, Turku, Finland
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2584
abstract: We discuss the calculation of Casimir forces between a collection of $N$-dielectric spheres. This is done by evaluating directly the force on a sphere constructed from a stress tensor, rather than an interaction energy. Two and three body forces between the spheres are evaluated for setups of two and three sphere systems respectively. An approximate large-$N$ limit is also obtained for the functional dependence on the number of spheres.

id: 0911.2610
title: "New Cybernetics and the Application of its Principles in Physics" and "Comment on "Quantum Solution to the Arrow-of-Time Dilemma" of L. Maccone arXiv:0802.0438"
authors: Oleg Kupervasser, Dimitri Laikov
comments: 16 page. The document consists of two similar papers. The first part of the second paper are written by Oleg Kupervasser and Dimitri Laikov. The rest of the papers are written by Oleg Kupervasser only. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0911.2076
journal: Journal of Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics, Volume 11 - Number 7 - Year 2013, Pages: 74-83; Proceedings of the 17th World Multi-Conference on Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics, July 9-12, 2013 - Orlando, Florida, USA
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2610
abstract: The first paper: We describe principles of new cybernetics and use these principles for resolution of basic physical paradoxes. It demonstrates universality of the principles of new cybernetics. The second paper: recent letter by Maccone presents a solution based on the existing laws of quantum mechanics to the arrow-of-time dilemma. He argues that all phenomena in which the entropy decreases must not leave any information (in the observer's memory) of their having occurred because the observer is a part of the whole system. Maccone concludes that quantum mechanics is necessary to his argument, which he believes does not otherwise work in classical mechanics. This Comment consists of four parts. We discuss the basic problems in the first part. This Comment and the previously published Comment by Jennings and Rudolph describes flaws in Maccone's arguments. However, the main argument (erasure of the observer's memory), which was previously formulated in our work and was repeated by Maccone, is correct under the conditions described in this Comment. Moreover, this argument can be used to resolve a reduction paradox (the Schrodinger's Cat paradox) in quantum mechanics. This use is demonstrated in the second part. In the third part, the synchronisation (decoherence) of time arrows is discussed. In the fourth part, the synchronisation (decoherence) of time arrows in quantum gravity is considered.

id: 0911.2625
title: Casimir stress in and force on a metal slab in a planar cavity
authors: Marin-Slobodan Tomas, Zdravko Lenac
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, contribution to Proceedings of QFEXT09, September 21-25, Norman, OK, USA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2625
abstract: Emphasizing first the utility of the generalized Fresnel coefficients in the theory of the Casimir effect in planar cavities, we complement our previous discussion of the ordinary Casimir force on and the Casimir stress in a metal (plasma) slab in a planar cavity. We demonstrate strong dependence of the Casimir stress in a thin slab on properties of the bounding medium in the symmetric Lifshitz configuration. Contrary to this, the stress in a thick slab gradually becomes insensitive on external boundary conditions. We also consider the position dependence of the Casimir force on and stress in a thin metal slab in a planar cavity. Whereas the force per unit area on the slab strongly increases when it approaches a mirror the stress in the slab decreases and eventually changes the sign. Generally, the stress decreases with the cavity width and decreasing reflectivity of the mirrors.

id: 0911.2633
title: Theory of Quantum Pulse Position Modulation and Related Numerical Problems
authors: G. Cariolaro, G. Pierobon
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, accepted for publication in IEEE Trans. on Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2633
abstract: The paper deals with quantum pulse position modulation (PPM), both in the absence (pure states) and in the presence (mixed states) of thermal noise, using the Glauber representation of coherent laser radiation. The objective is to find optimal (or suboptimal) measurement operators and to evaluate the corresponding error probability. For PPM, the correct formulation of quantum states is given by the tensorial product of m identical Hilbert spaces, where m is the PPM order. The presence of mixed states, due to thermal noise, generates an optimization problem involving matrices of huge dimensions, which already for 4-PPM, are of the order of ten thousand. To overcome this computational complexity, the currently available methods of quantum detection, which are based on explicit results, convex linear programming and square root measurement, are compared to find the computationally less expensive one. In this paper a fundamental role is played by the geometrically uniform symmetry of the quantum PPM format. The evaluation of error probability confirms the vast superiority of the quantum detection over its classical counterpart.

id: 0911.2724
title: Collective versus Single--Particle Motion in Quantum Many--Body Systems from the Perspective of an Integrable Model
authors: Jens Hammerling, Boris Gutkin, Thomas Guhr
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2724
abstract: We study the emergence of collective dynamics in the integrable Hamiltonian system of two finite ensembles of coupled harmonic oscillators. After identification of a collective degree of freedom, the Hamiltonian is mapped onto a model of Caldeira-Leggett type, where the collective coordinate is coupled to an internal bath of phonons. In contrast to the usual Caldeira-Leggett model, the bath in the present case is part of the system. We derive an equation of motion for the collective coordinate which takes the form of a damped harmonic oscillator. We show that the distribution of quantum transition strengths induced by the collective mode is determined by its classical dynamics.

id: 0911.2736
title: Electromagnetic Energy, Absorption, and Casimir Forces. I. Uniform Dielectric Media in Thermal Equilibrium
authors: F.S.S. Rosa, D.A.R. Dalvit, P.W. Milonni
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81 033812 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2736
abstract: The derivation of Casimir forces between dielectrics can be simplified by ignoring absorption, calculating energy changes due to displacements of the dielectrics, and only then admitting absorption by allowing permittivities to be complex. As a first step towards a better understanding of this situation we consider in this paper the model of a dielectric as a collection of oscillators, each of which is coupled to a reservoir giving rise to damping and Langevin forces on the oscillators and a noise polarization acting as a source of a fluctuating electromagnetic (EM) field in the dielectric. The model leads naturally to expressions for the quantized EM fields that are consistent with those obtained by different approaches, and also results in a fluctuation-dissipation relation between the noise polarization and the imaginary part of the permittivity; comparison with the Rytov fluctuation-dissipation relation employed in the well-known Lifshitz theory for the van der Waals (or Casimir) force shows that the Lifshitz theory is actually a classical stochastic electrodynamical theory. The approximate classical expression for the energy density in a band of frequencies at which absorption in a dielectric is negligible is shown to be exact as a spectral thermal equilibrium expectation value in the quantum-electrodynamical theory. Our main result is the derivation of an expression for the QED energy density of a uniform dispersive, absorbing media in thermal equilibrium. The spectral density of the energy is found to have the same form with or without absorption. We also show how the fluctuation-dissipation theorem ensures a detailed balance of energy exchange between the (absorbing) medium, the reservoir and the EM field in thermal equilibrium.

id: 0911.2797
title: The checkerboard family of entangled states of two qutrits
authors: Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 8 pages, no figures. Proof of Theorem 2.1 has been simplified, a new short section with two examples inserted, and the last section is revised.
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys., 9 (1), (2011), 65-70
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2797
abstract: By modifying the method of Bruss and Peres, we construct two new families of entangled two qutrit states. For all density matrices in these families the (i,j)th entry is 0 for i+j odd. The first family depends on 27 independent real parameters and includes both PPT and NPT states. The second family consists of PPT entangled states. The number of independent real parameters of this family is at least 11.

id: 0911.2815
title: Passive decoy state quantum key distribution with practical light sources
authors: Marcos Curty, Xiongfeng Ma, Bing Qi, Tobias Moroder
comments: 17 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022310 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2815
abstract: Decoy states have been proven to be a very useful method for significantly enhancing the performance of quantum key distribution systems with practical light sources. While active modulation of the intensity of the laser pulses is an effective way of preparing decoy states in principle, in practice passive preparation might be desirable in some scenarios. Typical passive schemes involve parametric down-conversion. More recently, it has been shown that phase randomized weak coherent pulses (WCP) can also be used for the same purpose [M. Curty {\it et al.}, Opt. Lett. {\bf 34}, 3238 (2009).] This proposal requires only linear optics together with a simple threshold photon detector, which shows the practical feasibility of the method. Most importantly, the resulting secret key rate is comparable to the one delivered by an active decoy state setup with an infinite number of decoy settings. In this paper we extend these results, now showing specifically the analysis for other practical scenarios with different light sources and photo-detectors. In particular, we consider sources emitting thermal states, phase randomized WCP, and strong coherent light in combination with several types of photo-detectors, like, for instance, threshold photon detectors, photon number resolving detectors, and classical photo-detectors. Our analysis includes as well the effect that detection inefficiencies and noise in the form of dark counts shown by current threshold detectors might have on the final secret ket rate. Moreover, we provide estimations on the effects that statistical fluctuations due to a finite data size can have in practical implementations.

id: 0911.2823
title: Quantum non-equilibrium and relaxation to equilibrium for a class of de Broglie-Bohm-type theories
authors: Samuel Colin, Ward Struyve
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures, PDFLaTeX; v2 minor corrections
journal: New J. Phys 12, 043008 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2823
abstract: The de Broglie-Bohm theory is about non-relativistic point-particles that move deterministically along trajectories. The theory reproduces the predictions of standard quantum theory, given that the distribution of particles over an ensemble of systems, all described by the same wavefunction $\psi$, equals the quantum equilibrium distribution $|\psi|^2$. Numerical simulations by Valentini and Westman have illustrated that non-equilibrium particle distributions may relax to quantum equilibrium after some time. Here we consider non-equilibrium distributions and their relaxation properties for a particular class of trajectory theories, first studied in detail by Deotto and Ghirardi, that are empirically equivalent to the de Broglie-Bohm theory in quantum equilibrium. For the examples of such theories that we consider, we find a speed-up of the relaxation compared to the ordinary de Broglie-Bohm theory. Hence non-equilibrium predictions that depend strongly on relaxation properties, such as those studied recently by Valentini, may vary for different trajectory theories. As such these theories might be experimentally distinguishable.

id: 0911.2848
title: Experimental investigation of classical and quantum correlations under decoherence
authors: Jin-Shi Xu, Xiao-Ye Xu, Chuan-Feng Li, Cheng-Jie Zhang, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Nature Communications
journal: Nat. Commun. 1:7 doi: 10.1038/ncomms1005 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2848
abstract: It is well known that many operations in quantum information processing depend largely on a special kind of quantum correlation, that is, entanglement. However, there are also quantum tasks that display the quantum advantage without entanglement. Distinguishing classical and quantum correlations in quantum systems is therefore of both fundamental and practical importance. In consideration of the unavoidable interaction between correlated systems and the environment, understanding the dynamics of correlations would stimulate great interest. In this study, we investigate the dynamics of different kinds of bipartite correlations in an all-optical experimental setup. The sudden change in behaviour in the decay rates of correlations and their immunity against certain decoherences are shown. Moreover, quantum correlation is observed to be larger than classical correlation, which disproves the early conjecture that classical correlation is always greater than quantum correlation. Our observations may be important for quantum information processing.

id: 0911.2910
title: Casimir-Polder forces between two accelerating atoms and the Unruh effect
authors: Jamir Marino, Roberto Passante
comments: Contribution to the Proceedings of the QFEXT09 Conference, Norman, Oklahoma, USA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2910
abstract: The Casimir-Polder force between two atoms with equal uniform acceleration and separated by a constant distance R is considered. We show that, in the low-acceleration limit, while the near-zone R^{-6} behavior of the interatomic interaction energy is not changed by the acceleration of the atoms, the far-zone interaction energy decreases as R^{-5} instead of the well-known R^{-7} behavior for inertial atoms. Possibility of an indirect detection of the Unruh effect through measurements of the Casimir-Polder force between the two accelerating atoms is also suggested. We also consider a heuristic model for calculating the Casimir-Polder potential energy between the two atoms in the high-acceleration limit.

id: 0911.2918
title: Generation of pulsed and continuous-wave squeezed light with $^{87}$Rb vapor
authors: Imad H. Agha, Gaижtan Messin, Philippe Grangier
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2918
abstract: We present experimental studies on the generation of pulsed and continuous-wave squeezed vacuum via nonlinear rotation of the polarization ellipse in a $^{87}$Rb vapor. Squeezing is observed for a wide range of input powers and pump detunings on the D1 line, while only excess noise is present on the D2 line. The maximum continuous-wave squeezing observed is -$ 1.4 \pm0.1$ dB (-2.0 dB corrected for losses). We measure -1.1 dB squeezing at the resonance frequency of the $^{85}$Rb $F=3 \to F'$ transition, which may allow the storage of squeezed light generated by $^{87}$Rb in a $^{85}$Rb quantum memory. Using a pulsed pump, pulsed squeezed light with -1 dB of squeezing for 200 ns pulse widths is observed at 1 MHz repetition rate.

id: 0911.2938
title: Security of practical phase-coding quantum key distribution
authors: Hong-Wei Li, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Zheng-Fu Han, Wan-Su Bao, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures,
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 10, No. 9&10 (2010) 0771-0779
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2938
abstract: Security proof of practical quantum key distribution (QKD) has attracted a lot of attentions in recent years. Most of real-life QKD implementations are based on phase-coding BB84 protocol, which usually uses Unbalanced Mach-Zehnder Interferometer (UMZI) as the information coder and decoder. However, the long arm and short arm of UMZI will introduce different loss in practical experimental realizations, the state emitted by Alice's side is nolonger standard BB84 states. In this paper, we will give a security analysis in this situation. Counterintuitively, active compensation for this different loss will only lower the secret key bit rate.

id: 0911.2961
title: Universality in Exact Quantum State Population Dynamics and Control
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Dvira Segal, Inigo L. Egusquiza, Paul Brumer
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032307 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2961
abstract: We consider an exact population transition, defined as the probability of finding a state at a final time being exactly equal to the probability of another state at the initial time. We prove that, given a Hamiltonian, there always exists a complete set of orthogonal states that can be employed as time-zero states for which this exact population transition occurs. The result is general: it holds for arbitrary systems, arbitrary pairs of initial and final states, and for any time interval. The proposition is illustrated with several analytic models. In particular we demonstrate that in some cases, by tuning the control parameters a \textit{complete} transition might occur, where a target state, vacant at $t=0$, is fully populated at time $\tau$.

id: 0911.2980
title: From a 1D completed scattering and double slit diffraction to the quantum-classical problem: A new approach
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: LaTex, 23 pages, 1 figure, thoroughly rewritten text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2980
abstract: We present a new approach to the quantum-classical problem, which treats it as the problem of modelling the quantum phenomenon described by a coherent superposition of microscopically distinct substates (CSMDS) as a compound one consisting of alternative subprocesses creating unremovable contexts for each other, or as that of reducing a non-Kolmogorovian quantum probability space to underlie a CSMDS to the sum of Kolmogorovian ones. We develop such models for a 1D completed scattering and double slit diffraction. The quantum-classical problem disappears when, in quantum theory with its integral superposition principle, CSMDSs obey the "either-or" rule to guide alternative random events. There is no observable which could be associated with the whole ensemble of statistical data described by a CSMDS, because such data are incompatible -- in the case of a CSMDS, any observable splits into noncommuting observables associated with the substates. To calculate the average value of any observable as well as to introduce characteristic times is meaningful only for the substates of a CSMDS. Ignoring this feature in the conventional description of CSMDSs just leads to paradoxical results (e.g., to the Hartman effect and passing a particle through two slits in the screen simultaneously).

id: 0911.3012
title: Complete population transfer in 4-level system via Pythagorean triple coupling
authors: Haim Suchowski, Dmitry B. Uskov
comments: 4 pages, 2 fiqures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3012
abstract: We describe a relation between the requirement of complete population transfer in a four-mode system and the generating function of Pythagorean triples from number theory. We show that complete population transfer will occur if ratios between coupling coefficients exactly match one of the Pythagorean triples (a; b; c) in Z, c^{2} = a^{2} + b^{2}. For a four-level ladder system this relation takes a simple form (V12; V23; V34) ~ (c; b; a), where coefficients Vij describe the coupling between modes. We find that the structure of the evolution operator and the period of complete population transfer are determined by two distinct frequencies. A combination of these frequencies provides a generalization of the two-mode Rabi frequency for a four-mode system.

id: 0911.3028
title: Single-Photon Imaging and Efficient Coupling to Single Plasmons
authors: M. Celebrano, R. Lettow, P. Kukura, M. Agio, A. Renn, S. Goetzinger, V. Sandoghdar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3028
abstract: We demonstrate strong coupling of single photons emitted by individual molecules at cryogenic and ambient conditions to individual nanoparticles. We provide images obtained both in transmission and reflection, where an efficiency greater than 55% was achieved in converting incident narrow-band photons to plasmon-polaritons (plasmons) of a silver nanoparticle. Our work paves the way to spectroscopy and microscopy of nano-objects with sub-shot noise beams of light and to triggered generation of single plasmons and electrons in a well-controlled manner.

id: 0911.3031
title: Quantum Interference of Tunably Indistinguishable Photons from Remote Organic Molecules
authors: R. Lettow, Y. L. A. Rezus, A. Renn, G. Zumofen, E. Ikonen, S. Goetzinger, V. Sandoghdar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3031
abstract: We demonstrate two-photon interference using two remote single molecules as bright solid-state sources of indistinguishable photons. By varying the transition frequency and spectral width of one molecule, we tune and explore the effect of photon distinguishability. We discuss future improvements on the brightness of single-photon beams, their integration by large numbers on chips, and the extension of our experimental scheme to coupling and entanglement of distant molecules.

id: 0911.3032
title: Witnessing effective entanglement over a 2km fiber channel
authors: Christoffer Wittmann, Josef Fи╣rst, Carlos Wiechers, Dominique Elser, Hauke H?seler, Norbert Lи╣tkenhaus, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt Express., 18(5):4499, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3032
abstract: We present a fiber-based continuous-variable quantum key distribution system. In the scheme, a quantum signal of two non-orthogonal weak optical coherent states is sent through a fiber-based quantum channel. The receiver simultaneously measures conjugate quadratures of the light using two homodyne detectors. From the measured Q-function of the transmitted signal, we estimate the attenuation and the excess noise caused by the channel. The estimated excess noise originating from the channel and the channel attenuation including the quantum efficiency of the detection setup is investigated with respect to the detection of effective entanglement. The local oscillator is considered in the verification. We witness effective entanglement with a channel length of up to 2km.

id: 0911.3056
title: Correlated-Photon Imaging with Cancellation of Object-Induced Aberration
authors: D.S. Simon, A.V. Sergienko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3056
abstract: We show that a recently discussed apparatus for aberration-cancelled interferometry may be modified to perform correlated-photon imaging in the so-called "ghost" imaging configuration. For objects in the vicinity of a particular plane, the images are free of object-induced phase distortions. This apparatus has the distinctive feature that it may be used to superimpose images of two objects in a manner that could lead to useful effects and applications. We show that the apparatus works using either quantum-entangled or classically correlated light sources.

id: 0911.3122
title: Resonant Perturbation Theory of Decoherence and Relaxation of Quantum Bits
authors: M. Merkli, G.P. Berman, I.M. Sigal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3122
abstract: We describe our recent results on the resonant perturbation theory of decoherence and relaxation for quantum system with many qubits. The approach represents a rigorous analysis of the phenomenon of decoherence and relaxation for general $N$-level systems coupled to reservoirs of the bosonic fields. We derive a representation of the reduced dynamics valid for all times $t\geq 0$ and for small but fixed interaction strength. Our approach does not involve master equation approximations and applies to a wide variety of systems which are not explicitly solvable.

id: 0911.3199
title: Non-completely positive maps: properties and applications
authors: Christopher J. Wood
comments: Honours thesis, 110 pages, Macquarie University, Dec 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3199
abstract: We investigate the evolution of open quantum systems in the presence of initial correlations with an environment. Here the standard formalism of describing evolution by completely positive trace preserving (CPTP) quantum operations can fail and non-completely positive (non-CP) maps may be observed. A new classification of correlations between a system and environment using quantum discord is explored. However, we find quantum discord is not a symmetric quantity between exchange of systems and this leads to ambiguity in classifications - states which are both quantum and classically correlated depending on the order of the two systems. State preparation in quantum process tomography is investigated with regard to non-CP maps. In SQPT the preparation procedure can influence the complete-positivity of the reconstructed quantum operation if our system is initially correlated with an environment. We examine a recently proposed preparation procedures using projective measurements, and propose our own protocol that uses a single measurement followed by unitary rotations. The former can give rise to non-CP evolution while the later will always give rise to a CP map. State preparation in AAPT was found always to give rise to CP evolution. We examine the effect of statistical noise in process tomography and find it can result in the identification of a non-CP when the evolution should be CP. The variance of the distribution for reconstructed processes is found to be inversely proportional to the number of copies of a state used to perform tomography. Finally, we detail an experiment using currently available linear optics QC devices to demonstrate non-CP maps arising in SQPT.

id: 0911.3202
title: Combining dynamical decoupling with fault-tolerant quantum computation
authors: Hui Khoon Ng, Daniel A. Lidar, John Preskill
comments: 44 pages, 10 figures; v3 contains an expanded section on Eulerian dynamical decoupling
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012305 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3202
abstract: We study how dynamical decoupling (DD) pulse sequences can improve the reliability of quantum computers. We prove upper bounds on the accuracy of DD-protected quantum gates and derive sufficient conditions for DD-protected gates to outperform unprotected gates. Under suitable conditions, fault-tolerant quantum circuits constructed from DD-protected gates can tolerate stronger noise, and have a lower overhead cost, than fault-tolerant circuits constructed from unprotected gates. Our accuracy estimates depend on the dynamics of the bath that couples to the quantum computer, and can be expressed either in terms of the operator norm of the bath's Hamiltonian or in terms of the power spectrum of bath correlations; we explain in particular how the performance of recursively generated concatenated pulse sequences can be analyzed from either viewpoint. Our results apply to Hamiltonian noise models with limited spatial correlations.

id: 0911.3217
title: Hybrid Taylor-WKB series
authors: N L Chuprikov
comments: Latex, 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Mathematical Notes, 2011, 89:6, 885-892
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3217
abstract: A generalized WKB approach for constructing WKB series endowed with some properties of Taylor ones is presented. Apart from the Riccati equation itself its formalism involves also the Riccati-equation's derivatives (REDs) obtained by differentiating of the former with respect to a spatial variable. For any smooth potential barrier given in the finite spatial interval to include turning points, the zeroth-order term of presented WKB series is regular everywhere in this interval. Moreover, the more REDs are used, the more exact the zeroth-order solution is.

id: 0911.3231
title: On the definition of dielectric permittivity for media with temporal dispersion in the presence of free charge carriers
authors: M. Bordag, B. Geyer, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 9 pages, to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J.Phys.A43:015402,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3231
abstract: We show that in the presence of free charge carriers the definition of the frequency-dependent dielectric permittivity requires additional regularization. As an example, the dielectric permittivity of the Drude model is considered and its time-dependent counterpart is derived and analyzed. The respective electric displacement cannot be represented in terms of the standard Fourier integral. The regularization procedure allowing to circumvent these difficulties is suggested. For purpose of comparison it is shown that the frequency-dependent dielectric permittivity of insulators satisfies all rigorous mathematical criteria. This permits us to conclude that in the presence of free charge carriers the concept of dielectric permittivity is not as well defined as for insulators and we make a link to widely discussed puzzles in the theory of thermal Casimir force which might be caused by the use of such kind permittivities.

id: 0911.3265
title: Spatial light modulation based on coherent population oscillation in semiconductor quantum dots
authors: Wen-Ming Ju, Ka-Di Zhu, Huan Wang, Pei-Hao Huang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3265
abstract: Due to coherent population oscillation (CPO) effect, we theoretically examine the generation and manipulation of Laguerre-Gaussian beams in terms of phase and amplitude modulation respectively in semiconductor quantum dots (SQDs). The results indicate that both phase modulation with low absorption of probe field and amplitude modulation with high efficiency can be achieved. Thus the practical way demonstrates that the SQDs system can function as effective optically addressed spatial light modulator with which the transverse spatial properties of probe fields can be artificially modulated.

id: 0911.3266
title: Characterizations of one-way general quantum finite automata
authors: Lvzhou Li, Daowen Qiu, Xiangfu Zou, Lvjun Li, Lihua Wu, Paulo Mateus
comments: 39 pages, 1 figure, some linguistic mistakes have been corrected, and Section 6 has been added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3266
abstract: In this paper we study a generalized model named one-way general quantum finite automata} (1gQFA), in which each symbol in the input alphabet induces a trace-preserving quantum operation, instead of a unitary transformation. Two different kinds of 1gQFA will be studied: measure-once one-way general quantum finite automata} (MO-1gQFA), and measure-many one-way general quantum finite automata (MM-1gQFA). We prove that MO-1gQFA recognize, with bounded error, precisely the set of all regular languages. We prove that MM-1gQFA also recognize only regular languages with bounded error. Thus, MM-1gQFA and MO-1gQFA have the same language recognition power, which is greatly different from the conventional case in which the number of times the measurement is performed in the computation generally affects the language recognition power of one-way QFA. Finally, we present a sufficient and necessary condition for two MM-1gQFA to be equivalent.

id: 0911.3274
title: Perfect Quantum Privacy Implies Nonlocality
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Daniel Cavalcanti, Giuseppe Prettico, Antonio Acin
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Physical Review Letters 104, 230401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3274
abstract: Private states are those quantum states from which a perfectly secure cryptographic key can be extracted. They represent the basic unit of quantum privacy. In this work we show that all states belonging to this class violate a Bell inequality. This result establishes a connection between perfect privacy and nonlocality in the quantum domain.

id: 0911.3328
title: Light storage protocols in Tm:YAG
authors: T. Chaneliииre, R. Lauro, J. Ruggiero, J.-L. Le Gou?t
comments: 
journal: J. Lumin., 130(9) :1572 - 1578, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3328
abstract: We present two quantum memory protocols for solids: A stopped light approach based on spectral hole burning and the storage in an atomic frequency comb. These procedures are well adapted to the rare-earth ion doped crystals. We carefully clarify the critical steps of both. On one side, we show that the slowing-down due to hole-burning is sufficient to produce a complete mapping of field into the atomic system. On the other side, we explain the storage and retrieval mechanism of the Atomic Frequency Comb protocol. This two important stages are implemented experimentally in Tm$^{3+}$- doped yttrium-aluminum-garnet crystal.

id: 0911.3427
title: Random Numbers Certified by Bell's Theorem
authors: S. Pironio, A. Acin, S. Massar, A. Boyer de la Giroday, D. N. Matsukevich, P. Maunz, S. Olmschenk, D. Hayes, L. Luo, T. A. Manning, C. Monroe
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, 16 page appendix. Version as close as possible to the published version following the terms of the journal
journal: Nature 464, 1021 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3427
abstract: Randomness is a fundamental feature in nature and a valuable resource for applications ranging from cryptography and gambling to numerical simulation of physical and biological systems. Random numbers, however, are difficult to characterize mathematically, and their generation must rely on an unpredictable physical process. Inaccuracies in the theoretical modelling of such processes or failures of the devices, possibly due to adversarial attacks, limit the reliability of random number generators in ways that are difficult to control and detect. Here, inspired by earlier work on nonlocality based and device independent quantum information processing, we show that the nonlocal correlations of entangled quantum particles can be used to certify the presence of genuine randomness. It is thereby possible to design of a new type of cryptographically secure random number generator which does not require any assumption on the internal working of the devices. This strong form of randomness generation is impossible classically and possible in quantum systems only if certified by a Bell inequality violation. We carry out a proof-of-concept demonstration of this proposal in a system of two entangled atoms separated by approximately 1 meter. The observed Bell inequality violation, featuring near-perfect detection efficiency, guarantees that 42 new random numbers are generated with 99% confidence. Our results lay the groundwork for future device-independent quantum information experiments and for addressing fundamental issues raised by the intrinsic randomness of quantum theory.

id: 0911.3430
title: Ground-State Entanglement gives birth to Quantum Energy Teleportation
authors: Masahiro Hotta
comments: Contribution to Proceedings of International Conference on Quantum Communication and Quantum Networking, Oct. 26-30, Italy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3430
abstract: Ground-state entanglement induces emergence of negative-energy-density regions in quantum systems by squeezing zero-point oscillation, keeping total energy of the systems nonnegative. By use of the negativity of quantum energy density, protocols of quantum energy teleportation are proposed that transport energy to distant sites by local operations and classical communication. The energy is teleported without breaking any physical laws including causality and local energy conservation. Because intermediate subsystems of the energy transfer channel are not excited during the protocol execution, the protocol attains energy transportation without heat generation in the channel. We discuss the protocol focusing around qubit chains. In addition, we address a related problem of breaking ground-state entanglement by measurements.

id: 0911.3460
title: Single-experiment-detectable nonclassical correlation witness
authors: Robabeh Rahimi, Akira SaiToh
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; v2: minor revisions, also an analytical proof has been added; v3: to appear in Phys. Rev. A, a theorem added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022314 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3460
abstract: Recent progress in theories of quantum information has determined nonclassical correlation defined differently from widely-used entanglement as an important property to evaluate computation and communication with mixed quantum states. We introduce an operational method to detect nonclassical correlation of bipartite systems. In this method, we use particular maps analogous to the well-established entanglement witnesses. Thus, the maps are called nonclassical correlation witness maps. Furthermore, it is proved that such a map can be generally decomposed so that a single-run experiment is feasible for implementation in bulk-ensemble systems.

id: 0911.3483
title: Thermal effects in the magnetic Casimir-Polder interaction
authors: H. Haakh, F. Intravaia, C. Henkel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3483
abstract: We investigate the magnetic dipole coupling between a metallic surface and an atom in a thermal state, ground state and excited hyperine state. This interaction results in a repulsive correction and - unlike the electrical dipole contribution - depends sensitively on the Ohmic dissipation in the material.

id: 0911.3490
title: Mode contributions to the Casimir effect
authors: Francesco Intravaia, Carsten Henkel
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, proceedings of conference "Quantum field theory under the influence of external boundary conditions" (QFExt, Oklahoma, September 2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3490
abstract: Applying a sum-over-modes approach to the Casimir interaction between two plates with finite conductivity, we isolate and study the contributions of surface plasmons and Foucault (eddy current) modes. We show in particular that for the TE-polarization eddy currents provide a repulsive force that cancels, at high temperatures, the Casimir free energy calculated with the plasma model.

id: 0911.3523
title: Cooperative optical non-linearity due to dipolar interactions in an ultra-cold Rydberg ensemble
authors: J. D. Pritchard, A. Gauguet, K. J. Weatherill, M. P. A. Jones, C. S. Adams
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 193603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3523
abstract: We demonstrate a cooperative optical non-linearity caused by dipolar interactions between Rydberg atoms in an ultra-cold atomic ensemble. By coupling a probe transition to the Rydberg state we map the strong dipole-dipole interactions between Rydberg pairs onto the optical field. We characterize the non-linearity as a function of electric field and density, and demonstrate the enhancement of the optical non-linearity due to cooperativity.

id: 0911.3559
title: Multipartite fully-nonlocal quantum states
authors: Mafalda L. Almeida, Daniel Cavalcanti, Valerio Scarani, Antonio Acin
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Version published in PRA. Note that it does not contain all the results from the previous version; these will be included in a later, more general, paper
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052111 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3559
abstract: We present a general method to characterize the quantum correlations obtained after local measurements on multipartite systems. Sufficient conditions for a quantum system to be fully-nonlocal according to a given partition, as well as being (genuinely) multipartite fully-nonlocal, are derived. These conditions allow us to identify all completely-connected graph states as multipartite fully-nonlocal quantum states. Moreover, we show that this feature can also be observed in mixed states: the tensor product of five copies of the Smolin state, a biseparable and bound entangled state, is multipartite fully-nonlocal.

id: 0911.3564
title: Dynamics of entanglement between two free atoms with quantized motion
authors: F. Lastra, S. Wallentowitz
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3564
abstract: The electronic entanglement between two free atoms initially at rest is obtained including the effects of photon recoil, for the case when quantum dispersion can be neglected during the atomic excited-state lifetime. Different from previous treatments using common or statistically independent reservoirs, a continuous transition between these limits is observed, that depends on the inter-atomic distance and degree of localization. The occurrence of entanglement sudden death and birth as predicted here deviates from the case where the inter-atomic distance is treated classically by a static value. Moreover, the creation of a dark state is predicted, which manifests itself by a stationary entanglement that even may be created from an initially separable state.

id: 0911.3579
title: Finding Traps in Non-linear Spin Arrays
authors: Marcin Wiesniak, Marcin Markiewicz
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3579
abstract: Precise knowledge of the Hamiltonian of a system is a key to many of its applications. Tasks such state transfer or quantum computation have been well studied with a linear chain, but hardly with systems, which do not possess a linear structure. While this difference does not disturb the end-to-end dynamics of a single excitation, the evolution is significantly changed in other subspaces. Here we quantify the difference between a linear chain and a pseudo-chain, which have more than one spin at some site (block). We show how to estimate a number of all spins in the system and the intra-block coupling constants. We also suggest how it is possible to eliminate excitations trapped in such blocks, which may disturb the state transfer. Importantly, one uses only at-ends data and needs to be able to put the system to either the maximally magnetized or the maximally mixed state. This can obtained by controlling a global decoherence parameter, such as temperature.

id: 0911.3597
title: Negative Energy Densities in Quantum Field Theory
authors: L.H. Ford
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Contribution to proceedings of Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT09), Norman, Oklahoma, September 2009
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A25:2355-2363,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3597
abstract: Quantum field theory allows for the suppression of vacuum fluctuations, leading to sub-vacuum phenomena. One of these is the appearance of local negative energy density. Selected aspects of negative energy will be reviewed, including the quantum inequalities which limit its magnitude and duration. However, these inequalities allow the possibility that negative energy and related effects might be observable. Some recent proposals for experiments to search for sub-vacuum phenomena will be discussed. Fluctuations of the energy density around its mean value will also be considered, and some recent results on a probability distribution for the energy density in two dimensional spacetime are summarized.

id: 0911.3606
title: Unified Framework for Correlations in Terms of Local Quantum Observables
authors: A. Acикn, R. Augusiak, D. Cavalcanti, C. Hadley, J. K. Korbicz, M. Lewenstein, Ll. Masanes, M. Piani
comments: 4 pages, final version
journal: Physical Review Letters 104, 140404 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3606
abstract: We provide a unified framework for nonsignalling quantum and classical multipartite correlations, allowing all to be written as the trace of some local (quantum) measurements multiplied by an operator. The properties of this operator define the corresponding set of correlations.We then show that if the theory is such that all local quantum measurements are possible, one obtains the correlations corresponding to the extension of Gleason's Theorem to multipartite systems. Such correlations coincide with the quantum ones for one and two parties, but we prove the existence of a gap for three or more parties.

id: 0911.3635
title: Quantum Metropolis Sampling
authors: K. Temme, T.J. Osborne, K.G. Vollbrecht, D. Poulin, F. Verstraete
comments: revised version
journal: Nature 471:87,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3635
abstract: The original motivation to build a quantum computer came from Feynman who envisaged a machine capable of simulating generic quantum mechanical systems, a task that is believed to be intractable for classical computers. Such a machine would have a wide range of applications in the simulation of many-body quantum physics, including condensed matter physics, chemistry, and high energy physics. Part of Feynman's challenge was met by Lloyd who showed how to approximately decompose the time-evolution operator of interacting quantum particles into a short sequence of elementary gates, suitable for operation on a quantum computer. However, this left open the problem of how to simulate the equilibrium and static properties of quantum systems. This requires the preparation of ground and Gibbs states on a quantum computer. For classical systems, this problem is solved by the ubiquitous Metropolis algorithm, a method that basically acquired a monopoly for the simulation of interacting particles. Here, we demonstrate how to implement a quantum version of the Metropolis algorithm on a quantum computer. This algorithm permits to sample directly from the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian and thus evades the sign problem present in classical simulations. A small scale implementation of this algorithm can already be achieved with today's technology

id: 0911.3668
title: Signal acquisition via polarization modulation in single photon sources
authors: Mark D. McDonnell, Adrian P. Flitney
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, accepted by Physical Review E. This version adds a reference
journal: Physical Review E 80, 060102(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3668
abstract: A simple model system is introduced for demonstrating how a single photon source might be used to transduce classical analog information. The theoretical scheme results in measurements of analog source samples that are (i) quantized in the sense of analog-to-digital conversion and (ii) corrupted by random noise that is solely due to the quantum uncertainty in detecting the polarization state of each photon. This noise is unavoidable if more than one bit per sample is to be transmitted, and we show how it may be exploited in a manner inspired by suprathreshold stochastic resonance. The system is analyzed information theoretically, as it can be modeled as a noisy optical communication channel, although unlike classical Poisson channels, the detector's photon statistics are binomial. Previous results on binomial channels are adapted to demonstrate numerically that the classical information capacity, and thus the accuracy of the transduction, increases logarithmically with the square root of the number of photons, N. Although the capacity is shown to be reduced when an additional detector nonideality is present, the logarithmic increase with N remains.

id: 0911.3670
title: Capacitance modeling of complex topographical silicon quantum dot structures
authors: H. L. Stalford, R. Young, E. P. Nordberg, James. E. Levy, Carlos Borras Pinilla, M. S. Carroll
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3670
abstract: Quantum dot (QD) lay-outs are becoming more complex as the technology is being applied to more complex multi-QD structures. This increase in complexity requires improved capacitance modeling both for design and accurate interpretation of QD properties from measurement. A combination of process simulation, electrostatic simulation, and computer assisted design (CAD) lay-out packages are used to develop a three dimensional (3D) classical capacitance model. The agreement of the capacitances of the classical model is tested against two different, experimentally measured, topographically complex silicon QD geometries. Agreement with experiment, within 10-20%, is demonstrated for the two structures when the details of the structure are transferred from the CAD to the model capturing the full 3D topography. Small uncertainty in device dimensions due to uncontrolled variation in processing, like layer thickness and gate size, are calculated to be sufficient to explain the disagreement. The sensitivity of the capacitances to small variations in the structure also highlights the limits of accuracy of capacitance models for QD analysis. We furthermore observe that a critical density, the metal insulator transition, can be used as a good approximation of the metallic edge of the quantum dot when electron density in the dot is calculated directly with a semi-classical simulation.

id: 0911.3698
title: Experimental feedback control of quantum systems using weak measurements
authors: G. G. Gillett, R. B. Dalton, B. P. Lanyon, M. P. Almeida, M. Barbieri, G. J. Pryde, J. L. O'Brien, K. J. Resch, S. D. Bartlett, A. G. White
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. v2 Added extra citation, journal reference and DOI. Minor typographic corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 080503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3698
abstract: A goal of the emerging field of quantum control is to develop methods for quantum technologies to function robustly in the presence of noise. Central issues are the fundamental limitations on the available information about quantum systems and the disturbance they suffer in the process of measurement. In the context of a simple quantum control scenario--the stabilization of non-orthogonal states of a qubit against dephasing--we experimentally explore the use of weak measurements in feedback control. We find that, despite the intrinsic difficultly of implementing them, weak measurements allow us to control the qubit better in practice than is even theoretically possible without them. Our work shows that these more general quantum measurements can play an important role for feedback control of quantum systems.

id: 0911.3718
title: Multiphoton ghost imaging with classical light
authors: I. N. Agafonov, M. V. Chekhova, A. N. Penin
comments: 6 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3718
abstract: One of the possible types of n-th order ghost imaging is experimentally performed using multi-photon (higher-order) intensity correlations of pseudothermal light. It is shown that although increasing the order of intensity correlations leads to the growth of ghost imaging visibility, it at the same time reduces the signal-to-noise ratio. Therefore, ghost imaging with thermal light is optimal in the second order in the intensity.

id: 0911.3746
title: Cavity-assisted spontaneous emission of a single three-level atom as a single-photon source
authors: Mikayel Khanbekyan, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3746
abstract: Stimulated Raman interaction of a classically pumped single three-level $\Lambda$-type atom in a resonator cavity featuring both radiative and unwanted losses is studied. It is shown that in the regime of stimulated adiabatic Raman passage the excited outgoing wave packet of the cavity-assisted electromagnetic field can be prepared in a one-photon Fock state with high efficiency. In this regime, the spatio-temporal shape of the wave packet does not depend on the interaction shape of the pump field, provided that the interaction of the atom with the pump is time-delayed with respect to the interaction of the atom with the cavity-assisted field. Therefore, the scheme can be used to generate a sequence of identical radiation pulses each of almost one-photon Fock state. It is further shown that the spatio-temporal shape of the outgoing wave packet can be manipulated by controlling the time of interaction between the atom and the cavity-assisted electromagnetic field.

id: 0911.3777
title: Reduced density matrix of permutational invariant many-body systems
authors: Mario Salerno, Vladislav Popkov
comments: Article submitted to the Special Issue of "Acta Applicandae Mathematicae" in memory of Prof. Alwyn C. Scott
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3777
abstract: We consider density matrices which are sums of projectors on states spanning irreducible representations of the permutation group of L sites (eigenstates of permutational invariant quantum system with L sites) and construct the reduced density matrix (RDM) for blocks of size n<L by tracing out L-n sites, viewed as environment. Explicit analytic expressions of the elements of the RDM are given in the natural basis and the corresponding spectrum is derived. Results apply to all quantum many-body systems with permutational symmetry for which the mean field theory is exact.

id: 0911.3783
title: Ancilla-Driven Universal Quantum Computation
authors: Janet Anders, Daniel K. L. Oi, Elham Kashefi, Dan E. Browne, Erika Andersson
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 020301(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3783
abstract: We propose a method of manipulating a quantum register remotely with the help of a single ancilla that steers the evolution of the register. The fully controlled ancilla qubit is coupled to the computational register solely via a fixed unitary two-qubit interaction, E, and then measured in suitable bases. We characterize all interactions E that induce a unitary, step-wise deterministic measurement back-action on the register sufficient to implement any arbitrary quantum channel. Our scheme offers significant experimental advantages for implementing computations, preparing states and performing generalized measurements as no direct control of the register is required.

id: 0911.3814
title: Quantum And Relativistic Protocols For Secure Multi-Party Computation
authors: Roger Colbeck
comments: The idea of using Bell inequalities to generate secure private randomness has recently seen some revived attention in the literature (see arXiv:0911.3427). This idea was introduced in Chapter 5 of my thesis (from p103) which I am making available here. A condensed version of this chapter is now available as arXiv:1011.4474. (150 pages, PhD thesis, University of Cambridge, submitted Dec 2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3814
abstract: After a general introduction, the thesis is divided into four parts. In the first, we discuss the task of coin tossing, principally in order to highlight the effect different physical theories have on security in a straightforward manner, but, also, to introduce a new protocol for non-relativistic strong coin tossing. This protocol matches the security of the best protocol known to date while using a conceptually different approach to achieve the task. In the second part variable bias coin tossing is introduced. This is a variant of coin tossing in which one party secretly chooses one of two biased coins to toss. It is shown that this can be achieved with unconditional security for a specified range of biases, and with cheat-evident security for any bias. We also discuss two further protocols which are conjectured to be unconditionally secure for any bias. The third section looks at other two-party secure computations for which, prior to our work, protocols and no-go theorems were unknown. We introduce a general model for such computations, and show that, within this model, a wide range of functions are impossible to compute securely. We give explicit cheating attacks for such functions. In the final chapter we discuss the task of expanding a private random string, while dropping the usual assumption that the protocol's user trusts her devices. Instead we assume that all quantum devices are supplied by an arbitrarily malicious adversary. We give two protocols that we conjecture securely perform this task. The first allows a private random string to be expanded by a finite amount, while the second generates an arbitrarily large expansion of such a string.

id: 0911.3835
title: Hybrid quantum devices and quantum engineering
authors: Margareta Wallquist, Klemens Hammerer, Peter Rabl, Mikhail Lukin, Peter Zoller
comments: Proceedings of the Nobel symposium on Qu-bits for Quantum Information, Gothenburg 2009
journal: Phys. Scr. T 137 (2009) 014001.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3835
abstract: We discuss prospects of building hybrid quantum devices involving elements of atomic and molecular physics, quantum optics and solid state elements with the attempt to combine advantages of the respective systems in compatible experimental setups. In particular, we summarize our recent work on quantum hybrid devices and briefly discuss recent ideas for quantum networks. These include interfacing of molecular quantum memory with circuit QED, and using nanomechanical elements strongly coupled to qubits represented by electronic spins, as well as single atoms or atomic ensembles.

id: 0911.3837
title: Phase control of a longitudinal momentum entangled photon state by a deformable membrane mirror
authors: Cristian Bonato, Stefano Bonora, Andrea Chiuri, Paolo Mataloni, Giorgio Milani, Giuseppe Vallone, Paolo Villoresi
comments: RevTex, 6 pages
journal: JOSA B, 27, A175 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3837
abstract: We propose a paradigmatic demonstration of the potentialities of a deformable mirror for closed-loop control of a two-photon momentum-entangled state, subject to phase fluctuations. A custom-made membrane mirror is used to set a relative phase shift between the arms of an interferometric apparatus. The control algorithm estimates the phase of the quantum state, by measurements of the coincidence events at the output ports of the interferometer, and uses the measurements results to provide a feedback signal to the deformable mirror. Stabilization of the coincidence rate to within 1.5 standard deviation of the Poissonian noise is demonstrated over 2000 seconds.

id: 0911.3843
title: Limitations of Passive Protection of Quantum Information
authors: Fernando Pastawski, Alastair Kay, Norbert Schuch, Ignacio Cirac
comments: 17 pages and appendices
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 10, 580 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3843
abstract: The ability to protect quantum information from the effect of noise is one of the major goals of quantum information processing. In this article, we study limitations on the asymptotic stability of quantum information stored in passive N-qubit systems. We consider the effect of small imperfections in the implementation of the protecting Hamiltonian in the form of perturbations or weak coupling to a ground state environment. We prove that, regardless of the protecting Hamiltonian, there exists a perturbed evolution that necessitates a final error correcting step when the state of the memory is read. Such an error correction step is shown to require a finite error threshold, the lack thereof being exemplified by the 3D compass model. We go on to present explicit weak Hamiltonian perturbations which destroy the logical information stored in the 2D toric code in a time O(log(N)).

id: 0911.3854
title: Magnetic Anistropy due to the Casimir Effect
authors: G. Metalidis, P. Bruno
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022123 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3854
abstract: We consider the Casimir interaction between a ferromagnetic and a non-magnetic mirror, and show how the Casimir effect gives rise to a magnetic anisotropy in the ferromagnetic layer. The anisotropy is out-of-plane if the non-magnetic plate is optically isotropic. If the non-magnetic plate shows a uniaxial optical anisotropy (with optical axis in the plate plane), we find an in-plane magnetic anisotropy. In both cases, the energetically most favorable magnetization orientation is given by the competition between polar, longitudinal and transverse contributions to the magneto-optical Kerr effect, and will therefore depend on the interplate distance. Numerical results will be presented for a magnetic plate made out of iron, and non-magnetic plates of gold (optically isotropic), quartz, calcite and barium titanate (all uniaxially birefringent).

id: 0911.3867
title: Two-color photoionization of calcium using SHG and LED light
authors: C. Schuck, F. Rohde, M. Almendros, M. Hennrich, J. Eschner
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3867
abstract: We present a photoionization method to load single 40Ca ions in a linear Paul trap from an atomic beam. Neutral Ca I atoms are resonantly excited from the ground state to the intermediate 4s4p 1P_1-level using coherent 423nm radiation produced by single-pass second harmonic generation in a periodically poled KTiOPO_4 crystal pumped with an 120mW extended cavity diode laser. Ionization is then attained with a high-power light emitting diode imaged to the trap center, using an appropriately designed optical system composed of standard achromatic doublet lenses. The setup simplifies previous implementations at similar efficiency, and it hardly requires any maintenance at all.

id: 0911.3869
title: Phase Locked Photon Echoes for Near-Perfect Retrieval Efficiency and Extended Storage Time
authors: B. S. Ham, J. Hahn
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3869
abstract: Quantum storage of light in a collective ensemble of atoms plays an important role in quantum information processing. Consisting of a quantum repeater together with quantum entanglement swapping, quantum memory has been intensively studied recently. Conventional photon echoes have been limited by extremely low retrieval efficiency and short storage time confined by the optical phase decay process. Here, we report a storage time-extended near perfect photon echo protocol using a phase locking method via an auxiliary spin state, where the phase locking acts as a conditional stopper of the rephasing process resulting in extension of storage time determined by the spin dephasing process. We experimentally prove the proposed phase locked photon echo protocol in a Pr3+ doped Y2SiO5 in a quasi phase conjugate scheme, where the phase conjugate gives the important benefit of aberration corrections when dealing with quantum images.

id: 0911.3888
title: Phase transitions and metastability in the distribution of the bipartite entanglement of a large quantum system
authors: A. De Pasquale, P. Facchi, G. Parisi, S. Pascazio, A. Scardicchio
comments: 23 pages, 32 figures. More details added about the metastable branch and the first-order phase transition
journal: Phys. Rev A 81, 052324 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3888
abstract: We study the distribution of the Schmidt coefficients of the reduced density matrix of a quantum system in a pure state. By applying general methods of statistical mechanics, we introduce a fictitious temperature and a partition function and translate the problem in terms of the distribution of the eigenvalues of random matrices. We investigate the appearance of two phase transitions, one at a positive temperature, associated to very entangled states, and one at a negative temperature, signalling the appearance of a significant factorization in the many-body wave function. We also focus on the presence of metastable states (related to 2-D quantum gravity) and study the finite size corrections to the saddle point solution.

id: 0911.3894
title: Radiative Transitions between the ${4D^{10}5p^2(^3P_j)nl}$ and ${4D^{10}5s5p(^3P_1^o)nl}$ Autoionizing States of in Atom in Collisions of Slow Electrons with in$^{+}$ Ions
authors: G.M. Gomonai, A.I. Imre, E.V. Ovcharenko, Yu.I. Hutych
comments: 
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, 2009, Vol. 54, no. 10, pp. 957-962 (www.ujp.bitp.kiev.ua)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3894
abstract: The radiative transitions between the $4d^{10}5p^2(^3P_{0,1,2})nl$ and {$4d^{10}5s5p({}^3P_1^o)nl$ autoionizing} states of an indium atom that represent dielectronic satellites of the $4d^{10}5p^2 {}^3P_0 \to 4d^{10}5s5p {}^3P_1$ ($\lambda =171.7$ nm), $4d^{10}5p^2 {}^3P_1 \to 4d^{10}5s5p {}^3P_1$ ($\lambda =166.7$ nm), and $4d^{10}5p^2 {}^3P_2 \to 4d^{10}5s5p {}^3P_1$ ($\lambda =160.7$ nm) spectral lines of an In$^{+}$ ion have been observed for the first time. The energy dependences of the effective excitation cross sections of dielectronic satellites, as well as near-threshold regions of these spectral lines, were investigated in the range of electron energies 9$\div $15 eV with the help of the spectroscopic method using crossed beams of electrons and In$^{+}$ ions. The absolute excitation cross sections of dielectronic satellites amount to $(0.7\div 2)\times 10^{-16}$ cm$^{2}$ and are of the same order of magnitude as the effective excitation cross sections of the corresponding ionic lines. It is found that a considerable increase of the probability of radiation decay of the $4d^{10}5p^2(^3P_{0,1,2})nl$ autoionizing states of the In atom is related to strong relativistic and correlation effects, in particular to the configuration interaction of the $5p^2nl$ levels both with one another and with the levels of the $5s5dnl$ and $4d^95s^25p^2$ configurations.

id: 0911.3903
title: Thermal and Magnetic Quantum Discord in Heisenberg models
authors: T. Werlang, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, RevTex, double column; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 044101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3903
abstract: We investigate how the quantum correlations (quantum discord) of a two-qubit one dimensional XYZ Heisenberg chain in thermal equilibrium depends on the temperature (T) of the bath and also on an external magnetic field B. We show that the behavior of the thermal quantum discord (QD) differs in many unexpected ways from the thermal entanglement. For example, we show situations where QD increases with T when entanglement decreases, cases where QD increases with T even in regions with zero entanglement, and that QD signals a quantum phase transition even at finite T. We also show that by properly tuning B or the interaction between the qubits we get non-zero QD for any T and we present a new effect not seen for entanglement, the regrowth of thermal QD.

id: 0911.3936
title: Squeezing the Collective Spin of a Dilute Atomic Ensemble by Cavity Feedback
authors: Monika H. Schleier-Smith, Ian D. Leroux, Vladan Vuleti?
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Minor revision. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 021804(R) (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3936
abstract: We propose and analyze a simple method to squeeze dynamically and unconditionally the collective spin of a dilute atomic ensemble by interaction with a driven mode of an optical resonator, as recently demonstrated [I. D. L., M. H. S., and V. V., Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 073602 (2010)]. We show that substantial squeezing can be achieved in the regime of strong collective ensemble-resonator coupling. The squeezing is ultimately limited either by photon emission into free space or by the curvature of the Bloch sphere. We derive both limits and show where each prevails.

id: 0911.3949
title: The relation of genuine multiqubit entanglement and controlled teleportation
authors: Xin-Wei Zha, Hai-Yang Song
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3949
abstract: Recently, Paolo Facchi et al. [Phys. Rev. A. 77, 060304 (R) (2008)] introduced the notion of maximally multipartite entangled states of n qubits. Here, we give a criterion for faithful controlled teleportation of an arbitrary two-qubit state via a five-qubit entangled state and obtain the general relation between the genuine five-qubit entangled state and controlled teleportation. This criterion can be extended to teleportation of an arbitrary N-qubit state using 2N+1-qubit entangled state. Furthermore, we study the optimal match of measuring basis and quantum channel.

id: 0911.3954
title: Two interacting atoms in a cavity: exact solutions, entanglement and decoherence
authors: J.M. Torres, E. Sadurnик, T.H. Seligman
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: J M Torres et al 2010 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 192002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3954
abstract: We address the problem of two interacting atoms of different species inside a cavity and find the explicit solutions of the corresponding eigenvalues and eigenfunctions using a new invariant. This model encompasses various commonly used models. By way of example we obtain closed expressions for concurrence and purity as a function of time for the case where the cavity is prepared in a number state. We discuss the behaviour of these quantities and and their relative behaviour in the concurrence-purity plane.

id: 0911.3957
title: Rhodopsin Photoisomerization: Coherent vs. Incoherent Excitation
authors: Kunihito Hoki, Paul Brumer
comments: Original date: May 4, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3957
abstract: A uniform minimal model of rhodopsin photoisomerization induced by either coherent laser light or low level incoherent light (e.g. moonlight) is provided. Realistic timescales for both processes, which differ by ten orders of magnitude, are obtained. Further, a kinetic scheme involving rates for both coherent and incoherent light excitation is introduced, placing all timescales into a uniform framework.

id: 0911.3964
title: Distributed coherent manipulation of qutrits by virtual excitation processes
authors: Zhen-Biao Yang, Sai-Yun Ye, Alessio Serafini, Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3964
abstract: We propose a scheme for the deterministic coherent manipulation of two atomic qutrits, trapped in separate cavities coupled through a short optical fibre or optical resonator. We study such a system in the regime of dispersive atom-field interactions, where the dynamics of atoms, cavities and fibre operates through virtual population of both the atomic excited states and photonic states in the cavities and fibre. We show that the resulting effective dynamics allows for the creation of robust qutrit entanglement, and thoroughly investigate the influence of imperfections and dissipation, due to atomic spontaneous emission and photon leakage, on the entanglement of the two qutrits state.

id: 0911.3987
title: Fourier-transform Ghost Imaging for pure phase object based on Compressive Sampling algorithm
authors: Hui Wang, Shensheng Han
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3987
abstract: A special algorithm for the Fourier-transform Ghost Imaging (GI) scheme is discussed based on the Compressive Sampling (CS) theory. Though developed mostly in real space, CS algorithm could also be used for the Fourier spectrum reconstruction of pure phase object by setting a proper sensing matrix. This could find its application in diffraction imaging of X-ray, neutron and electron with higher efficiency and resolution. Simulation and experiment results are also presented to prove the feasibility.

id: 0911.3997
title: Tunable Indistinguishable Photons From Remote Quantum Dots
authors: R. B. Patel, A. J. Bennett, I. Farrer, C. A. Nicoll, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Two-photon interference of the emission from electrically tunable remote quantum dots, Nature Photonics 4, 632-635 (11 July 2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3997
abstract: Single semiconductor quantum dots have been widely studied within devices that can apply an electric field. In the most common system, the low energy offset between the InGaAs quantum dot and the surrounding GaAs material limits the magnitude of field that can be applied to tens of kVcm^-1, before carriers tunnel out of the dot. The Stark shift experienced by the emission line is typically 1 meV. We report that by embedding the quantum dots in a quantum well heterostructure the vertical field that can be applied is increased by over an order of magnitude whilst preserving the narrow linewidths, high internal quantum efficiencies and familiar emission spectra. Individual dots can then be continuously tuned to the same energy allowing for two-photon interference between remote, independent, quantum dots.

id: 0911.4005
title: Imaginary part of action, Future functioning as hidden variables
authors: H. B. Nielsen
comments: Proceedings contribution to the conference QTRF-5 june 14 -18, Vaxjo, Sweeden
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4005
abstract: A model -- by myself and Masao Ninomiya -- which in principle predicts the initial conditions in a way as to minimze a certain functional of the history of the Universe through both past and future -- a functional conceived of as an imaginary part of the action -- is suggested to be also helpful in solving some problems for quantum mechanics. Especially as our model almost makes it possible in principle to calculate the full history of the universe, it even makes it in principle calculable, which one among several measurement results in a quantum experiment will actually be realized! Our "complex action model" thus is a special case of superdeterminism - in Bells way - and does not have true causality, but rather even in some cases true backward causation. In fact we claim in our model that the SSC (Superconducting Supercollider) were stopped by the US Congress due to the backward causation from the big amounts of Higgs particles, which it would have produced, if it had been allowed to run. The noumenon ("das Ding an sich") in our model is the Feyman path integrand or better some fundamental quantities determined from second order effects of the latter integrand.

id: 0911.4007
title: Multiplayer XOR games and quantum communication complexity with clique-wise entanglement
authors: Jop Briet, Harry Buhrman, Troy Lee, Thomas Vidick
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4007
abstract: XOR games are a simple computational model with connections to many areas of complexity theory. Perhaps the earliest use of XOR games was in the study of quantum correlations. XOR games also have an interesting connection to Grothendieck's inequality, a fundamental theorem of analysis, which shows that two players sharing entanglement can achieve at most a constant factor advantage over players following classical strategies in an XOR game. Perez-Garcia et al. show that when the players share GHZ states, this advantage is bounded by a constant. We use a multilinear generalization of Grothendieck's inequality due to Blei and Tonge to simplify the proof of the second result and extend it to the case of so-called Schmidt states, answering an open problem of Perez-Garcia et al. Via a reduction given in that paper, this answers a 35-year-old problem in operator algebras due to Varopoulos, showing that the space of compact operators on a Hilbert space is a Q-algebra under Schur product. A further generalization of Grothendieck's inequality due to Carne lets us show that the gap between the entangled and classical value is at most a constant in any multiplayer XOR game in which the players are allowed to share combinations of GHZ states and EPR pairs of any dimension. As an application of our results, we show that the discrepancy method in communication complexity remains a lower bound in the multiparty model where the players have quantum communication and the kinds of entanglement discussed above. This answers an open question of Lee, Schechtman, and Shraibman.

id: 0911.4009
title: Remarks on the violation of Bell's inequality in Josephson phase qubits
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4009
abstract: The consistency test and error estimation for the data concerning recently reported violation of Bell inequality for Josephson phase qubits are presented in details. It is pointed out that the deviation of the Bell signal from the classical limit might still be challenged.

id: 0911.4058
title: Comment on "Matrix Pencils and Entanglement Classification"
authors: Eric Chitambar, Carl A. Miller, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4058
abstract: In our earlier posting "Matrix Pencils and Entanglement Classification", arXiv:0911.1803, we gave a polynomial-time algorithm for deciding if two states in a space of dimension $2\otimes m\otimes n$ are SLOCC equivalent. In this note, we point out that a straightforward modification of the algorithm gives a simple enumeration of all SLOCC equivalence classes in the same space, with the class representatives expressed in the Kronecker canonical normal form of matrix pencils. Thus, two states are equivalent if and only if they have the same canonical form. As an example, we present representatives in canonical form for each of the 26 equivalence classes in $2\otimes 3\otimes n$ systems.

id: 0911.4065
title: Implementation of Cavity Squeezing of a Collective Atomic Spin
authors: Ian D. Leroux, Monika H. Schleier-Smith, Vladan Vuleti?
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. To be published in Phys. Rev. Lett. Some additional details and clarified wording in response to referee comments. Figures and results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 073602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4065
abstract: We squeeze unconditionally the collective spin of a dilute ensemble of laser-cooled rubidium-87 atoms using their interaction with a driven optical resonator. The shape and size of the resulting spin uncertainty region are well described by a simple analytical model [M.H.S., I.D.L., V.V., arXiv:0911.3936] through two orders of magnitude in the effective interaction strength, without free parameters. We deterministically generate states with up to 5.6(6) dB of metrologically relevant spin squeezing on the canonical rubidium-87 hyperfine clock transition.

id: 0911.4090
title: Unextendible maximally entangled bases
authors: Sergei Bravyi, John A. Smolin
comments: 3 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4090
abstract: We introduce the notion of the unextendible maximally entangled basis (UMEB), a set of orthonormal maximally entangled states in d \times d consisting of fewer that d^2 vectors which have no additional maximally entangled vectors orthogonal to all of them. We prove that UMEBs don't not exist for d=2 and give an explicit constructions for a 6-member UMEB with d=3 and a 12-member UMEB with d=4.

id: 0911.4093
title: Instantons revisited: dynamical tunnelling and resonant tunnelling
authors: Jижrижmy Le Deunff, Amaury Mouchet
comments: 
journal: Physical Review E: Statistical, Nonlinear, and Soft Matter Physics 81 (2010) 046205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4093
abstract: Starting from trace formulae for the tunnelling splittings (or decay rates) analytically continued in the complex time domain, we obtain explicit semiclassical expansions in terms of complex trajectories that are selected with appropriate complex-time paths. We show how this instanton-like approach, which takes advantage of an incomplete Wick rotation, accurately reproduces tunnelling effects not only in the usual double-well potential but also in situations where a pure Wick rotation is insufficient, for instance dynamical tunnelling or resonant tunnelling. Even though only one-dimensional autonomous Hamiltonian systems are quantitatively studied, we discuss the relevance of our method for multidimensional and/or chaotic tunnelling.

id: 0911.4095
title: Microtraps for neutral atoms using superconducting structures in the critical state
authors: Andreas Emmert, Adrian Lupascu, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche, Gilles Nogues
comments: accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4095
abstract: Recently demonstrated superconducting atom-chips provide a platform for trapping atoms and coupling them to solid-state quantum systems. Controlling these devices requires a full understanding of the supercurrent distribution in the trapping structures. For type-II superconductors, this distribution is hysteretic in the critical state due to the partial penetration of the magnetic field in the thin superconducting film through pinned vortices. We report here an experimental observation of this memory effect. Our results are in good agreement with the redictions of the Bean model of the critical state without adjustable parameters. The memory effect allows to write and store permanent currents in micron-sized superconducting structures and paves the way towards new types of engineered trapping potentials.

id: 0911.4156
title: Stabilizing Quantum States by Constructive Design of Open Quantum Dynamics
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Sophie G. Schirmer, Xiaoting Wang
comments: Revised version with stronger proofs showing uniqueness can be achieved in all cases by using the freedom to the choose diagonal elements of both the Hamiltonian and Lindblad operator, and exploiting the fact that the non-existence of two orthogonal eigenvectors of the Lindblad operator is sufficient but not necessary for global asymptotic stability of the target state
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 55(12), 2901-2905 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4156
abstract: Based on recent work on the asymptotic behavior of controlled quantum Markovian dynamics, we show that any generic quantum state can be stabilized by devising constructively a simple Lindblad-GKS generator that can achieve global asymptotic stability at the desired state. The applications of such result is demonstrated by designing a direct feedback strategy that achieves global stabilization of a qubit state encoded in a noise-protected subspace.

id: 0911.4157
title: The Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in Mechanical Effects of Light
authors: G. S. Agarwal, Sumei Huang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 041803(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4157
abstract: We consider the dynamical behavior of a nanomechanical mirror in a high-quality cavity under the action of a coupling laser and a probe laser. We demonstrate the existence of the analog of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in the output field at the probe frequency. Our calculations show explicitly the origin of EIT-like dips as well as the characteristic changes in dispersion from anomalous to normal in the range where EIT dips occur. Remarkably the pump-probe response for the opto mechanical system shares all the features of the Lambda system as discovered by Harris and collaborators.

id: 0911.4158
title: Saving Entanglement via a Nonuniform Sequence of $ж╨$ Pulses
authors: G. S. Agarwal
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 82 (2010) 038103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4158
abstract: We examine the question of survival of quantum entanglement between the bipartite states and multiparticle states like GHZ states under the action of a dephasing bath by the application of sequence of $\pi$ pulses. We show the great advantage of the pulse sequence of Uhrig [ 2007 {\it Phys. Rev. Lett.} {\bf 98} 100504] applied at irregular intervals of time, in controlling quantum entanglement. In particular death of entanglement could be considerably delayed by pulses. We use quantum optical techniques to obtain exact results.

id: 0911.4171
title: Quantum Cryptography Based Solely on Bell's Theorem
authors: Esther H?nggi, Renato Renner, Stefan Wolf
comments: 32 pages, v2: changed introduction, added references
journal: EUROCRYPT 2010, pp. 216-234, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4171
abstract: Information-theoretic key agreement is impossible to achieve from scratch and must be based on some - ultimately physical - premise. In 2005, Barrett, Hardy, and Kent showed that unconditional security can be obtained in principle based on the impossibility of faster-than-light signaling; however, their protocol is inefficient and cannot tolerate any noise. While their key-distribution scheme uses quantum entanglement, its security only relies on the impossibility of superluminal signaling, rather than the correctness and completeness of quantum theory. In particular, the resulting security is device independent. Here we introduce a new protocol which is efficient in terms of both classical and quantum communication, and that can tolerate noise in the quantum channel. We prove that it offers device-independent security under the sole assumption that certain non-signaling conditions are satisfied. Our main insight is that the XOR of a number of bits that are partially secret according to the non-signaling conditions turns out to be highly secret. Note that similar statements have been well-known in classical contexts. Earlier results had indicated that amplification of such non-signaling-based privacy is impossible to achieve if the non-signaling condition only holds between events on Alice's and Bob's sides. Here, we show that the situation changes completely if such a separation is given within each of the laboratories.

id: 0911.4172
title: State-independent quantum violation of noncontextuality in four dimensional space using five observables and two settings
authors: Alok Kumar Pan, Dipankar Home
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. Journal D, 66, 62(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4172
abstract: Recently, a striking experimental demonstration [G. Kirchmair \emph{et al.}, Nature, \textbf{460}, 494(2009)] of the state-independent quantum mechanical violation of non-contextual realist models has been reported for any two-qubit state using suitable choices of \emph{nine} product observables and \emph{six} different measurement setups. In this report, a considerable simplification of such a demonstration is achieved by formulating a scheme that requires only \emph{five} product observables and \emph{two} different measurement setups. It is also pointed out that the relevant empirical data already available in the experiment by Kirchmair \emph{et al.} corroborate the violation of the NCR models in accordance with our proof.

id: 0911.4175
title: Thermal Casimir Force between Magnetic Materials
authors: G.L. Klimchitskaya, B. Geyer, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. Contribution to the Proceedings of QFEXT09, Norman, OK, September 21-25, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4175
abstract: We investigate the Casimir pressure between two parallel plates made of magnetic materials at nonzero temperature. It is shown that for real magnetodielectric materials only the magnetic properties of ferromagnets can influence the Casimir pressure. This influence is accomplished through the contribution of the zero-frequency term of the Lifshitz formula. The possibility of the Casimir repulsion through the vacuum gap is analyzed depending on the model used for the description of the dielectric properties of the metal plates.

id: 0911.4240
title: Entanglement Dynamics and Spin Squeezing of The non-linear Tavis-Cummings model mediated by a Nonlinear Binomial Field
authors: M. S. Ateto
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures, accepted in Int. J. Quant. Inf.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4240
abstract: We show that spin squeezing implies entanglement for quantum tripartite-state, where the subsystem of the bipartite-state is identical. We study the relation between spin squeezing parameters and entanglement through the quantum entropy of a system starts initially in a pure state when the cavity is binomial. We show that spin squeezing can be a convenient tool to give some insight into the subsystems entanglement dynamics when the bipartite subsystem interacts simultaneously with the cavity field subsystem, specially when the interaction occurs off-resonantly without and with a nonlinear medium contained in the cavity field subsystem. We illustrate that, in case of large off-resonance interaction, spin squeezing clarifies the properties of entanglement almost with full success. However, it is not a general rule when the cavity is assumed to be filled with a non-linear medium. In this case, we illustrate that the insight into entanglement dynamics becomes more clearly in case of a weak nonlinear medium than in strong nonlinear medium. In parallel, the role of the phase space distribution in quantifying entanglement is also studied. The numerical results of Husimi $Q$-function show that the integer strength of the nonlinear medium produces Schr\"{o}dinger cat states which is necessary for quantum entanglement.

id: 0911.4245
title: Mixed State Entanglement Measures for Intermediate Separability
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Marcus Huber, Philipp Krammer, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 5 pages 2 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info. 8 (2010) 677
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4245
abstract: To determine whether a given multipartite quantum state is separable with respect to some partition we construct a family of entanglement measures R_m. This is done utilizing generalized concurrences as building blocks which are defined by flipping of M constituents and indicate states that are separable with regard to bipartitions when vanishing. Further, we provide an analytically computable lower bound for R_m via a simple ordering relation of the convex roof extension. Using the derived lower bound, we illustrate the effect of the isotropic noise on a family of four-qubit mixed states for each intermediate separability.

id: 0911.4270
title: Entanglement and non-Markovianity of quantum evolutions
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 050403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4270
abstract: We address the problem of quantifying the non-Markovian character of quantum time-evolutions of general systems in contact with an environment. We introduce two different measures of non-Markovianity that exploit the specific traits of quantum correlations and are suitable for opposite experimental contexts. When complete tomographic knowledge about the evolution is available, our measure provides a necessary and sufficient condition to quantify strictly the non-Markovianity. In the opposite case, when no information whatsoever is available, we propose a sufficient condition for non-Markovianity. Remarkably, no optimization procedure underlies our derivation, which greatly enhances the practical relevance of the proposed criteria.

id: 0911.4307
title: Quantum Darwinism in non-ideal environments
authors: Michael Zwolak, H. T. Quan, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062110 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4307
abstract: Quantum Darwinism provides an information-theoretic framework for the emergence of the objective, classical world from the quantum substrate. The key to this emergence is the proliferation of redundant information throughout the environment where observers can then intercept it. We study this process for a purely decohering interaction when the environment, E, is in a non-ideal (e.g., mixed) initial state. In the case of good decoherence, that is, after the pointer states have been unambiguously selected, the mutual information between the system, S, and an environment fragment, F, is given solely by F's entropy increase. This demonstrates that the environment's capacity for recording the state of S is directly related to its ability to increase its entropy. Environments that remain nearly invariant under the interaction with S, either because they have a large initial entropy or a misaligned initial state, therefore have a diminished ability to acquire information. To elucidate the concept of good decoherence, we show that - when decoherence is not complete - the deviation of the mutual information from F's entropy change is quantified by the quantum discord, i.e., the excess mutual information between S and F is information regarding the initial coherence between pointer states of S. In addition to illustrating these results with a single qubit system interacting with a multi-qubit environment, we find scaling relations for the redundancy of information acquired by the environment that display a universal behavior independent of the initial state of S. Our results demonstrate that Quantum Darwinism is robust with respect to non-ideal initial states of the environment: the environment almost always acquires redundant information about the system but its rate of acquisition can be reduced.

id: 0911.4310
title: Optimal experiment design revisited: fair, precise and minimal tomography
authors: J. Nunn, B. J. Smith, G. Puentes, J. S. Lundeen, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042109 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4310
abstract: Given an experimental set-up and a fixed number of measurements, how should one take data in order to optimally reconstruct the state of a quantum system? The problem of optimal experiment design (OED) for quantum state tomography was first broached by Kosut et al. [arXiv:quant-ph/0411093v1]. Here we provide efficient numerical algorithms for finding the optimal design, and analytic results for the case of 'minimal tomography'. We also introduce the average OED, which is independent of the state to be reconstructed, and the optimal design for tomography (ODT), which minimizes tomographic bias. We find that these two designs are generally similar. Monte-Carlo simulations confirm the utility of our results for qubits. Finally, we adapt our approach to deal with constrained techniques such as maximum likelihood estimation. We find that these are less amenable to optimization than cruder reconstruction methods, such as linear inversion.

id: 0911.4330
title: Parameter Scaling in the Decoherent Quantum-Classical Transition for chaotic rf-SQUIDs
authors: Ting Mao, Yang Yu
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4330
abstract: We numerically investigated the quantum-classical transition in rf-SQUID systems coupled to a dissipative environment. It is found that chaos emerges and the degree of chaos, the maximal Lyapunov exponent $\lambda_{m}$, exhibits non-monotonic behavior as a function of the coupling strength $D$. By measuring the proximity of quantum and classical evolution with the uncertainty of dynamics, we show that the uncertainty is a monotonic function of $\lambda _{m}/D$. In addition, the scaling holds in SQUID systems to a relatively smaller $\hbar_{eff}$, suggesting the universality for this scaling.

id: 0911.4356
title: Universal covariant quantum cloning circuits for qubit entanglement manipulation
authors: Levente Szabo, Matyas Koniorczyk, Peter Adam, Jozsef Janszky
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4356
abstract: We consider the entanglement manipulation capabilities of the universal covariant quantum cloner or quantum processor circuit for quantum bits. We investigate its use for cloning a member of a bipartite or a genuine tripartite entangled state of quantum bits. We find that for bipartite pure entangled states a nontrivial behavior of concurrence appears, while for GHZ entangled states a possibility of the partial extraction of bipartite entanglement can be achieved.

id: 0911.4359
title: Efficiency optimization for Atomic Frequency Comb storage
authors: M. Bonarota, J. Ruggiero, J.-L. Le Gou?t, T. Chaneliииre
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 033803 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4359
abstract: We study the efficiency of the Atomic Frequency Comb storage protocol. We show that for a given optical depth, the preparation procedure can be optimize to significantly improve the retrieval. Our prediction is well supported by the experimental implementation of the protocol in a \TMYAG crystal. We observe a net gain in efficiency from 10% to 17% by applying the optimized preparation procedure. In the perspective of high bandwidth storage, we investigate the protocol under different magnetic fields. We analyze the effect of the Zeeman and superhyperfine interaction.

id: 0911.4367
title: Revivals, classical periodicity, and zitterbewegung of electron currents in monolayer graphene
authors: Elvira Romera, Francisco de los Santos
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 80, 165416 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4367
abstract: Revivals of electric current in graphene in the presence of an external magnetic field are described. It is shown that when the electrons are prepared in the form of wave packets assuming a Gaussian population of only positive (or negative) energy Landau levels, the presence of the magnetic field induce revivals of the electron currents, besides the classical cyclotron motion. When the population comprises both positive and negative energy Landau levels, revivals of the electric current manifest simultaneously with zitterbewegung and the classical cyclotron motion. We relate the temporal scales of these three effects and discuss to what extent these results hold for real graphene samples.

id: 0911.4419
title: Weakly sufficient quantum statistics
authors: Katarzyna Lubnauer, Andrzej ?uczak, Hanna Pods?dkowska
comments: to appear in Mathematica Slovaca
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4419
abstract: Some aspects of weak sufficiency of quantum statistics are investigated. In particular, we give necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a weakly sufficient statistic for a given family of vector states, investigate the problem of its minimality, and find the relation between weak sufficiency and other notions of sufficiency employed so far.

id: 0911.4474
title: Contextual Values of Observables in Quantum Measurements
authors: J. Dressel, S. Agarwal, A. N. Jordan
comments: Publication version, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 240401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4474
abstract: We introduce contextual values as a generalization of the eigenvalues of an observable that takes into account both the system observable and a general measurement procedure. This technique leads to a natural definition of a general conditioned average that converges uniquely to the quantum weak value in the minimal disturbance limit. As such, we address the controversy in the literature regarding the theoretical consistency of the quantum weak value by providing a more general theoretical framework and giving several examples of how that framework relates to existing experimental and theoretical results.

id: 0911.4491
title: Measurement of Spin Projection Noise in Broadband Atomic Magnetometry
authors: M. Koschorreck, M. Napolitano, B. Dubost, M. W. Mitchell
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4491
abstract: We measure the sensitivity of a broadband atomic magnetometer using quantum non-demolition spin measurements. A cold, dipole-trapped sample of rubidium atoms provides a long-lived spin system in a non-magnetic environment, and is probed non-destructively by paramagnetic Faraday rotation. The calibration procedure employs a known reference state, the maximum-entropy or 'thermal' spin state and quantitative imaging-based atom counting to identify electronic, quantum, and technical noise in both the probe and spin system. The measurement achieves sensitivity 2.8 dB better than the projection noise level (6dB better if optical noise is suppressed) and will enable squeezing-enhanced broadband magnetometry [Geremia, et al. PRL 94, 203002 (2005)].

id: 0911.4517
title: Testing equivalence of pure quantum states and graph states under SLOCC
authors: Adam G. D'Souza, Jop Bri?t, David L. Feder
comments: 9 pages, to appear in International Journal of Quantum Information; Minor typos corrected, updated references.
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 8 (1-2), 395-410 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4517
abstract: A set of necessary and sufficient conditions are derived for the equivalence of an arbitrary pure state and a graph state on n qubits under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC), using the stabilizer formalism. Because all stabilizer states are equivalent to a graph state by local unitary transformations, these conditions constitute a classical algorithm for the determination of SLOCC-equivalence of pure states and stabilizer states. This algorithm provides a distinct advantage over the direct solution of the SLOCC-equivalence condition for an unknown invertible local operator S, as it usually allows for easy detection of states that are not SLOCC-equivalent to graph states.

id: 0911.4527
title: Frequency Comparison of Two High-Accuracy Al+ Optical Clocks
authors: C.-W. Chou, D. B. Hume, J. C. J. Koelemeij, D. J. Wineland, T. Rosenband
comments: 4 pages, 2 tables, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4527
abstract: We have constructed an optical clock with a fractional frequency inaccuracy of 8.6e-18, based on quantum logic spectroscopy of an Al+ ion. A simultaneously trapped Mg+ ion serves to sympathetically laser-cool the Al+ ion and detect its quantum state. The frequency of the 1S0->3P0 clock transition is compared to that of a previously constructed Al+ optical clock with a statistical measurement uncertainty of 7.0e-18. The two clocks exhibit a relative stability of 2.8e-15/ sqrt(tau), and a fractional frequency difference of -1.8e-17, consistent with the accuracy limit of the older clock.

id: 0911.4528
title: T violation and the unidirectionality of time
authors: Joan A.Vaccaro
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures. Final version accepted for publishing in Foundations of Physics. The final publication is available at this http URL
journal: Found.Phys.41:1569-1596,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4528
abstract: An increasing number of experiments at the Belle, BNL, CERN, DA{\Phi}NE and SLAC accelerators are confirming the violation of time reversal invariance (T). The violation signifies a fundamental asymmetry between the past and future and calls for a major shift in the way we think about time. Here we show that processes which violate T symmetry induce destructive interference between different paths that the universe can take through time. The interference eliminates all paths except for two that represent continuously forwards and continuously backwards time evolution. Evidence from the accelerator experiments indicates which path the universe is effectively following. This work may provide fresh insight into the long-standing problem of modeling the dynamics of T violation processes. It suggests that T violation has previously unknown, large-scale physical effects and that these effects underlie the origin of the unidirectionality of time. It may have implications for the Wheeler-DeWitt equation of canonical quantum gravity. Finally it provides a view of the quantum nature of time itself.

id: 0911.4539
title: Monitoring Ion Channel Function In Real Time Through Quantum Decoherence
authors: L.T. Hall, C.D. Hill, J.H. Cole, B. St?dler, F. Caruso, P. Mulvaney, J. Wrachtrup, L.C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: PNAS, published ahead of print October 11, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4539
abstract: In drug discovery research there is a clear and urgent need for non-invasive detection of cell membrane ion channel operation with wide-field capability. Existing techniques are generally invasive, require specialized nano structures, or are only applicable to certain ion channel species. We show that quantum nanotechnology has enormous potential to provide a novel solution to this problem. The nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centre in nano-diamond is currently of great interest as a novel single atom quantum probe for nanoscale processes. However, until now, beyond the use of diamond nanocrystals as fluorescence markers, nothing was known about the quantum behaviour of a NV probe in the complex room temperature extra-cellular environment. For the first time we explore in detail the quantum dynamics of a NV probe in proximity to the ion channel, lipid bilayer and surrounding aqueous environment. Our theoretical results indicate that real-time detection of ion channel operation at millisecond resolution is possible by directly monitoring the quantum decoherence of the NV probe. With the potential to scan and scale-up to an array-based system this conclusion may have wide ranging implications for nanoscale biology and drug discovery.

id: 0911.4558
title: Analytical Solutions of Klein-Gordon Equation with Position-Dependent Mass for q-Parameter Poschl-Teller potential
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever, Cevdet Tezcan
comments: 10 pages
journal: Chines Phys. Lett. 27, 010306(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4558
abstract: The energy eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenfunctions of the one-dimensional Klein-Gordon equation with q-parameter Poschl-Teller potential are analytically obtained within the position-dependent mass formalism. The parametric generalization of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used in the calculations by choosing a mass distribution.

id: 0911.4600
title: Non-Markovian master equation for a damped driven two-state system
authors: Pinja Haikka
comments: 6 pages, submitted to proceedings of CEWQO2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4600
abstract: We present a detailed microscopic derivation for a non-Markovian master equation for a driven two-state system interacting with a general structured reservoir. The master equation is derived using the time-convolutionless projection operator technique in the limit of weak coupling between the two-state quantum system and its environment. We briefly discuss the Markov approximation, the secular approximation and their validity.

id: 0911.4615
title: Stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in the field of finite duration pulses
authors: M.V. Gromovyi, V.I. Romanenko, L.P. Yatsenko
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, 2009, Vol. 54, no. 11, pp.1077-1088 (www.ujp.bitp.kiev.ua)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4615
abstract: The theory of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in a three-level Lambda-scheme of the interaction of an atom or molecule with light, which takes the nonadiabatic processes at the beginning and the end of light pulses into account, is developed.

id: 0911.4621
title: Single-photon emission via Raman scattering from the levels with partially resolved hyperfine structure
authors: V.A. Reshetov, I.V. Yevseyev
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Communications 283 (2010) 2557-2560
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4621
abstract: The probability of emission of a single photon via Raman scattering of laser pulse on the three-level $\Lambda$ - type atom in microcavity is studied. The duration of the pulse is considered to be short enough, so that the hyperfine structure of the upper level remains totally unresolved, while that of the lower level is totally resolved. The coherent laser pulse is assumed to be in resonance with the transition between one hyperfine structure component of the lower atomic level and all hyperfine structure components of the upper level, while the quantized cavity field is assumed to be in resonance with the transition between the other hyperfine structure component of the lower level and all components of the upper one. The dependence of the photon emission probability on the mutual orientation of polarization vectors of the cavity mode and of the coherent laser pulse is analyzed. Particularly, the case is investigated, when the total electronic angular momentum of the lower atomic level equals 1/2, which is true for the ground states of alkali atoms employed in the experiments on deterministic single photon emission. It is shown, that in this case the probability of photon emission equals zero for collinear polarizations of the photon and of the laser pulse, and the probability obtains its maximum value, when the angle between their polarizations equals 60 degrees.

id: 0911.4657
title: Optimal control of circuit quantum electrodynamics in one and two dimensions
authors: R. Fisher, F. Helmer, S. J. Glaser, F. Marquardt, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: Published version.
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 085328 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4657
abstract: Optimal control can be used to significantly improve multi-qubit gates in quantum information processing hardware architectures based on superconducting circuit quantum electrodynamics. We apply this approach not only to dispersive gates of two qubits inside a cavity, but, more generally, to architectures based on two-dimensional arrays of cavities and qubits. For high-fidelity gate operations, simultaneous evolutions of controls and couplings in the two coupling dimensions of cavity grids are shown to be significantly faster than conventional sequential implementations. Even under experimentally realistic conditions speedups by a factor of three can be gained. The methods immediately scale to large grids and indirect gates between arbitrary pairs of qubits on the grid. They are anticipated to be paradigmatic for 2D arrays and lattices of controllable qubits.

id: 0911.4670
title: Multipartite Entanglement Measures and Quantum Criticality from Matrix and Tensor Product States
authors: Ching-Yu Huang, Feng-Li Lin
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4670
abstract: We compute the multipartite entanglement measures such as the global entanglement of various one- and two-dimensional quantum systems to probe the quantum criticality based on the matrix and tensor product states (MPSs/TPSs). We use infinite time-evolving block decimation (iTEBD) method to find the ground states numerically in the form of MPSs/TPSs, and then evaluate their entanglement measures by the method of tensor renormalization group (TRG). We find these entanglement measures can characterize the quantum phase transitions by their derivative discontinuity right at the critical points in all models considered here. We also comment on the scaling behaviors of the entanglement measures by the ideas of quantum state renormalization group transformations.

id: 0911.4680
title: Near-optimal extractors against quantum storage
authors: Anindya De, Thomas Vidick
comments: Some typos fixed.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4680
abstract: We show that Trevisan's extractor and its variants \cite{T99,RRV99} are secure against bounded quantum storage adversaries. One instantiation gives the first such extractor to achieve an output length $\Theta(K-b)$, where $K$ is the source's entropy and $b$ the adversary's storage, together with a poly-logarithmic seed length. Another instantiation achieves a logarithmic key length, with a slightly smaller output length $\Theta((K-b)/K^\gamma)$ for any $\gamma>0$. In contrast, the previous best construction \cite{TS09} could only extract $(K/b)^{1/15}$ bits. Some of our constructions have the additional advantage that every bit of the output is a function of only a polylogarithmic number of bits from the source, which is crucial for some cryptographic applications. Our argument is based on bounds for a generalization of quantum random access codes, which we call \emph{quantum functional access codes}. This is crucial as it lets us avoid the local list-decoding algorithm central to the approach in \cite{TS09}, which was the source of the multiplicative overhead.

id: 0911.4682
title: Impossibility of large phase shifts via the "giant Kerr effect" with single-photon wavepackets
authors: Julio Gea-Banacloche
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, to be submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4682
abstract: An approximate analytical solution is presented, along with numerical calculations, for a system of two single-photon wavepackets interacting via an ideal, localized Kerr medium. It is shown that, because of spontaneous emission into the initially unoccupied temporal modes, the cross-phase modulation in the Schrodinger picture is very small as long as the spectral width of the single-photon pulses is well within the medium's bandwidth. In this limit, the Hamiltonian used can be derived from the "giant Kerr effect" for a four-level atom, under conditions of electromagnetically-induced transparency; it is shown explicitly that the linear absorption in this system increases as the pulse's spectral width approaches the medium's transparency bandwidth, and hence, as long as the absorption probability remains small, the maximum cross-phase modulation is limited to essentially useless values. These results are in agreement with the general, causality- and unitarity-based arguments of Shapiro and co-workers.

id: 0911.4684
title: On-demand Entanglement Source with Spatial Phase Modulation
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang, C.X. Yang, Y.B. Liu
comments: Extended version of arXiv:0909.2229
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4684
abstract: The polarization entanglement photon pairs generated from the biexciton cascade decay in a single semiconductor quantum dot is corrupted by the position-dependent (time-dependent) phase difference of the two polarization mode due to the fine structure splitting. We show that, by taking voltage ramping to an electro-optic modulator, such phase-difference can be removed. In our first proposed set-up, two photons are sent to two separate Pockels cell under reverse voltage ramping, as a result, the position-dependent phase difference between the two polarization mode is removed in the outcome state. In our second proposed set-up, the polarization of the first photon is flipped and then both photons fly into the same Pokels cell. Since we only need to separate the two photons rather than separate the two polarization modes, our schemes are robust with respect to fluctuations of the optical paths.

id: 0911.4694
title: Universal Response of Quantum Systems with Chaotic Dynamics
authors: Diego A. Wisniacki, Natalia Ares, Eduardo Vergini
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: PRL 104, 254101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4694
abstract: The prediction of the response of a closed system to external perturbations is one of the central problems in quantum mechanics, and in this respect, the local density of states (LDOS) provides an in- depth description of such a response. The LDOS is the distribution of the overlaps squared connecting the set of eigenfunctions with the perturbed one. Here, we show that in the case of closed systems with classically chaotic dynamics, the LDOS is a Breit-Wigner distribution under very general perturbations of arbitrary high intensity. Consequently, we derive a semiclassical expression for the width of the LDOS which is shown to be very accurate for paradigmatic systems of quantum chaos. This Letter demonstrates the universal response of quantum systems with classically chaotic dynamics.

id: 0911.4724
title: Quantum algorithms to solve the hidden shift problem for quadratics and for functions of large Gowers norm
authors: Martin Roetteler
comments: 12 pages, no figures, Proc. MFCS'09, LNCS vol. 5734, pp. 663-674, 2009. Mezzanine tranche of earlier paper arXiv:0811.3208
journal: Proceedings MFCS'09, LNCS vol. 5734, pp. 663-674, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4724
abstract: Most quantum algorithms that give an exponential speedup over classical algorithms exploit the Fourier transform in some way. In Shor's algorithm, sampling from the quantum Fourier spectrum is used to discover periodicity of the modular exponentiation function. In a generalization of this idea, quantum Fourier sampling can be used to discover hidden subgroup structures of some functions much more efficiently than it is possible classically. Another problem for which the Fourier transform has been recruited successfully on a quantum computer is the hidden shift problem. Quantum algorithms for hidden shift problems usually have a slightly different flavor from hidden subgroup algorithms, as they use the Fourier transform to perform a correlation with a given reference function, instead of sampling from the Fourier spectrum directly. In this paper we show that hidden shifts can be extracted efficiently from Boolean functions that are quadratic forms. We also show how to identify an unknown quadratic form on n variables using a linear number of queries, in contrast to the classical case were this takes Theta(n^2) many queries to a black box. What is more, we show that our quantum algorithm is robust in the sense that it can also infer the shift if the function is close to a quadratic, where we consider a Boolean function to be close to a quadratic if it has a large Gowers U_3 norm.

id: 0911.4748
title: Optomechanics of a Quantum-Degenerate Fermi Gas
authors: R. Kanamoto, P. Meystre
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 063601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4748
abstract: We explore theoretically the optomechanical interaction between a light field and a mechanical mode of ultracold fermionic atoms inside a Fabry-P\'{e}rot cavity. The low-lying phonon mode of the fermionic ensemble is a collective density oscillation associated with particle-hole excitations, and is mathematically analogous to the momentum side-mode excitations of a bosonic condensate. The mechanical motion of the fermionic particle-hole system behaves hence as a ``moving mirror.'' We derive an effective system Hamiltonian that has the form of generic optomechanical systems. We also discuss the experimental consequences the optomechanical coupling in optical bistability and in the noise spectrum of the system.

id: 0911.4750
title: Super-resolution far-field ghost imaging via compressive sampling
authors: Wenlin Gong, Shensheng Han
comments: 4pages,4figures
journal: Scientific Reports 5, 9280, (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4750
abstract: Much more image details can be resolved by improving the system's imaging resolution and enhancing the resolution beyond the system's Rayleigh diffraction limit is generally called super-resolution. By combining the sparse prior property of images with the ghost imaging method, we demonstrated experimentally that super-resolution imaging can be nonlocally achieved in the far field even without looking at the object. Physical explanation of super-resolution ghost imaging via compressive sampling and its potential applications are also discussed.

id: 0911.4765
title: Correlated two-photon emission by transitions of Dirac-Volkov states in intense laser fields: QED predictions
authors: E. L?tstedt, U. D. Jentschura
comments: 32 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 053419 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4765
abstract: In an intense laser field, an electron may decay by emitting a pair of photons. The two photons emitted during the process, which can be interpreted as a laser-dressed double Compton scattering, remain entangled in a quantifiable way: namely, the so-called concurrence of the photon polarizations gives a gauge-invariant measure of the correlation of the hard gamma rays. We calculate the differential rate and concurrence for a backscattering setup of the electron and photon beam, employing Volkov states and propagators for the electron lines, thus accounting nonperturbatively for the electron-laser interaction. The nonperturbative results are shown to differ significantly compared to those obtained from the usual double Compton scattering.

id: 0911.4766
title: Quantum transport of strongly interacting photons in a one-dimensional nonlinear waveguide
authors: Mohammad Hafezi, Darrick Chang, Vladimir Gritsev, Eugene Demler, Mikhail Lukin
comments: 22 pages, 24 figures
journal: PRA 85, 013822 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4766
abstract: We present a theoretical technique for solving the quantum transport problem of a few photons through a one-dimensional, strongly nonlinear waveguide. We specifically consider the situation where the evolution of the optical field is governed by the quantum nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation (NLSE). Although this kind of nonlinearity is quite general, we focus on a realistic implementation involving cold atoms loaded in a hollow-core optical fiber, where the atomic system provides a tunable nonlinearity that can be large even at a single-photon level. In particular, we show that when the interaction between photons is effectively repulsive, the transmission of multi-photon components of the field is suppressed. This leads to anti-bunching of the transmitted light and indicates that the system acts as a single-photon switch. On the other hand, in the case of attractive interaction, the system can exhibit either anti-bunching or bunching, which is in stark contrast to semiclassical calculations. We show that the bunching behavior is related to the resonant excitation of bound states of photons inside the system.

id: 0911.4795
title: Simulating local measurements on a quantum many body system with stochastic matrix product states
authors: S?ren Gammelmark, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012120 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4795
abstract: We demonstrate how to simulate both discrete and continuous stochastic evolution of a quantum many body system subject to measurements using matrix product states. A particular, but generally applicable, measurement model is analyzed and a simple representation in terms of matrix product operators is found. The technique is exemplified by numerical simulations of the anti-ferromagnetic Heisenberg spin-chain model subject to various instances of the measurement model. In particular we focus on local measurements with small support and non-local measurements which induces long range correlations.

id: 0911.4805
title: Optical cooling of atoms in microtraps by time-delayed reflection
authors: Peter Horak, Andrиж Xuereb, Tim Freegarde
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Comput. Theor. Nanosci. 7, 1747 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4805
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of a novel scheme for optical cooling of particles that does not in principle require a closed optical transition. A tightly confined laser beam interacting with a trapped particle experiences a phase shift, which upon reflection from a mirror or resonant microstructure produces a time-delayed optical potential for the particle. This leads to a nonconservative force and friction. A quantum model of the system is presented and analyzed in the semiclassical limit.

id: 0911.4812
title: Phase shifts in nonresonant coherent excitation
authors: Boyan T. Torosov, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042108 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4812
abstract: Far-off-resonant pulsed laser fields produce negligible excitation between two atomic states but may induce considerable phase shifts. The acquired phases are usually calculated by using the adiabatic-elimination approximation. We analyze the accuracy of this approximation and derive the conditions for its applicability to the calculation of the phases. We account for various sources of imperfections, ranging from higher terms in the adiabatic-elimination expansion and irreversible population loss to couplings to additional states. We find that, as far as the phase shifts are concerned, the adiabatic elimination is accurate only for a very large detuning. We show that the adiabatic approximation is a far more accurate method for evaluating the phase shifts, with a vast domain of validity; the accuracy is further enhanced by superadiabatic corrections, which reduce the error well below $10^{-4}$. Moreover, owing to the effect of adiabatic population return, the adiabatic and superadiabatic approximations allow one to calculate the phase shifts even for a moderately large detuning, and even when the peak Rabi frequency is larger than the detuning; in these regimes the adiabatic elimination is completely inapplicable. We also derive several exact expressions for the phases using exactly soluble two-state and three-state analytical models.

id: 0911.4836
title: Classical equations of motion and algebras of quantum observables
authors: M.A. Sokolov
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4836
abstract: In this work simple and effective quantization procedure of classical dynamical systems is proposed and illustrated by a number of examples. The procedure is based entirely on differential equations which describe time evolution of systems.

id: 0911.4846
title: Polarization-correlated photon pairs from a single ion
authors: F. Rohde, J. Huwer, N. Piro, M. Almendros, C. Schuck, F. Dubin, J. Eschner
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4846
abstract: In the fluorescence light of a single atom, the probability for emission of a photon with certain polarization depends on the polarization of the photon emitted immediately before it. Here correlations of such kind are investigated with a single trapped calcium ion by means of second order correlation functions. A theoretical model is developed and fitted to the experimental data, which show 91% probability for the emission of polarization-correlated photon pairs within 24 ns.

id: 0911.4894
title: Thermal equilibrium of two quantum Brownian particles
authors: D. M. Valente, A. O. Caldeira
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012117 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4894
abstract: The influence of the environment in the thermal equilibrium properties of a bipartite continuous variable quantum system is studied. The problem is treated within a system-plus-reservoir approach. The considered model reproduces the conventional Brownian motion when the two particles are far apart and induces an effective interaction between them, depending on the choice of the spectral function of the bath. The coupling between the system and the environment guarantees the translational invariance of the system in the absence of an external potential. The entanglement between the particles is measured by the logarithmic negativity, which is shown to monotonically decrease with the increase of the temperature. A range of finite temperatures is found in which entanglement is still induced by the reservoir.

id: 0911.4898
title: The effect of decoherence on mixing time in continuous-time quantum walks on one-dimension regular networks
authors: S. Salimi, R. Radgohar
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures. Accepted for publication in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 8, No. 5 (2010) 795-806
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4898
abstract: In this paper, we study decoherence in continuous-time quantum walks (CTQWs) on one-dimension regular networks. For this purpose, we assume that every node is represented by a quantum dot continuously monitored by an individual point contact(Gurvitz's model). This measuring process induces decoherence. We focus on small rates of decoherence and then obtain the mixing time bound of the CTQWs on one-dimension regular network which its distance parameter is $l\geq 2$. Our results show that the mixing time is inversely proportional to rate of decoherence which is in agreement with the mentioned results for cycles in \cite{FST,VKR}. Also, the same result is provided in \cite{SSRR} for long-range interacting cycles. Moreover, we find that this quantity is independent of distance parameter $l(l\geq 2)$ and that the small values of decoherence make short the mixing time on these networks.

id: 0911.4947
title: Spectroscopic investigations of a Ti:Tm:LiNbO3 waveguide for photon-echo quantum memory
authors: N. Sinclair, E. Saglamyurek, M. George, R. Ricken, C. La Mela, W. Sohler, W. Tittel
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4947
abstract: We report the fabrication and characterization of a Ti$^{4+}$:Tm$^{3+}$:LiNbO$_3$ optical waveguide in view of photon-echo quantum memory applications. In particular, we investigated room- and cryogenic-temperature properties via absorption, spectral hole burning, photon echo, and Stark spectroscopy. We found radiative lifetimes of 82 $\mu$s and 2.4 ms for the $^3$H$_4$ and $^3$F$_4$ levels, respectively, and a 44% branching ratio from the $^3$H$_{4}$ to the $^3$F$_4$ level. We also measured an optical coherence time of 1.6 $\mu$s for the $^3$H$_6\leftrightarrow{}^3$H$_4$, 795 nm wavelength transition, and investigated the limitation of spectral diffusion to spectral hole burning. Upon application of magnetic fields of a few hundred Gauss, we observed persistent spectral holes with lifetimes up to seconds. Furthermore, we measured a linear Stark shift of 25 kHz$\cdot$cm/V. Our results are promising for integrated, electro-optical, waveguide quantum memory for photons.

id: 0911.4958
title: Efficient fluorescence collection from trapped ions with an integrated spherical mirror
authors: G. Shu, N. Kurz, M.R. Dietrich, B.B. Blinov
comments: 5 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4958
abstract: Efficient collection of fluorescence from trapped ions is crucial for quantum optics and quantum computing applications, specifically, for qubit state detection and in generating single photons for ion-photon and remote ion entanglement. In a typical setup, only a few per cent of ion fluorescence is intercepted by the aperture of the imaging optics. We employ a simple metallic spherical mirror integrated with a linear Paul ion trap to achieve photon collection efficiency of at least 10% from a single Ba$^+$ ion. An aspheric corrector is used to reduce the aberrations caused by the mirror and achieve high image quality.

id: 0911.4974
title: Experimental observation of Loschmidt time reversal of a Quantum Chaotic System
authors: A. Ullah, M. D. Hoogerland
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4974
abstract: We have performed an experiment to demonstrate the approximate time reversal of a "chaotic" time evolution of atomic deBroglie waves. We use ultra cold atoms from a Bose-Einstein condensate in a quantum $\delta$-kicked rotor experiment, and show that an initial state can be approximately re-created even after a period of "chaotic" evolution (a number of kicks). As this mechanism only works for a very narrow range of momenta, the net effect is a narrowing of the momentum distribution after the kick sequence.

id: 0911.5006
title: Irreducible MultiQutrit Correlations in Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger Type States
authors: Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 5p, no fig
journal: Physical Review A, 2011, 84(6):062328
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5006
abstract: Following the idea of the continuity approach in [D. L. Zhou, Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 180505 (2008)], we obtain the degrees of irreducible multi-party correlations in two families of $n$-qutrit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger type states. For the pure states in one of the families, the irreducible 2-party, $n$-party and $(n-m)$-party ($0< m < n-2$) correlations are nonzero, which is different from the $n$-qubit case. We also derive the correlation distributions in the $n$-qutrit maximal slice state, which can be uniquely determined by its $(n-1)$-qutrit reduced density matrices among pure states. It is proved that there is no irreducible $n$-qutrit correlation in the maximal slice state. This enlightens us to give a discussion about how to characterize the pure states with irreducible $n$-party correlation in arbitrarily high-dimensional systems by the way of the continuity approach.

id: 0911.5063
title: A proposal for investigating three-body forces in Aharonov-Bohm sytems
authors: Y.Ben-Aryeh
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5063
abstract: Although there is no force on the electron in Aharonov-Bohm solenoid effect, the electron exerts a force on the solenoid related to the inequality of action and reaction forces of two subsystems in three-system configuration. The AB phase which is related to the force exerted by the electron on the solenoid . The momentum changes of the mechanical oscillator are equal in magnitude and opposite in sign to the changes in the momentum of the em fields. It is proposed to investigate momentum changes of "micro" bodies producing magnetic fields in AB systems which will clarify the nature of these effects. The problem of magnetic fields shielded from the electron wave packet is also discussed.

id: 0911.5110
title: Transition from weak to strong measurements by nonlinear quantum feedback control
authors: Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Re-Bing Wu, Chun-Wen Li, Tzyh-Jong Tarn
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5110
abstract: We find that feedback control may induce "pseudo" nonlinear dynamics in a damped harmonic oscillator, whose centroid trajectory in the phase space behaves like a classical nonlinear system. Thus, similar to nonlinear amplifiers (e.g., rf-driven Josephson junctions), feedback control on the harmonic oscillator can induce nonlinear bifurcation, which can be used to amplify small signals and further to measure quantum states of qubits. Using the circuit QED systems as an example, we show how to apply our method to measure superconducting charge qubits.

id: 0911.5112
title: Operational multipartite entanglement classes for symmetric photonic qubit states
authors: N. Kiesel, W. Wieczorek, S. Krins, T. Bastin, H. Weinfurter, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032316 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5112
abstract: We present experimental schemes that allow to study the entanglement classes of all symmetric states in multiqubit photonic systems. In addition to comparing the presented schemes in efficiency, we will highlight the relation between the entanglement properties of symmetric Dicke states and a recently proposed entanglement scheme for atoms. In analogy to the latter, we obtain a one-to-one correspondence between well-defined sets of experimental parameters and multiqubit entanglement classes inside the symmetric subspace of the photonic system.

id: 0911.5115
title: A versatile source of polarization-entangled photons
authors: A. Maser, R. Wiegner, U. Schilling, C. Thiel, J. von Zanthier
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 053842 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5115
abstract: We propose a method for the generation of a large variety of entangled states, encoded in the polarization degrees of freedom of N photons, within the same experimental setup. Starting with uncorrelated photons, emitted from N arbitrary single photon sources, and using linear optical tools only, we demonstrate the creation of all symmetric states, e.g., GHZ- and W-states, as well as all symmetric and non-symmetric total angular momentum eigenstates of the N qubit compound.

id: 0911.5139
title: Measuring small longitudinal phase shifts: weak measurements or standard interferometry?
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Christoph Simon
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 010405 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5139
abstract: Recently, weak measurements were used to measure small effects that are transverse to the propagation direction of a light beam. Here we address the question whether weak measurements are also useful for measuring small longitudinal phase shifts. We show that standard interferometry greatly outperforms weak measurements in a scenario involving a purely real weak value. However, we also present an interferometric scheme based on a purely imaginary weak value, combined with a frequency-domain analysis, which may have potential to outperform standard interferometry by several orders of magnitude.

id: 0911.5160
title: Quantum state transfer via temporal kicking of information
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022319 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5160
abstract: We propose a strategy for perfect state transfer in spin chains based on the use of an unmodulated coupling Hamiltonian whose coefficients are explicitly time dependent. We show that, if specific and non-demanding conditions are satisfied by the temporal behavior of the coupling strengths, our model allows perfect state transfer. The paradigma put forward by our proposal holds the promises to set an alternative standard to the use of clever encoding and coupling-strength engineering for perfect state transfer.

id: 0911.5180
title: Monogamy and polygamy for multi-qubit entanglement using Rижnyi entropy
authors: Jeong San Kim, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 43(44): 442305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5180
abstract: Using R\'enyi-$\alpha$ entropy to quantify bipartite entanglement, we prove monogamy of entanglement in multi-qubit systems for $\alpha \geq 2$. We also conjecture a polygamy inequality of multi-qubit entanglement with strong numerical evidence for $0.83-\epsilon \leq \alpha \leq 1.43+\epsilon$ with $0<\epsilon<0.01$.

id: 0911.5181
title: Tsallis entropy and entanglement constraints in multi-qubit systems
authors: Jeong San Kim
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062328 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5181
abstract: We show that the restricted sharability and distribution of multi-qubit entanglement can be characterized by Tsallis-$q$ entropy. We first provide a class of bipartite entanglement measures named Tsallis-$q$ entanglement, and provide its analytic formula in two-qubit systems for $1 \leq q \leq 4$. For $2 \leq q \leq 3$, we show a monogamy inequality of multi-qubit entanglement in terms of Tsallis-$q$ entanglement, and we also provide a polygamy inequality using Tsallis-$q$ entropy for $1 \leq q \leq 2$ and $3 \leq q \leq 4$.

id: 0911.5207
title: Theory of Electro-optic Modulation via a Quantum Dot Coupled to a Nano-resonator
authors: Arka Majumdar, Nicolas Manquest, Andrei Faraon, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5207
abstract: In this paper, we analyze the performance of an electro-optic modulator based on a single quantum dot strongly coupled to a nano-resonator, where electrical control of the quantum dot frequency is achieved via quantum confined Stark effect. Using realistic system parameters, we show that modulation speeds of a few tens of GHz are achievable with this system, while the energy per switching operation can be as small as 0.5 fJ. In addition, we study the non-linear distortion, and the effect of pure quantum dot dephasing on the performance of the modulator.

id: 0911.5218
title: Direct observation of geometric phases using a three-pinhole interferometer
authors: H. Kobayashi, S. Tamate, T. Nakanishi, K. Sugiyama, M. Kitano
comments: 
journal: PhysRevA.81.012104,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5218
abstract: We present a method to measure the geometric phase defined for three internal states of a photon (polarizations) using a three-pinhole interferometer. From the interferogram, we can extract the geometric phase related to the three-vertex Bargmann invariant as the area of a triangle formed by interference fringes. Unlike the conventional methods, our method does not involve the state evolution. Moreover, the phase calibration of the interferometer and the elimination of the dynamical phase are not required. The gauge invariance of the geometric phase corresponds to the fact that the area of the triangle is never changed by the local phase shift in each internal state.

id: 0911.5236
title: Work exchange between quantum systems: the spin-oscillator model
authors: Heiko Schr?der, Gи╣nter Mahler
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 021118 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5236
abstract: With the development of quantum thermodynamics it has been shown that relaxation to thermal equilibrium and with it the concept of heat flux may emerge directly from quantum mechanics. This happens for a large class of quantum systems if embedded into another quantum environment. In this paper, we discuss the complementary question of the emergence of work flux from quantum mechanics. We introduce and discuss two different methods to assess the work source quality of a system, one based on the generalized factorization approximation, the other based on generalized definitions of work and heat. By means of those methods, we show that small quantum systems can, indeed, act as work reservoirs. We illustrate this behavior for a simple system consisting of a spin coupled to an oscillator and investigate the effects of two different interactions on the work source quality. One case will be shown to allow for a work source functionality of arbitrarily high quality.

id: 0911.5249
title: Weyl correspondence method to construct multipartite entangled quantum state
authors: Shuangxi Zhang, Xu Ma, Hongyi Fan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5249
abstract: Via the Weyl correspondence approach, we construct multipartite entangled state which is the common eigenvector of their center-of-mass coordinate and mass-weighted relative momenta. This approach is concise and effective for setting up the Fock representation of continuous multipartite entangled states. The technique of integration within an ordered product (IWOP) of operators is also essential in our derivation.

id: 0911.5261
title: Instantonic Methods for Quantum Tunneling in Finite Size
authors: Marco Zoli
comments: Brazilian Journal of Physics, in press
journal: Braz. J. Phys. vol. 39, pg.645 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5261
abstract: The instantonic approach for a $\phi^4$ model potential is reexamined in the asymptotic limit. The path integral of the system is derived in semiclassical approximation expanding the action around the classical background. It is shown that the singularity in the path integral, arising from the zero mode in the quantum fluctuation spectrum, can be tackled only assuming a {\it finite} (although large) system size. On the other hand the standard instantonic method assumes the (anti)kink as classical background. But the (anti)kink is the solution of the Euler-Lagrange equation for the {\it infinite} size system. This formal contradiction can be consistently overcome by the finite size instantonic theory based on the Jacobi elliptic functions formalism. In terms of the latter I derive in detail the classical background which solves the finite size Euler-Lagrange equation and obtain the general path integral in finite size. Both problem and solution offer an instructive example of fruitful interaction between mathematics and physics. {\bf Keywords: Path Integral Methods, Finite Size Systems, Instantons}

id: 0911.5300
title: Improving zero-error classical communication with entanglement
authors: Toby S. Cubitt, Debbie Leung, William Matthews, Andreas Winter
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. Version 2 is the same as the journal version plus figure 1 and the non-signalling box example
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 230503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5300
abstract: Given one or more uses of a classical channel, only a certain number of messages can be transmitted with zero probability of error. The study of this number and its asymptotic behaviour constitutes the field of classical zero-error information theory, the quantum generalisation of which has started to develop recently. We show that, given a single use of certain classical channels, entangled states of a system shared by the sender and receiver can be used to increase the number of (classical) messages which can be sent with no chance of error. In particular, we show how to construct such a channel based on any proof of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem. This is a new example of the use of quantum effects to improve the performance of a classical task. We investigate the connection between this phenomenon and that of ``pseudo-telepathy'' games. The use of generalised non-signalling correlations to assist in this task is also considered. In this case, a particularly elegant theory results and, remarkably, it is sometimes possible to transmit information with zero-error using a channel with no unassisted zero-error capacity.

id: 0911.5308
title: NOON states from cavity-enhanced down-conversion: High quality and super-resolution
authors: Florian Wolfgramm, Alessandro Cere, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 4 Pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, A25-A29 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5308
abstract: Indistinguishable photons play a key role in quantum optical information technologies. We characterize the output of an ultra-bright photon-pair source using multi-particle tomography [R. B. A. Adamson et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 043601 (2007)] and separately identify coherent errors, decoherence, and distinguishability. We demonstrate generation of high-quality indistinguishable pairs and polarization NOON states with 99% fidelity to an ideal NOON state. Using a NOON state we perform a super-resolving angular measurement with 90% visibility.

id: 0911.5320
title: Entangling remote nuclear spins linked by a chromophore
authors: Marcus Schaffry, Vasileia Filidou, Steven D. Karlen, Erik M. Gauger, Simon C. Benjamin, Harry L. Anderson, Arzhang Ardavan, G. Andrew D. Briggs, Kiminori Maeda, Kevin B. Henbest, Feliciano Giustino, John J. L. Morton, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 200501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5320
abstract: Molecular nanostructures may constitute the fabric of future quantum technologies, if their degrees of freedom can be fully harnessed. Ideally one might use nuclear spins as low-decoherence qubits and optical excitations for fast controllable interactions. Here, we present a method for entangling two nuclear spins through their mutual coupling to a transient optically-excited electron spin, and investigate its feasibility through density functional theory and experiments on a test molecule. From our calculations we identify the specific molecular properties that permit high entangling power gates under simple optical and microwave pulses; synthesis of such molecules is possible with established techniques.

id: 0911.5321
title: A new Coherent-Entangled state generated by an asymmetric beam splitter and its applications
authors: Xu Ma, Shuangxi Zhang, Gang Ren
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5321
abstract: A new kind of tripartite non-symmetric coordinate coherent-entangled state (TNCCES) $ | \beta,\gamma,x >$ is proposed which exhibits the properties of both coherence and entanglement and makes up a new quantum mechanical representation.We investigate some properties of TNCCES such as completeness and orthogonality which prove it is just a tripartite complete continuous coordinate base. A protocol for generating TNCCES is proposed using asymmetric beam splitter. And in application of TNCCES, we find its corresponding Wigner operator and carry out its marginal distribution form; further a new tripartite entangled squeezed operator is also presented. The multipartite CES and its generation are also disussed.

id: 0911.5322
title: Tunable joint measurements in the dispersive regime of cavity QED
authors: Kevin Lalumiииre, J. M. Gambetta, Alexandre Blais
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 040301(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5322
abstract: Joint measurements of multiple qubits have been shown to open new possibilities for quantum information processing. Here, we present an approach based on homodyne detection to realize such measurements in the dispersive regime of cavity/circuit QED. By changing details of the measurement, the readout can be tuned from extracting only single-qubit to only multi-qubit properties. We obtain a reduced stochastic master equation describing this measurement and its effect on the qubits. As an example, we present results showing parity measurements of two qubits. In this situation, measurement of an initially unentangled state can yield with near unit probability a state of significant concurrence.

id: 0911.5323
title: Higher-order properties and Bell-inequality violation for the three-mode enhanced squeezed state
authors: Shuangxi Zhang, Hongchun Yuan, Hongyi Fan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5323
abstract: By extending the usual two-mode squeezing operator $S_{2}=\exp [ i\lambda (Q_{1}P_{2}+Q_{2}P_{1}) ] $ to the three-mode squeezing operator $S_{3}=\exp {i\lambda [ Q_{1}(P_{2}+P_{3}) +Q_{2}(P_{1}+P_{3}) +Q_{3}(P_{1}+P_{2}) ]} $, we obtain the corresponding three-mode squeezed coherent state. The state's higher-order properties, such as higher-order squeezing and higher-order sub-Possonian photon statistics, are investigated. It is found that the new squeezed state not only can be squeezed to all even orders but also exhibits squeezing enhancement comparing with the usual cases. In addition, we examine the violation of Bell-inequality for the three-mode squeezed states by using the formalism of Wigner representation.

id: 0911.5364
title: Constraints on stable equilibria with fluctuation-induced forces
authors: Sahand Jamal Rahi, Mehran Kardar, Thorsten Emig
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:070404,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5364
abstract: We examine whether fluctuation-induced forces can lead to stable levitation. First, we analyze a collection of classical objects at finite temperature that contain fixed and mobile charges, and show that any arrangement in space is unstable to small perturbations in position. This extends Earnshaw's theorem for electrostatics by including thermal fluctuations of internal charges. Quantum fluctuations of the electromagnetic field are responsible for Casimir/van der Waals interactions. Neglecting permeabilities, we find that any equilibrium position of items subject to such forces is also unstable if the permittivities of all objects are higher or lower than that of the enveloping medium; the former being the generic case for ordinary materials in vacuum.

id: 0911.5405
title: Robust Entanglement in Anti-ferromagnetic Heisenberg Chains by Single-spin Optimal Control
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Abolfazl Bayat, Sophie G Schirmer, Sougato Bose
comments: 10 pages, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032312 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5405
abstract: We demonstrate how near-perfect entanglement (in fact arbitrarily close to maximal entanglement) can be generated between the end spins of an anti-ferromagnetic isotropic Heisenberg chain of length $N$, starting from the ground state in the $N/2$ excitation subspace, by applying a magnetic field along a given direction, acting on a single spin only. Temporally optimal magnetic fields to generate a singlet pair between the two end spins of the chain are calculated for chains up to length 20 using optimal control theory. The optimal fields are shown to remain effective in various non-ideal situations including thermal fluctuations, magnetic field leakage, random system couplings and decoherence. Furthermore, the quality of the entanglement generated can be substantially improved by taking these imperfections into account in the optimization. In particular, the optimal pulse of a given thermal initial state is also optimal for any other initial thermal state with lower temperature.

id: 0911.5409
title: Testing axioms for Quantum Mechanics on Probabilistic toy-theories
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Alessandro Tosini
comments: Submitted to QIP Special Issue on Foundations of Quantum Information
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 9, 95-141 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5409
abstract: In Ref. [1] one of the authors proposed postulates for axiomatizing Quantum Mechanics as a "fair operational framework", namely regarding the theory as a set of rules that allow the experimenter to predict future events on the basis of suitable tests, having local control and low experimental complexity. In addition to causality, the following postulates have been considered: PFAITH (existence of a pure preparationally faithful state), and FAITHE (existence of a faithful effect). These postulates have exhibited an unexpected theoretical power, excluding all known nonquantum probabilistic theories. Later in Ref. [2] in addition to causality and PFAITH, postulate LDISCR (local discriminability) and PURIFY (purifiability of all states) have been considered, narrowing the probabilistic theory to something very close to Quantum Mechanics. In the present paper we test the above postulates on some nonquantum probabilistic models. The first model, "the two-box world" is an extension of the Popescu-Rohrlich model, which achieves the greatest violation of the CHSH inequality compatible with the no-signaling principle. The second model "the two-clock world" is actually a full class of models, all having a disk as convex set of states for the local system. One of them corresponds to the "the two-rebit world", namely qubits with real Hilbert space. The third model--"the spin-factor"--is a sort of n-dimensional generalization of the clock. Finally the last model is "the classical probabilistic theory". We see how each model violates some of the proposed postulates, when and how teleportation can be achieved, and we analyze other interesting connections between these postulate violations, along with deep relations between the local and the non-local structures of the probabilistic theory.

id: 0911.5417
title: Unified View of Quantum and Classical Correlations
authors: Kavan Modi, Tomasz Paterek, Wonmin Son, Vlatko Vedral, Mark Williamson
comments: 5 pages, two figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 080501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5417
abstract: We discuss the problem of the separation of total correlations in a given quantum state into entanglement, dissonance, and classical correlations using the concept of relative entropy as a distance measure of correlations. This allows us to put all correlations on an equal footing. Entanglement and dissonance, whose definition is introduced here, jointly belong to what is known as quantum discord. Our methods are completely applicable for multipartite systems of arbitrary dimensions. We investigate additivity relations between different correlations and show that dissonance may be present in pure multipartite states.

id: 0911.5427
title: Environmental correlation effects on excitation energy transfer in photosynthetic light harvesting
authors: Mohan Sarovar, Yuan-Chung Cheng, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. New results in this version. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E, 83, 011906 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5427
abstract: Several recent studies of energy transfer in photosynthetic light harvesting complexes have revealed a subtle interplay between coherent and decoherent dynamic contributions to the overall transfer efficiency in these open quantum systems. In this work we systematically investigate the impact of temporal and spatial correlations in environmental fluctuations on excitation transport in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson photosynthetic complex. We demonstrate that the exact nature of the correlations can have a large impact on the efficiency of light harvesting. In particular, we find that (i) spatial correlations can enhance coherences in the site basis while at the same time slowing transport, and (ii) the overall efficiency of transport is optimized at a finite temporal correlation that produces maximum overlap between the environmental power spectrum and the excitonic energy differences, which in turn results in enhanced driving of transitions between excitonic states.

id: 0911.5429
title: Quantum System Identification: Hamiltonian Estimation using Spectral and Bayesian Analysis
authors: S. G. Schirmer, F. C. Langbein
comments: 4 pages, submitted to ISCCSP09
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5429
abstract: Identifying the Hamiltonian of a quantum system from experimental data is considered. General limits on the identifiability of model parameters with limited experimental resources are investigated, and a specific Bayesian estimation procedure is proposed and evaluated for a model system where a-priori information about the Hamiltonian's structure is available.

id: 0911.5465
title: Hierarchical Genetic Algorithm Approach to Determine Pulse Sequences in NMR
authors: Ashok Ajoy, Anil Kumar
comments: v2: simple errors and typos fixed. Comments are especially welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5465
abstract: We develop a new class of genetic algorithm that computationally determines efficient pulse sequences to implement a quantum gate U in a three-qubit system. The method is shown to be quite general, and the same algorithm can be used to derive efficient sequences for a variety of target matrices. We demonstrate this by implementing the inversion-on-equality gate efficiently when the spin-spin coupling constants $J_{12}=J_{23}=J$ and $J_{13}=0$. We also propose new pulse sequences to implement the Parity gate and Fanout gate, which are about 50% more efficient than the previous best efforts. Moreover, these sequences are shown to require significantly less RF power for their implementation. The proposed algorithm introduces several new features in the conventional genetic algorithm framework. We use matrices instead of linear chains, and the columns of these matrices have a well defined hierarchy. The algorithm is a genetic algorithm coupled to a fast local optimizer, and is hence a hybrid GA. It shows fast convergence, and running on a MATLAB platform takes about 20 minutes on a standard personal computer to derive efficient pulse sequences for any target 8X8 matrix $U$.

id: 0911.5467
title: Algorithmic approach to simulate Hamiltonian dynamics and an NMR simulation of Quantum State Transfer
authors: Ashok Ajoy, Rama Koteswara Rao, Anil Kumar, Pranaw Rungta
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 85, 030303(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5467
abstract: We propose an iterative algorithm to simulate the dynamics generated by any $n$-qubit Hamiltonian. The simulation entails decomposing the unitary time evolution operator $U$ (unitary) into a product of different time-step unitaries. The algorithm product-decomposes $U$ in a chosen operator basis by identifying a certain symmetry of $U$ that is intimately related to the number of gates in the decomposition. We illustrate the algorithm by first obtaining a polynomial decomposition in the Pauli basis of the $n$-qubit Quantum State Transfer unitary by Di Franco et. al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 230502 (2008)) that transports quantum information from one end of a spin chain to the other; and then implement it in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance to demonstrate that the decomposition is experimentally viable and well-scaled. We furthur experimentally test the resilience of the state transfer to static errors in the coupling parameters of the simulated Hamiltonian. This is done by decomposing and simulating the corresponding imperfect unitaries.

id: 0911.5557
title: Reverse Engineering with Quantum Noise
authors: Muhammed Yonac, Joseph H. Eberly
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5557
abstract: We show that specific quantum noise, acting as an open-system reservoir for non-locally entangled atoms, can serve to preserve rather than degrade joint coherence. This creates a new type of long-time control over hiding and recovery of quantum entanglement.

id: 0911.5596
title: Spin Systems and Computational Complexity
authors: Daniel Gottesman
comments: 3 pages, prepared for a special issue of Physics in Canada
journal: Physics in Canada, vol. 66, no. 2, pp. 87-89, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5596
abstract: I give a very brief non-technical introduction to the intersection of the fields of spin systems and computational complexity. The focus is on spin glasses and their relationship to NP-complete problems.

id: 0911.5605
title: Quantum anonymous voting with anonymity check
authors: Dmitri Horoshko, Sergei Kilin
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 375, 1172-1175 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5605
abstract: We propose a new protocol for quantum anonymous voting having serious advantages over the existing protocols: it protects both the voters from a curious tallyman and all the participants from a dishonest voter in unconditional way. The central idea of the protocol is that the ballots are given back to the voters after the voting process, which gives a possibility for two voters to check the anonymity of the vote counting process by preparing a special entangled state of two ballots. Any attempt of cheating from the side of the tallyman results in destroying the entanglement, which can be detected by the voters.

id: 0911.5607
title: Davies maps for qubits and qutrits
authors: Wojciech Roga, Mark Fannes, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: Reports on Mathematical Physics, 66, 311-329 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5607
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of an N -level quantum system weakly coupled to a thermal reservoir. For any fixed temperature of the bath there exists a natural reference state: the equilibrium state of the system. Among all quantum operations on the system one distinguishes Davies maps, they pre- serve the equilibrium state, satisfy the detailed balance condition and belong to a semi-group. A complete characterization of the three dimensional set of qubit Davies maps is given. We analyze these maps and find their mini- mum output entropy. A characterization of Davies maps for qutrits is also provided.

id: 0911.5610
title: Efficient creation of multipartite entanglement in flux qubits
authors: Johannes Ferber, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures; extended sections on coupling strength, system preparation, and entanglement detection
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5610
abstract: We investigate three superconducting flux qubits coupled in a loop. In this setup, tripartite entanglement can be created in a natural, controllable, and stable way. Both generic kinds of tripartite entanglement -the W type as well as the GHZ type entanglement- can be identified among the eigenstates. We also discuss the violation of Bell inequalities in this system and show the impact of a limited measurement fidelity on the detection of entanglement and quantum nonlocality.

id: 0911.5675
title: Classical limit of the quantum Zeno effect
authors: Paolo Facchi, Sandro Graffi, Marilena Ligabи░
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 032001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5675
abstract: The evolution of a quantum system subjected to infinitely many measurements in a finite time interval is confined in a proper subspace of the Hilbert space. This phenomenon is called "quantum Zeno effect": a particle under intensive observation does not evolve. This effect is at variance with the classical evolution, which obviously is not affected by any observations. By a semiclassical analysis we will show that the quantum Zeno effect vanishes at all orders, when the Planck constant tends to zero, and thus it is a purely quantum phenomenon without classical analog, at the same level of tunneling.

id: 0911.5701
title: Fundamental physics on natures of the macroscopic vacuum under high intense electromagnetic fields with accelerators
authors: Kensuke Homma
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings, Volume 1153, pp. 49-60 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5701
abstract: High intense electromagnetic fields can be unique probes to study natures of macroscopic vacua by themselves. Combining accelerators with the intense field can provide more fruitful probes which can neither be achieved by only intense fields nor only high energy accelerators. We will overview the natures of vacua which can be accessible via intense laser-laser and intense laser-electron interactions. In the case of the laser-laser interaction, we propose how to observe nonlinear QED effects and effects of new fields like light scalar and pseudo scalar fields which may contribute to a macroscopic nature of our universe such as dark energy. In the case of the laser-electron interaction, in addition to nonlinear QED effects, we can further discuss the nature of accelerating field in the vacuum where we can access physics related with event horizons such as Hawking-Unruh radiations. We will introduce a recent experimental trial to search for this kind of odd radiations.

id: 0911.5714
title: Coherent-Light Boosted, Super-Sensitive, Quantum Interferometry
authors: William N. Plick, Jonathan P. Dowling, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5714
abstract: We present in this letter a scheme for optical interferometry. We utilize coherent-beam-stimulated two-mode squeezed light, which interacts with a phase shifter and is then squeezed again before detection. Our theoretical device has the potential to reach far below the shot noise limit (SNL) in phase sensitivity. This new proposal avoids the pitfalls of other setups, such as difficulty in creating the required resource. Furthermore, our scheme requires no complicated detection protocol, relying instead only on simple intensity measurement. Also, bright, coherent sources "boost" squeezed light, creating a very sensitive device. This hybrid scheme relies on no unknown components and can be constructed with current technology. In the following we present our analysis of this relatively straightforward device, using the operator propagation method. We derive the phase sensitivity and provide a simple numerical example of the power of our new proposal. Sensitivity scales as a shot noise limited Mach-Zehnder Interferometer, multiplied by a sub-Heisenberg contribution from the squeezed light.

id: 0911.5729
title: Critical dynamics of decoherence
authors: Bogdan Damski, H. T. Quan, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 8 pages; version accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A83: 062104,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5729
abstract: We study decoherence induced by a dynamic environment undergoing a quantum phase transition. Environment's susceptibility to perturbations - and, consequently, efficiency of decoherence - is amplified near a critical point. Over and above this near-critical susceptibility increase, we show that decoherence is dramatically enhanced by non-equilibrium critical dynamics of the environment. We derive a simple expression relating decoherence to the universal critical exponents exhibiting deep connections with the theory of topological defect creation in non-equilibrium phase transitions.

id: 0911.0056
title: Thermodynamic entropy of a many body energy eigenstate
authors: J.M. Deutsch
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0056
abstract: It is argued that a typical many body energy eigenstate has a well defined thermodynamic entropy and that individual eigenstates possess thermodynamic characteristics analogous to those of generic isolated systems. We examine large systems with eigenstate energies equivalent to finite temperatures. When quasi-static evolution of a system is adiabatic (in the quantum mechanical sense), two coupled subsystems can transfer heat from one subsystem to another yet remain in an energy eigenstate. To explicitly construct the entropy from the wave function, degrees of freedom are divided into two unequal parts. It is argued that the entanglement entropy between these two subsystems is the thermodynamic entropy per degree of freedom for the smaller subsystem. This is done by tracing over the larger subsystem to obtain a density matrix, and calculating the diagonal and off-diagonal contributions to the entanglement entropy.

id: 0911.0076
title: Entanglement and Second Quantization in the Framework of the Fermionic Projector
authors: Felix Finster
comments: 41 pages, LaTeX, 2 figures, shortened (published version, supplemented by appendix)
journal: J.Phys.A43:395302,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0076
abstract: A method is developed for realizing entanglement and general second quantized fermionic and bosonic fields in the framework of the fermionic projector.

id: 0911.0110
title: Bhattacharyya statistical divergence of quantum observables
authors: V. Majernik, S. Shpyrko
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Reports on mathematical physics, v. 61 N3, 319-325 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0110
abstract: In this article we exploit the Bhattacharyya statistical divergence to determine the similarity of probability distributions of quantum observables. After brief review of useful characteristics of the Bhattacharyya divergence we apply it to determine the similarity of probability distributions of two non-commuting observables. An explicit expression for the Bhattacharyya statistical divergence is found for the case of two observables which are the x- and z-components of the angular momentum of a spin-1/2 system. Finally, a note is given of application of the considered statistical divergence to the specific physical measurement.

id: 0911.0251
title: Spatial-Dispersion Cancellation in Quantum Interferometry
authors: D.S. Simon, A.V. Sergienko
comments: To Appear in Phys. Rev. A. 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0251
abstract: We investigate cancellation of spatial aberrations induced by an object placed in a quantum coincidence interferometer with type-II parametric down conversion as a light source. We analyze in detail the physical mechanism by which the cancellation occurs, and show that the aberration cancels only when the object resides in one particular plane within the apparatus. In addition, we show that for a special case of the apparatus it is possible to produce simultaneous cancellation of both even-order and odd-order aberrations in this plane.

id: 0911.0462
title: Strange Bedfellows: Quantum Mechanics and Data Mining
authors: Marvin Weinstein
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, Invited Talk at Light Cone 2009
journal: 
subjects: Learning (cs.LG); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0462
abstract: Last year, in 2008, I gave a talk titled {\it Quantum Calisthenics}. This year I am going to tell you about how the work I described then has spun off into a most unlikely direction. What I am going to talk about is how one maps the problem of finding clusters in a given data set into a problem in quantum mechanics. I will then use the tricks I described to let quantum evolution lets the clusters come together on their own.

id: 0911.0556
title: Thermodynamics of Quantum Jump Trajectories
authors: Juan P. Garrahan, Igor Lesanovsky
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 160601 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0556
abstract: We apply the large-deviation method to study trajectories in dissipative quantum systems. We show that in the long time limit the statistics of quantum jumps can be understood from thermodynamic arguments by exploiting the analogy between large-deviation and free-energy functions. This approach is particularly useful for uncovering properties of rare dissipative trajectories. We also prove, via an explicit quantum mapping, that rare trajectories of one system can be realized as typical trajectories of an alternative system.

id: 0911.0794
title: The Role of Interactions in an Electronic Fabry-Perot Interferometer Operating in the Quantum Hall Effect Regime
authors: Nissim Ofek, Aveek Bid, Moty Heiblum, Ady Stern, Vladimir Umansky, Diana Mahalu
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: PNAS 107, 5276-5281 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0794
abstract: Interference of edge channels is expected to be a prominent tool for studying statistics of charged quasiparticles in the quantum Hall effect (QHE) [A. Stern (2008), Ann. Phys. 1:204; C. Chamon et al. (1997), Phys. Rev. B, 55:2331]. We present here a detailed study of an electronic Fabry-Perot interferometer (FPI) operating in the QHE regime [C. Chamon et al. (1997), Phys. Rev. B, 55:2331], with the phase of the interfering quasiparticles controlled by the Aharonov-Bohm (AB) effect. Our main finding is that Coulomb interactions among the electrons dominate the interference, even in a relatively large area FPI, leading to a strong dependence of the area enclosed by the interference loop on the magnetic field. In particular, for a composite edge structure, with a few independent edge channels propagating along the edge, interference of the outmost edge channel (belonging to the lowest Landau level) was insensitive to magnetic field; suggesting a constant enclosed flux. However, when any of the inner edge channels interfered, the enclosed flux decreased when the magnetic field increased. By intentionally varying the enclosed area with a biased metallic gate and observing the periodicity of the interference pattern, charges e (for integer filling factors) and e/3 (for a fractional filling factor) were found to be expelled from the FPI. Moreover, these observations provided also a novel way of detecting the charge of the interfering quasiparticles.

id: 0911.0800
title: Loading atom lasers by collectivity-enhanced optical pumping
authors: M. A. Macovei, J. Evers
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 013626 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0800
abstract: The effect of collectivity on the loading of an atom laser via optical pumping is discussed. In our model, atoms in a beam are laser-excited and subsequently spontaneously decay into a trapping state. We consider the case of sufficiently high particle density in the beam such that the spontaneous emission is modified by the particle interaction. We show that the collective effects lead to a better population of the trapping state over a wide range of system parameters, and that the second order correlation function of the atoms can be controlled by the applied laser field.

id: 0911.0975
title: Similarity of zitterbewegung of electron to the Adler-Bell-Jackiw anomaly in QED: its observable manifestation in graphene
authors: S. Arunagiri
comments: Revised: an new section added, a figure included. 4 pages, few references added
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.0975
abstract: The zitterbewegung being proportional to $\sin(\epsilon t)$, it is depicted as the motion of electron from the positive energy state to that of the negative energy and vice versa in the neighbourhood of Dirac point. Since such transition involves crossing the Dirac point, the same may be the possible realisation and measure of the zitterbewegung. In this respect, we draw a similirity between the zitterbewegung and the Adler-Bell-Jackiw anomaly in (1+1) QED. In a time dependent perturbation theory, the embodiment of zitterbewegung is envisaged in the context of graphene.

id: 0911.1123
title: Casimir Effect for a Semitransparent Wedge and an Annular Piston
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Jef Wagner, Klaus Kirsten
comments: 28 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D80:125028,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1123
abstract: We consider the Casimir energy due to a massless scalar field in a geometry of an infinite wedge closed by a Dirichlet circular cylinder, where the wedge is formed by $\delta$-function potentials, so-called semitransparent boundaries. A finite expression for the Casimir energy corresponding to the arc and the presence of both semitransparent potentials is obtained, from which the torque on the sidewalls can be derived. The most interesting part of the calculation is the nontrivial nature of the angular mode functions. Numerical results are obtained which are closely analogous to those recently found for a magnetodielectric wedge, with the same speed of light on both sides of the wedge boundaries. Alternative methods are developed for annular regions with radial semitransparent potentials, based on reduced Green's functions for the angular dependence, which allows calculations using the multiple-scattering formalism. Numerical results corresponding to the torque on the radial plates are likewise computed, which generalize those for the wedge geometry. Generally useful formulas for calculating Casimir energies in separable geometries are derived.

id: 0911.1169
title: Two-dimensional macroscopic quantum dynamics in YBCO Josephson junctions
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Takeo Kato, Floriana Lombardi, Thilo Bauch
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 23 (2009) 4329
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1169
abstract: We theoretically study classical thermal activation (TA) and macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) for a YBCO Josephson junction coupled with an LC circuit. The TA and MQT escape rate are calculated by taking into account the two-dimensional nature of the classical and quantum phase dynamics. We find that the MQT escape rate is largely suppressed by the coupling to the LC circuit. On the other hand, this coupling leads to the slight reduction of the TA escape rate. These results are relevant for the interpretation of a recent experiment on the MQT and TA phenomena in YBCO bi-epitaxial Josephson junctions.

id: 0911.1330
title: Exciton-assisted optomechanics with suspended carbon nanotubes
authors: I. Wilson-Rae, C. Galland, W. Zwerger, A. Imamoglu
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 115003 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1330
abstract: We propose a framework for inducing strong optomechanical effects in a suspended carbon nanotube based on deformation potential exciton-phonon coupling. The excitons are confined using an inhomogeneous axial electric field which generates optically active quantum dots with a level spacing in the milli-electronvolt range and a characteristic size in the 10-nanometer range. A transverse field induces a tunable parametric coupling between the quantum dot and the flexural modes of the nanotube mediated by electron-phonon interactions. We derive the corresponding excitonic deformation potentials and show that this interaction enables efficient optical ground-state cooling of the fundamental mode and could allow us to realise the strong and ultra-strong coupling regimes of the Jaynes-Cummings and Rabi models.

id: 0911.1396
title: One-step multi-qubit GHZ state generation in a circuit QED system
authors: Ying-Dan Wang, Stefano Chesi, Daniel Loss, Christoph Bruder
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 104524 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1396
abstract: We propose a one-step scheme to generate GHZ states for superconducting flux qubits or charge qubits in a circuit QED setup. The GHZ state can be produced within the coherence time of the multi-qubit system. Our scheme is independent of the initial state of the transmission line resonator and works in the presence of higher harmonic modes. Our analysis also shows that the scheme is robust to various operation errors and environmental noise.

id: 0911.1479
title: Is the spacetime metric Euclidean rather than Lorentzian?
authors: Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: plainTeX, 21 pages, 1 figure (in color). Correction made to eq. 6: a previous version erroneously gave Re(f(z)) rather than Im(f(z)). (Thanks to Adam Brown for this correction.) Most current version is available at this http URL (or wherever my home-page may be). To appear in {\it Recent Research in Quantum Gravity}, ed. A. Dasgupta
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1479
abstract: My answer to the question in the title is "No". In support of this point of view, we analyze some examples of saddle-point methods, especially as applied to quantum "tunneling" in nonrelativistic particle mechanics and in cosmology. Along the way we explore some of the interrelationships among different ways of thinking about path-integrals and saddle-point approximations to them.

id: 0911.1539
title: Nonequilibrium dynamical ferromagnetism of interacting Single-Molecule Magnets
authors: Gui-Bin Liu, Bang-Gui Liu
comments: 3 pages
journal: APPLIED PHYSICS LETTERS 95, 183110 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1539
abstract: We propose a nonequilibrium Monte Carlo (MC) approach to explore nonequilibrium dynamical ferromagnetism of interacting single molecule magnets (SMMs). Both quantum spin tunneling and thermally activated spin reversal are successfully implemented in the same MC simulation framework. Applied to a typical example, this simulation method satisfactorily reproduces experimental magnetization curves with experimental parameters. Our results show that both quantum and classical effects are essential to determine the hysteresis behaviors. This method is effective and reliable to gain deep insights into SMMs.

id: 0911.1585
title: Infinitely many shape invariant potentials and cubic identities of the Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 13 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys.51:053513,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1585
abstract: We provide analytic proofs for the shape invariance of the recently discovered (Odake and Sasaki, Phys. Lett. B679 (2009) 414-417) two families of infinitely many exactly solvable one-dimensional quantum mechanical potentials. These potentials are obtained by deforming the well-known radial oscillator potential or the Darboux-P\"oschl-Teller potential by a degree \ell (\ell=1,2,...) eigenpolynomial. The shape invariance conditions are attributed to new polynomial identities of degree 3\ell involving cubic products of the Laguerre or Jacobi polynomials. These identities are proved elementarily by combining simple identities.

id: 0911.1627
title: Basic-deformed quantum mechanics
authors: A. Lavagno
comments: 10 pages
journal: Rept.Math.Phys.64:79,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1627
abstract: Starting on the basis of $q$-symmetric oscillator algebra and on the associate $q$-calculus properties, we study a deformed quantum mechanics defined in the framework of the basic square-integrable wave functions space. In this context, we introduce a deformed Schroedinger equation, which satisfies the main quantum mechanics assumptions and admits, in the free case, plane wave functions that can be expressed in terms of the q-deformed exponential, originally introduced in the framework of the basic-hypergeometric functions.

id: 0911.1635
title: Intermediate statistics as a consequence of deformed algebra
authors: A. Lavagno, P. Narayana Swamy
comments: 18 pages, to appear in Physica A
journal: Physica A 389 (2010) 993
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1635
abstract: We present a formulation of the deformed oscillator algebra which leads to intermediate statistics as a continuous interpolation between the Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics. It is deduced that a generalized permutation or exchange symmetry leads to the introduction of the basic number and it is then established that this in turn leads to the deformed algebra of oscillators. We obtain the mean occupation number describing the particles obeying intermediate statistics which thus establishes the interpolating statistics and describe boson like and fermion like particles obeying intermediate statistics. We also obtain an expression for the mean occupation number in terms of an infinite continued fraction, thus clarifying successive approximations.

id: 0911.1915
title: Deflection of field-free aligned molecules
authors: E. Gershnabel, I. Sh. Averbukh
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1915
abstract: We consider deflection of polarizable molecules by inhomogeneous optical fields, and analyze the role of molecular orientation and rotation in the scattering process. It is shown that molecular rotation induces spectacular rainbow-like features in the distribution of the scattering angle. Moreover, by pre-shaping molecular angular distribution with the help of short and strong femtosecond laser pulses, one may efficiently control the scattering process, manipulate the average deflection angle and its distribution, and reduce substantially the angular dispersion of the deflected molecules. This opens new ways for many applications involving molecular focusing, guiding and trapping by optical and static fields.

id: 0911.1917
title: Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg interferometry
authors: S.N. Shevchenko, S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 34 single-column pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rept. 492, 1 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1917
abstract: A transition between energy levels at an avoided crossing is known as a Landau-Zener transition. When a two-level system (TLS) is subject to periodic driving with sufficiently large amplitude, a sequence of transitions occurs. The phase accumulated between transitions (commonly known as the Stuckelberg phase) may result in constructive or destructive interference. Accordingly, the physical observables of the system exhibit periodic dependence on the various system parameters. This phenomenon is often referred to as Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg (LZS) interferometry. Phenomena related to LZS interferometry occur in a variety of physical systems. In particular, recent experiments on LZS interferometry in superconducting TLSs (qubits) have demonstrated the potential for using this kind of interferometry as an effective tool for obtaining the parameters characterizing the TLS as well as its interaction with the control fields and with the environment. Furthermore, strong driving could allow for fast and reliable control of the quantum system. Here we review recent experimental results on LZS interferometry, and we present related theory.

id: 0911.1930
title: Entanglement and magnetic order
authors: Luigi Amico, Rosario Fazio
comments: 29 pages, 10 eps figures. Review article for the special issue "Entanglement entropy in extended systems" in J. Phys. A, edited by P. Calabrese, J. Cardy and B. Doyon
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. vol. 42, 504001 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1930
abstract: In recent years quantum statistical mechanics have benefited of cultural interchanges with quantum information science. There is a bulk of evidence that quantifying the entanglement allows a fine analysis of many relevant properties of many-body quantum systems. Here we review the relation between entanglement and the various type of magnetic order occurring in interacting spin systems.

id: 0911.1999
title: Magnetically Controlled Exchange Process in an Ultracold Atom-Dimer Mixture
authors: S. Knoop, F. Ferlaino, M. Berninger, M. Mark, H.-C. N?gerl, R. Grimm, J. P. D'Incao, B. D. Esry
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 053201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1999
abstract: We report on the observation of an elementary exchange process in an optically trapped ultracold sample of atoms and Feshbach molecules. We can magnetically control the energetic nature of the process and tune it from endoergic to exoergic, enabling the observation of a pronounced threshold behavior. In contrast to relaxation to more deeply bound molecular states, the exchange process does not lead to trap loss. We find excellent agreement between our experimental observations and calculations based on the solutions of three-body Schr\"odinger equation in the adiabatic hyperspherical representation. The high efficiency of the exchange process is explained by the halo character of both the initial and final molecular states.

id: 0911.2201
title: Quantum Zeno effect and dynamics
authors: Paolo Facchi, Marilena Ligabи░
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 022103 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2201
abstract: If frequent measurements ascertain whether a quantum system is still in a given subspace, it remains in that subspace and a quantum Zeno effect takes place. The limiting time evolution within the projected subspace is called quantum Zeno dynamics. This phenomenon is related to the limit of a product formula obtained by intertwining the time evolution group with an orthogonal projection. By introducing a novel product formula we will give a characterization of the quantum Zeno effect for finite-rank projections, in terms of a spectral decay property of the Hamiltonian in the range of the projections. Moreover, we will also characterize its limiting quantum Zeno dynamics and exhibit its (not necessarily lower-bounded) generator as a generalized mean value Hamiltonian.

id: 0911.2423
title: Cove: A Practical Quantum Computer Programming Framework
authors: Matt Purkeypile
comments: Doctoral dissertation, 272 pages
journal: 
subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2423
abstract: While not yet in commercial existence, quantum computers have the ability to solve certain classes of problems that are not efficiently solvable on existing Turing Machine based (classical) computers. For quantum computers to be of use, methods of programming them must exist. Proposals exist for programming quantum computers, but all of the existing ones suffer from flaws that make them impractical in commercial software development environments. Cove is a framework for programming quantum computers that extends existing classical languages to allow for quantum computation, thus providing a quantum computing toolkit for commercial software developers. Since the target users of Cove are commercial developers, it is an object oriented framework that can be used by multiple languages and also places emphasis on complete documentation. The focus of Cove is not so much on the software product, but on the fundamental concepts that make quantum computing practical for common developers.

id: 0911.2488
title: Motion equations for relativistic particles in an external electromagnetic field in scale relativity
authors: Marie-No?lle Cижlижrier, Laurent Nottale
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, to appear in the proceedings of the Rencontres TRANS-ERI-COD 2009, held in Avignon (France), 15-17 June 2009
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2488
abstract: Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations are the motion equations for relativistic particles with spin 0 (so-called scalar particles) and 1/2 (electron/positron) respectively. For a free particle, the Dirac equation is derived from the Klein-Gordon equation by taking its square root in a bi-quaternionic formalism fully justified by the first principles of the scale relativity theory. This is no more true when an external electro-magnetic field comes into play. If one tries to derive the electro-magnetic Dirac equation in a manner analogous to the one used when this field is absent, one obtains an additional term which is the relativistic analogue of the spin-magnetic field coupling term encountered in the Pauli equation, valid for a non-relativistic particle with spin 1/2. There is however a method to recover the standard form of the electro-magnetic Dirac equation, with no additional term, which amounts modifying the way both covariances involved here, quantum and scale, are implemented. Without going into technical details, it will be shown how these results suggest this last method is based on more profound roots of the scale relativity theory since it encompasses naturally the spin-charge coupling.

id: 0911.2506
title: Measurement of the Boltzmann constant by the Doppler broadening technique at a 3,8x10-5 accuracy level
authors: Khelifa Djerroud, Cyril Lemarchand, Alexandre Gauguet, Christophe Daussy, Stephan Briaudeau, Beno?t Darquiиж, Olivier Lopez, Anne Amy-Klein, Christian Chardonnet, Christian J. Bordиж
comments: 
journal: Comptes Rendus Physique 10, 9 (2009) 883-893
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2506
abstract: In this paper, we describe an experiment performed at the Laboratoire de Physique des Lasers and dedicated to an optical measurement of the Boltzmann constant. With the proposed innovative technique, determining comes down to an ordinary frequency measurement. The method consists in measuring as accurately as possible the Doppler absorption profile of a rovibrational line of ammonia in thermal equilibrium. This profile is related to the Maxwell-Boltzmann molecular velocity distribution along the laser beam. A fit of the absorption line shape leads to a determination of the Doppler width proportional to sqrt(kT) and thus to a determination of the Boltzmann constant. The laser source is an ultra-stable CO2 laser with a wavelength . The absorption cell is placed in a thermostat keeping the temperature at 273.15 K within 1.4 mK. We were able to measure with a relative uncertainty as small as 3.8x10-5, which represents an improvement of an order of magnitude for an integration time comparable to our previous measurement published in 2007 [1]

id: 0911.2507
title: Determination of the Boltzmann constant by laser spectroscopy as a basis for future measurements of the thermodynamic temperature
authors: Cyril Lemarchand, Khelifa Djerroud, Beno?t Darquiиж, Olivier Lopez, Anne Amy-Klein, Christian Chardonnet, Christian J. Bordиж, Stephan Briaudeau, Christophe Daussy
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Thermophysics 31, 7 (2010) 1347-1359
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2507
abstract: In this paper, we present the latest results on the measurement of the Boltzmann constant kB, by laser spectroscopy of ammonia at 10 ?m. The Doppler absorption profile of a ro-vibrational line of an NH3 gas sample at thermal and pressure equilibrium is measured as accurately as possible. The absorption cell is placed inside a large 1m3 thermostat filled with an ice-water mixture, which sets the temperature very close to 273.15 K. Analysing this profile, which is related to the Maxwell-Boltzmann molecular speed distribution, leads to a determination of the Boltzmann constant via a measurement of the Doppler width (proportional tosqrt(kBT)). A spectroscopic determination of the Boltzmann constant with an uncertainty as low as 37 ppm is obtained. Recent improvements with a new passive thermostat lead to a temperature accuracy, stability and homogeneity of the absorption cell better than 1 ppm over a day.

id: 0911.2596
title: Entanglement entropy of SU(3) Yang-Mills theory
authors: Y. Nakagawa, A. Nakamura, S. Motoki, V.I. Zakharov
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, contribution to the "XXVII International Symposium on Lattice Field Theory", July 26-31, 2009, Peking University, Beijing, China
journal: PoS LAT2009:188,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2596
abstract: We calculate the entanglement entropy using a SU(3) quenched lattice gauge simulation. We find that the entanglement entropy scales as $1/l^2$ at small $l$ as in the conformal field theory. Here $l$ is the size of the system, whose degrees of freedom is left after the other part are traced out. The derivative of the entanglement entropy with respect to $l$ hits zero at about $l^{\ast} = 0.6 \sim 0.7$ [fm] and vanishes above the length. It may imply that the Yang-Mills theory has the mass gap of the order of $1/l^{\ast}$. Within our statistical errors, no discontinuous change can be seen in the entanglement entropy. We discuss also a subtle point appearing in gauge systems when we divide a system with cuts.

id: 0911.2657
title: Two-resonator circuit QED: Dissipative Theory
authors: Georg M. Reuther, David Zueco, Frank Deppe, Elisabeth Hoffmann, Edwin P. Menzel, Thomas Wei?l, Matteo Mariantoni, Sigmund Kohler, Achim Marx, Enrique Solano, Rudolf Gross, Peter H?nggi
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 144510 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2657
abstract: We present a theoretical treatment for the dissipative two-resonator circuit quantum electrodynamics setup referred to as quantum switch. There, switchable coupling between two superconducting resonators is mediated by a superconducting qubit operating in the dispersive regime, where the qubit transition frequency is far detuned from those of the resonators. We derive an effective Hamiltonian for the quantum switch beyond the rotating wave approximation and study the dissipative dynamics within a Bloch-Redfield quantum master equation approach. We derive analytically how the qubit affects the quantum switch even if the qubit has no dynamics, and we estimate the strength of this influence. The analytical results are corroborated by numerical calculations, where coherent oscillations between the resonators, the decay of coherent and Fock states, and the decay of resonator-resonator entanglement are studied. Finally, we suggest an experimental protocol for extracting the damping constants of qubit and resonators by measuring the quadratures of the resonator fields.

id: 0911.2688
title: Electromagnetic Casimir Effect in Wedge Geometry and the Energy-Momentum Tensor in Media
authors: I. Brevik, S. A. Ellingsen, K. A. Milton
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Contribution to Proceedings of Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT09), Norman, OK, September 21-25, 2009. Minor corrections and references added
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A25:2270-2278,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2688
abstract: The wedge geometry closed by a circular-cylindrical arc is a nontrivial generalization of the cylinder, which may have various applications. If the radial boundaries are not perfect conductors, the angular eigenvalues are only implicitly determined. When the speed of light is the same on both sides of the wedge, the Casimir energy is finite, unlike the case of a perfect conductor, where there is a divergence associated with the corners where the radial planes meet the circular arc. We advance the study of this system by reporting results on the temperature dependence for the conducting situation. We also discuss the appropriate choice of the electromagnetic energy-momentum tensor.

id: 0911.2691
title: Implementing arbitrary phase gates with Ising anyons
authors: Parsa Bonderson, David J. Clarke, Chetan Nayak, Kirill Shtengel
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; v2: revised discussion and error analysis; v3: added discussion and application for multi-qubit gates
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 180505 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2691
abstract: Ising-type non-Abelian anyons are likely to occur in a number of physical systems, including quantum Hall systems, where recent experiments support their existence. In general, non-Abelian anyons may be utilized to provide a topologically error-protected medium for quantum information processing. However, the topologically protected operations that may be obtained by braiding and measuring topological charge of Ising anyons are precisely the Clifford gates, which are not computationally universal. The Clifford gate set can be made universal by supplementing it with single-qubit pi/8-phase gates. We propose a method of implementing arbitrary single qubit phase gates for Ising anyons by running a current of anyons with interfering paths around computational anyons. While the resulting phase gates are not topologically protected, they can be combined with "magic state distillation" to provide error-corrected pi/8-phase gates with a remarkably high threshold.

id: 0911.2844
title: Phase Transitions in the Distribution of Bipartite Entanglement of a Random Pure State
authors: Celine Nadal, Satya N. Majumdar, Massimo Vergassola
comments: 4 pages revtex, 2 figures included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 110501 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2844
abstract: Using a Coulomb gas method, we compute analytically the probability distribution of the Renyi entropies (a standard measure of entanglement) for a random pure state of a large bipartite quantum system. We show that, for any order q>1 of the Renyi entropy, there are two critical values at which the entropy's probability distribution changes shape. These critical points correspond to two different transitions in the corresponding charge density of the Coulomb gas: the disappearance of an integrable singularity at the origin and the detachement of a single-charge drop from the continuum sea of all the other charges. These transitions respectively control the left and right tails of the entropy's probability distribution, as verified also by Monte Carlo numerical simulations of the Coulomb gas equilibrium dynamics.

id: 0911.2965
title: Neutrino oscillations: Inevitability of non-standard interactions or a sterile neutrino
authors: D. V. Ahluwalia, D. Schritt
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2965
abstract: We conjecture that the neutrino mixing matrix must be such that in the flavour oscillation process the energy expectation values enjoy flavour independence. Based on this conjecture we present unitarity and energy conservation constraints on neutrino oscillation parameters. In our analysis \theta_{13} depends on the ratio of the mass-squared differences \zeta and on \theta_{12} alone; while \delta_{CP} is completely determined by \zeta, \theta_{12}, and \theta_{23}. The standard neutrino oscillation phenomenology (SNOP) suggests \zeta \approx 30. The resulting prediction for \theta_{13} conflicts with SNOP expectation for all values of \theta_{12}. This leads to the suggestion that some non-standard neutrino interactions may be intervening to invalidate the SNOP inferred \zeta and \theta_{13}. An alternate inference is to go beyond the three flavours of SNOP and incorporate sterile neutrinos in the analysis.

id: 0911.3030
title: Quantum entanglement in soliton fractionalisation process
authors: S. Arunagiri
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. A larger version with application to polyacetylene will appear soon
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3030
abstract: Quantum state, in relativistic quantum mechanics, itself turns out to be an entangled state due to its own degrees freedom such as spin and momentum. This peculiar entanglement leaves the transformed state mixed. We consider the fractional charge state that arises in a theory of fermion interacting with scalar background in this context. The apparent entanglement occurs between fermion ans scalar through Yukawa-type interaction. However, the spontaneous symmetry breaking causes appearance of the $c$-number zero energy solution of the Dirac equation as a pure state. Quantum entanglement in such relativistic system is proposed to have a microscopic view of the spontaneous symmetry breaking which has been realised in condensed matter system like polyacetylene.

id: 0911.3167
title: All Optical Scheme for Strongly Enhanced Production of Dipolar Molecules in the Electro-Vibrational Ground State
authors: Matt Mackie, Catherine DeBrosse
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, 68 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3167
abstract: We consider two-color heteronuclear photoassociation of atoms into dipolar molecules in the J=1 electro-vibrational ground state, where a free-ground laser couples atoms directly to the ground state and a free-bound laser couples the atoms to an electronically-excited state. This problem raises an interest because heteronuclear photoassociation from atoms to near-ground state molecules is limited by the small size of the target state. Nevertheless, the addition of the excited state creates a second pathway for creating ground state molecules, leading to quantum interference between direct photoassociation and photoassociation via the excited molecular state, as well as a dispersive-like shift of the free-ground resonance position. Using LiNa as an example, these results are shown to depend on the detuning and intensity of the free-bound laser, as well as the semi-classical size of both molecular states. Despite strong enhancement, coherent conversion to the LiNa electro-vibrational ground state is possible only in a limited regime near the free-bound resonance.

id: 0911.3171
title: Topological qubits in graphenelike systems
authors: Luiz Santos, Shinsei Ryu, Claudio Chamon, Christopher Mudry
comments: 5 pages; 2 figures; 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 165101 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3171
abstract: The fermion-doubling problem can be an obstacle to getting half-a-qubit in two-dimensional fermionic tight-binding models in the form of Majorana zero modes bound to the core of superconducting vortices. We argue that the number of such Majorana zero modes is determined by a Z_2 x Z_2 topological charge for a family of two-dimensional fermionic tight-binding models ranging from noncentrosymmetric materials to graphene. This charge depends on the dimension of the representation (i.e., the number of species of Dirac fermions -- where the doubling problem enters) and the parity of the Chern number induced by breaking time-reversal symmetry. We show that in graphene there are as many as ten order parameters that can be used in groups of four to change the topological number from even to odd.

id: 0911.3234
title: Two-fluid model of a Bose-Einstein condensate in the cavity optomechanical regime
authors: Daniel S. Goldbaum, Keye Zhang, Pierre Meystre
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3234
abstract: We analyze an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in a high-Q optical cavity driven by a feeble optical field, a situation formally analogous to the central paradigm of cavity optomechanics [Brennecke et al., Science, 322, 235 (2008)]. We account for two-body interactions via a two-fluid model that retains the intuitive appeal of the optomechanical two-mode description. The Bogoliubov excitation spectrum of this system comprises a gapped upper branch and a lower branch that can include an unstable excitation mode.

id: 0911.3438
title: First-order transitions and the performance of quantum algorithms in random optimization problems
authors: T.Jorg, F.Krzakala, G.Semerjian, F.Zamponi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; final version accepted on Phys.Rev.Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 207206 (2010)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3438
abstract: We present a study of the phase diagram of a random optimization problem in presence of quantum fluctuations. Our main result is the characterization of the nature of the phase transition, which we find to be a first-order quantum phase transition. We provide evidence that the gap vanishes exponentially with the system size at the transition. This indicates that the Quantum Adiabatic Algorithm requires a time growing exponentially with system size to find the ground state of this problem.

id: 0911.3442
title: Another set of infinitely many exceptional (X_{\ell}) Laguerre polynomials
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.B684:173-176,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3442
abstract: We present a new set of infinitely many shape invariant potentials and the corresponding exceptional (X_{\ell}) Laguerre polynomials. They are to supplement the recently derived two sets of infinitely many shape invariant thus exactly solvable potentials in one dimensional quantum mechanics and the corresponding X_{\ell} Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials (Odake and Sasaki, Phys. Lett. B679 (2009) 414-417). The new X_{\ell} Laguerre polynomials and the potentials are obtained by a simple limiting procedure from the known X_{\ell} Jacobi polynomials and the potentials, whereas the known X_{\ell} Laguerre polynomials and the potentials are obtained in the same manner from the mirror image of the known X_{\ell} Jacobi polynomials and the potentials.

id: 0911.3750
title: Decoherence in adiabatic quantum evolution - application to Cooper pair pumping
authors: J. P. Pekola, V. Brosco, M. Mottonen, P. Solinas, A. Shnirman
comments: 7 pages, derivation of the master equation in the appendix
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3750
abstract: One of the challenges of adiabatic control theory is the proper inclusion of the effects of dissipation. Here, we study the adiabatic dynamics of an open two-level quantum system deriving a generalized master equation to consistently account for the combined action of the driving and dissipation. We demonstrate that in the zero temperature limit the ground state dynamics is not affected by environment. As an example, we apply our theory to Cooper pair pumping which demonstrates the robustness of ground state adiabatic evolution.

id: 0911.3797
title: Thermal Excitation of Multi-Photon Dressed States in Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: J. M. Fink, M. Baur, R. Bianchetti, S. Filipp, M. G?ppl, P. J. Leek, L. Steffen, A. Blais, A. Wallraff
comments: ArXiv version of manuscript to be published in the Physica Scripta topical issue on the Nobel Symposium 141: Qubits for Future Quantum Computers(2009), 13 pages, 6 figures, hi-res version at this http URL
journal: Phys. Scr. T137, 014013 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3797
abstract: The exceptionally strong coupling realizable between superconducting qubits and photons stored in an on-chip microwave resonator allows for the detailed study of matter-light interactions in the realm of circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED). Here we investigate the resonant interaction between a single transmon-type multilevel artificial atom and weak thermal and coherent fields. We explore up to three photon dressed states of the coupled system in a linear response heterodyne transmission measurement. The results are in good quantitative agreement with a generalized Jaynes-Cummings model. Our data indicates that the role of thermal fields in resonant cavity QED can be studied in detail using superconducting circuits.

id: 0911.4149
title: Free-induction decay and envelope modulations in a narrowed nuclear spin bath
authors: W. A. Coish, Jan Fischer, Daniel Loss
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 165315 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4149
abstract: We evaluate free-induction decay for the transverse components of a localized electron spin coupled to a bath of nuclear spins via the Fermi contact hyperfine interaction. Our perturbative treatment is valid for special (narrowed) bath initial conditions and when the Zeeman energy of the electron $b$ exceeds the total hyperfine coupling constant $A$: $b>A$. Using one unified and systematic method, we recover previous results reported at short and long times using different techniques. We find a new and unexpected modulation of the free-induction-decay envelope, which is present even for a purely isotropic hyperfine interaction without spin echoes and for a single nuclear species. We give sub-leading corrections to the decoherence rate, and show that, in general, the decoherence rate has a non-monotonic dependence on electron Zeeman splitting, leading to a pronounced maximum. These results illustrate the limitations of methods that make use of leading-order effective Hamiltonians and re-exponentiation of short-time expansions for a strongly-interacting system with non-Markovian (history-dependent) dynamics.

id: 0911.4215
title: Derivation of Matrix Product Ansatz for the Heisenberg Chain from Algebraic Bethe Ansatz
authors: Hosho Katsura, Isao Maruyama
comments: 24 pages; minor typos are corrected
journal: J.Phys.A43:175003,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4215
abstract: We derive a matrix product representation of the Bethe ansatz state for the XXX and XXZ spin-1/2 Heisenberg chains using the algebraic Bethe ansatz. In this representation, the components of the Bethe eigenstates are expressed as traces of products of matrices which act on ${\bar {\mathscr H}}$, the tensor product of auxiliary spaces. By changing the basis in ${\bar {\mathscr H}}$, we derive explicit finite-dimensional representations for the matrices. These matrices are the same as those appearing in the recently proposed matrix product ansatz by Alcaraz and Lazo [Alcaraz F C and Lazo M J 2006 {\it J. Phys. A: Math. Gen.} \textbf{39} 11335.] apart from normalization factors. We also discuss the close relation between the matrix product representation of the Bethe eigenstates and the six-vertex model with domain wall boundary conditions [Korepin V E 1982 {\it Commun. Math. Phys.}, \textbf{86} 391.] and show that the change of basis corresponds to a mapping from the six-vertex model to the five-vertex model.

id: 0911.4256
title: Improved variational approach for the Cornell potential
authors: V.V. Kudryashov, V.I. Reshetnyak
comments: 4 pages, 2 tables
journal: Nonlinear Dynamics and Applications. Proceedingsof the Fifteenth Annual Seminar NPCS'2008, Minsk, 2008, pp. 77-80
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4256
abstract: The approximate radial wave functions for the Cornell potential describing quark-antiquark interaction are constructed in the framework of a variational method. The optimal values of the variational parameters are fixed by the fulfillment of the requirements of the virial theorem and the minimality condition for integral discrepancy. The results of calculation with the simple trial function are in a good agreement with exact numerical results.

id: 0911.4320
title: Resonant states of open quantum systems
authors: Naomichi Hatano
comments: 19 pages, to be published in Progress of Theoretical Physics, Supplement
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.Suppl.184:497-515,2010
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4320
abstract: We first show that quantum resonant states observe particle number conservation and hence are consistent with the probabilistic interpretation of quantum mechanics. We then present for a class of quantum open systems, a resonant-state expansion of the sum of the retarded and advanced Green's functions. The expansion is given purely in terms of all discrete eigenstates and does not contain any background integrals. Using the expansion, we argue that the Fano asymmetry of resonance peaks is interpreted as interference between discrete eigenstates. We microscopically derive the Fano parameters for several cases.

id: 0911.4368
title: Studies in a Random Noise Model of Decoherence
authors: P. Korcyl, J. Wosiek, L. Stodolsky
comments: 27 pages, 10 figures. New section added on Very Low Frequency Noise, with two additional figures. Conclusions, Abstract modified accordingly. Various other small editorial changes and clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4368
abstract: We study the effects of noise and decoherence for a double-potential well system, suitable for the fabrication of qubits and quantum logic elements. A random noise term is added to the hamiltonian, the resulting wavefunction found numerically and the density matrix obtained by averaging over noise signals. Analytic solutions using the two-state model are obtained and found to be generally in agreement. In particular, a simple formula for the decoherence rate in terms of the noise parameters in the two-state model is reviewed and verified for the full simulation with the multi-level system. The formalism is extended to describe multiple sources of noise or different "dephasing" axes at the same time. Furthermore, the old formula for the "Turing-Watched Pot" effect is generalized to the case where the environmental interactions do not conserve the "quality" in question. Various forms for the noise signal are investigated. An interesting result is the importance of the noise power at low frequency. If it vanishes there is, in leading order, no decoherence. This is verified in a numerical simulation where two apparently similar noise signals, but differing in the power at zero frequency, give strikingly different decoherence effects. A short discussion of situations dominated by low frequency noise is given.

id: 0911.4404
title: Superintegrability of the Tremblay-Turbiner-Winternitz quantum Hamiltonians on a plane for odd $k$
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 14 pages, no figure; change of title + important addition to sect. 4 + 2 more references + minor modifications; accepted by JPA as an FTC
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 082001 (10pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4404
abstract: In a recent FTC by Tremblay {\sl et al} (2009 {\sl J. Phys. A: Math. Theor.} {\bf 42} 205206), it has been conjectured that for any integer value of $k$, some novel exactly solvable and integrable quantum Hamiltonian $H_k$ on a plane is superintegrable and that the additional integral of motion is a $2k$th-order differential operator $Y_{2k}$. Here we demonstrate the conjecture for the infinite family of Hamiltonians $H_k$ with odd $k \ge 3$, whose first member corresponds to the three-body Calogero-Marchioro-Wolfes model after elimination of the centre-of-mass motion. Our approach is based on the construction of some $D_{2k}$-extended and invariant Hamiltonian $\chh_k$, which can be interpreted as a modified boson oscillator Hamiltonian. The latter is then shown to possess a $D_{2k}$-invariant integral of motion $\cyy_{2k}$, from which $Y_{2k}$ can be obtained by projection in the $D_{2k}$ identity representation space.

id: 0911.4476
title: Non-Hermitian spin chains with inhomogeneous coupling
authors: Andrei G. Bytsko
comments: 19 pages, LaTeX; v.3 - a proof of eq.(52) added
journal: Alg.Anal.22N3:80-106,2010; St.Petersburg Math.J.22:393-410,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4476
abstract: An open U_q(sl_2)-invariant spin chain of spin S and length N with inhomogeneous coupling is investigated as an example of a non-Hermitian (quasi-Hermitian) model. For several particular cases of such a chain, the ranges of the deformation parameter gamma are determined for which the spectrum of the model is real. For a certain range of gamma, a universal metric operator is constructed and thus the quasi-Hermiticity of the model is established. The constructed metric operator is non-dynamical, its structure is determined only by the symmetry of the model. The results apply, in particular, to all known homogeneous U_q(sl_2)-invariant integrable spin chains with nearest-neighbour interaction. In addition, the most general form of a metric operator for a quasi-Hermitian operator in finite dimensional space is discussed.

id: 0911.4564
title: Spontaneous Four-Wave Mixing of de Broglie Waves: Beyond Optics
authors: Valentina Krachmalnicoff, Jean-Christophe Jaskula, Marie Bonneau, Vanessa Leung, Guthrie B. Partridge, Denis Boiron, Christoph I Westbrook, Piotr Deuar, Pawel Zin, Marek Trippenbach, Karen Kheruntsyan
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:150402,2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4564
abstract: We investigate the atom-optical analog of degenerate four-wave mixing of photons by colliding two Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) of metastable helium and measuring the resulting momentum distribution of the scattered atoms with a time and space resolved detector. For the case of photons, phase matching conditions completely define the final state of the system, and in the case of two colliding BECs, simple analogy implies a spherical momentum distribution of scattered atoms. We find, however, that the final momenta of the scattered atoms instead lie on an ellipsoid whose radii are smaller than the initial collision momentum. Numerical and analytical calculations agree well with the measurements, and reveal the interplay between many-body effects, mean-field interaction, and the anisotropy of the source condensate.

id: 0911.4706
title: Quantization of Hall Conductance For Interacting Electrons Without Averaging Assumptions
authors: Matthew B. Hastings, Spyridon Michalakis
comments: 36 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4706
abstract: We consider two-dimensional Hamiltonians on a torus with finite range, finite strength interactions and a unique ground state with a non-vanishing spectral gap, and a conserved local charge, as defined precisely in the text. Using the local charge operators, we introduce a boundary magnetic flux in the horizontal and vertical direction and evolve the ground state quasi-adiabatically around a square of size one magnetic flux, in flux space. At the end of the evolution we obtain a trivial Berry phase, which we compare, via a method reminiscent of Stokes' Theorem, to the Berry phase obtained from an evolution around a small loop near the origin. As a result, we prove, without any averaging assumption, that the Hall conductance for interacting electron systems is quantized in integer multiples of e^2/h up to small corrections bounded by a function that decays as a stretched exponential in the linear size L. Finally, we discuss extensions to the fractional case under an additional topological order assumption to describe the multiple degenerate ground states.

id: 0911.4856
title: Entanglement Mean Field Theory and the Curie-Weiss Law
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 99, 20011 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4856
abstract: The mean field theory, in its different hues, form one of the most useful tools for calculating the single-body physical properties of a many-body system. It provides important information, like critical exponents, of the systems that do not yield to an exact analytical treatment. Here we propose an entanglement mean field theory (EMFT) to obtain the behavior of the two-body physical properties of such systems. We apply this theory to predict the phases in paradigmatic strongly correlated systems, viz. the transverse anisotropic XY, the transverse XX, and the Heisenberg models. We find the critical exponents of different physical quantities in the EMFT limit, and in the case of the Heisenberg model, we obtain the Curie-Weiss law for correlations. While the exemplary models have all been chosen to be quantum ones, classical many-body models also render themselves to such a treatment, at the level of correlations.

id: 0911.4951
title: Cavity QED with separate photon storage and qubit readout modes
authors: P. J. Leek, M. Baur, J. M. Fink, R. Bianchetti, L. Steffen, S. Filipp, A. Wallraff
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, version with high resolution figures available at this http URL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:100504,2010
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4951
abstract: We present the realization of a cavity quantum electrodynamics setup in which photons of strongly different lifetimes are engineered in different harmonic modes of the same cavity. We achieve this in a superconducting transmission line resonator with superconducting qubits coupled to the different modes. One cavity mode is strongly coupled to a detection line for qubit state readout, while a second long lifetime mode is used for photon storage and coherent quantum operations. We demonstrate sideband based measurement of photon coherence, generation of n photon Fock states and the scaling of the sideband Rabi frequency with the square root of n using a scheme that may be extended to realize sideband based two-qubit logic gates.

id: 0911.5136
title: The Principle of Locality. Effectiveness, fate and challenges
authors: Sergio Doplicher
comments: 36 pages. Survey partially based on a talk delivered at the Meeting "Algebraic Quantum Field Theory: 50 years", Goettingen, July 29-31, 2009, in honor of Detlev Buchholz. Submitted to Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J.Math.Phys.51:015218,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5136
abstract: The Special Theory of Relativity and Quantum Mechanics merge in the key principle of Quantum Field Theory, the Principle of Locality. We review some examples of its ``unreasonable effectiveness'' (which shows up best in the formulation of Quantum Field Theory in terms of operator algebras of local observables) in digging out the roots of Global Gauge Invariance in the structure of the local observable quantities alone, at least for purely massive theories; but to deal with the Principle of Local Gauge Invariance is still a problem in this frame. This problem emerges also if one attempts to figure out the fate of the Principle of Locality in theories describing the gravitational forces between elementary particles as well. Spacetime should then acquire a quantum structure at the Planck scale, and the Principle of Locality is lost. It is a crucial open problem to unravel a replacement in such theories which is equally mathematically sharp and reduces to the Principle of Locality at larger scales. Besides exploring its fate, many challenges for the Principle of Locality remain; among them, the analysis of Superselection Structure and Statistics also in presence of massless particles, and to give a precise mathematical formulation to the Measurement Process in local and relativistic terms; for which we outline a qualitative scenario which avoids the EPR Paradox.

id: 0911.5145
title: Properties of Quantum Systems via Diagonalization of Transition Amplitudes I: Discretization Effects
authors: Ivana Vidanovic, Aleksandar Bogojevic, Aleksandar Belic
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, uses revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80 (2009) 066705
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5145
abstract: We analyze the method for calculation of properties of non-relativistic quantum systems based on exact diagonalization of space-discretized short-time evolution operators. In this paper we present a detailed analysis of the errors associated with space discretization. Approaches using direct diagonalization of real-space discretized Hamiltonians lead to polynomial errors in discretization spacing $\Delta$. Here we show that the method based on the diagonalization of the short-time evolution operators leads to substantially smaller discretization errors, vanishing exponentially with $1/\Delta^2$. As a result, the presented calculation scheme is particularly well suited for numerical studies of few-body quantum systems. The analytically derived discretization errors estimates are numerically shown to hold for several models. In the followup paper [1] we present and analyze substantial improvements that result from the merger of this approach with the recently introduced effective-action scheme for high-precision calculation of short-time propagation.

id: 0911.5154
title: Properties of Quantum Systems via Diagonalization of Transition Amplitudes II: Systematic Improvements of Short-time Propagation
authors: Ivana Vidanovic, Aleksandar Bogojevic, Antun Balaz, Aleksandar Belic
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, uses revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80 (2009) 066706
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5154
abstract: In this paper, building on a previous analysis [1] of exact diagonalization of the space-discretized evolution operator for the study of properties of non-relativistic quantum systems, we present a substantial improvement to this method. We apply recently introduced effective action approach for obtaining short-time expansion of the propagator up to very high orders to calculate matrix elements of space-discretized evolution operator. This improves by many orders of magnitude previously used approximations for discretized matrix elements and allows us to numerically obtain large numbers of accurate energy eigenvalues and eigenstates using numerical diagonalization. We illustrate this approach on several one and two-dimensional models. The quality of numerically calculated higher order eigenstates is assessed by comparison with semiclassical cumulative density of states.

id: 0911.5531
title: Localization-delocalization transitions in a two-dimensional quantum percolation model: von Neumann entropy studies
authors: Longyan Gong, Peiqing Tong
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80,174205(2009)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5531
abstract: In two-dimensional quantum site-percolation square lattice models, the von Neumann entropy is extensively studied numerically. At a certain eigenenergy, the localization-delocalization transition is reflected by the derivative of von Neumann entropy which is maximal at the quantum percolation threshold $p_q$. The phase diagram of localization-delocalization transitions is deduced in the extrapolation to infinite system sizes. The non-monotonic eigenenergies dependence of $p_q$ and the lowest value $p_q\simeq0.665$ are found. At localized-delocalized transition points, the finite scaling analysis for the von Neumann entropy is performed and it is found the critical exponents $\nu$ not to be universal. These studies provide a new evidence that the existence of a quantum percolation threshold $p_q<1$ in the two-dimensional quantum percolation problem.

id: 0911.5075
title: A quantum Bose-Hubbard model with evolving graph as toy model for emergent spacetime
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Fotini Markopoulou, Seth Lloyd, Francesco Caravelli, Simone Severini, Klas Markstrom
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures; updated to published version
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:104032,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5075
abstract: We present a toy model for interacting matter and geometry that explores quantum dynamics in a spin system as a precursor to a quantum theory of gravity. The model has no a priori geometric properties, instead, locality is inferred from the more fundamental notion of interaction between the matter degrees of freedom. The interaction terms are themselves quantum degrees of freedom so that the structure of interactions and hence the resulting local and causal structures are dynamical. The system is a Hubbard model where the graph of the interactions is a set of quantum evolving variables. We show entanglement between spatial and matter degrees of freedom. We study numerically the quantum system and analyze its entanglement dynamics. We analyze the asymptotic behavior of the classical model. Finally, we discuss analogues of trapped surfaces and gravitational attraction in this simple model.

id: 0911.5217
title: Tree expansion in time-dependent perturbation theory
authors: Christian Brouder, ?ngela Mestre, Frижdижric Patras
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 51, 7 (2010) 072104
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5217
abstract: The computational complexity of time-dependent perturbation theory is well-known to be largely combinatorial whatever the chosen expansion method and family of parameters (combinatorial sequences, Goldstone and other Feynman-type diagrams...). We show that a very efficient perturbative expansion, both for theoretical and numerical purposes, can be obtained through an original parametrization by trees and generalized iterated integrals. We emphasize above all the simplicity and naturality of the new approach that links perturbation theory with classical and recent results in enumerative and algebraic combinatorics. These tools are applied to the adiabatic approximation and the effective Hamiltonian. We prove perturbatively and non-perturbatively the convergence of Morita's generalization of the Gell-Mann and Low wavefunction. We show that summing all the terms associated to the same tree leads to an utter simplification where the sum is simpler than any of its terms. Finally, we recover the time-independent equation for the wave operator and we give an explicit non-recursive expression for the term corresponding to an arbitrary tree.

id: 0911.5499
title: Twistor-Beam Excitations of Black-Holes and Prequantum Kerr-Schild Geometry
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 7 pages, 3 Figures. Published version. Talk at the SFT09 conference, MIAN (Steklov Math. Institute), April 2009
journal: Theor.Math.Phys.163:782-787,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5499
abstract: Exact Kerr-Schild (KS) solutions for electromagnetic excitations of black-holes, have the form of singular beams supported on twistor lines of the KS geometry. These beams have a very strong back-reaction on the metric and horizon and create a fluctuating KS geometry occupying an intermediate position between the classical and quantum gravities. We consider the Kerr theorem, which determines the twistor structure of the KS geometry and the corresponding holographic prequantum space-time adapted to subsequent quantum treatment.

id: 0911.5691
title: Single-photon detection timing jitter in a visible light photon counter
authors: Burm Baek, Kyle S. McKay, Martin J. Stevens, Jungsang Kim, Henry H. Hogue, Sae Woo Nam
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5691
abstract: Visible light photon counters (VLPCs) offer many attractive features as photon detectors, such as high quantum efficiency and photon number resolution. We report measurements of the single-photon timing jitter in a VLPC, a critical performance factor in a time-correlated single-photon counting measurement, in a fiber-coupled closed-cycle cryocooler. The measured timing jitter is 240 ps full-width-at-half-maximum at a wavelength of 550 nm, with a dark count rate of 25 000 counts per second. The timing jitter increases modestly at longer wavelengths to 300 ps at 1000 nm, and increases substantially at lower bias voltages as the quantum efficiency is reduced.

id: 0911.4660
title: Parity effects in the scaling of block entanglement in gapless spin chains
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, Massimo Campostrini, Fabian Essler, Bernard Nienhuis
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. Final version accepted in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:095701,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.4660
abstract: We consider the Renyi alpha-entropies for Luttinger liquids (LL). For large block lengths l these are known to grow like ln l. We show that there are subleading terms that oscillate with frequency 2k_F (the Fermi wave number of the LL) and exhibit a universal power-law decay with l. The new critical exponent is equal to K/(2 alpha), where K is the LL parameter. We present numerical results for the anisotropic XXZ model and the full analytic solution for the free fermion (XX) point.

id: 0911.5388
title: Repeater-assisted Zeno effect in classical stochastic processes
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Li-Gang Wang, Zhi-Guo Wang, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5388
abstract: As a classical state, for instance a digitized image, is transferred through a classical channel, it decays inevitably with the distance due to the surroundings' interferences. However, if there are enough number of repeaters, which can both check and recover the state's information continuously, the state's decay rate will be significantly suppressed, then a classical Zeno effect might occur. Such a physical process is purely classical and without any interferences of living beings, therefore, it manifests that the Zeno effect is no longer a patent of quantum mechanics, but does exist in classical stochastic processes.

id: 0911.3230
title: About spin particle solution in Born-Infeld nonlinear electrodynamics
authors: Alexander A. Chernitskii
comments: The article for proceedings of the XIII Workshop on high energy spin physics (DSPIN-09), Dubna, Russia, September 1-5, 2009. 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: XIII Advanced Research Workshop on High Energy Spin Physics (DSPIN-09) Proceedings, edited by A.V. Efremov and S.V. Goloskokov, JINR, Dubna, 2010, pp. 443-446
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3230
abstract: The axisymmetric static solution of Born-Infeld nonlinear electrodynamics with ring singularity is investigated. This solution is considered as a static part of massive charged particle with spin and magnetic moment. The method for obtaining the appropriate approximate solution is proposed. An approximate solution is found. The values of spin, mass, and magnetic moment is obtained for this approximate solution.

id: 0911.1207
title: Topological Casimir effect in nanotubes and nanoloopes
authors: A. A. Saharian
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, Contribution to Proceedings of QFEXT09, 21-25 September 2009, Oklahoma, USA
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1207
abstract: The Casimir effect is investigated in cylindrical and toroidal carbon nanotubes within the framework of the Dirac-like model for the electronic states. The topological Casimir energy is positive for metallic cylindrical nanotubes and is negative for semiconducting ones. The toroidal compactification of a cylindrical nanotube along its axis increases the Casimir energy for metallic-type (periodic) boundary conditions along its axis and decreases the Casimir energy for the semiconducting-type compactifications. For finite length metallic nanotubes the Casimir forces acting on the tube edges are always attractive, whereas for semiconducting-type ones they are attractive for small lengths of the nanotube and repulsive for large lengths.

id: 0911.2994
title: Ab-initio calculation of all-optical time-resolved calorimetry of nanosized systems: Evidence of nanosecond-decoupling of electron and phonon temperatures
authors: F. Banfi, F. Pressacco, B. Revaz, C. Giannetti, D. Nardi, G. Ferrini, F. Parmigiani
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Accepted on Physical Review B.
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 155426 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2994
abstract: The thermal dynamics induced by ultrashort laser pulses in nanoscale systems, i.e. all-optical time-resolved nanocalorimetry is theoretically investigated from 300 to 1.5 K. We report ab-initio calculations describing the temperature dependence of the electron-phonon interactions for Cu nanodisks supported on Si. The electrons and phonons temperatures are found to decouple on the ns time scale at 10 K, which is two orders of magnitude in excess with respect to that found for standard low-temperature transport experiments. By accounting for the physics behind our results we suggest an alternative route for overhauling the present knowledge of the electron-phonon decoupling mechanism in nanoscale systems by replacing the mK temperature requirements of conventional experiments with experiments in the time-domain.

id: 0911.5477
title: Disentangling Entanglement Spectra of Fractional Quantum Hall States on Torus Geometries
authors: Andreas M. Laeuchli, Emil J. Bergholtz, Juha Suorsa, Masudul Haque
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 104, 156404 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.5477
abstract: We analyze the entanglement spectrum of Laughlin states on the torus and show that it is arranged in towers, each of which is generated by modes of two spatially separated chiral edges. This structure is present for all torus circumferences, which allows for a microscopic identification of the prominent features of the spectrum by perturbing around the thin torus limit.

id: 0911.2132
title: Bohmian measures and their classical limit
authors: Peter Markowich, Thierry Paul, Christof Sparber
comments: Second revised version including minor corrections. To appear in J. Functional Analysis
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2132
abstract: We consider a class of phase space measures, which naturally arise in the Bohmian interpretation of quantum mechanics (when written in a Lagrangian form). We study the so-called classical limit of these Bohmian measures, in dependence on the scale of oscillations and concentrations of the sequence of wave functions under consideration. The obtained results are consequently compared to those derived via semi-classical Wigner measures. To this end, we shall also give a connection to the, by now classical, theory of Young measures and prove several new results on Wigner measures themselves. We believe that our analysis sheds new light on the classical limit of Bohmian quantum mechanics and gives further insight on oscillation and concentration effects of semi-classical wave functions.

id: 0911.2076
title: The basic paradoxes of statistical classical physics and the quantum mechanics
authors: Oleg Kupervasser
comments: 168 pages,32 figures, text is written in English and in Russian. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0911.2610, arXiv:nlin/0508025
journal: "Universal Journal of Physics and Application" Vol 1, No 3,Nov 2013,pp. 299 - 349 ;ILASOL Conference 2006, at the Weizmann Institute of Science, What is life?,4 January (2007)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.2076
abstract: Statistical classical mechanics and quantum mechanics are developed and well-known theories that represent a basis for modern physics. The two described theories are well known and have been well studied. As these theories contain numerous paradoxes, many scientists doubt their internal consistencies. However, these paradoxes can be resolved within the framework of the existing physics without the introduction of new laws. To clarify the paper for the inexperienced reader, we include certain necessary basic concepts of statistical physics and quantum mechanics in this paper without the use of formulas. Exact formulas and explanations are included in the Appendices. The text is supplemented by illustrations to enhance the understanding of the paper. The paradoxes underlying thermodynamics and quantum mechanics are also discussed. The approaches to the solutions of these paradoxes are suggested. The first approach is dependent on the influence of the external observer (environment), which disrupts the correlations in the system. The second approach is based on the limits of the self-knowledge of the system for the case in which both the external observer and the environment are included in the considered system. The concepts of observable dynamics, ideal dynamics, and unpredictable dynamics are introduced. The phenomenon of complex (living) systems is contemplated from the point of view of these dynamics.

