id: 0912.0026
title: Evolution of Quantum Systems by Diagrams of States
authors: Sara Felloni, Alberto Leporati, Giuliano Strini
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures; to be published in IJUC - International Journal of Unconventional Computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0026
abstract: We explore the main processes involved in the evolution of general quantum systems by means of Diagrams of States, a novel method to graphically represent and analyze how quantum information is elaborated during computations performed by quantum circuits. We present quantum diagrams of states for representations of quantum states by density matrices, partial trace operations, density matrix purification and time-evolution by Kraus operators. Following these representations, we describe by diagrams of states the most general transformations related to singlequbit decoherence and errors. Diagrams of states prove to be a useful approach to analyze quantum computations, by offering an intuitive graphic representation of the processing of quantum information. They also help in conceiving novel quantum computations, from describing the desired information processing to deriving the final implementation by quantum gate arrays.

id: 0912.0048
title: Quantum and Classical Chaos in Kicked Coupled Jaynes-Cummings Cavities
authors: A.L.C. Hayward, Andrew D. Greentree
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0048
abstract: We consider two Jaynes-Cummings cavities coupled periodically with a photon hopping term. The semi-classical phase space is chaotic, with regions of stability over some ranges of the parameters. The quantum case exhibits dynamic localization and dynamic tunneling between classically forbidden regions. We explore the correspondence between the classical and quantum phase space and propose a scheme for implementing the system experimentally.

id: 0912.0079
title: Deterministic entanglement purification and complete nonlocal Bell-state analysis with hyperentanglement
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 81, 032307 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0079
abstract: Entanglement purification is a very important element for long-distance quantum communication. Different from all the existing entanglement purification protocols (EPPs) in which two parties can only obtain some quantum systems in a mixed entangled state with a higher fidelity probabilistically by consuming quantum resources exponentially, here we present a deterministic EPP with hyperentanglement. Using this protocl, the two parties can, in principle, obtain deterministically maximally entangled pure states in polarization without destroying any less-entangled photon pair, which will improve the efficiency of long-distance quantum communication exponentially. Meanwhile, it will be shown that this EPP can be used to complete nonlocal Bell-state analysis perfectly. We also discuss this EPP in a practical transmission.

id: 0912.0089
title: Tunable Electromagnetically Induced Transparency and Absorption with Dressed Superconducting Qubits
authors: Hou Ian, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 13 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 063823 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0089
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency and absorption (EIT and EIA) are usually demonstrated by three-level atomic or atom-like systems. In contrast to the usual case, we theoretically study the EIT and EIA in an equivalent three-level system, which is constructed by dressing a superconducting two-level system (qubit) dressed by a single-mode cavity field. In this equivalent system, we find that both the EIT and the EIA can be tuned by controlling the level-spacing of the superconducting qubit and hence controlling the dressed system. This tunability is due to the dressed relaxation and dephasing rates which vary parametrically with the level-spacing of the original qubit and thus affect the transition properties of the dressed qubit and the susceptibility. These dressed relaxation and dephasing rates characterize the reaction of the dressed qubit to an incident probe field. We also use recent experimental data on superconducting qubits (charge, phase, and flux qubits) to demonstrate our approach and show the possibility of experimentally realizing this proposal.

id: 0912.0122
title: Entanglement and entangling power of the dynamics in light-harvesting complexes
authors: Filippo Caruso, Alex W. Chin, Animesh Datta, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures; revised version, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062346 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0122
abstract: We study the evolution of quantum entanglement during exciton energy transfer (EET) in a network model of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex, a biological pigment-protein complex involved in the early steps of photosynthesis in sulphur bacteria. The influence of Markovian, as well as spatially and temporally correlated (non-Markovian) noise on the generation of entanglement across distinct chromophores (site entanglement) and different excitonic eigenstates (mode entanglement) is studied for different injection mechanisms, including thermal and coherent laser excitation. Additionally, we study the entangling power of the FMO complex under natural operating conditions. While quantum information processing tends to favor maximal entanglement, near unit EET is achieved as the result of an intricate interplay between coherent and noisy processes where the initial part of the evolution displays intermediate values of both forms of entanglement.

id: 0912.0164
title: Mode-mode coupling theory of resonant pumping via dynamical tunneling processes in a deformed microcavity
authors: Kyungwon An, Juhee Yang
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0164
abstract: Mode-mode coupling theory is presented for the resonant pumping via dynamical tunneling processes in a deformed microcavity. From the steady-state solution of the coupled differential equations of chaotic modes and a high-Q regular mode, pumping efficiency is obtained as a function of pump detuning, coupling constants and decay rates of the involved modes. We show that the pump-excited chaotic modes as a whole can be regarded as a single pump mode with an effective decay rate and an effective coupling constant with the regular mode. We also show that the decay rate of the regular mode is enhanced by dynamical tunneling into all chaotic modes. Analysis method to obtain the effective coupling constant from the pumping efficiencies is presented for a two-dimensional deformed microcavity.

id: 0912.0177
title: Does quantum nonlocality irremediably conflict with Special Relativity?
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0177
abstract: We reconsider the problem of the compatibility of quantum nonlocality and the requests for a relativistically invariant theoretical scheme. We begin by discussing a recent important paper by T. Norsen [arXiv:0808.2178] on this problem and we enlarge our considerations to give a general picture of the conceptually relevant issue to which this paper is devoted.

id: 0912.0195
title: Quantum computations without definite causal structure
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti, B. Valiron
comments: Updated version with expanded presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022318 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0195
abstract: We show that quantum theory allows for transformations of black boxes that cannot be realized by inserting the input black boxes within a circuit in a pre-defined causal order. The simplest example of such a transformation is the classical switch of black boxes, where two input black boxes are arranged in two different orders conditionally on the value of a classical bit. The quantum version of this transformation-the quantum switch-produces an output circuit where the order of the connections is controlled by a quantum bit, which becomes entangled with the circuit structure. Simulating these transformations in a circuit with fixed causal structure requires either postselection, or an extra query to the input black boxes.

id: 0912.0196
title: Colloquium: Trapped ions as quantum bits -- essential numerical tools
authors: Kilian Singer, Ulrich Poschinger, Michael Murphy, Peter Ivanov, Frank Ziesel, Tommaso Calarco, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: accepted for publication in Review of Modern Physics 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0196
abstract: Trapped, laser-cooled atoms and ions are quantum systems which can be experimentally controlled with an as yet unmatched degree of precision. Due to the control of the motion and the internal degrees of freedom, these quantum systems can be adequately described by a well known Hamiltonian. In this colloquium, we present powerful numerical tools for the optimization of the external control of the motional and internal states of trapped neutral atoms, explicitly applied to the case of trapped laser-cooled ions in a segmented ion-trap. We then delve into solving inverse problems, when optimizing trapping potentials for ions. Our presentation is complemented by a quantum mechanical treatment of the wavepacket dynamics of a trapped ion. Efficient numerical solvers for both time-independent and time-dependent problems are provided. Shaping the motional wavefunctions and optimizing a quantum gate is realized by the application of quantum optimal control techniques. The numerical methods presented can also be used to gain an intuitive understanding of quantum experiments with trapped ions by performing virtual simulated experiments on a personal computer. Code and executables are supplied as supplementary online material (this http URL).

id: 0912.0203
title: Conditional probability, three-slit experiments, and the Jordan algebra structure of quantum mechanics
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: Advances in Mathematical Physics, vol. 2012, Article ID 156573, 20 pages, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0203
abstract: Most quantum logics do not allow for a reasonable calculus of conditional probability. However, those ones which do so provide a very general and rich mathematical structure, including classical probabilities, quantum mechanics as well as Jordan algebras. This structure exhibits some similarities with Alfsen and Shultz's non-commutative spectral theory, but these two mathematical approaches are not identical. Barnum, Emerson and Ududec adapted the concept of higher-order interference, introduced by Sorkin in 1994, into a general probabilistic framework. Their adaption is used here to reveal a close link between the existence of the Jordan product and the non-existence of interference of third or higher order in those quantum logics which entail a reasonable calculus of conditional probability. The complete characterization of the Jordan algebraic structure requires the following three further postulates: a Hahn-Jordan decomposition property for the states, a polynomial functional calculus for the observables, and the positivity of the square of an observable. While classical probabilities are characterized by the absence of any kind of interference, the absence of interference of third (and higher) order thus characterizes a probability calculus which comes close to quantum mechanics, but still includes the exceptional Jordan algebras.

id: 0912.0243
title: Comparing periodic-orbit theory to perturbation theory in the asymmetric infinite square well
authors: Todd K. Timberlake
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables, submitted to Physical Review E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0243
abstract: An infinite square well with a discontinuous step is one of the simplest systems to exhibit non-Newtonian ray-splitting periodic orbits in the semiclassical limit. This system is analyzed using both time-independent perturbation theory (PT) and periodic-orbit theory and the approximate formulas for the energy eigenvalues derived from these two approaches are compared. The periodic orbits of the system can be divided into classes according to how many times they reflect from the potential step. Different classes of orbits contribute to different orders of PT. The dominant term in the second-order PT correction is due to non-Newtonian orbits that reflect from the step exactly once. In the limit in which PT converges the periodic-orbit theory results agree with those of PT, but outside of this limit the periodic-orbit theory gives much more accurate results for energies above the potential step.

id: 0912.0246
title: Entanglement and local extremes at an infinite-order quantum phase transition
authors: C. C. Rulli, M. S. Sarandy
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures. v3: references added, figures improved, and minor corrections. v2: minor corrections in figures 3 and 10
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032334 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0246
abstract: The characterization of an infinite-order quantum phase transition (QPT) by entanglement measures is analyzed. To this aim, we consider two closely related solvable spin-1/2 chains, namely, the Ashkin-Teller and the staggered XXZ models. These systems display a distinct pattern of eigenstates but exhibit the same thermodynamics, i.e. the same energy spectrum. By performing exact diagonalization, we investigate the behavior of pairwise and block entanglement in the ground state of both models. In contrast with the XXZ chain, we show that pairwise entanglement fails in the characterization of the infinite-order QPT in the Ashkin-Teller model, although it can be achieved by analyzing the distance of the pair state from the separability boundary. Concerning block entanglement, we show that both XXZ and Ashkin-Teller models exhibit identical von Neumann entropies as long as a suitable choice of blocks is performed. Entanglement entropy is then shown to be able to identify the quantum phase diagram, even though its local extremes (either maximum or minimum) may also appear in the absence of any infinite-order QPT.

id: 0912.0279
title: Quantum Fields in a Dielectric: Langevin and Exact Diagonalization Approaches
authors: F. S. S. Rosa, D. A. R. Dalvit, P. W. Milonni
comments: Book chapter for Festschrift of Prof. Erber, submitted to Illinois Institute of Technology Press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0279
abstract: We derive expressions for the quantum electromagnetic field in a dispersive and dissipative dielectric medium, treating the medium as a continuum. We compare the Langevin approach with the Fano diagonalization procedure for the coupled system composed of the electromagnetic field, the dielectric medium, and the reservoir. In particular, we show that the quantized electric and magnetic fields obtained in both methods have exactly the same form. More generally, in thermal equilibrium, correlation functions computed in both methods are identical.

id: 0912.0324
title: Asymmetric coherent transmission for single particle diode and gyroscope
authors: S. Yang, Z. Song, C. P. Sun
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0324
abstract: We study the single particle scattering process in a coherent multi-site system consisting of a tight-binding ring threaded by an Aharonov-Bohm flux and several attaching leads. The asymmetric behavior of scattering matrix is discovered analytically in the framework of both Bethe Ansatz and Green's function formalism. It is found that, under certain conditions, a three-site electronic system can behave analogous to a perfect semiconductor diode where current flows only in one direction. The general result is also valid for a neutral particle system since the effective magnetic flux may be implemented by a globe rotation. This observation means that the three-site system can serve as an orientation measuring gyroscope due to the approximate linear dependence of the current difference of two output leads on the rotational angular velocity.

id: 0912.0354
title: Entangling two unequal atoms through a common bath
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, U. Marzolino
comments: 18 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81 (2010) 012105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0354
abstract: The evolution of two, non-interacting two-level atoms immersed in a weakly coupled bath can be described by a refined, time coarse grained Markovian evolution, still preserving complete positivity. We find that this improved reduced dynamics is able to entangle the two atoms even when their internal frequencies are unequal, an effect which appears impossible in the standard weak coupling limit approach. We study in detail this phenomenon for an environment made of quantum fields.

id: 0912.0401
title: An explanation of the quantum speed up
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli
comments: 15 pages, resubmitted to Phys Rev A, the 50% rule is now related to backdating to before running the algorithm a time-symmetric part of the final projection on the solution.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0401
abstract: In former work, we showed that a quantum algorithm requires the number of operations (oracle's queries) of a classical algorithm that knows in advance 50% of the information that specifies the solution of the problem. We gave a preliminary theoretical justification of this "50% rule" and checked that the rule holds for a variety of quantum algorithms. Now, we make explicit the information about the solution available to the algorithm throughout the computation. The final projection on the solution becomes acquisition of the knowledge of the solution on the part of the algorithm. Backdating to before running the algorithm a time-symmetric part of this projection, feeds back to the input of the computation 50% of the information acquired by reading the solution.

id: 0912.0438
title: To Cavity EM-Field Quantization
authors: A.Dovlatova, D.Yearchuck, Y.Yerchak, A.Alexandrov
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0438
abstract: Cavity QED canonical quantization theory is developed, taking into consideration the dual symmetry of Maxwell equations. The expression for the charge quantum is established for the first time.

id: 0912.0461
title: Quantum Fluctuations in a Cavity QED System with Quantized Center Of Mass Motion
authors: Joseph R. Leach, Mambwe Mumba, Perry R. Rice
comments: 27 pages, 18 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0461
abstract: We investigate the quantum fluctuations of a single atom in a weakly driven cavity, where the center of mass motion of the atom is quantized in one dimension. We present analytic results for the second order intensity correlation function $g^{(2)}(\tau)$ and the intensity-field correlation function $h_{\theta}(\tau)$, for both transmitted and fluorescent light for weak driving fields. We find that the coupling of the center of mass motion to the intracavity field mode can be deleterious to nonclassical effects in photon statistics; less so for the intensity-field correlations.

id: 0912.0466
title: Critical properties of homogeneous binary trees
authors: P. Silvi, V.Giovannetti, S.Montangero, M.Rizzi, J. I. Cirac, R. Fazio
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062335 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0466
abstract: Many-body states whose wave-function admits a representation in terms of a uniform binary-tree tensor decomposition are shown to obey to power-law two-body correlations functions. Any such state can be associated with the ground state of a translational invariant Hamiltonian which, depending on the dimension of the systems sites, involve at most couplings between third-neighboring sites. A detailed analysis of their spectra shows that they admit an exponentially large ground space.

id: 0912.0485
title: Testing contextuality on quantum ensembles with one clean qubit
authors: O. Moussa, C. A. Ryan, D. G. Cory, R. Laflamme
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 160501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0485
abstract: We present a protocol to evaluate the expectation value of the correlations of measurement outcomes for ensembles of quantum systems, and use it to experimentally demonstrate--under an assumption of fair sampling--the violation of an inequality that is satisfied by any non-contextual hidden-variables (NCHV) theory. The experiment is performed on an ensemble of molecular nuclear spins in the solid state, using established Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) techniques for quantum information processing (QIP).

id: 0912.0583
title: Single query learning from abelian and non-abelian Hamming distance oracles
authors: David A. Meyer, James Pommersheim
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0583
abstract: We study the problem of identifying an n-bit string using a single quantum query to an oracle that computes the Hamming distance between the query and hidden strings. The standard action of the oracle on a response register of dimension r is by powers of the cycle (1...r), all of which, of course, commute. We introduce a new model for the action of an oracle--by general permutations in S_r--and explore how the success probability depends on r and on the map from Hamming distances to permutations. In particular, we prove that when r = 2, for even n the success probability is 1 with the right choice of the map, while for odd n the success probability cannot be 1 for any choice. Furthermore, for small odd n and r = 3, we demonstrate numerically that the image of the optimal map generates a non-abelian group of permutations.

id: 0912.0587
title: Quantum Fisher Information Flow in Non-Markovian Processes of Open Systems
authors: Xiao-Ming Lu, Xiaoguang Wang, C. P. Sun
comments: Final version published on Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 82, 042103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0587
abstract: We propose to use the quantum Fisher information in characterizing the information flow of open quantum systems. This information-theoretic approach provides a quantitative measure to statistically distinguish Markovian and non-Markovian processes. A basic relation between the QFI flow and non-Markovianity is unveiled for quantum dynamics of open systems. For a class of time-local master equations, the exactly-analytic solution shows that the non-Markovianity is characterized by additive information sub-flows in different non-Markovian channels.

id: 0912.0619
title: Approximate solutions of the Dirac equation for the Rosen-Morse potential including the spin-orbit centrifugal term
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 23 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51 (2) (2010) 023525-1:023525-16
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0619
abstract: We give the approximate analytic solutions of the Dirac equations for the Rosen-Morse potential including the spin-orbit centrifugal term. In the framework of the spin and pseudospin symmetry concept, we obtain the analytic bound state energy spectra and corresponding two-component upper- and lower-spinors of the two Dirac particles, in closed form, by means of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. The special cases of the s-wave kappa=1,-1 (l=l bar=0) Rosen-Morse potential, the Eckart-type potential, the PT-symmetric Rosen-Morse potential and non-relativistic limits are briefly studied.

id: 0912.0645
title: Increasing the statistical significance of entanglement detection in experiments
authors: Bastian Jungnitsch, S?nke Niekamp, Matthias Kleinmann, Otfried G¨¹hne, He Lu, Wei-Bo Gao, Yu-Ao Chen, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 210401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0645
abstract: Entanglement is often verified by a violation of an inequality like a Bell inequality or an entanglement witness. Considerable effort has been devoted to the optimization of such inequalities in order to obtain a high violation. We demonstrate theoretically and experimentally that such an optimization does not necessarily lead to a better entanglement test, if the statistical error is taken into account. Theoretically, we show for different error models that reducing the violation of an inequality can improve the significance. Experimentally, we observe this phenomenon in a four-photon experiment, testing the Mermin and Ardehali inequality for different levels of noise. Furthermore, we provide a way to develop entanglement tests with high statistical significance.

id: 0912.0690
title: Steady-state superradiance with alkaline earth atoms
authors: D. Meiser, M. J. Holland
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0690
abstract: Earth-alkaline-like atoms with ultra-narrow transitions open the door to a new regime of cavity quantum electrodynamics. That regime is characterized by a critical photon number that is many orders of magnitude smaller than what can be achieved in conventional systems. We show that it is possible to achieve superradiance in steady state with such systems. We discuss the basic underlying mechanisms as well as the key experimental requirements

id: 0912.0746
title: Anderson localization casts clouds over adiabatic quantum optimization
authors: Boris Altshuler, Hari Krovi, Jeremie Roland
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 107(28):12446-12450, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0746
abstract: Understanding NP-complete problems is a central topic in computer science. This is why adiabatic quantum optimization has attracted so much attention, as it provided a new approach to tackle NP-complete problems using a quantum computer. The efficiency of this approach is limited by small spectral gaps between the ground and excited states of the quantum computer's Hamiltonian. We show that the statistics of the gaps can be analyzed in a novel way, borrowed from the study of quantum disordered systems in statistical mechanics. It turns out that due to a phenomenon similar to Anderson localization, exponentially small gaps appear close to the end of the adiabatic algorithm for large random instances of NP-complete problems. This implies that unfortunately, adiabatic quantum optimization fails: the system gets trapped in one of the numerous local minima.

id: 0912.0753
title: Propagation of small fluctuations in electromagnetically induced transparency. Influence of Doppler width
authors: Pablo Barberis-Blostein, Marc Bienert
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 063824 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0753
abstract: The propagation of a pair of quantized fields inside a medium of three-level atoms in $\Lambda$ configuration is analyzed. We calculate the stationary quadrature noise spectrum of the field after propagating through the medium in the case where the field has a general (but small) noise spectrum and the atoms are in a coherent population trapping state and show electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). Although the mean values of the field remain unaltered as the field propagates, there is an oscillatory interchange of noise properties between the probe and pump fields. Also, as the field propagates, there is an oscillatory creation and annihilation of correlations between the probe and pump quadratures. We further study the field propagation of squeezed states when there is two-photon resonance, but the field has a detuning $\delta$ from atomic resonance. We show that the field propagation is very sensitive to $\delta$. The propagation in this case can be explained as a combination of a frequency dependent rotation of maximum squeezed quadrature with an interchange of noise properties between pump and probe fields. It is also shown that the effect of the Doppler width in a squeezed state propagation is considerable.

id: 0912.0763
title: Atomic coherent state in Schwinger bosonic realization for optical Raman coherent effect
authors: Hong-Yi Fan, Xue-xiang Xu, Li-yun Hu
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0763
abstract: For optical Raman coherent effect we introduce the atomic coherent state (or the angular momentum coherent state with various angular momemtum values) in Schwinger bosonic realization, they are the eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian describing the Raman effect. Similar to the fact that the photon coherent state describes laser light, the atomic coherent state is related to Raman process.

id: 0912.0771
title: Non-Markovian dynamics without using quantum trajectory
authors: Chengjun Wu, Yang Li, Mingyi Zhu, Hong Guo
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0771
abstract: Open quantum system interacting with structured environment is important and manifests non- Markovian behavior, which was conventionally studied using quantum trajectory stochastic method. In this paper, by dividing the effects of the environment into two parts, we propose a deterministic method without using quantum trajectory. This method is more efficient and accurate than stochastic method in most Markovian and non-Markovian cases. We also extend this method to the generalized Lindblad master equation.

id: 0912.0779
title: Training a Large Scale Classifier with the Quantum Adiabatic Algorithm
authors: Hartmut Neven, Vasil S. Denchev, Geordie Rose, William G. Macready
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0779
abstract: In a previous publication we proposed discrete global optimization as a method to train a strong binary classifier constructed as a thresholded sum over weak classifiers. Our motivation was to cast the training of a classifier into a format amenable to solution by the quantum adiabatic algorithm. Applying adiabatic quantum computing (AQC) promises to yield solutions that are superior to those which can be achieved with classical heuristic solvers. Interestingly we found that by using heuristic solvers to obtain approximate solutions we could already gain an advantage over the standard method AdaBoost. In this communication we generalize the baseline method to large scale classifier training. By large scale we mean that either the cardinality of the dictionary of candidate weak classifiers or the number of weak learners used in the strong classifier exceed the number of variables that can be handled effectively in a single global optimization. For such situations we propose an iterative and piecewise approach in which a subset of weak classifiers is selected in each iteration via global optimization. The strong classifier is then constructed by concatenating the subsets of weak classifiers. We show in numerical studies that the generalized method again successfully competes with AdaBoost. We also provide theoretical arguments as to why the proposed optimization method, which does not only minimize the empirical loss but also adds L0-norm regularization, is superior to versions of boosting that only minimize the empirical loss. By conducting a Quantum Monte Carlo simulation we gather evidence that the quantum adiabatic algorithm is able to handle a generic training problem efficiently.

id: 0912.0808
title: Time and Spacetime: The Crystallizing Block Universe
authors: George F. R. Ellis, Tony Rothman
comments: 25 Pages. 3 figures
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.49:988-1003,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0808
abstract: The nature of the future is completely different from the nature of the past. When quantum effects are significant, the future shows all the signs of quantum weirdness, including duality, uncertainty, and entanglement. With the passage of time, after the time-irreversible process of state-vector reduction has taken place, the past emerges, with the previous quantum uncertainty replaced by the classical certainty of definite particle identities and states. The present time is where this transition largely takes place, but the process does not take place uniformly: Evidence from delayed choice and related experiments shows that isolated patches of quantum indeterminacy remain, and that their transition from probability to certainty only takes place later. Thus, when quantum effects are significant, the picture of a classical Evolving Block Universe (`EBU') cedes place to one of a Crystallizing Block Universe (`CBU'), which reflects this quantum transition from indeterminacy to certainty, while nevertheless resembling the EBU on large enough scales.

id: 0912.0812
title: The n-tangle of odd n qubits
authors: D. Li
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Inf Process 11, 481-492 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0812
abstract: Coffman, Kundu and Wootters presented the 3-tangle of three qubits in [Phys. Rev. A 61, 052306 (2000)]. Wong and Christensen extended the 3-tangle to even number of qubits, known as $n$-tangle [Phys. Rev. A 63, 044301 (2001)]. In this paper, we propose a generalization of the 3-tangle to any odd $n$-qubit pure states and call it the $n$-tangle of odd $n$ qubits. We show that the $n$-tangle of odd $n$ qubits is invariant under permutations of the qubits, and is an entanglement monotone. The $n$-tangle of odd $n$ qubits can be considered as a natural entanglement measure of any odd $n$-qubit pure states.

id: 0912.0829
title: Information Nano-Technologies: Transition from Classical to Quantum
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX (article class), 10 pages, 3 figures (from 6 eps files)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0829
abstract: In this presentation are discussed some problems, relevant with application of information technologies in nano-scale systems and devices. Some methods already developed in quantum information technologies may be very useful here. Here are considered two illustrative models: representation of data by quantum bits and transfer of signals in quantum wires.

id: 0912.0837
title: Quantum communication through a spin chain with interaction determined by a Jacobi matrix
authors: R. Chakrabarti, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A 43 (8) 085302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0837
abstract: We obtain the time-dependent correlation function describing the evolution of a single spin excitation state in a linear spin chain with isotropic nearest-neighbour XY coupling, where the Hamiltonian is related to the Jacobi matrix of a set of orthogonal polynomials. For the Krawtchouk polynomial case an arbitrary element of the correlation function is expressed in a simple closed form. Its asymptotic limit corresponds to the Jacobi matrix of the Charlier polynomial, and may be understood as a unitary evolution resulting from a Heisenberg group element. Correlation functions for Hamiltonians corresponding to Jacobi matrices for the Hahn, dual Hahn and Racah polynomials are also studied. For the Hahn polynomials we obtain the general correlation function, some of its special cases, and the limit related to the Meixner polynomials, where the su(1,1) algebra describes the underlying symmetry. For the cases of dual Hahn and Racah polynomials the general expressions of the correlation functions contain summations which are not of hypergeometric type. Simplifications, however, occur in special cases.

id: 0912.0858
title: Stochastic exclusion processes versus coherent transport
authors: Kristan Temme, Michael M. Wolf, Frank Verstraete
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14 075004 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0858
abstract: Stochastic exclusion processes play an integral role in the physics of non-equilibrium statistical mechanics. These models are Markovian processes, described by a classical master equation. In this paper a quantum mechanical version of a stochastic hopping process in one dimension is formulated in terms of a quantum master equation. This allows the investigation of coherent and stochastic evolution in the same formal framework. The focus lies on the non-equilibrium steady state. Two stochastic model systems are considered, the totally asymmetric exclusion process and the fully symmetric exclusion process. The steady state transport properties of these models is compared to the case with additional coherent evolution, generated by the $XX$-Hamiltonian.

id: 0912.0866
title: Stability of Flip and Exchange Symmetric Entangled State Classes under Invertible Local Operations
authors: Zafer Gedik
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Optics Communications 284 (2011) pp. 681-684
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0866
abstract: Flip and exchange symmetric (FES) many-qubit states, which can be obtained from a state with the same symmetries by means of invertible local operations (ILO), constitute a one-parameter family of curves in the Hilbert space. Eigenstates of FES ILOs correspond to vectors that cannot be transformed to other FES states. This means equivalence classes of states under ILO can be determined in a systematic way for an arbitrary number of qubits. More important, for entangled states, at the boundaries of neighboring equivalence classes, one can show that when the fidelity between the final state after an ILO and a state of the neighboring class approaches unity, probability of success decreases to zero. Therefore, the classes are stable under ILOs.

id: 0912.0881
title: Play building blocks on population distribution of multilevel superconducting flux qubit with quantum interference
authors: Xueda Wen, Yiwen Wang, Yang Yu
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures, a supplementary note to PRB 79,094529(2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0881
abstract: Recent experiments on Landau-Zener interference in multilevel superconducting flux qubits revealed various interesting characteristics, which have been studied theoretically in our recent work by simply using rate equation method [PRB 79, 094529, (2009)]. In this note we extend this method to the same system but with larger driving amplitude and higher driving frequency. The results show various anomalous characteristics, some of which have been observed in a recent work.

id: 0912.0885
title: The basic Leggett inequalities don't contradict the quantum theory, neither the classical physics
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0885
abstract: The basic Leggett inequalities, i.e. those inequalities in which the particular assumptions of Leggett's hidden-variable model (e.g. Malus law) were not yet introduced, are usually derived using hidden-variable distributions of probabilities (although in some cases completely general, positive probabilities would lead to the same result). This fact creates sometimes the illusion that these basic inequalities are a belonging of the hidden-variable theories and are bound to contradict the quantum theory. In the present text the basic Leggett inequalities are derived in the most general way, i.e. no assumption is made that the distribution of probabilities would result from some wave function, or from some set of classical variables. The consequence is that as long as one and the same probability distribution is used in the calculus of all the averages appearing in the basic Leggett inequalities, no contradiction may occur. These inequalities may be violated only when different averages are calculated with different distributions, for example, some of them calculated with the quantum formalism and the others with some distribution of classical parameters.

id: 0912.0922
title: Advances in delimiting the Hilbert-Schmidt separability probability of real two-qubit systems
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures, a few inadvertent misstatements made near the end are corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 195302.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0922
abstract: We seek to derive the probability--expressed in terms of the Hilbert-Schmidt (Euclidean or flat) metric--that a generic (nine-dimensional) real two-qubit system is separable, by implementing the well-known Peres-Horodecki test on the partial transposes (PT's) of the associated 4 x 4 density matrices). But the full implementation of the test--requiring that the determinant of the PT be nonnegative for separability to hold--appears to be, at least presently, computationally intractable. So, we have previously implemented--using the auxiliary concept of a diagonal-entry-parameterized separability function (DESF)--the weaker implied test of nonnegativity of the six 2 x 2 principal minors of the PT. This yielded an exact upper bound on the separability probability of 1024/{135 pi^2} =0.76854$. Here, we piece together (reflection-symmetric) results obtained by requiring that each of the four 3 x 3 principal minors of the PT, in turn, be nonnegative, giving an improved/reduced upper bound of 22/35 = 0.628571. Then, we conclude that a still further improved upper bound of 1129/2100 = 0.537619 can be found by similarly piecing together the (reflection-symmetric) results of enforcing the simultaneous nonnegativity of certain pairs of the four 3 x 3 principal minors. In deriving our improved upper bounds, we rely repeatedly upon the use of certain integrals over cubes that arise. Finally, we apply an independence assumption to a pair of DESF's that comes close to reproducing our numerical estimate of the true separability function.

id: 0912.0945
title: On the stability of topological phases on a lattice
authors: Israel Klich
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics, Volume 325, Issue 10, p. 2120-2131 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0945
abstract: We study the stability of anyonic models on lattices to perturbations. We establish a cluster expansion for the energy of the perturbed models and use it to study the stability of the models to local perturbations. We show that the spectral gap is stable when the model is defined on a sphere, so that there is no ground state degeneracy. We then consider the toric code Hamiltonian on a torus with a class of abelian perturbations and show that it is stable when the torus directions are taken to infinity simultaneously, and is unstable when the thin torus limit is taken.

id: 0912.0963
title: Quantum Information Encoding, Protection, and Correction from Trace-Norm Isometries
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Lorenza Viola
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032313 (2010) [9 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0963
abstract: We introduce the notion of trace-norm isometric encoding and explore its implications for passive and active methods to protect quantum information against errors. Beside providing an operational foundations to the "subsystems principle" [E. Knill, Phys. Rev. A 74, 042301 (2006)] for faithfully realizing quantum information in physical systems, our approach allows additional explicit connections between noiseless, protectable, and correctable quantum codes to be identified. Robustness properties of isometric encodings against imperfect initialization and/or deviations from the intended error models are also analyzed.

id: 0912.0995
title: Anomalous Quantum Interference Induced by Landau-Zener Transitions in a Strongly Driven rf-SQUID Qubit
authors: Yiwen Wang, Shanhua Cong, Xueda Wen, Cheng Pan, Guozhu Sun, Jian Chen, Lin Kang, Weiwei Xu, Yang Yu, Peiheng Wu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 144505 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0995
abstract: We irradiated an rf-SQUID qubit with large-amplitude and high frequency electromagnetic field. Population transitions between macroscopic distinctive quantum states due to Landau-Zener transitions at energy-level avoided crossings were observed. The qubit population on the excited states as a function of flux detuning and microwave power exhibits interference patterns. Some novel features are found in the interference and a model based on rate equations can well address the features.

id: 0912.1031
title: A magneto-electric quantum wheel
authors: Alexander Feigel
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1031
abstract: Here we show that self-propulsion in quantum vacuum may be achieved by rotating or aggregating magneto-electric nano-particles. The back-action follows from changes in momentum of electro-magnetic zero-point fluctuations, generated in magneto-electric materials. This effect may provide new tools for investigation of the quantum nature of our world. It might also serve in the future as a "quantum wheel" to correct satellite orientation in space.

id: 0912.1075
title: Entangling the lattice clock: Towards Heisenberg-limited timekeeping
authors: Jonathan D. Weinstein, Kyle Beloy, Andrei Derevianko
comments: 5 pages, 2 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 030302(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1075
abstract: We present a scheme for entangling the atoms of an optical lattice to reduce the quantum projection noise of a clock measurement. The divalent clock atoms are held in a lattice at a ``magic'' wavelength that does not perturb the clock frequency -- to maintain clock accuracy -- while an open-shell J=1/2 ``head'' atom is coherently transported between lattice sites via the lattice polarization. This polarization-dependent ``Archimedes' screw'' transport at magic wavelength takes advantage of the vanishing vector polarizability of the scalar, J=0, clock states of bosonic isotopes of divalent atoms. The on-site interactions between the clock atoms and the head atom are used to engineer entanglement and for clock readout.

id: 0912.1085
title: Alternative Decomposition of Two-Qutrit Pure States and Its Relation with Entanglement Invariants
authors: Rui-Juan Gu, Fu-Lin Zhang, Shao-Ming Fei, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 5p 1fig
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 9, No. 6 (2011) 1499-1509
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1085
abstract: Based on maximally entangled states in the full- and sub-spaces of two qutrits, we present an alternative decomposition of two-qutrit pure states in a form $|\Psi>=\frac{p_{1}}{\sqrt{3}}(|00>+|11>+|22>) +\frac{p_{2}}{\sqrt{2}}(|01>+|12>)+ p_{3}e^{i\theta}|02>$. Similar to the Schmidt decomposition, all two-qutrit pure states can be transformed into the alternative decomposition under local unitary transformations, and the parameter $p_1$ is shown to be an entanglement invariant.

id: 0912.1113
title: Sampling of quantum dynamics at long time
authors: Alessandro Sergi, Francesco Petruccione
comments: Revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81 032101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1113
abstract: The principle of energy conservation leads to a generalized choice of transition probability in a piecewise adiabatic representation of quantum(-classical) dynamics. Significant improvement (almost an order of magnitude, depending on the parameters of the calculation) over previous schemes is achieved. Novel perspectives for theoretical calculations in coherent many-body systems are opened.

id: 0912.1159
title: Error Correction and Degeneracy in Surface Codes Suffering Loss
authors: T. M. Stace, S. D. Barrett
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1159
abstract: Many proposals for quantum information processing are subject to detectable loss errors. In this paper, we give a detailed account of recent results in which we showed that topological quantum memories can simultaneously tolerate both loss errors and computational errors, with a graceful tradeoff between the threshold for each. We further discuss a number of subtleties that arise when implementing error correction on topological memories. We particularly focus on the role played by degeneracy in the matching algorithms, and present a systematic study its effects on thresholds. We also discuss some of the implications of degeneracy for estimating phase transition temperatures in the random bond Ising model.

id: 0912.1162
title: Adaptive Optical Phase Estimation Using Time-Symmetric Quantum Smoothing
authors: T. A. Wheatley, D. W. Berry, H. Yonezawa, D. Nakane, H. Arao, D. T. Pope, T. C. Ralph, H. M. Wiseman, A. Furusawa, E. H. Huntington
comments: 
journal: Phys Rev Lett, 104, 093601, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1162
abstract: Quantum parameter estimation has many applications, from gravitational wave detection to quantum key distribution. We present the first experimental demonstration of the time-symmetric technique of quantum smoothing. We consider both adaptive and non-adaptive quantum smoothing, and show that both are better than their well-known time-asymmetric counterparts (quantum filtering). For the problem of estimating a stochastically varying phase shift on a coherent beam, our theory predicts that adaptive quantum smoothing (the best scheme) gives an estimate with a mean-square error up to $2\sqrt{2}$ times smaller than that from non-adaptive quantum filtering (the standard quantum limit). The experimentally measured improvement is $2.24 \pm 0.14$.

id: 0912.1176
title: Topology-controlled spectra of imaginary cubic oscillators in the large-L approach
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 14 pp., 3 figs
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374 (2010) 807--812
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1176
abstract: For quantum (quasi)particles living on complex toboggan-shaped curves which spread over N Riemann sheets the approximate evaluation of topology-controlled bound-state energies is shown feasible. In a cubic-oscillator model the low-lying spectrum is shown decreasing with winding number N.

id: 0912.1179
title: Optical interface created by laser-cooled atoms trapped in the evanescent field surrounding an optical nanofiber
authors: E. Vetsch, D. Reitz, G. Sagu¨¦, R. Schmidt, S. T. Dawkins, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1179
abstract: Trapping and optically interfacing laser-cooled neutral atoms is an essential requirement for their use in advanced quantum technologies. Here we simultaneously realize both of these tasks with cesium atoms interacting with a multi-color evanescent field surrounding an optical nanofiber. The atoms are localized in a one-dimensional optical lattice about 200 nm above the nanofiber surface and can be efficiently interrogated with a resonant light field sent through the nanofiber. Our technique opens the route towards the direct integration of laser-cooled atomic ensembles within fiber networks, an important prerequisite for large scale quantum communication schemes. Moreover, it is ideally suited to the realization of hybrid quantum systems that combine atoms with, e.g., solid state quantum devices.

id: 0912.1217
title: Quantum Hitting Time on the Complete Graph
authors: R.A.M. Santos, R. Portugal
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1217
abstract: Quantum walks play an important role in the area of quantum algorithms. Many interesting problems can be reduced to searching marked states in a quantum Markov chain. In this context, the notion of quantum hitting time is very important, because it quantifies the running time of the algorithms. Markov chain-based algorithms are probabilistic, therefore the calculation of the success probability is also required in the analysis of the computational complexity. Using Szegedy's definition of quantum hitting time, which is a natural extension of the definition of the classical hitting time, we present analytical expressions for the hitting time and success probability of the quantum walk on the complete graph.

id: 0912.1234
title: Full tomography from compatible measurements
authors: J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil, Z. Bouchal, R. Celechovsky, I. Rigas, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 4 pages, 5 eps-color figures. To be published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 250402 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1234
abstract: We put forward a reconstruction scheme prompted by the relation between a von Neumann measurement and the corresponding informationally complete measurement induced in a relevant reconstruction subspace. This method is specially suited for the full tomography of complex quantum systems, where the intricacies of the detection part of the experiment can be greatly reduced provided some prior information is available. In broader terms this shows the importance of \sugg{this often-disregarded} prior information in quantum theory. The proposed technique is illustrated with an experimental tomography of photonic vortices of moderate dimension.

id: 0912.1258
title: Focusing a deterministic single-ion beam
authors: Wolfgang Schnitzler, Georg Jacob, Robert Fickler, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler, Kilian Singer
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J.Phys.12:065023,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1258
abstract: We focus down an ion beam consisting of single 40Ca+ ions to a spot size of a few mum using an einzel-lens. Starting from a segmented linear Paul trap, we have implemented a procedure which allows us to deterministically load a predetermined number of ions by using the potential shaping capabilities of our segmented ion trap. For single-ion loading, an efficiency of 96.7(7)% has been achieved. These ions are then deterministically extracted out of the trap and focused down to a 1sigma-spot radius of (4.6 \pm 1.3)mum at a distance of 257mm from the trap center. Compared to former measurements without ion optics, the einzel-lens is focusing down the single-ion beam by a factor of 12. Due to the small beam divergence and narrow velocity distribution of our ion source, chromatic and spherical aberration at the einzel-lens is vastly reduced, presenting a promising starting point for focusing single ions on their way to a substrate.

id: 0912.1259
title: Non-Markovian quantum dynamics: local versus non-local
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 4.5 pages; new examples are added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 070406 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1259
abstract: We analyze non-Markovian evolution of open quantum systems. It is shown that any dynamical map representing evolution of such a system may be described either by non-local master equation with memory kernel or equivalently by equation which is local in time. These two descriptions are complementary: if one is simple the other is quite involved, or even singular, and vice versa. The price one pays for the local approach is that the corresponding generator keeps the memory about the starting point `t_0'. This is the very essence of non-Markovianity. Interestingly, this generator might be highly singular, nevertheless, the corresponding dynamics is perfectly regular. Remarkably, singularities of generator may lead to interesting physical phenomena like revival of coherence or sudden death and revival of entanglement.

id: 0912.1275
title: Experimental verification of statistical correlation for bosons: Another kind of Hong-Ou-Mandel interference
authors: Wei-Tao Liu, Wei Wu, Ping-Xing Chen, Cheng-Zu Li, Jian-Min Yuan
comments: 4 pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1275
abstract: According to the identity principle in quantum theory, states of a system consisted of identical particles should maintain unchanged under interchanging between two of the particles. The whole wavefunction should be symmetrized or antisymmetrized. This leads to statistical correlations between particles, which exhibit observable effects. We design an experiment to directly observe such effects for bosons. The experiment is performed with two photons. The effect of statistical correlations is clearly observed when the wavepackets of two photons are completely overlapped, and this effect varies with the degree of overlapping. The results of our experiment substantiate the statistical correlation in a simple way. Experiment reported here can also be regarded as another kind of two-photon Hong-Ou-Mandel interference, occurs in the polarization degree of freedom of photon.

id: 0912.1276
title: Rossby waves in rapidly rotating Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: H. Ter?as, J. P. A. Martins, J. T. Mendon?a
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures (submitted to PRL)
journal: New J. Phys. 12 093001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1276
abstract: We predict and describe a new collective mode in rotating Bose-Einstein condensates, which is very similar to the Rossby waves in geophysics. In the regime of fast rotation, the Coriolis force dominates the dynamics and acts as a restoring force for acoustic-drift waves along the condensate. We derive a nonlinear equation that includes the effects of both the zero-point pressure and the anharmonicity of the trap. It is shown that such waves have negative phase speed, propagating in the opposite sense of the rotation. We discuss different equilibrium configurations and compare with those resulting from the Thomas-Fermi approximation.

id: 0912.1286
title: On the quantum Renyi relative entropies and related capacity formulas
authors: M. Mosonyi, F. Hiai
comments: v4: Cutoff rates are treated for correlated hypotheses, some proofs are given in greater detail
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 57, 2474--2487, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1286
abstract: We show that the quantum $\alpha$-relative entropies with parameter $\alpha\in (0,1)$ can be represented as generalized cutoff rates in the sense of [I. Csiszar, IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 41, 26-34, (1995)], which provides a direct operational interpretation to the quantum $\alpha$-relative entropies. We also show that various generalizations of the Holevo capacity, defined in terms of the $\alpha$-relative entropies, coincide for the parameter range $\alpha\in (0,2]$, and show an upper bound on the one-shot epsilon-capacity of a classical-quantum channel in terms of these capacities.

id: 0912.1287
title: Nonadiabatic tunneling in an ideal one dimensional semi-infinite periodic potential systems: An analytically solvable model
authors: Aniruddha Chakraborty
comments: 3 figures
journal: Mol. Phys. 109, 429 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1287
abstract: Nonadiabatic tunneling in an ideal one dimensional semi-infinite periodic potential system is analyzed using our model. Using our simple analytically solvable model it is shown that ideal one dimensional semi-infinite periodic potential system can be thought as a model of moleular switch. The method is applicable to those systems where Green's function for the motion in the absence of coupling is known. The method has been applied to the problem where motion takes place on parabolic potentials, for which analytical expression of Green's function can be found.

id: 0912.1289
title: Sub-nanoscale Resolution for Atom Localization, Lithography and Microscopy via Coherent Population Trapping
authors: K. T. Kapale, G. S. Agarwal
comments: submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1289
abstract: We present a coherent population trapping based scheme to attain sub-nanoscale resolution for atom localization, microscopy and lithography. Our method uses three-level atoms coupled to amplitude modulated probe field and spatially dependent drive field. The modulation of the probe field allows us to tap into the steep dispersion normally associated with electromagnetically induced transparency and offers an avenue to attain sub-nanometer resolution using just optical fields. We illustrate application of the techniques to the area of microscopy and lithography and show how multilevel schemes offer the possibility of improving resolution further.

id: 0912.1300
title: Interplay of vacuum-mediated inter- and intraatomic couplings in a pair of atoms
authors: Sandra Isabelle Schmid, Joerg Evers
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1300
abstract: The resonance fluorescence emitted by a system of two dipole-dipole interacting nearby four-level atoms in J=1/2 - J=1/2 configuration is studied. This setup is the simplest realistic model system which provides a complete description of the (interatomic) dipole-dipole interaction for arbitrary orientation of the interatomic distance vector, and at the same time allows for intraatomic spontaneously generated coherences. We discuss different methods to analyze the contribution of the various vacuum-induced coupling constants to the total resonance fluorescence spectrum. These allow us to find a dressed state interpretation of the contribution of the different interatomic dipole-dipole couplings to the total spectrum. We further study the role of the spontaneously generated coherences, and identify two different contributions to the single-particle vacuum-induced couplings. We show that they have a noticeable impact on the total resonance fluorescence spectrum down to small interatomic distances, even though the dipole-dipole couplings constants then are much larger in magnitude than the the single-particle coupling constants. Interestingly, we find that the interatomic couplings can induce an effect of the intraatomic spontaneously generated coherences on the observed spectra which is not present in single-atom systems.

id: 0912.1330
title: Sudden death of effective entanglement
authors: K. Roszak, P. Horodecki, R. Horodecki
comments: final version, 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042308 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1330
abstract: Sudden death of entanglement is a well-known effect resulting from the finite volume of separable states. We study the case when the observer has a limited measurement capability and analyse the effective entanglement, i.e. entanglement minimized over the output data. We show that in the well defined system of two quantum dots monitored by single electron transistors, one may observe a sudden death of effective entanglement when real, physical entanglement is still alive. For certain measurement setups, this occurs even for initial states for which sudden death of physical entanglement is not possible at all. The principles of the analysis may be applied to other analogous scenarios, such as etimation of the parameters arising from quantum process tomography.

id: 0912.1454
title: Dynamic Matter-Wave Pulse Shaping
authors: M. Nest, Y. Japha, R. Folman, R. Kosloff
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1454
abstract: In this paper we discuss possibilities to manipulate a matter-wave with time-dependent potentials. Assuming a specific setup on an atom chip, we explore how one can focus, accelerate, reflect, and stop an atomic wave packet, with, for example, electric fields from an array of electrodes. We also utilize this method to initiate coherent splitting. Special emphasis is put on the robustness of the control schemes. We begin with the wave packet of a single atom, and extend this to a BEC, in the Gross-Pitaevskii picture. In analogy to laser pulse shaping with its wide variety of applications, we expect this work to form the base for additional time-dependent potentials eventually leading to matter-wave pulse shaping with numerous applications

id: 0912.1468
title: Entanglement versus Quantum Discord in Two Coupled Double Quantum Dots
authors: F. F. Fanchini, L. K. Castelano, A. O. Caldeira
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures (new version is the final version to appear in NJP)
journal: New Journal of Physics 12, 073009 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1468
abstract: We study the dynamics of quantum correlations of two coupled double quantum dots containing two excess electrons. The dissipation is included through the contact with an oscillator bath. We solve the Redfield master equation in order to determine the dynamics of the quantum discord and the entanglement of formation. Based on our results, we find that the quantum discord is more resistant to dissipation than the entanglement of formation for such a system. We observe that this characteristic is related to whether the oscillator bath is common to both qubits or not and to the form of the interaction Hamiltonian. Moreover, our results show that the quantum discord might be finite even for higher temperatures in the asymptotic limit.

id: 0912.1475
title: Quantum nonlocality: How does Nature perform the trick?\cite{Bellprize}
authors: N. Gisin
comments: Original submission of the Perspective that appeared in Science 326, 1357 (2009). 2 pages
journal: Science 326, 1357 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1475
abstract: Since our early childhood we know in our bones that in order to interact with an object we have either to go to it or to throw something at it. Yet, contrary to all our daily experience, Nature is nonlocal: there are spatially separated systems that exhibit nonlocal correlations. In recent years this led to new experiments, deeper understanding of the tension between quantum physics and relativity and to proposals for disruptive technologies.

id: 0912.1488
title: Thermo-quantum diffusion in periodic potentials
authors: R. Tsekov
comments: 
journal: Ann. Univ. Sofia, Fac. Chem. 102/103 (2011) 247-251
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1488
abstract: Quantum Brownian motion in a periodic cosine potential is studied and a simple estimate of the tunneling effect is obtained in the frames of a quasi-equilibrium semiclassical approach. It is shown that the latter is applicable for heavy particles but electrons cannot be described properly since the quantum effects dominate over the thermal ones. The purely quantum electron diffusion is investigated at zero temperature and demonstrates that electrons do not obey the classical Einstein law of Brownian motion in the field of periodic potentials, since the dispersion of the wave packet increases logarithmically in time.

id: 0912.1493
title: Improving noise threshold for optical quantum computing with the EPR photon source
authors: Z.-H. Wei, Y.-J. Han, C. H. OH, L.-M. Duan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1493
abstract: We show that the noise threshold for optical quantum computing can be significantly improved by using the EPR-type of photon source. In this implementation, the detector efficiency $\eta_{d}$ is required to be larger than 50%, and the source efficiency $\eta_{s}$ can be an arbitrarily small positive number. This threshold compares favorably with the implementation using the single-photon source, where one requires the combined efficiency $\eta_{d}\eta_{s}>2/3$. We discuss several physical setups for realization of the required EPR photon source, including the photon emitter from a single-atom cavity.

id: 0912.1522
title: Near-unit fidelity entanglement distribution using Gaussian communication
authors: Ludmila Praxmeyer, Peter van Loock
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1522
abstract: We show how to distribute with percentage success probabilities almost perfectly entangled qubit memory pairs over repeater channel segments of the order of the optical attenuation distance. In addition to some weak, dispersive light-matter interactions, only Gaussian state transmissions and measurements are needed for this scheme, which even beats the coherent-state-benchmark for entanglement distribution based on error-free non-Gaussian measurements. This is achieved through two innovations: first, optical squeezed states are utilized instead of coherent states. Secondly, the amplitudes of the bright signal pulses are reamplified at each repeater station. This latter variation is a strategy reminiscent of classical repeaters and would be impossible in single-photon-based schemes.

id: 0912.1523
title: Decoherence in Search Algorithms
authors: G. Abal, R. Donangelo, F.L. Marquezino, A.C. Oliveira, R. Portugal
comments: 14 pages, presented at 36th Seminar on Software and Hardware (SEMISH), XXIX Brazilian Computer Society Congress, Bento Concalves, Brazil
journal: Proceedings of the XXIX Brazilian Computer Society Congress (SEMISH), 2009, pages 293-306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1523
abstract: Recently several quantum search algorithms based on quantum walks were proposed. Those algorithms differ from Grover's algorithm in many aspects. The goal is to find a marked vertex in a graph faster than classical algorithms. Since the implementation of those new algorithms in quantum computers or in other quantum devices is error-prone, it is important to analyze their robustness under decoherence. In this work we analyze the impact of decoherence on quantum search algorithms implemented on two-dimensional grids and on hypercubes.

id: 0912.1526
title: A proof of Schrodinger's equation
authors: Howard Covington
comments: This version is edited for publication, a much more technical version is available in v1. 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1526
abstract: Schrodinger's equation for a single particle is proved from the assumption that dynamics can be formulated in a space whose curvature is the electromagnetic force.

id: 0912.1533
title: Fabrication of a planar micro Penning trap and numerical investigations of versatile ion positioning protocols
authors: M. Hellwig, A. Bautista-Salvador, K. Singer, G. Werth, F. Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, pdflatex, to be published in New Journal of Physics (NJP) various changes according to the wishes of the NJP referees. Text added and moved around, title changed, abstract changed, references added rev3: one reference had a typo (ref 15), fixed (phys rev a 72, not 71)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1533
abstract: We describe a versatile planar Penning trap structure, which allows to dynamically modify the trapping conguration almost arbitrarily. The trap consists of 37 hexagonal electrodes, each with a circumcirle-diameter of 300 m, fabricated in a gold-on-sapphire lithographic technique. Every hexagon can be addressed individually, thus shaping the electric potential. The fabrication of such a device with clean room methods is demonstrated. We illustrate the variability of the device by a detailed numerical simulation of a lateral and a vertical transport and we simulate trapping in racetrack and articial crystal congurations. The trap may be used for ions or electrons, as a versatile container for quantum optics and quantum information experiments.

id: 0912.1543
title: Angular uncertainty of momentum correlations in parametric fluorescence
authors: Martin Hamar, Jan Perina Jr, Vaclav Michalek, Ondrej Haderka
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Russ. Laser Res. 30 (2009) 540-546
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1543
abstract: Uncertainty in the determination of emission angles of signal and idler photons is investigated. The role of divergence of the pump beam, width of the pump spectrum, and size of the crystal is elucidated. Experimental data obtained by an iCCD camera are in a good agreement with a numerical model that provides angular and spectral characteristics of the signal and idler fields.

id: 0912.1544
title: Creation of a Photonic Time-bin Qubit via Parametric Interaction of Photons in a Driven Resonant Medium
authors: N.Sisakyan, Yu.Malakyan
comments: minor corrections compared to the published version, 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 063831 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1544
abstract: A novel method of preparing a single photon in temporally-delocalized entangled modes is proposed and analyzed. We show that two single-photon pulses propagating in a driven nonabsorbing medium with different group velocities are temporally split under parametric interaction into well-separated pulses. As a consequence, the single-photon "time-bin-entangled" states are generatedwith a programmable entanglement, which is easily controlled by driving field intensity. The experimental study of nonclassical features and nonlocality in generated states by means of balanced homodyne tomography is discussed.

id: 0912.1549
title: Entanglement-preserving frequency conversion in cold atoms
authors: A. Gogyan, Yu. Malakyan
comments: minor corrections compared to the published version, 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033822 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1549
abstract: We propose a method that enables efficient frequency conversion of quantum information based on recently demonstrated strong parametric coupling between two single-photon pulses propagating in a slow-light atomic medium at different group velocities. We show that an incoming single-photon state is efficiently converted into another optical mode in a lossless and shape-conserving manner. The persistence of initial quantum coherence and entanglement within frequency conversion is also demonstrated. We first illustrate this result for the case of small frequency difference of converted photons, and then discuss the modified scheme for conversion of photon wavelengths in different spectral ranges. Finally we analyze the generation of a narrow-band single-photon frequency-entangled state.

id: 0912.1551
title: Qubit transfer between photons at telecom and visible wavelengths in a slow-light atomic medium
authors: A. Gogyan
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1551
abstract: We propose a method that enables efficient conversion of quantum information frequency between different regions of spectrum of light based on recently demonstrated strong parametric coupling between two narrow-band single-photon pulses propagating in a slow-light atomic medium [1]. We show that an input qubit at telecom wavelength is transformed into another at visible domain in a lossless and shape-conserving manner while keeping the initial quantum coherence and entanglement. These transformations can be realized with a quantum efficiency close to its maximum value.

id: 0912.1552
title: A bridge between the single-photon and squeezed-vacuum state
authors: Nitin Jain, S. R. Huisman, Erwan Bimbard, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 18, 18254 - 18259 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1552
abstract: The two modes of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen quadrature entangled state generated by parametric down-conversion interfere on a beam splitter of variable splitting ratio. Detection of a photon in one of the beam splitter output channels heralds preparation of a signal state in the other, which is characterized using homodyne tomography. By controlling the beam splitting ratio, the signal state can be chosen anywhere between the single-photon and squeezed state.

id: 0912.1565
title: An analog of Heisenberg uncertainty relation in prequantum classical field theory
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta 81 (6), art. no. 065001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1565
abstract: Prequantum classical statistical field theory (PCSFT) is a model which provides a possibility to represent averages of quantum observables, including correlations of observables on subsystems of a composite system, as averages with respect to fluctuations of classical random fields. PCSFT is a classical model of the wave type. For example, "electron" is described by electronic field. In contrast to QM, this field is a real physical field and not a field of probabilities. An important point is that the prequantum field of e.g. electron contains the irreducible contribution of the background field, vacuum fluctuations. In principle, the traditional QM-formalism can be considered as a special regularization procedure: subtraction of averages with respect to vacuum fluctuations. In this paper we derive a classical analog of the Heisenberg-Robertson inequality for dispersions of functionals of classical (prequantum) fields. PCSFT Robertson-like inequality provides a restriction on the product of classical dispersions. However, this restriction is not so rigid as in QM. The quantum dispersion corresponds to the difference between e.g. the electron field dispersion and the dispersion of vacuum fluctuations. Classical Robertson-like inequality contains these differences. Hence, it does not imply such a rigid estimate from below for dispersions as it was done in QM.

id: 0912.1587
title: Time Eigenvalues for the One-dimensional Infinite Square Well
authors: David M. Rosenbaum
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1587
abstract: Discrete time eigenvalues are found for the Infinite Square Well.

id: 0912.1602
title: Observing different phases for the dynamics of entanglement in an ion trap
authors: Cecilia Cormick, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1602
abstract: The evolution of the entanglement between two oscillators coupled to a common thermal environment is non-trivial. The long time limit has three qualitatively different behaviors (phases) depending on parameters such as the temperature of the bath ({\em Phys. Rev. Lett.} \textbf{100}, 220401). The phases include cases with non-vanishing long-term entanglement, others with a final disentangled state, and situations displaying an infinite sequence of events of disappearance and revival of entanglement. We describe an experiment to realize these different scenarios in an ion trap. The motional degrees of freedom of two ions are used to simulate the system while the coupling to an extra (central) ion, which is continuously laser cooled, is the gateway to a decohering reservoir. The scheme proposed allows for the observation and control of motional entanglement dynamics, and is an example of a class of simulations of quantum open systems in the non-Markovian regime.

id: 0912.1607
title: When a quantum measurement can be implemented locally ... and when it cannot
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures. Extensively revised to include details of all arguments, explicitly proving all results in full rigor. Version 3 has sections reordered and other restructuring, but otherwise contains the same discussion as version 2
journal: Physical Review A 84, 052322 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1607
abstract: Local operations on subsystems and classical communication between parties (LOCC) constitute the most general protocols available on spatially separated quantum systems. Every LOCC protocol implements a separable generalized measurement -- a complete measurement for which every outcome corresponds to a tensor product of operators on individual subsystems -- but it is known that there exist separable measurements that cannot be implemented by LOCC. A longstanding problem in quantum information theory is to understand the difference between LOCC and the full set of separable measurements. In this paper, we show how to construct an LOCC protocol to implement an arbitrary separable measurement, except that with those measurements for which no LOCC protocol exists, the method shows explicitly that this is the case.

id: 0912.1678
title: An alternative construction of the positive inner product for pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians: Examples
authors: Ashok Das, L. Greenwood
comments: 9 pages, revtex
journal: J.Math.Phys.51:042103,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1678
abstract: This paper builds on our earlier proposal for construction of a positive inner product for pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians and we give several examples to clarify our method. We show through the example of the harmonic oscillator how our construction applies equally well to Hermitian Hamiltonians which form a subset of pseudo-Hermitian systems. For finite dimensional pseudo-Hermitian matrix Hamiltonians we construct the positive inner product (in the case of $2\times 2$ matrices for both real as well as complex eigenvalues). When the quantum mechanical system cannot be diagonalized exactly, our construction can be carried out perturbatively and we develop the general formalism for such a perturbative calculation systematically (for real eigenvalues). We illustrate how this general formalism works out in practice by calculating the inner product for a couple of ${\cal PT}$ symmetric quantum mechanical theories.

id: 0912.1690
title: Quantum transport and counting statistics in closed systems
authors: Maya Chuchem, Doron Cohen
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. Proceedings of FQMT conference (Prague, 2008)
journal: Physica E 42, 555 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1690
abstract: A current can be induced in a closed device by changing control parameters. The amount $Q$ of particles that are transported via a path of motion, is characterized by its expectation value $<Q>$, and by its variance $Var(Q)$. We show that quantum mechanics invalidates some common conceptions about this statistics. We first consider the process of a double path crossing, which is the prototype example for counting statistics in multiple path non-trivial geometry. We find out that contrary to the common expectation, this process does not lead to partition noise. Then we analyze a full stirring cycle that consists of a sequence of two Landau-Zener crossings. We find out that quite generally counting statistics and occupation statistics become unrelated, and that quantum interference affects them in different ways.

id: 0912.1752
title: Spin squeezing and concurrence
authors: Xiaolei Yin, Xiaoqian Wang, Jian Ma, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, one table
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 015501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1752
abstract: We study the relations between spin squeezing and concurrence, and find that they are qualitatively equivalent for an ensemble of spin-1/2 particles with exchange symmetry and parity, if we adopt the spin squeezing criterion given by the recent work (G. Toth et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 250405 (2007)). This suggests that the spin squeezing has more intimate relations with pairwise entanglement. We exemplify the result by considering a superposition of two Dicke states.

id: 0912.1771
title: Accurate "superluminal" transmission via entanglement, superoscillations and quasi-Dirac distributions
authors: D.Sokolovski, R.Sala Mayato
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1771
abstract: We analyse a system in which, due to entanglement between the spin and spatial degrees of freedom, the reduced transmitted state has the shape of the freely propagating pulse translated in the complex co-ordinate plane. In the case an apparently "superluminal" advancement of the pulse the delay amplitude distribution is found to be a peculiar approximation to the Dirac delta-function, and the transmission coefficient exhibits a well-defined super-oscillatory window. Analogies with potential tunnelling and the Wheeler's delayed choice experiment are highlighted.

id: 0912.1798
title: Quantum key distribution and 1 Gbit/s data encryption over a single fibre
authors: Patrick Eraerds, Nino Walenta, Matthieu Legre, Nicolas Gisin, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1798
abstract: We perform quantum key distribution (QKD) in the presence of 4 classical channels in a C-band dense wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM) configuration using a commercial QKD system. The classical channels are used for key distillation and 1 Gbps encrypted communication, rendering the entire system independent from any other communication channel than a single dedicated fibre. We successfully distil secret keys over fibre spans of up to 50 km. The separation between quantum channel and nearest classical channel is only 200 GHz, while the classical channels are all separated by 100 GHz. In addition to that we discuss possible improvements and alternative configurations, for instance whether it is advantageous to choose the quantum channel at 1310 nm or to opt for a pure C-band configuration.

id: 0912.1804
title: Dressed Qubits in Nuclear Spin Baths
authors: Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 5 pages, no figures,
journal: Phys Rev A 81, 044305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1804
abstract: We present a method to encode a \textit{dressed} qubit into the product state of an electron spin localized in quantum dot and its surrounding nuclear spins via a dressing transformation. In this scheme, the hyperfine coupling and a portion of nuclear dipole dipole interaction become logic gates, while they are the sources of decoherence in electron spin qubit proposals. We discuss errors and corrections for the dressed qubits. Interestingly, the effective Hamiltonian of nuclear spins is equivalent to a pairing Hamiltonian, which provides the microscopic mechanism to protect dressed qubits against decoherence.

id: 0912.1806
title: Complete controllability of finite quantum systems with two-fold energy level degeneracy
authors: Zhedong Zhang, H.C.Fu
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure. J.Phys.A. 43 (2010) in press.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1806
abstract: Complete controllability of finite dimensional quantum systems with energy level degeneracy is investigated using two different approaches. One approach is to apply a weak constant field to eliminate the degeneracy and then control it using techniques developed for non-degenerate quantum systems. Conditions for the elimination of degeneracy are found and the issue of influence of relaxation time of constant external field to the target state are addressed through the fidelity. Another approach is to control the degenerate system by a single control field directly. It is found that the system with two-fold degenerate excited states and non-degenerate ground state are completely controllable except for the two-level system. Conditions of complete controllability are found for both systems with different energy gaps and with equal energy gaps.

id: 0912.1870
title: Detection of high-dimensional genuine multi-partite entanglement of mixed states
authors: Marcus Huber, Florian Mintert, Andreas Gabriel, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 210501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1870
abstract: We derive a general framework to identify genuinely multipartite entangled mixed quantum states in arbitrary-dimensional systems and show in exemplary cases that the constructed criteria are stronger than those previously known. Our criteria are simple functions of the given quantum state and detect genuine multipartite entanglement that had not been identified so far. They are experimentally accessible without quantum state tomography and are easily computable as no optimization or eigenvalue evaluation is needed.

id: 0912.1941
title: Operator Space theory: a natural framework for Bell inequalities
authors: M. Junge, C. Palazuelos, D. Perez-Garcia, I. Villanueva, M.M. Wolf
comments: Short (non-technical) version of arXiv:0910.4228
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:170405,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1941
abstract: In this letter we show that the field of Operator Space Theory provides a general and powerful mathematical framework for arbitrary Bell inequalities, in particular regarding the scaling of their violation within quantum mechanics. We illustrate the power of this connection by showing that bipartite quantum states with local Hilbert space dimension n can violate a Bell inequality by a factor of order $\frac{\sqrt{n}}{\log^2n}$ when observables with n possible outcomes are used. Applications to resistance to noise, Hilbert space dimension estimates and communication complexity are given.

id: 0912.1947
title: Comment on "Quantum Solution to the Arrow-of-Time Dilemma"
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1947
abstract: In this paper we criticize the attempt of Maccone [Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 080401 (2009), arXiv:0802.0438] to solve the problem of the arrow of time.

id: 0912.1949
title: Bipartite quantum channels using multipartite cluster-type entangled coherent states
authors: P. P. Munhoz, J. A. Roversi, A. Vidiella-Barranco, F. L. Semi?o
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, REVTeX 4.1, BibTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1949
abstract: We propose a particular encoding for bipartite entangled states derived from multipartite cluster-type entangled coherent states (CTECSs). We investigate the effects of amplitude damping on the entanglement content of this bipartite state, as well as its usefulness as a quantum channel for teleportation. We find interesting relationships among the amplitude of the coherent states constituting the CTECSs, the number of subsystems forming the logical qubits (redundancy), and the extent to which amplitude damping affects the entanglement of the channel. For instance, in the sense of sudden death of entanglement, given a fixed value of the initial coherent state amplitude, the entanglement life span is shortened if redundancy is increased.

id: 0912.1956
title: Spectral measurement of the thermal excitation of a superconducting qubit
authors: Agustin Palacios-Laloy, F. Mallet, F. Nguyen, F. Ong, P. Bertet, D. Vion, D. Esteve
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1956
abstract: We report the measurement of the fluctuations of a transmon qubit through the noise spectrum of the microwave signal that measures its state. The amplitude of the Lorentzian noise power spectrum allows to determine the average qubit excitation, in agreement with the estimated thermal radiation reaching the sample. Its width yields the qubit energy relaxation rate which decreases with temperature, contrary to the predictions for a two-level system solely coupled to thermal radiation. This indicates the existence of another non-radiative energy relaxation channel for the qubit.

id: 0912.1958
title: Quantum, Photo-Electric Single Capacitor Paradox
authors: Darko Kapor, Vladan Pankovic
comments: four pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1958
abstract: In this work single capacitor paradox (a variation of the remarkable two capacitor paradox) is considered in a new, quantum discrete form. Simply speaking we consider well-known usual, photoelectric effect experimental device, i.e. photo electric cell, where cathode and anode are equivalently charged but non-connected. It, obviously, represents a capacitor that initially, i.e. before action of the photons with individual energy equivalent to work function, holds corresponding energy of the electrical fields between cathode and anode. Further, we direct quantum discretely photons, one by one, toward cathode where according to photo-electrical effect electrons discretely, one by one, will be emitted and directed toward anode. It causes discrete discharge of the cell, i.e. capacitor and discrete decrease of the electrical field. Finally, total discharge of the cell, i.e. capacitor, and total disappearance of the electrical field and its energy will occur. Given, seemingly paradoxical, capacitor total energy loss can be simply explained without any dissipative effects (Joule heating or electromagnetic waves emission can be neglected as high order small corrections) by work done by the electrical field by movement of the electrons from cathode to anode. (Remarkable two capacitors paradox can be, obviously, formulated and explained in the completely analogous way.)

id: 0912.1990
title: Collectivity-assisted ground state cooling of a nanomechanical resonator
authors: K. Xia, J. Evers
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1990
abstract: We discuss cooling of a nanomechanical resonator to its mechanical ground state by coupling it to a collective system of two interacting flux qubits. We find that the collectivity crucially improves cooling by two mechanisms. First, cooling transitions proceed via sub-radiant Dicke states, and the reduced line width of these sub-radiant states suppresses both the scattering and the environmental contribution to the final phonon number. Second, detrimental carrier excitations without change in the motion of the resonator are suppressed by collective energy shifts.

id: 0912.2017
title: Location of quantum information in additive graph codes
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu, Shiang Yong Looi, Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Comments are welcome. 17 pages with 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032326 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2017
abstract: The location of quantum information in various subsets of the qudit carriers of an additive graph code is discussed using a collection of operators on the coding space which form what we call the information group. It represents the input information through an encoding operation constructed as an explicit quantum circuit. Partial traces of these operators down to a particular subset of carriers provide an isomorphism of a subgroup of the information group, and this gives a precise characterization of what kinds of information they contain. All carriers are assumed to have the same dimension D, an arbitrary integer greater than 1.

id: 0912.2035
title: Towards optimized suppression of dephasing in systems subject to pulse timing constraints
authors: Thomas E. Hodgson, Lorenza Viola, Irene D'Amico
comments: 13 figures,1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2035
abstract: We investigate the effectiveness of different dynamical decoupling protocols for storage of a single qubit in the presence of a purely dephasing bosonic bath, with emphasis on comparing quantum coherence preservation under uniform vs. non-uniform delay times between pulses. In the limit of instantaneous bit-flip pulses, this is accomplished by establishing a new representation of the controlled qubit evolution, where the resulting decoherence behaviour is directly expressed in terms of the free evolution. Simple analytical expressions are given to approximate the long- and short- term coherence behaviour for both ohmic and supra-ohmic environments. We focus on systems with physical constraints on achievable time delays, with emphasis on pure dephasing of excitonic qubits in quantum dots. Our analysis shows that little advantage of high-level decoupling schemes based on concatenated or optimal design is to be expected if operational constraints prevent pulses to be applied sufficiently fast. In such constrained scenarios, we demonstrate how simple modifications of repeated periodic echo protocols can offer significantly improved coherence preservation in realistic parameter regimes.

id: 0912.2065
title: Implementation of a non-deterministic optical noiseless amplifier
authors: Franck Ferreyrol, Marco Barbieri, Remi Blandino, Simon Fossier, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Philippe Grangier
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2065
abstract: Quantum mechanics imposes that any amplifier that works independently on the phase of the input signal has to introduce some excess noise. The impossibility of such a noiseless amplifier is rooted into unitarity and linearity of quantum evolution. A possible way to circumvent this limitation is to interrupt such evolution via a measurement, providing a random outcome able to herald a successful - and noiseless - amplification event. Here we show a successful realisation of such an approach; we perform a full characterization of an amplified coherent state using quantum homodyne tomography, and observe a strong heralded amplification, with about 6dB gain and a noise level significantly smaller than the minimal allowed for any ordinary phase-independent device.

id: 0912.2098
title: Adiabatic Cluster State Quantum Computing
authors: Dave Bacon, Steven T. Flammia
comments: 4 pages, v2 fixes sign error and typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 030303(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2098
abstract: Models of quantum computation are important because they change the physical requirements for achieving universal quantum computation (QC). For example, one-way QC requires the preparation of an entangled "cluster" state followed by adaptive measurement on this state, a set of requirements which is different from the standard quantum circuit model. Here we introduce a model based on one-way QC but without measurements (except for the final readout), instead using adiabatic deformation of a Hamiltonian whose initial ground state is the cluster state. This opens the possibility to use the copious results from one-way QC to build more feasible adiabatic schemes.

id: 0912.2101
title: Random unitary maps for quantum state reconstruction
authors: Seth T. Merkel, Carlos A. Riofrio, Steven T. Flammia, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032126 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2101
abstract: We study the possibility of performing quantum state reconstruction from a measurement record that is obtained as a sequence of expectation values of a Hermitian operator evolving under repeated application of a single random unitary map, U_0. We show that while this single-parameter orbit in operator space is not informationally complete, it can be used to yield surprisingly high-fidelity reconstruction. For a d-dimensional Hilbert space with the initial observable in su(d), the measurement record lacks information about a matrix subspace of dimension > d-2 out of the total dimension d^2-1. We determine the conditions on U_0 such that the bound is saturated, and show they are achieved by almost all pseudorandom unitary matrices. When we further impose the constraint that the physical density matrix must be positive, we obtain even higher fidelity than that predicted from the missing subspace. With prior knowledge that the state is pure, the reconstruction will be perfect (in the limit of vanishing noise) and for arbitrary mixed states, the fidelity is over 0.96, even for small d, and reaching F > 0.99 for d > 9. We also study the implementation of this protocol based on the relationship between random matrices and quantum chaos. We show that the Floquet operator of the quantum kicked top provides a means of generating the required type of measurement record, with implications on the relationship between quantum chaos and information gain.

id: 0912.2149
title: Influence of detector motion in entanglement measurements with photons
authors: Andre G. S. Landulfo, George E. A. Matsas, Adriano C. Torres
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2149
abstract: We investigate how the polarization correlations of entangled photons described by wave packets are modified when measured by moving detectors. For this purpose, we analyze the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt Bell inequality as a function of the apparatus velocity. Our analysis is motivated by future experiments with entangled photons designed to use satellites. This is a first step towards the implementation of quantum information protocols in a global scale.

id: 0912.2150
title: Nonlocal quantum information in bipartite quantum error correction
authors: Mark M. Wilde, David Fattal
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Volume 9, Number 5, pages 591-610, September 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2150
abstract: We show how to convert an arbitrary stabilizer code into a bipartite quantum code. A bipartite quantum code is one that involves two senders and one receiver. The two senders exploit both nonlocal and local quantum resources to encode quantum information with local encoding circuits. They transmit their encoded quantum data to a single receiver who then decodes the transmitted quantum information. The nonlocal resources in a bipartite code are ebits and nonlocal information qubits and the local resources are ancillas and local information qubits. The technique of bipartite quantum error correction is useful in both the quantum communication scenario described above and in fault-tolerant quantum computation. It has application in fault-tolerant quantum computation because we can prepare nonlocal resources offline and exploit local encoding circuits. In particular, we derive an encoding circuit for a bipartite version of the Steane code that is local and additionally requires only nearest-neighbor interactions. We have simulated this encoding in the CNOT extended rectangle with a publicly available fault-tolerant simulation software. The result is that there is an improvement in the "pseudothreshold" with respect to the baseline Steane code, under the assumption that quantum memory errors occur less frequently than quantum gate errors.

id: 0912.2153
title: Tunable photon-assisted bleaching of three-level systems for noise filtration
authors: Chun-Hsu Su, Andrew D. Greentree, Raymond G. Beausoleil, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, significantly revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2153
abstract: Electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT) exploits quantum coherence to burn subnatural linewidth holes within a spectral line. We investigate the less explored properties of EIT to effect absorptive nonlinear processes without restrictions on the relative intensities of pump and probe fields. We show that a three-level medium under imperfect EIT conditions can generate a form of bleaching that is qualitatively similar to two-state saturable absorption. This scheme has the advantages of greater sensitivity to signal intensity and controllability over its bleaching intensity level post-fabrication. Such effects could prove useful for noise filtration at very low light levels.

id: 0912.2211
title: Quantum Theory: Exact or Approximate?
authors: Stephen L. Adler, Angelo Bassi
comments: Original submission of the Perspective that appeared in Science
journal: Science 325, 275 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2211
abstract: Quantum mechanics has enjoyed a multitude of successes since its formulation in the early twentieth century. At the same time, it has generated puzzles that persist to this day. These puzzles have inspired a large literature in physics and philosophy. There are two distinct approaches. One is to assume that quantum theory is exact, but that the interpretive postulates need modification, to eliminate apparent contradictions. The second approach is to assume that quantum mechanics is not exact, but instead is a very accurate approximation to a deeper level theory, which reconciles the deterministic and probabilistic aspects. We will focus on this second approach.

id: 0912.2225
title: Geometry induced potential on a 2D-section of a wormhole: catenoid
authors: Rossen Dandoloff, Avadh Saxena, Bjorn Jensen
comments: to appear in Phys.Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2225
abstract: We show that a two dimensional wormhole geometry is equivalent to a catenoid, a minimal surface. We then obtain the curvature induced geometric potential and show that the ground state with zero energy corresponds to a reflectionless potential. By introducing an appropriate coordinate system we also obtain bound states for different angular momentum channels. Our findings can be realized in suitably bent bilayer graphene sheets with a neck or in a honeycomb lattice with an array of dislocations or in nanoscale waveguides in the shape of a catenoid.

id: 0912.2232
title: Bound on Hardy's non-locality from the principle of Information Causality
authors: Ali Ahanj, Samir Kunkri, Ashutosh Rai, Ramij Rahaman, Pramod S. Joag
comments: Abstract modified, changes made in the conclusion, throughout the paper we clarified that the condition used by us is protocal based and is only a sufficient condition for the violation of information causality
journal: Physical Review A 81, 032103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2232
abstract: Recently,the principle of nonviolation of information causality [Nature 461,1101 (2009)], has been proposed as one of the foundational properties of nature. We explore the Hardy's nonlocality theorem for two qubit systems, in the context of generalised probability theory, restricted by the principle of nonviolation of information causality. Applying, a sufficient condition for information causality violation, we derive an upper bound on the maximum success probability of Hardy's nonlocality argument. We find that the bound achieved here is higher than that allowed by quantum mechanics,but still much less than what the nosignaling condition permits. We also study the Cabello type nonlocality argument (a generalization of Hardy's argument) in this context.

id: 0912.2234
title: Active laser frequency stabilization using neutral praseodymium (Pr)
authors: S. Oppel, G. H. Guthoehrlein, W. Kaenders, J. von Zanthier
comments: 10 pages, 14 figures
journal: Appl Phys B 101, 33 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2234
abstract: We present a new possibility for the active frequency stabilization of a laser using transitions in neutral praseodymium. Because of its five outer electrons, this element shows a high density of energy levels leading to an extremely line-rich excitation spectrum with more than 25000 known spectral lines ranging from the UV to the infrared. We demonstrate the active frequency stabilization of a diode laser on several praseodymium lines between 1105 and 1123 nm. The excitation signals were recorded in a hollow cathode lamp and observed via laser-induced fluorescence. These signals are strong enough to lock the diode laser onto most of the lines by using standard laser locking techniques. In this way, the frequency drifts of the unlocked laser of more than 30 MHz/h were eliminated and the laser frequency stabilized to within 1.4(1) MHz for averaging times >0.2 s. Frequency quadrupling the stabilized diode laser can produce frequency-stable UV-light in the range from 276 to 281 nm. In particular, using a strong hyperfine component of the praseodymium excitation line E = 16 502.616_7/2 cm^-1 -> E' = 25 442.742_9/2 cm^-1 at lambda = 1118.5397(4) nm makes it possible - after frequency quadruplication - to produce laser radiation at lambda/4 = 279.6349(1) nm, which can be used to excite the D2 line in Mg^+.

id: 0912.2243
title: Non-touching nanoparticle diclusters bound by repulsive and attractive Casimir forces
authors: Alejandro W. Rodriguez, Alexander P. McCauley, David Woolf, Federico Capasso, John D. Joannopoulos, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters, Vol. 104, No. 16, 160402 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2243
abstract: We present a scheme for obtaining stable Casimir suspension of dielectric nontouching objects immersed in a fluid, validated here in various geometries consisting of ethanol-separated dielectric spheres and semi-infinite slabs. Stability is induced by the dispersion properties of real dielectric (monolithic) materials. A consequence of this effect is the possibility of stable configurations (clusters) of compact objects, which we illustrate via a "molecular" two-sphere dicluster geometry consiting of two bound spheres levitated above a gold slab. Our calculations also reveal a strong interplay between material and geometric dispersion, and this is exemplified by the qualitatively different stability behavior observed in planar versus spherical geometries.

id: 0912.2244
title: A proposal for continuous loading of an optical dipole trap with magnetically guided ultra cold atoms
authors: Anoush Aghajani-Talesh, Markus Falkenau, Axel Griesmaier, Tilman Pfau
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: A Aghajani-Talesh et al, J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 (2009) 245302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2244
abstract: The capture of a moving atom by a non-dissipative trap, such as an optical dipole trap, requires the removal of the excessive kinetic energy of the atom. In this article we develop a mechanism to harvest ultra cold atoms from a guided atom beam into an optical dipole trap by removing their directed kinetic energy. We propose a continuous loading scheme where this is accomplished via deceleration by a magnetic potential barrier followed by optical pumping to the energetically lowest Zeeman sublevel. We theoretically investigate the application of this scheme to the transfer of ultra cold chromium atoms from a magnetically guided atom beam into a deep optical dipole trap. We discuss the realization of a suitable magnetic field configuration. Based on numerical simulations of the loading process we analyze the feasibility and efficiency of our loading scheme.

id: 0912.2258
title: Minimum Detection Efficiencies for a Loophole-Free Bell-type Test
authors: G. Garbarino
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2258
abstract: We discuss the problem of finding the most favorable conditions for closing the detection loophole in a test of local realism with a Bell inequality. For a generic non-maximally entangled two-qubit state and two alternative measurement bases we apply Hardy's proof of non-locality without inequality and derive an Eberhard-like inequality. For an infinity of non-maximally entangled states we find that it is possible to refute local realism by requiring perfect detection efficiency for only one of the two measurements: the test is free from the detection loophole for any value of the detection efficiency corresponding to the other measurement. The maximum tolerable noise in a loophole-free test is also evaluated.

id: 0912.2357
title: Continuous phase amplification with a Sagnac interferometer
authors: David J. Starling, P. Ben Dixon, Nathan S. Williams, Andrew N. Jordan, John C. Howell
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, previously submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2357
abstract: We describe a weak value inspired phase amplification technique in a Sagnac interferometer. We monitor the relative phase between two paths of a slightly misaligned interferometer by measuring the average position of a split-Gaussian mode in the dark port. Although we monitor only the dark port, we show that the signal varies linearly with phase and that we can obtain similar sensitivity to balanced homodyne detection. We derive the source of the amplification both with classical wave optics and as an inverse weak value.

id: 0912.2365
title: Intra-molecular refrigeration in enzymes
authors: Hans J. Briegel, Sandu Popescu
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2365
abstract: We present a simple mechanism for intra-molecular refrigeration, where parts of a molecule are actively cooled below the environmental temperature. We discuss the potential role and applications of such a mechanism in biology, in particular in enzymatic reactions.

id: 0912.2367
title: The shadow system in coordinate space: The shadow system in coordinate space: A locally explicable system that violates Bell's inequality
authors: Warren Leffler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2367
abstract: We explore the consequences of denying the "emptiness of paths not taken," EPNT, a premise of Bernstein, Greenberger, Horne, and Zeilinger in their paper titled, Bell theorem without inequalities. Carrying out the negation of EPNT leads to the concept of a "shadow stream." Streams are essentially particle implementations of the path amplitudes in Feynman's formulation of quantum mechanics, resulting in a simple and consistent extension of the standard postulates for quantum mechanics. Following up on the negation of EPNT using shadow streams, we analyze the experimental outcomes in a standard two-particle interferometer. The result is a simple counterexample to Bell's theorem in position/momentum space.

id: 0912.2402
title: Continuous-variables entanglement purification with atomic systems
authors: Stojan Rebic, Stefano Mancini, Giovanna Morigi, David Vitali
comments: Published in Feature Issue "Quantum Optical Information Technologies"
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, A198 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2402
abstract: We present a proposal for entanglement purification of the continuous-variable quantum state of two propagating optical fields. The scheme is based on letting each field interact with a local node, an atomic ensemble, whose internal collective excitation plays the role of an ancillary continuous variable resource. Entanglement purification is achieved by a dichotomic measurement, representing the required non-Gaussian element, and which consists in detecting the presence or absence of collective excitations in the atomic ensemble. This scheme can be extended to networks, where the nodes are single trapped atoms, and constitutes an important building block for the implementation of a continuous-variable quantum repeater.

id: 0912.2474
title: Quantum theory is classical mechanics with non-local existence
authors: John Hegseth
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2474
abstract: I propose a new and direct connection between classical mechanics and quantum mechanics where I derive the quantum mechanical propagator from a variational principle. This variational principle is Hamilton's modified principle generalized to allow many paths due to the non-local existence of particles in phase space. This principle allows a physical system to evolve non-locally in phase space while still allowing a representation that uses many classical paths. Whereas a point in phase space represents a classical system's state, I represent the state of a non-local system by a mixed trajectory. This formulation naturally leads to the transactional interpretation for resolving the paradoxes of the measurement problem. This principle also suggests a more flexible framework for formulating theories based on invariant actions and provides a single conceptual framework for discussing many areas of science.

id: 0912.2517
title: Imprinting Patterns of Neutral Atoms in an Optical Lattice using Magnetic Resonance Techniques
authors: Micha? Karski, Leonid F?rster, Jai-Min Choi, Andreas Steffen, Noomen Belmechri, Wolfgang Alt, Dieter Meschede, Artur Widera
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2517
abstract: We prepare arbitrary patterns of neutral atoms in a one-dimensional (1D) optical lattice with single-site precision using microwave radiation in a magnetic field gradient. We give a detailed account of the current limitations and propose methods to overcome them. Our results have direct relevance for addressing of planes, strings or single atoms in higher dimensional optical lattices for quantum information processing or quantum simulations with standard methods in current experiments. Furthermore, our findings pave the way for arbitrary single qubit control with single site resolution.

id: 0912.2525
title: Storage and recall of weak coherent optical pulses with an efficiency of 25%
authors: M. Sabooni, F. Beaudoin, A. Walther, N. Lin, A. Amari, M. Huang, S. Kr?ll
comments: 5,4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2525
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally a quantum memory scheme for the storage of weak coherent light pulses in an inhomogeneously broadened optical transition in a Pr^{3+}: YSO crystal at 2.1 K. Precise optical pumping using a frequency stable (about 1kHz linewidth) laser is employed to create a highly controllable Atomic Frequency Comb (AFC) structure. We report single photon storage and retrieval efficiencies of 25%, based on coherent photon echo type re-emission in the forward direction. The coherence property of the quantum memory is proved through interference between a super Gaussian pulse and the emitted echo. Backward retrieval of the photon echo emission has potential for increasing storage and recall efficiency.

id: 0912.2527
title: Feedback-Optimized Operations with Linear Ion Crystals
authors: J. F. Eble, S. Ulm, P. Zahariev, F. Schmidt-Kaler, K. Singer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2527
abstract: We report on transport operations with linear crystals of 40Ca+ ions by applying complex electric time-dependent potentials. For their control we use the information obtained from the ions' fluorescence. We demonstrate that by means of this feedback technique, we can transport a predefined number of ions and also split and unify ion crystals. The feedback control allows for a robust scheme, compensating for experimental errors as it does not rely on a precisely known electrical modeling of the electric potentials in the ion trap beforehand. Our method allows us to generate a self-learning voltage ramp for the required process. With an experimental demonstration of a transport with more than 99.8 % success probability, this technique may facilitate the operation of a future ion based quantum processor.

id: 0912.2562
title: Collocation method for fractional quantum mechanics
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Christoph P. Hofmann, Ricardo A. S¨¢enz
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2562
abstract: We show that it is possible to obtain numerical solutions to quantum mechanical problems involving a fractional Laplacian, using a collocation approach based on Little Sinc Functions (LSF), which discretizes the Schr\"odinger equation on a uniform grid. The different boundary conditions are naturally implemented using sets of functions with the appropriate behavior. Good convergence properties are observed. A comparison with results based on a WKB analysis is performed.

id: 0912.2582
title: Information causality and non-locality swapping are equivalent from emergence of quantum correlations
authors: Li-Yi Hsu
comments: Title changed; abstract, introduction and discussions revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2582
abstract: Is information causality a new physical principle? To answer this question, we first analytically derive the criteria of emergence of quantum correlations from information causality. Then it is shown that, as emergence criteria of quantum correlations, information causality and uselessness of coupler-based non-locality swapping can be regarded equivalent. Therefore, incapability of non-locality swapping using a coupler is as powerful as information causality in the single-out of quantum physics from generalized non-signalling models.

id: 0912.2587
title: Dynamics of interacting atoms in driven tilted optical lattices
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky, Hans J¨¹rgen Korsch
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures
journal: Journal of Siberian Federal University: Mathematics & Physics {\bf 3}, 311 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2587
abstract: The dynamics of cold Bose atoms in driven tilted optical lattices is analyzed focusing on destruction of Wannier-Stark localization and the phenomenon of band collapse. It is argued that an understanding of the experimental results requires thorough account for interaction effects. These are suppression of the ballistic spreading of atoms for resonant driving (a multiple of the driving frequency coincides with the Bloch frequency) and unbounded sub-diffusive spreading of atoms for off-resonant driving.

id: 0912.2603
title: Quantum noise of a Michelson-Sagnac interferometer with translucent mechanical oscillator
authors: Kazuhiro Yamamoto, Daniel Friedrich, Tobias Westphal, Stefan Gossler, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel, Kentaro Somiya, Stefan L. Danilishin
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2603
abstract: Quantum fluctuations in the radiation pressure of light can excite stochastic motions of mechanical oscillators thereby realizing a linear quantum opto-mechanical coupling. When performing a precise measurement of the position of an oscillator, this coupling results in quantum radiation pressure noise. Up to now this effect has not been observed yet. Generally speaking, the strength of radiation pressure noise increases when the effective mass of the oscillator is decreased or when the power of the reflected light is increased. Recently, extremely light SiN membranes with high mechanical Q-values at room temperature have attracted attention as low thermal noise mechanical oscillators. However, the power reflectance of these membranes is much lower than unity which makes the use of advanced interferometer recycling techniques to amplify the radiation pressure noise in a standard Michelson interferometer inefficient. Here, we propose and theoretically analyze a Michelson-Sagnac interferometer that includes the membrane as a common end mirror for the Michelson interferometer part. In this new topology, both, power- and signal-recycling can be used even if the reflectance of the membrane is much lower than unity. In particular, signal-recycling is a useful tool because it does not involve a power increase at the membrane. We derive the formulas for the quantum radiation pressure noise and the shot-noise of an oscillator position measurement and compare them with theoretical models of the thermal noise of a SiN membrane with a fundamental resonant frequency of 75 kHz and an effective mass of 125 ng. We find that quantum radiation pressure noise should be observable with a power of 1 W at the central beam splitter of the interferometer and a membrane temperature of 1 K.

id: 0912.2610
title: Unitary-process discrimination with error margin
authors: T. Hashimoto, A. Hayashi, M. Hayashi, M. Horibe
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, presentation improved, typos corrected, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062327 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2610
abstract: We investigate a discrimination scheme between unitary processes. By introducing a margin for the probability of erroneous guess, this scheme interpolates the two standard discrimination schemes: minimum-error and unambiguous discrimination. We present solutions for two cases. One is the case of two unitary processes with general prior probabilities. The other is the case with a group symmetry: the processes comprise a projective representation of a finite group. In the latter case, we found that unambiguous discrimination is a kind of "all or nothing": the maximum success probability is either 0 or 1. We also closely analyze how entanglement with an auxiliary system improves discrimination performance.

id: 0912.2666
title: Bohmian Trajectories as the Foundation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 14 pages LaTeX, no figures. This is an introduction to Bohmian mechanics, intended particularly for chemists. To appear in Pratim Chattaraj (editor): Quantum Trajectories. Boca Raton: Taylor & Francis (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2666
abstract: Bohmian trajectories have been used for various purposes, including the numerical simulation of the time-dependent Schroedinger equation and the visualization of time-dependent wave functions. We review the purpose they were invented for: to serve as the foundation of quantum mechanics, i.e., to explain quantum mechanics in terms of a theory that is free of paradoxes and allows an understanding that is as clear as that of classical mechanics. Indeed, they succeed in serving that purpose in the context of a theory known as Bohmian mechanics, to which this article is an introduction.

id: 0912.2737
title: An Extreme form of Superactivation for Quantum Zero-Error Capacities
authors: Toby S. Cubitt, Graeme Smith
comments: V1: 18 pages, single column. V2: title changed; includes additional explanation; 9 pages, 2 column
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2737
abstract: The zero-error capacity of a channel is the rate at which it can send information perfectly, with zero probability of error, and has long been studied in classical information theory. We show that the zero-error capacity of quantum channels exhibits an extreme form of non-additivity, one which is not possible for classical channels, or even for the usual capacities of quantum channels. By combining probabilistic arguments with algebraic geometry, we prove that there exist channels E1 and E2 with no zero-error classical capacity whatsoever, C_0(E1) = C_0(E2) = 0, but whose joint zero-error quantum capacity is positive, Q_0(E1 x E2) >= 1. This striking effect is an extreme from of the superactivation phenomenon, as it implies that both the classical and quantum zero-error capacities of these channels can be superactivated simultaneously, whilst being a strictly stronger property of capacities. Superactivation of the quantum zero-error capacity was not previously known.

id: 0912.2756
title: Ultralong Photon Echo Storage Using Optical Locking
authors: B.S. Ham, J. Hahn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2756
abstract: An ultralong photon storage with more than 50% retrieval efficiency is presented in the three-pulse photon echoes by using a pair of control pulses, where the control pulses play to freeze atoms dephasing process conditionally by transferring excited atoms to an auxiliary state and returning them back later. The observed photon echo decay time much longer than the spin homogeneous decay time is potential for long distance quantum communications.

id: 0912.2845
title: Nonlinear quantum mechanics, the superposition principle, and the quantum measurement problem
authors: Kinjalk Lochan, T. P. Singh
comments: Minor revision in Introduction. 23 pages. To appear in Pramana J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2845
abstract: There are four reasons why our present knowledge and understanding of quantum mechanics could be regarded as incomplete. Firstly, the principle of linear superposition has not been experimentally tested for position eigenstates of objects having more than about a thousand atoms. Secondly, there is no universally agreed upon explanation for the process of quantum measurement. Thirdly, there is no universally agreed upon explanation for the observed fact that macroscopic objects are not found in superposition of position eigenstates. Fourthly, and perhaps most importantly, the concept of time is classical and hence external to quantum mechanics : there should exist an equivalent reformulation of the theory which does not refer to an external classical time. In this paper we argue that such a reformulation is the limiting case of a nonlinear quantum theory, with the nonlinearity becoming important at the Planck mass scale. Such a nonlinearity can provide insights into the problems mentioned above. We use a physically motivated model for a nonlinear Schrodinger equation to show that nonlinearity can help in understanding quantum measurement. We also show that while the principle of linear superposition holds to a very high accuracy for atomic systems, the lifetime of a quantum superposition becomes progressively smaller, as one goes from microscopic to macroscopic objects. This can explain the observed absence of position superpositions in macroscopic objects [lifetime is too small]. It also suggests that ongoing laboratory experiments maybe able to detect the finite superposition lifetime for mesoscopic objects, in the foreseeable future.

id: 0912.2853
title: Analogue Casimir Radiation using an Optical Para- metric Oscillator
authors: F.X. Dezael, A. Lambrecht
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, epl2 stylefile necessary to compile
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2853
abstract: We establish an explicit analogy between the dynamical Casimir effect and the photon emission of a thin non-linear crystal pumped inside a cavity. This allows us to propose a system based on a type-I optical parametric oscillator (OPO) to simulate a cavity oscillating in vacuum at optical frequencies. The resulting photon flux is expected to be more easily detectable than with a mechanical excitation of the mirrors. We conclude by comparing different theoretical predictions and suggest that our experimental proposal could help discriminate between them.

id: 0912.2868
title: Distillability sudden death in qutrit-qutrit systems under amplitude damping
authors: Mazhar Ali
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43, 045504 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2868
abstract: Recently it has been discovered that certain two-qutrit entangled states interacting with global and/or multi-local decoherence undergo distillability sudden death (DSD). We investigate this phenomenon for qutrit-qutrit systems interacting with statistically independent zero-temperature reservoirs. We show that certain initially prepared free-entangled states become bound-entangled in a finite time due to the action of Markovian dissipative environment. Moreover, in contrast with local dephasing, simple local unitary transformations can completely avoid distillability sudden death under amplitude damping.

id: 0912.2879
title: Proposed method for direct measurement of non-Markovian character of the qubits coupled to bosonic reservoirs
authors: Z. Y. Xu, W. L. Yang, M. Feng
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; revised version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 044105 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2879
abstract: The non-Markovianity is a recently proposed characterization of the non-Markovian behavior in an open quantum system, based on which we first present a practical idea for directly measuring the non-Markovian character of a single qubit coupled to a zero-temperature bosonic reservoir, and then extend to investigate the dynamics of two noninteracting qubits subject to two reservoirs respectively with a lower bound of non-Markovianity. Our scheme, with no need of optimization procedures and quantum state tomography, is helpful for experimental implementation.

id: 0912.2893
title: Entanglement renormalization and boundary critical phenomena
authors: P. Silvi, V. Giovannetti, P. Calabrese, G. E. Santoro, R. Fazio
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; for a related work see arXiv:0912.1642
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2010) L03001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2893
abstract: The multiscale entanglement renormalization ansatz is applied to the study of boundary critical phenomena. We compute averages of local operators as a function of the distance from the boundary and the surface contribution to the ground state energy. Furthermore, assuming a uniform tensor structure, we show that the multiscale entanglement renormalization ansatz implies an exact relation between bulk and boundary critical exponents known to exist for boundary critical systems.

id: 0912.2970
title: Towards high-speed optical quantum memories
authors: K. F. Reim, J. Nunn, V. O. Lorenz, B. J. Sussman, K.C. Lee, N. K. Langford, D. Jaksch, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2970
abstract: Quantum memories, capable of controllably storing and releasing a photon, are a crucial component for quantum computers and quantum communications. So far, quantum memories have operated with bandwidths that limit data rates to MHz. Here we report the coherent storage and retrieval of sub-nanosecond low intensity light pulses with spectral bandwidths exceeding 1 GHz in cesium vapor. The novel memory interaction takes place via a far off-resonant two-photon transition in which the memory bandwidth is dynamically generated by a strong control field. This allows for an increase in data rates by a factor of almost 1000 compared to existing quantum memories. The memory works with a total efficiency of 15% and its coherence is demonstrated by directly interfering the stored and retrieved pulses. Coherence times in hot atomic vapors are on the order of microsecond - the expected storage time limit for this memory.

id: 0912.2975
title: Demonstration of a programmable source of two-photon multiqubit entangled states
authors: Simone Cialdi, Davide Brivio, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, to appear on PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042322 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2975
abstract: We suggest and demonstrate a novel source of two-photon multipartite entangled states which exploits the transverse spatial structure of spontaneous parametric downconversion together with a programmable spatial light modulator (SLM). The 1D SLM is used to perform polarization entanglement purification and to realize arbitrary phase-gates between polarization and momentum degrees of freedom of photons. We experimentally demonstrate our scheme by generating two-photon three qubit linear cluster states with high fidelity using a diode laser pump with a limited coherence time and power on the crystal as low as 2.5$mW.

id: 0912.3018
title: Quantifying entanglement with covariance matrices
authors: Oleg Gittsovich, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032333 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3018
abstract: Covariance matrices are a useful tool to investigate correlations and entanglement in quantum systems. They are widely used in continuous variable systems, but recently also for finite dimensional systems powerful entanglement criteria in terms of covariance matrices have been derived. We show how these results can be used for the quantification of entanglement in bipartite systems. To that aim we introduce an entanglement parameter that quantifies the violation of the covariance matrix criterion and can be used to give a lower bounds on the concurrence. These lower bounds are easily computable and give entanglement estimates for many weakly entangled states.

id: 0912.3095
title: On a New Form of Quantum Mechanics (II)
authors: N. Gorobey, A. Lukyanenko, I. Lukyanenko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3095
abstract: The correspondence of a new form of quantum mechanics based on a quantum version of the action principle, which was proposed earlier [arXiv:0807.3508], with the ordinary quantum mechanics is established. New potentialities of the quantum action principle in the interpretation of quantum mechanics are considered.

id: 0912.3110
title: Towards Quantum Experiments with Human Eyes Detectrors Based on Cloning via Stimulated Emission ?
authors: Francesco De Martini
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3110
abstract: We believe that a recent, unconventional theoretical work published in Physical Review Letters 103, 113601 (2009) by Sekatsky, Brunner, Branciard, Gisin, Simon, albeit appealing at fist sight, is highly questionable. Furthermore, the criticism raised by these Authors against a real experiment on Micro - Macro entanglement recently published in Physical Review Letters (100, 253601, 2008) is found misleading and to miss its target.

id: 0912.3120
title: Entangled Brachistochrone: Minimum Time to reach Target Entangled State
authors: Arun Pati, Biswajit Pradhan, Pankaj Agrawal
comments: Latex, 9 pages, no figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3120
abstract: We address the question: Given an arbitrary initial state and a general physical interaction what is the minimum time for reaching a target entangled state? We show that the minimum time is inversely proportional to the quantum mechanical uncertainty in the non-local Hamiltonian. We find that the presence of initial entanglement helps to minimize the waiting time. Furthermore, we find that in a bi-local rotating frame the entangling capability is actually a geometric quantity. We give an universal bound for the time average of entanglement rate for general quantum systems. The time average of entanglement rate does not depend on the particular Hamiltonian, rather on the fluctuation in the Hamiltonian. There can be infinite number of nonlocal Hamiltonians which may give same average entanglement rate. We also prove a composition law for minimum time when the system evolves under a composite Hamiltonian.

id: 0912.3155
title: Multi-Bloch Vector Representation of the Qutrit
authors: Pawel Kurzynski
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, 1 table, comments welcome
journal: Quantum Inf. Comp. 11, 361 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3155
abstract: An ability to describe quantum states directly by average values of measurement outcomes is provided by the Bloch vector. For an informationally complete set of measurements one can construct unique Bloch vector for any quantum state. However, not every Bloch vector corresponds to a quantum state. It seems that only for two dimensional quantum systems it is easy to distinguish proper Bloch vectors from improper ones, i.e. the ones corresponding to quantum states from the other ones. I propose an alternative approach to the problem in which more than one vector is used. In particular, I show that a state of the qutrit can be described by the three qubit-like Bloch vectors.

id: 0912.3174
title: Survival Probability of a Doorway State in regular and chaotic environments
authors: Heiner Kohler, Hans Juergen Sommers, Sven Aberg
comments: 19 pages 5 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3174
abstract: We calculate survival probability of a special state which couples randomly to a regular or chaotic environment. The environment is modelled by a suitably chosen random matrix ensemble. The exact results exhibit non--perturbative features as revival of probability and non--ergodicity. The role of background complexity and of coupling complexity is discussed as well.

id: 0912.3194
title: Quasiphasematched concurrent nonlinearities in periodically poled KTiOPO_4 for quantum computing over the optical frequency comb
authors: Matthew Pysher, Alon Bahabad, Peng Peng, Ady Arie, Olivier Pfister
comments: 3 pages, 4 figs, submitted for publication
journal: Optics Letters 35, 565 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3194
abstract: We report the successful design and experimental implementation of three coincident nonlinear interactions, namely ZZZ ("type-0"), ZYY (type-I), and YYZ/YZY (type-II) second harmonic generation of 780 nm light from a 1560 nm pump beam in a single, multigrating, periodically poled KTiOPO_4 crystal. The resulting nonlinear medium is the key component for making a scalable quantum computer over the optical frequency comb of a single optical parametric oscillator.

id: 0912.3198
title: The Step-Harmonic Potential
authors: Luca Rizzi, Oliver F. Piattella, Sergio L. Cacciatori, Vittorio Gorini
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 78 (8), August 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3198
abstract: We analyze the behavior of a quantum system described by a one-dimensional asymmetric potential consisting of a step plus a harmonic barrier. We solve the eigenvalue equation by the integral representation method, which allows us to classify the independent solutions as equivalence classes of homotopic paths in the complex plane. We then consider the propagation of a wave packet reflected by the harmonic barrier and obtain an expression for the interaction time as a function of the peak energy. For high energies we recover the classical half-period limit.

id: 0912.3214
title: Singlet Generation in Mixed State Quantum Networks
authors: S. Broadfoot, U. Dorner, D. Jaksch
comments: 17 pages, 21 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3214
abstract: We study the generation of singlets in quantum networks with nodes initially sharing a finite number of partially entangled bipartite mixed states. We prove that singlets between arbitrary nodes in such networks can be created if and only if the initial states connecting the nodes have a particular form. We then generalize the method of entanglement percolation, previously developed for pure states, to mixed states of this form. As part of this, we find and compare different distillation protocols necessary to convert groups of mixed states shared between neighboring nodes of the network into singlets. In addition, we discuss protocols that only rely on local rules for the efficient connection of two remote nodes in the network via entanglement swapping. Further improvements of the success probability of singlet generation are developed by using particular forms of `quantum preprocessing' on the network. This includes generalized forms of entanglement swapping and we show how such strategies can be embedded in regular and hierarchical quantum networks.

id: 0912.3218
title: The Quantum Vacuum of Complex Media. A Unified Approach to the Dielectric Constant, the Spontaneous Emission and the Zero-Temperature Electromagnetic Pressure
authors: M. Donaire
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3218
abstract: We study from a critical perspective several quantum-electrodynamic phenomena commonly related to vacuum electromagnetic (EM) fluctuations in complex media. We compute the resonance-shift, the spontaneous emission rate, the local density of states and the van-der-Waals-Casimir pressure in a dielectric medium using a microscopic diagrammatic approach. We find, in agreement with some recent works, that these effects cannot be attributed to variations on the energy of the EM vacuum but to variations of the dielectric self-energy. This energy is the result of the interaction of the bare polarizability of the dielectric constituents with the EM fluctuations of an actually polarized vacuum. We have found an exact expression for the spectrum of these fluctuations in a statistically homogeneous dielectric. Those fluctuations turn out to be different to the ones of normal radiative modes. It is the latter that carry the zero-point-energy (ZPE). Concerning spontaneous emission, we clarify the nature of the radiation and the origin of the so-called local field factors. Essential discrepancies are found with respect to previous works. We perform a detailed analysis of the phenomenon of radiative and non-radiative energy transfer. Analytical formulae are given for the decay rate of an interstitial impurity in a Maxwell-Garnett dielectric and for the decay rate of a substantial impurity sited in a large cavity. The construction of the effective dielectric constant is found to be a self-consistency problem. The van-der-Waals pressure in a complex medium is computed in terms of variations of the dielectric self-energy at zero-temperature. An additional radiative pressure appears associated to variations of the EM vacuum energy.

id: 0912.3219
title: Nonlinear Schrodinger equation with chaotic, random, and nonperiodic nonlinearity
authors: W. B. Cardoso, S. A. Leao, A. T. Avelar, D. Bazeia, M. S. Hussein
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, 374 (2010) 4594
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3219
abstract: In this paper we deal with a nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equation with chaotic, random, and nonperiodic cubic nonlinearity. Our goal is to study the soliton evolution, with the strength of the nonlinearity perturbed in the space and time coordinates and to check its robustness under these conditions. Comparing with a real system, the perturbation can be related to, e.g., impurities in crystalline structures, or coupling to a thermal reservoir which, on the average, enhances the nonlinearity. We also discuss the relevance of such random perturbations to the dynamics of Bose-Einstein Condensates and their collective excitations and transport.

id: 0912.3245
title: Structured Error Recovery for Codeword-Stabilized Quantum Codes
authors: Yunfan Li, Ilya Dumer, Markus Grassl, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 13 pages, 9 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052337 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3245
abstract: Codeword stabilized (CWS) codes are, in general, non-additive quantum codes that can correct errors by an exhaustive search of different error patterns, similar to the way that we decode classical non-linear codes. For an n-qubit quantum code correcting errors on up to t qubits, this brute-force approach consecutively tests different errors of weight t or less, and employs a separate n-qubit measurement in each test. In this paper, we suggest an error grouping technique that allows to simultaneously test large groups of errors in a single measurement. This structured error recovery technique exponentially reduces the number of measurements by about 3^t times. While it still leaves exponentially many measurements for a generic CWS code, the technique is equivalent to syndrome-based recovery for the special case of additive CWS codes.

id: 0912.3260
title: The Dicke model phase transition in the quantum motion of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical cavity
authors: D. Nagy, G. Konya, G. Szirmai, P. Domokos
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 104, 130401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3260
abstract: We show that the motion of a laser-driven Bose-Einstein condensate in a high-finesse optical cavity realizes the spin-boson Dicke-model. The quantum phase transition of the Dicke-model from the normal to the superradiant phase corresponds to the self-organization of atoms from the homogeneous into a periodically patterned distribution above a critical driving strength. The fragility of the ground state due to photon measurement induced back action is calculated.

id: 0912.3261
title: The Dicke Quantum Phase Transition with a Superfluid Gas in an Optical Cavity
authors: Kristian Baumann, Christine Guerlin, Ferdinand Brennecke, Tilman Esslinger
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, updated version
journal: Nature 464, 1301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3261
abstract: A phase transition describes the sudden change of state in a physical system, such as the transition between a fluid and a solid. Quantum gases provide the opportunity to establish a direct link between experiment and generic models which capture the underlying physics. A fundamental concept to describe the collective matter-light interaction is the Dicke model which has been predicted to show an intriguing quantum phase transition. Here we realize the Dicke quantum phase transition in an open system formed by a Bose-Einstein condensate coupled to an optical cavity, and observe the emergence of a self-organized supersolid phase. The phase transition is driven by infinitely long-ranged interactions between the condensed atoms. These are induced by two-photon processes involving the cavity mode and a pump field. We show that the phase transition is described by the Dicke Hamiltonian, including counter-rotating coupling terms, and that the supersolid phase is associated with a spontaneously broken spatial symmetry. The boundary of the phase transition is mapped out in quantitative agreement with the Dicke model. The work opens the field of quantum gases with long-ranged interactions, and provides access to novel quantum phases.

id: 0912.3291
title: Direct Observation of Coherent Population Trapping in a Superconducting Artificial Atom
authors: William R. Kelly, Zachary Dutton, John Schlafer, Bhaskar Mookerji, Thomas A. Ohki, Jeffrey S. Kline, David P. Pappas
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 163601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3291
abstract: The phenomenon of Coherent Population Trapping (CPT) of an atom (or solid state "artificial atom"), and the associated effect of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT), are clear demonstrations of quantum interference due to coherence in multi-level quantum systems. We report observation of CPT in a superconducting phase qubit by simultaneously driving two coherent transitions in a $\Lambda$-type configuration, utilizing the three lowest lying levels of a local minimum of a phase qubit. We observe $60(\pm 7)%$ suppression of excited state population under conditions of CPT resonance. We present data and matching theoretical simulations showing the development of CPT in time. Finally, we used the observed time dependence of the excited state population to characterize quantum dephasing times of the system.

id: 0912.3313
title: Disentanglement and decoherence from classical non-Markovian noise: Random telegraph noise
authors: Dong Zhou, Alex Lang, Robert Joynt
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, accepted by QIP
journal: Quant. Info. Processing 9, 727 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3313
abstract: We calculate the two-qubit disentanglement due to classical random telegraph noise using the quasi-Hamiltonian method. This allows us to obtain analytical results even for strong coupling and mixed noise, important when the qubits have tunable working point. We determine when entanglement sudden death and revival occur as functions of qubit working point, noise coupling strength and initial state entanglement. For extended Werner states, we show that the concurrence is related to the difference of two functions: one is related to dephasing and the other longitudinal relaxation. A physical intepretation based on the generalized Bloch vector is given: revival only occurs for strongly-coupled noise and comes from the angular motion of the vector.

id: 0912.3335
title: Displacement and Squeeze Operators of a Three-Dimensional Harmonic Oscillator and Their Associated Quantum States
authors: Mehdi Miri, Sina Khorasani
comments: Accepted for publication in the International Journal of Optics and Photonics
journal: International Journal of Optics and Photonics, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 9-22 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3335
abstract: We generalized the squeeze and displacement operators of the one-dimensional harmonic oscillator to the three-dimensional case and based on these operators we construct the corresponding coherent and squeezed states. We have also calculated the Wigner function for the three-dimensional harmonic oscillator and from the analysis of time evolution of this function, the quantum Liouville equation is also presented. Further properties of the quantum states including Mandel's Q and quadrature squeezing parameters are discussed as well.

id: 0912.3338
title: Superposition of macroscopically distinct states means large multipartite entanglement
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 6 pages, PRA Rapid, accepted
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 010101 (R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3338
abstract: We show relations between superposition of macroscopically distinct states and entanglement. These relations lead to the important conclusion that if a state contains superposition of macroscopically distinct states, the state also contains large multipartite entanglement in terms of several measures. Such multipartite entanglement property also suggests that if a state contains superposition of macroscopically distinct states, a measurement on a single particle drastically changes the state of macroscopically many other particles, as in the case of the N-qubit GHZ state.

id: 0912.3357
title: Universal equilibrium distribution after a small quantum quench
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032113 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3357
abstract: A sudden change of the Hamiltonian parameter drives a quantum system out of equilibrium. For a finite-size system, expectations of observables start fluctuating in time without converging to a precise limit. A new equilibrium state emerges only in probabilistic sense, when the probability distribution for the observables expectations over long times concentrate around their mean value. In this paper we study the full statistic of generic observables after a small quench. When the quench is performed around a regular (i.e. non-critical) point of the phase diagram, generic observables are expected to be characterized by Gaussian distribution functions (``good equilibration''). Instead, when quenching around a critical point a new universal double-peaked distribution function emerges for relevant perturbations. Our analytic predictions are numerically checked for a non-integrable extension of the quantum Ising model.

id: 0912.3363
title: A Chebychev propagator with iterative time ordering for explicitly time-dependent Hamiltonians
authors: Mamadou Ndong, Hillel Tal-Ezer, Ronnie Kosloff, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 132, 064105 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3363
abstract: A propagation method for time-dependent Schr\"odinger equations with an explicitly time-dependent Hamiltonian is developed where time ordering is achieved iteratively. The explicit time-dependence of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation is rewritten as an inhomogeneous term. At each step of the iteration, the resulting inhomogeneous Schr\"odinger equation is solved with the Chebychev propagation scheme presented in J. Chem. Phys. 130, 124108 (2009). The iteratively time-ordering Chebychev propagator is shown to be robust, efficient and accurate and compares very favorably to all other available propagation schemes.

id: 0912.3384
title: On the complementarity of the quadrature observables
authors: Pekka Lahti, Juha-Pekka Pellonpaa
comments: Dedicated to Peter Mittelstaedt in honour of his eightieth birthday
journal: Found. Phys. 40 (2010) 1419-1428
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3384
abstract: In this paper we investigate the coupling properties of pairs of quadrature observables, showing that, apart from the Weyl relation, they share the same coupling properties as the position-momentum pair. In particular, they are complementary. We determine the marginal observables of a covariant phase space observable with respect to an arbitrary rotated reference frame, and observe that these marginal observables are unsharp quadrature observables. The related distributions constitute the Radon tranform of a phase space distribution of the covariant phase space observable. Since the quadrature distributions are the Radon transform of the Wigner function of a state, we also exhibit the relation between the quadrature observables and the tomography observable, and show how to construct the phase space observable from the quadrature observables. Finally, we give a method to measure together with a single measurement scheme any complementary pair of quadrature observables.

id: 0912.3424
title: Moyal and tomographic probability representations for f-oscillator quantum states
authors: Vladimir I. Man'ko, Giuseppe Marmo, Francesco Zaccaria
comments: 19 pages, submitted to Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3424
abstract: States of nonlinear quantum oscillators (f-oscillators) are considered in the Weyl-Wigner-Moyal representation and the tomographic probability representation, where the states are described by standard probability distributions instead of wave functions or density matrices. The evolving integrals of motion for classical and quantum f-oscillators are found and the solution for the Liouville equation associated with the probability distribution on the phase space for this oscillator is obtained along with the solution of Moyal equation for quantum f-oscillator, which provide the solutions for partial case of f-nonlinearity existing in Kerr media. Nonlinear coherent states and the thermodynamics of nonlinear oscillators are studied.

id: 0912.3459
title: Dynamics of entanglement via propagating microwave photons
authors: C. Sabin, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, E. Solano, J. Leon
comments: v2: New version. 6 pages, 3 figures. Accepted in Phys. Rev. B.
journal: Phys.Rev.B81:184501,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3459
abstract: We propose a simple circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED) experiment to test the generation of entanglement between two superconducting qubits. Instead of the usual cavity QED picture, we study qubits which are coupled to an open transmission line and get entangled by the exchange of propagating photons. We compute their dynamics using a full quantum field theory beyond the rotating-wave approximation and explore a variety of regimes which go from a weak coupling to the recently introduced ultrastrong coupling regime. Due to the existence of single photons traveling along the line with finite speed, our theory shows a light cone dividing the spacetime in two different regions. In one region, entanglement may only arise due to correlated vacuum fluctuations, while in the other the contribution from exchanged photons shows up.

id: 0912.3477
title: Analysis of the entanglement between two individual atoms using global Raman rotations
authors: A. Gaetan, C. Evellin, J. Wolters, P. Grangier, T. Wilk, A. Browaeys
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys., 12, 065040 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3477
abstract: Making use of the Rydberg blockade, we generate entanglement between two atoms individually trapped in two optical tweezers. In this paper we detail the analysis of the data and show that we can determine the amount of entanglement between the atoms in the presence of atom losses during the entangling sequence. Our model takes into account states outside the qubit basis and allows us to perform a partial reconstruction of the density matrix describing the two atom state. With this method we extract the amount of entanglement between pairs of atoms still trapped after the entangling sequence and measure the fidelity with respect to the expected Bell state. We find a fidelity $F_{\rm pairs} =0.74(7)$ for the 62% of atom pairs remaining in the traps at the end of the entangling sequence.

id: 0912.3547
title: Scalable Quantum Computing based on Spin Qubits in CNT QD
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Gerard J. Milburn, Leszek Stobi¨½ski
comments: Preliminary version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3547
abstract: We study experimentally demonstrated single-electron ${}^{12}$C CNT QD with significant spin-orbit interaction as a scalable quantum computer candidate. Both electron spin and orbital angular momentum can serve as a logical qubit for quantum processing. We introduce macroscopic quantum memory for the system in a form of injected either magnetic or spin carrying atomic ensemble into the nanotube. CNT provides with a stable atomic trap in finite temperature and with one-dimensional nuclear spin lattice in an external magnetic field. The electron is coupled to the atomic ensemble through either magnetic or hyperfine interaction. Easy electron and nuclear spin read-out procedure for this system is possible.

id: 0912.3551
title: Prospect for detecting squeezed states of light created by a single atom in free space
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Markus Sondermann, Gerd Leuchs
comments: Accepted for publication in Optics Communications
journal: Opt. Commun., 283, 737 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3551
abstract: We discuss the possibilities of studying in detail the dynamics of spontaneous emission of a single photon by a single atom and measuring the transient degree of squeezing by means of full solid angle fluorescence detection.

id: 0912.3560
title: Efficient and coherent excitation transfer across disordered molecular networks
authors: Torsten Scholak, Fernando de Melo, Thomas Wellens, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, revtex4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3560
abstract: We show that finite-size, disordered molecular networks can mediate highly efficient, coherent excitation transfer which is robust against ambient dephasing and associated with strong multi-site entanglement. Such optimal, random molecular conformations may explain efficient energy transfer in the photosynthetic FMO complex.

id: 0912.3570
title: Contextuality within quantum mechanics manifested in subensemble mean values
authors: Alok Kumar Pan, Dipankar Home
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 373, 3430(2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3570
abstract: For spin-1/2 particles, using a suitable Mach-Zehnder-type setup with a spin-flipper, we argue that it is a direct consequence of the quantum mechanical treatment that an experimentally verifiable \textit{subensemble} mean of the measured values of an arbitrarily chosen spin variable exhibits dependence on the choice of a comeasurable `path' observable. This, in turn, enables inferring path-spin contextuality at the level of individual measured values of spin that are predetermined using a relevant hidden-variable model applied to our setup.

id: 0912.3571
title: Complete analysis of measurement-induced entanglement localization on a three-photon system
authors: Miroslav Gavenda, Radim Filip, Eleonora Nagali, Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3571
abstract: We discuss both theoretically and experimentally elementary two-photon polarization entanglement localization after break of entanglement caused by linear coupling of environmental photon with one of the system photons. The localization of entanglement is based on simple polarization measurement of the surrounding photon after the coupling. We demonstrate that non-zero entanglement can be localized back irrespectively to the distinguishability of coupled photons. Further, it can be increased by local single-copy polarization filters up to an amount violating Bell inequalities. The present technique allows to restore entanglement in that cases, when the entanglement distillation does not produce any entanglement out of the coupling.

id: 0912.3581
title: Number-Phase Wigner Representation for Efficient Stochastic Simulations
authors: M. R. Hush, A. R. R. Carvalho, J. J. Hope
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3581
abstract: Phase-space representations based on coherent states (P, Q, Wigner) have been successful in the creation of stochastic differential equations (SDEs) for the efficient stochastic simulation of high dimensional quantum systems. However many problems using these techniques remain intractable over long integrations times. We present a number-phase Wigner representation that can be unraveled into SDEs. We demonstrate convergence to the correct solution for an anharmonic oscillator with small dampening for significantly longer than other phase space representations. This process requires an effective sampling of a non-classical probability distribution. We describe and demonstrate a method of achieving this sampling using stochastic weights.

id: 0912.3586
title: A superconducting cavity bus for single Nitrogen Vacancy defect centres in diamond
authors: J. Twamley, S. D. Barrett
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3586
abstract: Circuit-QED has demonstrated very strong coupling between individual microwave photons trapped in a superconducting coplanar resonator and nearby superconducting qubits. In this work we show how, by designing a novel interconnect, one can strongly connect the superconducting resonator, via a magnetic interaction, to a small number (perhaps single), of electronic spins. By choosing the electronic spin to be within a Nitrogen Vacancy centre in diamond one can perform optical readout, polarization and control of this electron spin using microwave and radio frequency irradiation. More importantly, by utilising Nitrogen Vacancy centres with nearby 13C nuclei, using this interconnect, one has the potential build a quantum device where the nuclear spin qubits are connected over centimeter distances via the Nitrogen Vacancy electronic spins interacting through the superconducting bus.

id: 0912.3615
title: Violation of multipartite Bell inequalities with classical subsystems via operationally local transformations
authors: Mark S. Williamson, Libby Heaney, Wonmin Son
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032105 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3615
abstract: Recently, it was demonstrated by Son et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{102}, 110404 (2009), that a separable bipartite continuous variable quantum system can violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality via operationally local transformations. Operationally local transformations are parameterized only by local variables, however in order to allow violation of the CHSH inequality a maximally entangled ancilla was necessary. The use of the entangled ancilla in this scheme caused the state under test to become dependent on the measurement choice one uses to calculate the CHSH inequality thus violating one of the assumptions used in deriving a Bell inequality, namely the `free will' or `statistical independence' assumption. The novelty in this scheme however is that the measurement settings can be external free parameters. In this paper we generalize these operationally local transformations for multipartite Bell inequalities (with dichotomic observables) and provide necessary and sufficient conditions for violation within this scheme. Namely, a violation of a multipartite Bell inequality in this setting is contingent on whether an ancillary system admits any realistic, local hidden variable model i.e. whether the ancilla violates the given Bell inequality. These results indicate that violation of a Bell inequality performed on a system does not necessarily imply that the system is nonlocal. In fact the system under test may be completely classical. However, nonlocality must have resided somewhere, this may have been in the environment, the physical variables used to manipulate the system or the detectors themselves provided the measurement settings are external free variables.

id: 0912.3718
title: Nonadditive entropy for random quantum spin-S chains
authors: A. Saguia, M. S. Sarandy
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures. v3: Minor corrections and references updated. Published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 3384 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3718
abstract: We investigate the scaling of Tsallis entropy in disordered quantum spin-S chains. We show that an extensive scaling occurs for specific values of the entropic index. Those values depend only on the magnitude S of the spins, being directly related with the effective central charge associated with the model.

id: 0912.3740
title: Maximal violation of Bell inequalities by position measurements
authors: J. Kiukas, R. F. Werner
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3740
abstract: We show that it is possible to find maximal violations of the CHSH-Bell inequality using only position measurements on a pair of entangled non-relativistic free particles. The device settings required in the CHSH inequality are done by choosing one of two times at which position is measured. For different assignments of the "+" outcome to positions, namely to an interval, to a half line, or to a periodic set, we determine violations of the inequalities, and states where they are attained. These results have consequences for the hidden variable theories of Bohm and Nelson, in which the two-time correlations between distant particle trajectories have a joint distribution, and hence cannot violate any Bell inequality.

id: 0912.3744
title: Teleportation is necessary for faithful quantum state transfer through noisy channels of maximal rank
authors: Raffaele Romano, Peter van Loock
comments: 4 pages, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012334 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3744
abstract: Quantum teleportation enables deterministic and faithful transmission of quantum states, provided a maximally entangled state is pre-shared between sender and receiver, and a one-way classical channel is available. Here, we prove that these resources are not only sufficient, but also necessary, for deterministically and faithfully sending quantum states through any fixed noisy channel of maximal rank, when a single use of the cannel is admitted. In other words, for this family of channels, there are no other protocols, based on different (and possibly cheaper) sets of resources, capable of replacing quantum teleportation.

id: 0912.3791
title: Measurement of the Josephson Junction Phase Qubits by a Microstrip Resonator
authors: Gennady P. Berman, Alan R. Bishop, Aleksandr A. Chumak, Darin Kinion, Vladimir I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 42 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3791
abstract: The process of measurement of a phase qubit by a resonant microwave cavity is considered for various interactions between the qubit and the cavity. A novel quasiclassical approach is described based on adiabatic reversals of the qubit state by an effective field. A similar approach was implemented earlier for the detection of electron and nuclear spins using magnetic resonance force microscopy (MRFM), but this approach has not previously been used for the measurement of a quantum state. Quasiclassical and quantum regimes are described. We consider both linear and nonlinear resonators. The effects of the environment on the process of measurement are also analyzed.

id: 0912.3805
title: The Quantum Reverse Shannon Theorem based on One-Shot Information Theory
authors: Mario Berta, Matthias Christandl, Renato Renner
comments: 30 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 306, 579 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3805
abstract: The Quantum Reverse Shannon Theorem states that any quantum channel can be simulated by an unlimited amount of shared entanglement and an amount of classical communication equal to the channel's entanglement assisted classical capacity. In this paper, we provide a new proof of this theorem, which has previously been proved by Bennett, Devetak, Harrow, Shor, and Winter. Our proof has a clear structure being based on two recent information-theoretic results: one-shot Quantum State Merging and the Post-Selection Technique for quantum channels.

id: 0912.3823
title: Quantum state restoration and single-copy tomography
authors: Edward Farhi, David Gosset, Avinatan Hassidim, Andrew Lutomirski, Daniel Nagaj, Peter Shor
comments: edited for clarity; 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 190503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3823
abstract: Given a single copy of an n qubit quantum state |psi>, the no-cloning theorem greatly limits the amount of information which can be extracted from it. Moreover, given only a procedure which verifies the state, for example a procedure which measures the operator |psi><psi|, we cannot prepare |psi> in time polynomial in n . In this paper, we consider the scenario in which we are given both a single copy of |psi> and the ability to verify it. We show that in this setting, we can do several novel things efficiently. We present a new algorithm that we call quantum state restoration which allows us to extend a large subsystem of |psi> to the full state, and in turn this allows us to copy small subsystems of |psi>. In addition, we present algorithms that can perform tomography on small subsystems of |psi>, and we show how to use these algorithms to estimate the statistics of any efficiently implementable POVM acting on |psi> in time polynomial in the number of outcomes of the POVM.

id: 0912.3825
title: Breaking and making quantum money: toward a new quantum cryptographic protocol
authors: Andrew Lutomirski, Scott Aaronson, Edward Farhi, David Gosset, Avinatan Hassidim, Jonathan Kelner, Peter Shor
comments: 14 pages
journal: Innovations in Computer Science - ICS 2010, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, January 5-7, 2010. Proceedings, 20-31, 978-7-302-21752-7 Tsinghua University Press
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3825
abstract: Public-key quantum money is a cryptographic protocol in which a bank can create quantum states which anyone can verify but no one except possibly the bank can clone or forge. There are no secure public-key quantum money schemes in the literature; as we show in this paper, the only previously published scheme [1] is insecure. We introduce a category of quantum money protocols which we call collision-free. For these protocols, even the bank cannot prepare multiple identical-looking pieces of quantum money. We present a blueprint for how such a protocol might work as well as a concrete example which we believe may be insecure.

id: 0912.3849
title: Hyperfine structure and nuclear hyperpolarization observed in the bound exciton luminescence of Bi donors in natural Si
authors: T. Sekiguchi, M. Steger, K. Saeedi, M.L.W. Thewalt, H. Riemann, N.V. Abrosimov, N. Noetzel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 137402 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3849
abstract: As the deepest group V donor in Si, Bi has by far the largest hyperfine interaction, and also a large I=9/2 nuclear spin. At zero field this splits the donor ground state into states having total spin 5 and 4, which are fully resolved in the photoluminescence spectrum of Bi donor bound excitons. Under a magnetic field, the 60 expected allowed transitions cannot be individually resolved, but the effects of the nuclear spin distribution, -9/2 <= I_z <= 9/2, are clearly observed. A strong hyperpolarization of the nuclear spin, with sign opposite to the expected equilibrium polarization, is observed to result from the nonresonant optical excitation. This is very similar to the recently reported optical hyperpolarization of P donors observed by EPR at higher magnetic fields. We introduce a new model to explain this effect, and predict that it may be very fast.

id: 0912.3871
title: Quantum repeaters with entangled coherent states
authors: Nicolas Sangouard, Christoph Simon, Nicolas Gisin, Julien Laurat, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Philippe Grangier
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, A137-A145 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3871
abstract: Entangled coherent states can be prepared remotely by subtracting non-locally a single photon from two quantum superpositions of coherent states, the so-called "Schroedinger's cat" state. Such entanglement can further be distributed over longer distances by successive entanglement swapping operations using linear optics and photon-number resolving detectors. The aim of this paper is to evaluate the performance of this approach to quantum repeaters for long distance quantum communications. Despite many attractive features at first sight, we show that, when using state-of-the-art photon counters and quantum memories, they do not achieve higher entanglement generation rates than repeaters based on single-photon entanglement. We discuss potential developments which may take better advantage of the richness of entanglement based on continuous variables, including in particular efficient parity measurements.

id: 0912.3874
title: Quantum correlations in topological quantum phase transitions
authors: Yi-Xin Chen, Sheng-Wen Li
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3874
abstract: We study the quantum correlations in a 2D system that possesses a topological quantum phase transition. The quantumness of two-body correlations is measured by quantum discord. We calculate both the correlation of two local spins and that of an arbitrary spin with the rest of the lattice. It is notable that local spins are classically correlated, while the quantum correlation is hidden in the global lattice. This is different from other systems which are not topologically orderd. Moreover, the mutual information and global quantum discord show critical behavior in the topological quantum phase transition.

id: 0912.3877
title: The Casimir Effect and the Foundations of Statistical Physics
authors: V.M. Mostepanenko, G.L. Klimchitskaya
comments: 11 pages. Contribution to the Proceedings of QFEXT09, Norman, OK, September 21-25, 2009
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A25:2302-2312,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3877
abstract: The Lifshitz theory and its modifications are discussed with respect to the Nernst heat theorem and the experimental data of several recent experiments. An analysis of all available information leads to the conclusion that some concepts of statistical physics might need reconsideration.

id: 0912.3895
title: Entanglement-assisted atomic clock beyond the projection noise limit
authors: Anne Louchet-Chauvet, J¨¹rgen Appel, Jelmer J. Renema, Daniel Oblak, Niels Kj?rgaard, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 12 065032, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3895
abstract: We use a quantum non-demolition measurement to generate a spin squeezed state and to create entanglement in a cloud of 10^5 cold cesium atoms, and for the first time operate an atomic clock improved by spin squeezing beyond the projection noise limit in a proof-of-principle experiment. For a clock-interrogation time of 10 \mu\s the experiments show an improvement of 1.1 dB in the signal-to-noise ratio, compared to the atomic projection noise limit.

id: 0912.3900
title: Qubit dynamics in a q-deformed oscillators environment
authors: S. L'Innocente, C. Lupo, S. Mancini
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 17, 73 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3900
abstract: We study the dynamics of one and two qubits plunged in a q-deformed oscillators environment. Specifically we evaluate the decay of quantum coherence and entanglement in time when passing from bosonic to fermionic environments. Slowing down of decoherence in the fermionic case is found. The effect only manifests at finite temperature.

id: 0912.3912
title: High-performance Energy Minimization with Applications to Adiabatic Quantum Computing
authors: Hector J. Garcia, Igor L. Markov
comments: 9 pages, 1 table, 10 figures
journal: Proc. Design Autom. and Test in Europe Conf. (DATE), pp. 160 - 165, March 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3912
abstract: Energy minimization of Ising spin-glasses has played a central role in statistical and solid-state physics, facilitating studies of phase transitions and magnetism. Recent proposals suggest using Ising spin-glasses for non-traditional computing as a way to harness the nature's ability to find min-energy configurations, and to take advantage of quantum tunneling to boost combinatorial optimization. Laboratory demonstrations have been unconvincing so far and lack a non-quantum baseline for definitive comparisons. In this work we (i) design and evaluate new computational techniques to simulate natural energy minimization in spin glasses and (ii) explore their application to study design alternatives in quantum adiabatic computers. Unlike previous work, our algorithms are not limited to planar Ising topologies. In one CPU-day, our branch-and-bound algorithm finds ground states on 100 spins, while our local search approximates ground states on 1, 000, 000 spins. We use this computational tool as a simulator to study the significance of hyper-couplings in the context of recently implemented adiabatic quantum computers.

id: 0912.3916
title: Comment on "Local Copying of $d\times d$-dimensional Partially Entangled Pure States"
authors: Ramij Rahaman
comments: 3 pages
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys., 49, 657-659 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3916
abstract: Recently, Li. \emph{et. al.} [Int. J. Theor. Phys., 48, 2777 (2009)] derived a necessary and sufficient condition for LOCC cloning of a set of bipartite orthogonal partially but equally entangled state. We demonstrates that, the result is based on a wrong observation regarding a set of non-maximally entangled states with equal entanglement. We also provide a simple example in favor of our comment.

id: 0912.3939
title: Steady-State Two Atom Entanglement in a Pumped Cavity Enhanced by Nonlinear Mirrors
authors: Hideomi Nihira, C. R. Stroud Jr
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3939
abstract: We demonstrate the steady-state entanglement of two two-level atoms inside a pumped cavity with photon leakage through a nonlinear mirror and through spontaneous decay, and show that the entanglement is enhanced by the presence of a nonlinear mirror. Our model assumes the vacuum Rabi splitting of the dressed states of the system to be much larger than any of the decay parameters of the system. We also discuss how the dressed states of the system offer us intuition as to where the entanglement lies in the state space spanned by the system, and allow us the optimize the system.

id: 0912.3947
title: Multilevel Holstein-Primakoff approximation and its application to atomic spin squeezing and ensemble quantum memories
authors: Z. Kurucz, K. M?lmer
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032314 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3947
abstract: We show that an ensemble of identical d-level atoms can be efficiently described by d-1 collective oscillator degrees of freedom in the vicinity of a product state with all atoms in the same, but otherwise arbitrary single-particle state. We apply our description to two different kinds of spin squeezing: (i) when each spin-F atom is individually squeezed without creating interatomic entanglement and (ii) when a particular collective atomic oscillator mode is squeezed via quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement and feedback. When combined in sequence, the order of the two methods is relevant in the final degree of squeezing. We also discuss the role of the two kinds of squeezing when multi-sublevel atoms are used as quantum memories for light.

id: 0912.4009
title: Scalable generation of multiphoton path entanglement with high NOON-state fidelity
authors: Itai Afek, Oron Ambar, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 4 page, 3 figure
journal: Revised version: Science Vol. 328. pp. 879 - 881 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4009
abstract: "Schrodinger's cat" is a gedankenexperiment intended to highlight conceptual difficulties in the interpretation of quantum mechanics. The generation of 'cat-like' states is central to numerous quantum information protocols. In particular, much attention has been drawn by states containing N photons in a superposition of all being in one of two designated modes. These maximally path entangled states, known as 'NOON' states, exhibit enhanced phase sensitivity and allow reaching the fundamental quantum limit of precision measurement. Such states could also be used for obtaining 'super-resolution' in quantum lithography. Creation of NOON states in the lab, has been limited to N=3. Surpassing this has proven a formidable experimental challenge. Here, we realize a scheme for generation of high fidelity NOON states with arbitrarily large N. We demonstrate the versatility of the scheme by measuring up to N=5 in a single setup, this is in contrast to previous experiments which were custom-designed for a specific N. The scheme is based on high order interference between 'quantum' down-converted light and 'classical' coherent light in the photon number basis. Our results verify the high degree of path entanglement which emerges naturally from the interference of two ubiquitous, easy to generate, states of light.

id: 0912.4011
title: Modulation of breathers in cigar-shaped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: W. B. Cardoso, A. T. Avelar, D. Bazeia
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A,374(2010)2640-2645
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4011
abstract: We present new solutions to the nonautonomous nonlinear Schroedinger equation that may be realized through convenient manipulation of Bose-Einstein condensates. The procedure is based on the modulation of breathers through an analytical study of the one-dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation, which is known to offer a good theoretical model to describe quasi-one-dimensional cigar-shaped condensates. Using a specific Ansatz, we transform the nonautonomous nonlinear equation into an autonomous one, which engenders composed states corresponding to solutions localized in space, with an oscillating behavior in time. Numerical simulations confirm stability of the breathers against random perturbation on the input profile of the solutions.

id: 0912.4016
title: Robust and scalable optical one-way quantum computation
authors: Hefeng Wang, Chui-Ping Yang, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052332 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4016
abstract: We propose an efficient approach for deterministically generating scalable cluster states with photons. This approach involves unitary transformations performed on atoms coupled to optical cavities. Its operation cost scales linearly with the number of qubits in the cluster state, and photon qubits are encoded such that single-qubit operations can be easily implemented by using linear optics. Robust optical one-way quantum computation can be performed since cluster states can be stored in atoms and then transferred to photons that can be easily operated and measured. Therefore, this proposal could help performing robust large-scale optical one-way quantum computation.

id: 0912.4047
title: Vacuum energy between a sphere and a plane at finite temperature
authors: M. Bordag, I. Pirozhenko
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, revised version with several improvements
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:085023,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4047
abstract: We consider the Casimir effect for a sphere in front of a plane at finite temperature for scalar and electromagnetic fields and calculate the limiting cases. For small separation we compare the exact results with the corresponding ones obtained in proximity force approximation. For the scalar field with Dirichlet boundary conditions, the low temperature correction is of order $T^2$ like for parallel planes. For the electromagnetic field it is of order $T^4$. For high temperature we observe the usual picture that the leading order is given by the zeroth Matsubara frequency. The non-zero frequencies are exponentially suppressed except for the case of close separation.

id: 0912.4052
title: Typical, finite baths as a means of exact simulation of open quantum systems
authors: Luciano Silvestri, Kurt Jacobs, Vanja Dunjko, Maxim Olshanii
comments: 11 pages, revtex4-1, 5 png figures. v2: better results, further details; v4: extended presentation, new results included; v5: added discussion of entropy production
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 042131 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4052
abstract: There is presently considerable interest in accurately simulating the evolution of open systems for which Markovian master equations fail. Examples are systems that are time-dependent and/or strongly damped. A number of elegant methods have now been devised to do this, but all use a bath consisting of a continuum of harmonic oscillators. While this bath is clearly appropriate for, e.g., systems coupled to the EM field, it is not so clear that it is a good model for generic many-body systems. Here we explore a different approach to exactly simulating open-systems: using a finite bath chosen to have certain key properties of thermalizing many-body systems. To explore the numerical resources required by this method to approximate an open system coupled to an infinite bath, we simulate a weakly damped system and compare to the evolution given by the relevant Markovian master equation. We obtain the Markovian evolution with reasonable accuracy by using an additional averaging procedure, and elucidate how the typicality of the bath generates the correct thermal steady-state via the process of "eigenstate thermalization".

id: 0912.4071
title: Experimental NMR implementation of a robust quantum search algorithm
authors: Avik Mitra, Avatar Tulsi, Anil Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4071
abstract: Grover's quantum search algorithm, involving a large number of qubits, is highly sensitive to errors in the physical implementation of the unitary operators. This poses an intrinsic limitation to the size of the database that can be practically searched. The lack of robustness of Grover's algorithm for a large number of qubits is due to quite stringent "phase-matching" condition. To overcome this limitation, Tulsi suggested a modified search algorithm [PRA 78, 022332] which succeeds as long as the errors are reproducible and reversible while Grover's algorithm fails. Such systematic errors arise often from imperfections in apparatus setup e.g. the errors arising from imperfect pulse calibration and offset effect in NMR systems. In this paper, we report the experimental NMR implementation of the modified search algorithm and its comparison with the original Grover's algorithm. We experimentally validate the theoretical predictions made by Tulsi.

id: 0912.4073
title: Normalization procedure for relaxation studies in NMR quantum information processing
authors: A. Gavini-Viana, A. M. Souza, D. O. Soares-Pinto, J. Teles, R. S. Sarthour, E. R. deAzevedo, T. J. Bonagamba, I. S. Oliveira
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, to appear in QIP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4073
abstract: NMR quantum information processing studies rely on the reconstruction of the density matrix representing the so-called pseudo-pure states (PPS). An initially pure part of a PPS state undergoes unitary and non-unitary (relaxation) transformations during a computation process, causing a "loss of purity" until the equilibrium is reached. Besides, upon relaxation, the nuclear polarization varies in time, a fact which must be taken into account when comparing density matrices at different instants. Attempting to use time-fixed normalization procedures when relaxation is present, leads to various anomalies on matrices populations. On this paper we propose a method which takes into account the time-dependence of the normalization factor. From a generic form for the deviation density matrix an expression for the relaxing initial pure state is deduced. The method is exemplified with an experiment of relaxation of the concurrence of a pseudo-entangled state, which exhibits the phenomenon of sudden death, and the relaxation of the Wigner function of a pseudo-cat state.

id: 0912.4076
title: Efficient generation of highly squeezed light and second harmonic wave with periodically poled MgO:LiNbO_3
authors: Genta Masada, Tsuyoshi Suzudo, Yasuhiro Satoh, Hideki Ishizuki, Takunori Taira, Akira Furusawa
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 18 Issue 12, pp.13114-13121 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4076
abstract: We report on effective generation of continuous-wave squeezed light and second harmonics with a periodically poled MgO:LiNbO$_{\mathrm{3}}$ (PPMgLN) crystal which enables us to utilize the large nonlinear optical coefficient $d_{\mathrm{33}}$. We achieved the squeezing level of $-7.60 \pm 0.15$dB at 860 nm by utilizing a subthreshol optical parametric oscillator with a PPMgLN crystal. We also generated 400 mW of second harmonics at 430 nm from 570 mW of fundamental waves with 70% of conversion efficiency by using a PPMgLN crystal inside an external cavity.

id: 0912.4085
title: Back-action amplification and quantum limits in optomechanical measurements
authors: P. Verlot, A. Tavernarakis, T. Briant, P. -F. Cohadon, A. Heidmann
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 104 (2010) 133602
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4085
abstract: Optical interferometry is by far the most sensitive displacement measurement technique available, with sensitivities at the 10^-20 m/rootHz level in the large-scale gravitational-wave interferometers currently in operation. Second generation interferometers will experience a 10-fold improvement in sensitivity and be mainly limited by quantum noise, close to the Standard Quantum Limit (SQL), once considered as the ultimate displacement sensitivity achievable by interferometry. In this Letter, we experimentally demonstrate one of the techniques envisioned to go beyond the SQL: amplification of a signal by radiation-pressure back-action in a detuned cavity.

id: 0912.4092
title: Quantum states made to measure
authors: Konrad Banaszek, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, Commentary for Nature Photonics
journal: Nature Photonics 3, 673 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4092
abstract: Recent progress in manipulating quantum states of light and matter brings quantum-enhanced measurements closer to prospective applications. The current challenge is to make quantum metrologic strategies robust against imperfections.

id: 0912.4098
title: Realistic interpretation of quantum mechancis
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4098
abstract: It is argued that the usual postulates of quantum mechanics are too strong. It is conjectured that it is possible to interpret all experiments if we maintain the formalism of quantum theory without modification, but weaken the postulates concerning the relation between the formalism and the experiments. A set of postulates is proposed where realism is insured. Comments on the Bell theorem are made on the light of the new postulates.

id: 0912.4109
title: Polarization dependent spontaneous-emission rate of single quantum dots in photonic crystal membranes
authors: Q. Wang, S. Stobbe, H. Thyrrestup, H. Hofmann, M. Kamp, T. Schlereth, S. Hofling, P. Lodahl
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4109
abstract: We have measured the variation of the spontaneous emission rate with polarization for self-assembled single quantum dots in two-dimensional photonic crystal membranes. We observe a maximum anisotropy factor of 6 between the decay rates of the two bright exciton states. This large anisotropy is attributed to the substantially different projected local density of optical states for differently oriented dipoles in the photonic crystal.

id: 0912.4114
title: A Classical and Quantum Mechanical Analog of Two Capacitors Paradox
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Darko V. Kapor
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4114
abstract: As it is well-known one of the most fascinating examples in remarkable discussion between Einstein and Bohr on the conceptual foundation of the quantum mechanics (Heisenberg energy-time uncertainty relation especially) was an experimental device representing a box hanged on an elastic spring. The pair of similar devices is used in this work for formulation of a classical and (implicitly) quantum mechanical analog of the famous two capacitors paradox. It admits a simple solution of the paradox since energy difference or seeming paradoxical "loss" can be explained by work of the elastic force for moving of the boxes in the gravitational field. (Obviously, original two capacitors paradox can be explained in the analogous way.)

id: 0912.4123
title: On Reduced Time Evolution for Initially Correlated Pure States
authors: P. Aniello, A. Kossakowski, G. Marmo, F. Ventriglia, P. Vitale
comments: accepted in Open Sys. Information Dyn
journal: Open Systems and Information Dynamics (2010) 17, 419
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4123
abstract: A new method to deal with reduced dynamics of open systems by means of the Schr\"odinger equation is presented. It allows one to consider the reduced time evolution for correlated and uncorrelated initial conditions.

id: 0912.4129
title: Classical correlation and quantum discord sharing of Dirac fields in noninertial frames
authors: Jieci Wang, Junfeng Deng, Jiliang Jing
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures; Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:052120,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4129
abstract: The classical and quantum correlations sharing between modes of the Dirac fields in the noninertial frame are investigated. It is shown that: (i) The classical correlation for the Dirac fields decreases as the acceleration increases, which is different from the result of the scalar field that the classical correlation is independent of the acceleration; (ii) There is no simple dominating relation between the quantum correlation and entanglement for the Dirac fields, which is unlike the scalar case where the quantum correlation is always over and above the entanglement; (iii) As the acceleration increases, the correlations between modes $I$ and $II$ and between modes $A$ and $II$ increase, but the correlations between modes $A$ and $I$ decrease.

id: 0912.4132
title: A simple proof that Gaussian attacks are optimal among collective attacks against continuous-variable quantum key distribution with a Gaussian modulation
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Philippe Grangier
comments: 6 pages, appendix added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062314 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4132
abstract: In this paper, we give a simple proof of the fact that the optimal collective attacks against continous-variable quantum key distribution with a Gaussian modulation are Gaussian attacks. Our proof makes use of symmetry properties of the quantum key distribution protocol in phase-space.

id: 0912.4151
title: Experimental Bell inequality violation without the postselection loophole
authors: G. Lima, G. Vallone, A. Chiuri, A. Cabello, P. Mataloni
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, v2 minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 040101(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4151
abstract: We report on an experimental violation of the Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (Bell-CHSH) inequality using energy-time entangled photons. The experiment is not free of the locality and detection loopholes, but is the first violation of the Bell-CHSH inequality using energy-time entangled photons which is free of the postselection loophole described by Aerts et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 2872 (1999)].

id: 0912.4153
title: Generalization of the Hellmann-Feynman theorem
authors: J. G. Esteve, F. Falceto, C. Garc¨ªa Canal
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. To appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4153
abstract: The well known Hellmann-Feynman theorem of Quantum Mechanics connected with the derivative of the eigenvalues with respect to a parameter upon which the Hamiltonian depends, is generalized to include cases in which the domain of definition of the Hamiltonian of the system also depends on that parameter.

id: 0912.4172
title: Tunneling-induced coherent electron population transfer in an asymmetric quantum well
authors: Ni Cui, Yueping Niu, Shangqing Gong
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4172
abstract: We propose an asymmetric double quantum well structure with a common continuum and investigate the effect of resonant tunneling on the control of coherent electron population transfer between the two quantum wells. By numerically solving the motion equations of element moments, the almost complete electron population transfer from initial subband to the target subband could be realized due to the constructive interference via flexibly adjusting the structure parameters.

id: 0912.4178
title: Transitionless quantum drivings for the harmonic oscillator
authors: J. G. Muga, X. Chen, Ib¨¢?ez, I. Lizuain, A. Ruschhaupt
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure. Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4178
abstract: Two methods to change a quantum harmonic oscillator frequency without transitions in a finite time are described and compared. The first method, a transitionless-tracking algorithm, makes use of a generalized harmonic oscillator and a non-local potential. The second method, based on engineering an invariant of motion, only modifies the harmonic frequency in time, keeping the potential local at all times.

id: 0912.4202
title: Broken Time Translation Symmetry as a model for Quantum State Reduction
authors: Jasper van Wezel
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Symmetry, 2, 582-608 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4202
abstract: The symmetries that govern the laws of nature can be spontaneously broken, enabling the occurrence of ordered states. Crystals arise from the breaking of translation symmetry, magnets from broken spin rotation symmetry and massive particles break a phase rotation symmetry. Time translation symmetry can be spontaneously broken in exactly the same way. The order associated with this form of spontaneous symmetry breaking is characterised by the emergence of quantum state reduction: systems which spontaneously break time translation symmetry act as ideal measurement machines. In this review the breaking of time translation symmetry is first compared to that of other symmetries such as spatial translations and rotations. It is then discussed how broken time translation symmetry gives rise to the process of quantum state reduction and how it generates a pointer basis, Born's rule, etc. After a comparison between this model and alternative approaches to the problem of quantum state reduction, the experimental implications and possible tests of broken time translation symmetry in realistic experimental settings are discussed.

id: 0912.4212
title: Multimode non-classical light generation through the OPO threshold
authors: Beno?t Chalopin, Francesco Scazza, Claude Fabre, Nicolas Treps
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4212
abstract: We show that an Optical Parametric Oscillator which is simultaneously resonant for several modes, either spatial or temporal, generates both below and above threshold a multimode non-classical state of light consisting of squeezed vacuum states in all the non-oscillating modes. We confirm this prediction by an experiment dealing with the degenerate TEM$_{01}$ and TEM$_{10}$ modes. We show the conservation of non-classical properties when the threshold is crossed. The experiment is made possible by the implementation of a new method to lock the relative phase of the pump and the injected beam.

id: 0912.4227
title: The role of magnetoplasmons in Casimir force calculations
authors: R. Esquivel-Sirvent, R. Garcia-Serrano, M. A. Palomino-Ovando, G. H. Cocoletzi
comments: contribution to QFEXT09, Norman, Oklahoma 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4227
abstract: In this paper we review the role of magneto plasmon polaritons in the Casimir force calculations. By applying an external constant magnetic field a strong optical anisotropy is induced on two parallel slabs reducing the reflectivity and thus the Casimir force. As the external magnetic field increases, the Casimir force decreases. Thus, with an an external magnetic field the Casimir force can be controlled.The calculations are done in the Voigt configuration where the magnetic field is parallel to the slabs. In this configuration the reflection coefficients for TE and TM modes do not show mode conversion.

id: 0912.4239
title: Explanation, Evolution and Subjective Probability in Everett Quantum Mechanics with Positive Preclusion
authors: Mark A. Rubin
comments: Slightly expanded and rewritten for greater clarity; deemphasis of the role of inductive learning.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4239
abstract: The usual interpretational rule of quantum mechanics which states that outcomes do not occur when their weights are zero is changed so as to preclude outcomes with weights less than a small but positive value. With this "positive preclusion" rule, and in the absence of any notion of objective probability, Everett quantum mechanics has the explanatory power to account for the evolution of organisms with subjective expectations of probability that are in accord with the Born rule. Positive preclusion also allows for the derivation of a connection between weight and relative frequency in situations involving a finite number of measurements.

id: 0912.4242
title: Phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling $n$ qubits in a cavity
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062323 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4242
abstract: We propose how to realize a three-step controlled-phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling $n$ qubits in a cavity or coupled to a resonator. The $n$ two-qubit controlled-phase gates, forming this multiqubit phase gate, can be performed simultaneously. The operation time of this phase gate is independent of the number $n$ of qubits. This phase gate controlling at once $n$ qubits is insensitive to the initial state of the cavity mode and can be used to produce an analogous CNOT gate simultaneously acting on $n$ qubits. We present two alternative approaches to implement this gate. One approach is based on tuning the qubit frequency while the other method tunes the resonator frequency. Using superconducting qubits coupled to a resonator as an example, we show how to implement the proposed gate with one superconducting qubit simultaneously controlling $n$ qubits selected from $N$ qubits coupled to a resonator ($1<n<N$). We also give a discussion on realizing the proposed gate with atoms, by using one cavity initially in an arbitrary state.

id: 0912.4252
title: A Quantum-Bayesian Route to Quantum-State Space
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, Ruediger Schack
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Foundations of Physics; this is a condensation of the argument in arXiv:0906.2187v1 [quant-ph], with special attention paid to making all assumptions explicit
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4252
abstract: In the quantum-Bayesian approach to quantum foundations, a quantum state is viewed as an expression of an agent's personalist Bayesian degrees of belief, or probabilities, concerning the results of measurements. These probabilities obey the usual probability rules as required by Dutch-book coherence, but quantum mechanics imposes additional constraints upon them. In this paper, we explore the question of deriving the structure of quantum-state space from a set of assumptions in the spirit of quantum Bayesianism. The starting point is the representation of quantum states induced by a symmetric informationally complete measurement or SIC. In this representation, the Born rule takes the form of a particularly simple modification of the law of total probability. We show how to derive key features of quantum-state space from (i) the requirement that the Born rule arises as a simple modification of the law of total probability and (ii) a limited number of additional assumptions of a strong Bayesian flavor.

id: 0912.4322
title: Dynamics of Overhauser Field under nuclear spin diffusion in a quantum dot
authors: Zhe-Xuan Gong, Zhang-qi Yin, L.-M. Duan
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 033036 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4322
abstract: The coherence of electron spin can be significantly enhanced by locking the Overhauser field from nuclear spins using the nuclear spin preparation. We propose a theoretical model to calculate the long time dynamics of the Overhauser field under intrinsic nuclear spin diffusion in a quantum dot. We obtain a simplified diffusion equation that can be numerically solved and show quantitatively how the Knight shift and the electron-mediated nuclear spin flip-flop affect the nuclear spin diffusion. The results explain several recent experimental observations, where the decay time of Overhauser field is measured under different configurations, including variation of the external magnetic field, the electron spin configuration in a double dot, and the initial nuclear spin polarization rate.

id: 0912.4349
title: Not all pure entangled states are useful for sub shot-noise interferometry
authors: Philipp Hyllus, Otfried G¨¹hne, Augusto Smerzi
comments: Published version, significantly revised according to the referee's comments. Results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012337 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4349
abstract: We investigate the connection between the shot-noise limit in linear interferometers and particle entanglement. In particular, we ask whether or not sub shot-noise sensitivity can be reached with all pure entangled input states of $N$ particles if they can be optimized with local operations. Results on the optimal local transformations allow us to show that for $N=2$ all pure entangled states can be made useful for sub shot-noise interferometry while for $N>2$ this is not the case. We completely classify the useful entangled states available in a bosonic two-mode interferometer. We apply our results to several states, in particular to multi-particle singlet states and to cluster states. The latter turn out to be practically useless for sub shot-noise interferometry. Our results are based on the Cramer-Rao bound and the Fisher information.

id: 0912.4362
title: Atomtronics with holes: Coherent transport of an empty site in a triple well potential
authors: Albert Benseny, Sonia Fern¨¢ndez-Vidal, Joan Bagud¨¤, Ram¨®n Corbal¨¢n, Antonio Pic¨®n, Luis Roso, Gerhard Birkl, Jordi Mompart
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013604 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4362
abstract: We investigate arrays of three traps with two fermionic or bosonic atoms. The tunneling interaction between neighboring sites is used to prepare multi-site dark states for the empty site, i.e., the hole, allowing for the coherent manipulation of its external degrees of freedom. By means of an ab initio integration of the Schr\"odinger equation, we investigate the adiabatic transport of a hole between the two extreme traps of a triple-well potential. Furthermore, a quantum-trajectory approach based on the de Broglie-Bohm formulation of quantum mechanics is used to get physical insight into the transport process. Finally, we discuss the use of the hole for the construction of a coherent single hole diode and a coherent single hole transistor.

id: 0912.4363
title: Four-tangle for pure states
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 5 pages, No figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012340 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4363
abstract: An expression for four-tangle is obtained by examining the negativity fonts present in a four-way partial transpose under local unitary operations. An alternate derivation of three tangle is also given.

id: 0912.4379
title: How Random Is Quantum Randomness? An Experimental Approach
authors: Cristian S. Calude, Michael J. Dinneen, Monica Dumitrescu, Karl Svozil
comments: 49 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4379
abstract: Our aim is to experimentally study the possibility of distinguishing between quantum sources of randomness--recently proved to be theoretically incomputable--and some well-known computable sources of pseudo-randomness. Incomputability is a necessary, but not sufficient "symptom" of "true randomness". We base our experimental approach on algorithmic information theory which provides characterizations of algorithmic random sequences in terms of the degrees of incompressibility of their finite prefixes. Algorithmic random sequences are incomputable, but the converse implication is false. We have performed tests of randomness on pseudo-random strings (finite sequences) of length $2^{32}$ generated with software (Mathematica, Maple), which are cyclic (so, strongly computable), the bits of $\pi$, which is computable, but not cyclic, and strings produced by quantum measurements (with the commercial device Quantis and by the Vienna IQOQI group). Our empirical tests indicate quantitative differences, some statistically significant, between computable and incomputable sources of "randomness".

id: 0912.4402
title: Use of Quantum Sampling to Calculate Mean Values of Observables and Partition Function of a Quantum System
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: V1-12 pages(5 files: 1.tex, 3 .sty, 1 .eps);V2-minor changes;V3-minor changes and extension of scenario(c)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4402
abstract: We describe an algorithm for using a quantum computer to calculate mean values of observables and the partition function of a quantum system. Our algorithm includes two sub-algorithms. The first sub-algorithm is for calculating, with polynomial efficiency, certain diagonal matrix elements of an observable. This sub-algorithm is performed on a quantum computer, using quantum phase estimation and tomography. The second sub-algorithm is for sampling a probability distribution. This sub-algorithm is not polynomially efficient. It can be performed either on a classical or a quantum computer, but a quantum computer can perform it quadratically faster.

id: 0912.4409
title: Relativistic Model for Gravity-Induced Quantum State Reduction
authors: Garrelt Quandt-Wiese
comments: 56 pages, 33 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4409
abstract: A Lorentz invariant model for gravity-induced quantum state reduction is presented, which is mainly developed from Penrose's argument that the time translation operator in a superposition of macroscopic states is ill-defined. The problem to define a Lorentz invariant stochastic dynamics for the wave-function is solved by assuming that the stochastic time flow is running orthogonal to the deterministic, unitary time evolution inside the four-dimensional space-time, which makes the direction of causality independent from the chosen reference frame. This new view allows to accept Bell's position on the implication of quantum non-locality on relativity, without having to give up the Lorentz invariance of the specified dynamics. It is shown that it is possible to formulate on the basis of this new view a meaningful physical model. The model is also checked for possible higher order effects, which provide new starting points for experimental research.

id: 0912.4419
title: Multiparty multilevel energy-time entanglement
authors: G. Vallone, P. Mataloni, A. Cabello
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032105 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4419
abstract: Franson-like setups are inadequate for multiparty Bell experiments with energy-time entanglement because postselected events can depend on the local settings, and local models can exploit this feature to reproduce the quantum predictions, even in the case of ideal devices. We extend a previously introduced interferometric scheme [A. Cabello, et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 040401 (2009)] to solve this problem in the n-qubit and n-qunit cases. In addition, the proposed setups allow us to prepare and test n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and $(\sum_{i=1}^n |i ... i>)/\sqrt{n}$ energy-time entangled states.

id: 0912.4424
title: Single-Atom Cavity QED and Opto-Micromechanics
authors: M. Wallquist, K. Hammerer, P. Zoller, C. Genes, M. Ludwig, F. Marquardt, P. Treutlein, J. Ye, H. J. Kimble
comments: 
journal: PRA 81 023816 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4424
abstract: In a recent publication [K. Hammerer et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 063005 (2009)] we have shown the possibility to achieve strong coupling of the quantized motion of a micron-sized mechanical system to the motion of a single trapped atom. In the proposed setup the coherent coupling between a SiN membrane and a single atom is mediated by the field of a high finesse cavity, and can be much larger than the relevant decoherence rates. This makes the well-developed tools of CQED (cavity quantum electrodynamics) with single atoms available in the realm of cavity optomechanics. In this paper we elaborate on this scheme and provide detailed derivations and technical comments. Moreover, we give numerical as well as analytical results for a number of possible applications for transfer of squeezed or Fock states from atom to membrane as well as entanglement generation, taking full account of dissipation. In the limit of strong-coupling the preparation and verification of non-classical states of a mesoscopic mechanical system is within reach.

id: 0912.4433
title: Active polarization control for quantum communication in long-distance optical fibers with shared telecom traffic
authors: G. B. Xavier, G. Vilela de Faria, T. Ferreira da Silva, G. P. Temporao, J. P. von der Weid
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: Microwave and Optical Technology Letters 53, 2661 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4433
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the compatibility of wavelength multiplexed active polarization stabilization for quantum communication in an optical fiber carrying telecom traffic. One of the feedback control channels contains a 9.953 Gb/s data stream generated from a BER meter. We verify the ability to transmit single-photons in the two opposite directions of a 23 km optical fiber spool, while maintaining their state of polarization stable and a classical BER in the feedback channel error-free, during 6 hours of continuous operation.

id: 0912.4460
title: An integrated atom-photon junction
authors: M. Kohnen, M. Succo, P. G. Petrov, R. A. Nyman, M. Trupke, E. A. Hinds
comments: 5 pages, 4 figure. Submitted to Nature Photonics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4460
abstract: Photonic chips that integrate guides, switches, gratings and other components, process vast amounts of information rapidly on a single device. A new branch of this technology becomes possible if the light is coupled to cold atoms in a junction of small enough cross section, so that small numbers of photons interact appreciably with the atoms. Cold atoms are among the most sensitive of metrological tools and their quantum nature also provides a basis for new information processing methods. Here we demonstrate a photonic chip which provides multiple microscopic junctions between atoms and photons. We use the absorption of light at a junction to reveal the presence of one atom on average. Conversely, we use the atoms to probe the intensity and polarisation of the light. Our device paves the way for a new type of chip with interconnected circuits of atoms and photons.

id: 0912.4463
title: Atoms and Quantum Dots With a Large Number of Electrons: the Ground State Energy
authors: Herv¨¦ Kunz, Rico Rueedi
comments: 30 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4463
abstract: We compute the ground state energy of atoms and quantum dots with a large number N of electrons. Both systems are described by a non-relativistic Hamiltonian of electrons in a d-dimensional space. The electrons interact via the Coulomb potential. In the case of atoms (d=3), the electrons are attracted by the nucleus, via the Coulomb potential. In the case of quantum dots (d=2), the electrons are confined by an external potential, whose shape can be varied. We show that the dominant terms of the ground state energy are those given by a semiclassical Hartree-exchange energy, whose N to infinity limit corresponds to Thomas-Fermi theory. This semiclassical Hartree-exchange theory creates oscillations in the ground state energy as a function of N. These oscillations reflect the dynamics of a classical particle moving in the presence of the Thomas-Fermi potential. The dynamics is regular for atoms and some dots, but in general in the case of dots, the motion contains a chaotic component. We compute the correlation effects. They appear at the order N ln N for atoms, in agreement with available data. For dots, they appear at the order N.

id: 0912.4495
title: Single-shot Quantum State Merging
authors: Mario Berta
comments: 33 pages, Diploma thesis, ETH Zurich, February 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4495
abstract: We consider an unknown quantum state shared between two parties, Alice and Bob, and ask how much quantum communication is needed to transfer the full state to Bob. This problem is known as state merging and was introduced in [Horodecki et al., Nature, 436, 673 (2005)]. It has been shown that for free classical communication the minimal number of quantum bits that need to be sent from Alice to Bob is given by the conditional von Neumann entropy. However this result only holds asymptotically (in the sense that Alice and Bob share initially many identical copies of the state) and it was unclear how much quantum communication is necessary to merge a single copy. We show that the minimal amount of quantum communication needed to achieve this single-shot state merging is given by minus the smooth conditional min-entropy of Alice conditioned on the environment. This gives an operational meaning to the smooth conditional min-entropy.

id: 0912.4499
title: Entanglement of mechanical oscillators coupled to a non-equilibrium environment
authors: Max Ludwig, K. Hammerer, Florian Marquardt
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012333 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4499
abstract: Recent experiments aim at cooling nanomechanical resonators to the ground state by coupling them to non-equilibrium environments in order to observe quantum effects such as entanglement. This raises the general question of how such environments affect entanglement. Here we show that there is an optimal dissipation strength for which the entanglement between two coupled oscillators is maximized. Our results are established with the help of a general framework of exact quantum Langevin equations valid for arbitrary bath spectra, in and out of equilibrium. We point out why the commonly employed Lindblad approach fails to give even a qualitatively correct picture.

id: 0912.4505
title: Fundamental Limits on the Speed of Evolution of Quantum States
authors: Ulvi Yurtsever
comments: 6 pages, 1 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4505
abstract: This paper reports on some new inequalities of Margolus-Levitin-Mandelstam-Tamm-type involving the speed of quantum evolution between two orthogonal pure states. The clear determinant of the qualitative behavior of this time scale is the statistics of the energy spectrum. An often-overlooked correspondence between the real-time behavior of a quantum system and the statistical mechanics of a transformed (imaginary-time) thermodynamic system appears promising as a source of qualitative insights into the quantum dynamics.

id: 0912.4544
title: Lieb-Robinson bounds for commutator-bounded operators
authors: Isabeau Pr¨¦mont-Schwarz, Alioscia Hamma, Israel Klich, Fotini Markopoulou-Kalamara
comments: 5 pages, minor editorial changes
journal: Physical Review A Vol.81, No.4 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4544
abstract: We generalize the Lieb-Robinson theorem to systems whose Hamiltonian is the sum of local operators whose commutators are bounded.

id: 0912.4546
title: Enhanced Feedback Iterative Decoding of Sparse Quantum Codes
authors: Yun-Jiang Wang, Barry C. Sanders, Bao-Ming Bai, Xin-Mei Wang
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, Second version, To be appeared in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 58 (2): 1231-1241 (6 February 2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4546
abstract: Decoding sparse quantum codes can be accomplished by syndrome-based decoding using a belief propagation (BP) algorithm.We significantly improve this decoding scheme by developing a new feedback adjustment strategy for the standard BP algorithm. In our feedback procedure, we exploit much of the information from stabilizers, not just the syndrome but also the values of the frustrated checks on individual qubits of the code and the channel model. Furthermore we show that our decoding algorithm is superior to belief propagation algorithms using only the syndrome in the feedback procedure for all cases of the depolarizing channel. Our algorithm does not increase the measurement overhead compared to the previous method, as the extra information comes for free from the requisite stabilizer measurements.

id: 0912.4582
title: On Nonlinear Bosonic Coherent States
authors: Marco Genovese, Francesco A. Raffa, Mario Rasetti
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Lett A 376 (2012) 330
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4582
abstract: Nonlinear coherent states are an interesting resource for quantum technologies. Here we investigate some critical features of the single-boson nonlinear coherent states, which are theoretically constructed as eigenstates of the annihilation operator and experimentally realized as stationary states of a trapped laser-driven ion. We show that the coherence and the minimum-uncertainty properties of such states are broken for values of the Lamb-Dicke parameter corresponding to the roots of the Laguerre polynomials, which enter their explicit expression. The case of the multiboson nonlinear coherent states is also discussed.

id: 0912.4594
title: Analytic solutions for a three-level system in a time-dependent field
authors: Jan Naudts, Winny O'Kelly de Galway
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physica D 240, 542-545 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4594
abstract: This paper generalizes some known solitary solutions of a time-dependent Hamiltonian in two ways: The time-dependent field can be an elliptic function, and the time evolution is obtained for a complete set of basis vectors. The latter makes it feasible to consider arbitrary initial conditions. The former makes it possible to observe a beating caused by the non-linearity of the driving field.

id: 0912.4603
title: Entanglement in Massive Coupled Oscillators
authors: N.L. Harshman, W.F. Flynn
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures; v4 minor changes and corrections from v3, accepted in QIC
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 11 (2011) 278-299
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4603
abstract: This article investigates entanglement of the motional states of massive coupled oscillators. The specific realization of an idealized diatomic molecule in one-dimension is considered, but the techniques developed apply to any massive particles with two degrees of freedom and a quadratic Hamiltonian. We present two methods, one analytic and one approximate, to calculate the interatomic entanglement for Gaussian and non-Gaussian pure states as measured by the purity of the reduced density matrix. The cases of free and trapped molecules and hetero- and homonuclear molecules are treated. In general, when the trap frequency and the molecular frequency are very different, and when the atomic masses are equal, the atoms are highly-entangled for molecular coherent states and number states. Surprisingly, while the interatomic entanglement can be quite large even for molecular coherent states, the covariance of atomic position and momentum observables can be entirely explained by a classical model with appropriately chosen statistical uncertainty.

id: 0912.4610
title: Optimal entanglement generation in cavity QED with dissipation
authors: Jian-Song Zhang, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Can. J. Phys. 87, 1031 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4610
abstract: We investigate a two-level atom coupled to a cavity with a strong classical driving field in a dissipative environment and find an analytical expression of the time evolution density matrix for the system. The analytical density operator is then used to study the entanglement between the atom and cavity by considering the competing process between the atom-field interactions and the field-environment interactions. It is shown that there is an optimal interaction time for generating atom-cavity entanglement.

id: 0912.4617
title: Two atoms in dissipative cavities in dispersive limit: entanglement sudden death and long-lived entanglement
authors: Jian-Song Zhang, Ai-Xi Chen, M. Abdel-Aty
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 025501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4617
abstract: We investigate the entanglement dynamics and coherence of two two-level atoms interacting with two coherent fields of two spatially separated and dissipative cavities. It is in particular shown that entanglement sudden death is obtained within a short interacting time. However, after a long interaction time a long-lived entanglement is shown, that is, the initial entanglement of two atoms could be partially preserved. In addition, the coherence of the two atoms will not be lost during the evolution.

id: 0912.4640
title: Landau-Zener tunneling for dephasing Lindblad evolutions
authors: J.E. Avron, M. Fraas, G.M. Graf, P. Grech
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, references and proof of eq.(22) added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4640
abstract: We derive an analog of the Landau-Zener adiabatic tunneling formula for an open, two-level system coupled to a memoryless, dephasing bath. The derivation rests on a geometric view of the spectral subspaces as adiabatic invariants.

id: 0912.4654
title: Decoherence and Entanglement Dynamics in Fluctuating Fields
authors: Julius Helm, Walter T. Strunz
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, added minor changes in order to match published version
journal: Physical Review A 81, 042314 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4654
abstract: We study pure phase damping of two qubits due to fluctuating fields. As frequently employed, decoherence is thus described in terms of random unitary (RU) dynamics, i.e., a convex mixture of unitary transformations. Based on a separation of the dynamics into an average Hamiltonian and a noise channel, we are able to analytically determine the evolution of both entanglement and purity. This enables us to characterize the dynamics in a concurrence-purity (CP) diagram: we find that RU phase damping dynamics sets constraints on accessible regions in the CP plane. We show that initial state and dynamics contribute to final entanglement independently.

id: 0912.4661
title: Complete sets of cyclic mutually unbiased bases in even prime power dimensions
authors: Oliver Kern, Kedar S. Ranade, Ulrich Seyfarth
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010), 275305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4661
abstract: We present a construction method for complete sets of cyclic mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) in Hilbert spaces of even prime power dimensions. In comparison to usual complete sets of MUBs, complete cyclic sets possess the additional property of being generated by a single unitary operator. The construction method is based on the idea of obtaining a partition of multi-qubit Pauli operators into maximal commuting sets of orthogonal operators with the help of a suitable element of the Clifford group. As a consequence, we explicitly obtain complete sets of cyclic MUBs generated by a single element of the Clifford group in dimensions $2^m$ for $m=1,2,...,24$.

id: 0912.4678
title: Quantum walks and elliptic integrals
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 8 pages, Journal-ref added
journal: Mathematical Structures in Computer Science, Vol.20, pp.1091-1098 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4678
abstract: Polya showed in his 1921 paper that the generating function of the return probability for a two-dimensional random walk can be written in terms of an elliptic integral. In this paper we present a similar expression for a one-dimensional quantum walk.

id: 0912.4718
title: Fluid moment hierarchy equations derived from gauge invariant quantum kinetic theory
authors: F. Haas, J. Zamanian, M. Marklund, G. Brodin
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4718
abstract: The gauge invariant electromagnetic Wigner equation is taken as the basis for a fluid-like system describing quantum plasmas, derived from the moments of the gauge invariant Wigner function. The use of the standard, gauge dependent Wigner function is shown to produce inconsistencies, if a direct correspondence principle is applied. The propagation of linear transverse waves is considered and shown to be in agreement with the kinetic theory in the long wavelength approximation, provided an adequate closure is chosen for the macroscopic equations. A general recipe to solve the closure problem is suggested.

id: 0912.4740
title: Foliable Operational Structures for General Probabilistic Theories
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4740
abstract: In this chapter a general mathematical framework for probabilistic theories of operationally understood circuits is laid out. Circuits are comprised of operations and wires. An operation is one use of an apparatus and a wire is a diagrammatic device for showing how apertures on the apparatuses are placed next to each other. Mathematical objects are defined in terms of the circuit understood graphically. In particular, we do not think of the circuit as sitting in a background time. Circuits can be foliated by hypersurfaces comprised of sets of wires. Systems are defined to be associated with wires. A closable set of operations is defined to be one for which the probability associated with any circuit built from this set is independent both of choices on other circuits and of extra circuitry that may be added to outputs from this circuit. States can be associated with circuit fragments corresponding to preparations. These states evolve on passing through circuit fragments corresponding to transformations. The composition of transformations is treated. A number of theorems are proven including one which rules out quaternionic quantum theory. The case of locally tomographic theories (where local measurements on a systems components suffice to determine the global state) is considered. For such theories the probability can be calculated for a circuit from matrices pertaining the operations that comprise that circuit. Classical probability theory and quantum theory are exhibited as examples in this framework.

id: 0912.4764
title: Voltage-controlled intracavity electromagnetically induced transparency with asymmetry quantum dots molecule
authors: Yandong Peng, Yueping Niu, Ni Cui, Shangqing Gong
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4764
abstract: We theoretically investigate the phenomenon of voltage-controlled intracavity electromagnetically induced transparency with asymmetric double quantum dot system. The impact of voltage on frequency pulling and cavity linewidth narrowing are discussed. The linewidth and position of the cavity transmission can be engineered by the bias voltage. The scheme may be useful in integrated electro-optical device in quantum information process.

id: 0912.4807
title: Quantum Algorithms for many-to-one Functions to Solve the Regulator and the Principal Ideal Problem
authors: Arthur Schmidt
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4807
abstract: We propose new quantum algorithms to solve the regulator and the principal ideal problem in a real-quadratic number field. We improve the algorithms proposed by Hallgren by using two different techniques. The first improvement is the usage of a period function which is not one-to-one on its period. We show that even in this case Shor's algorithm computes the period with constant probability. The second improvement is the usage of reduced forms (a, b, c) of discriminant D with a>0 instead of reduced ideals of the same discriminant. These improvements reduce the number of required qubits by at least 2 log D.

id: 0912.4808
title: The effect of spatial transverse coherence property of a thermal source on Ghost imaging and Ghost imaging via compressive sampling
authors: Wenlin Gong, Shensheng Han
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 376, 1519-1522 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4808
abstract: Both ghost imaging (GI) and ghost imaging via compressive sampling (GICS) can nonlocally image an object. We report the influence of spatial transverse coherence property of a thermal source on GI and GICS and show that, using the same acquisition numbers, the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of images recovered by GI will be reduced while the quality of reconstructed images will be enhanced for GICS as the spatial transverse coherence lengths located on the object plane are decreased. Differences between GI and GICS, methods to further improve the quality and image extraction efficiency of GICS, and its potential applications are also discussed.

id: 0912.4819
title: Correlation of Dirac potentials and atomic inversion in cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: Agung Trisetyarso
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures. To be published in Journal of Mathematical Physics, American Institute of Physics. The detailed codes of Maple simulation are provided.
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 072103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4819
abstract: Controlling the time evolution of the population of two states in cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) is necessary by tunning the \textit{modified} Rabi frequency in which the $\textit{extra}$ classical effect of electromagnetic field is taken into account.The theoretical explanation underlying the perturbation of potential on spatial regime of bloch sphere is by the use of (Bagrov, Baldiotti, Gitman, and Shamshutdinova) BBGS-Darboux transformations \cite{bagrov14darboux} on the electromagnetic field potential in one-dimensional stationary Dirac model in which the Pauli matrices are the central parameters for controlling the collapse and revival of the Rabi oscillations. It is shown that by choosing $\sigma_{1}$ in the transformation generates the parabolic potential causing the total collapse of oscillations; while $\{\sigma_{2}, \sigma_{3}\}$ yield the harmonic oscillator potentials ensuring the coherence of qubits.

id: 0912.4820
title: Invariants and coherent states for a nonstationary fermionic forced oscillator
authors: O. Cherbal, M. Drir, M. Maamache, D.A. Trifonov
comments: latex, 9 pages, no figures, accepted in PLA
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374 (2010) 535-538
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4820
abstract: Invariant creation and annihilation operators and related Fock states and coherent states are built up for the system of nonstationary fermionic forced oscillator.

id: 0912.4846
title: Compatibility and noncontextuality for sequential measurements
authors: O. G¨¹hne, M. Kleinmann, A. Cabello, J.-A. Larsson, G. Kirchmair, F. Z?hringer, R. Gerritsma, C.F. Roos
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, v2: problem with latex solved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022121 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4846
abstract: A basic assumption behind the inequalities used for testing noncontextual hidden variable models is that the observables measured on the same individual system are perfectly compatible. However, compatibility is not perfect in actual experiments using sequential measurements. We discuss the resulting "compatibility loophole" and present several methods to rule out certain hidden variable models which obey a kind of extended noncontextuality. Finally, we present a detailed analysis of experimental imperfections in a recent trapped ion experiment and apply our analysis to that case.

id: 0912.4851
title: Geometric phase of a moving three-level atom
authors: S. Abdel-Khalek, Y. S. El-Saman, M. Abdel-Aty
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Optics Communications
journal: Optics Communications, 283,1826-1831 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4851
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the geometric phase of the field interacting with $\Xi $-type moving three-level atom. The results show that the atomic motion and the field-mode structure play important roles in the evolution of the system dynamics and geometric phase. We test this observation with experimentally accessible parameters and some new aspects are obtained.

id: 0912.4863
title: Relativistic entanglement of two massive particles
authors: Nicolai Friis, Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Marcus Huber, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042114 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4863
abstract: We describe the spin and momentum degrees of freedom of a system of two massive spin--$\tfrac{1}{2}$ particles as a 4 qubit system. Then we explicitly show how the entanglement changes between different partitions of the qubits, when considered by different inertial observers. Although the two particle entanglement corresponding to a partition into Alice's and Bob's subsystems is, as often stated in the literature, invariant under Lorentz boosts, the entanglement with respect to other partitions of the Hilbert space on the other hand, is not. It certainly does depend on the chosen inertial frame and on the initial state considered. The change of entanglement arises, because a Lorentz boost on the momenta of the particles causes a Wigner rotation of the spin, which in certain cases entangles the spin- with the momentum states. We systematically investigate the situation for different classes of initial spin states and different partitions of the 4 qubit space. Furthermore, we study the behavior of Bell inequalities for different observers and demonstrate how the maximally possible degree of violation, using the Pauli-Lubanski spin observable, can be recovered by any inertial observer.

id: 0912.4865
title: Energy gaps in quantum first-order mean-field-like transitions: The problems that quantum annealing cannot solve
authors: T. Jorg, F. Krzakala, J. Kurchan, A. C. Maggs, J. Pujos
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: EPL, 89 (2010) 40004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4865
abstract: We study first-order quantum phase transitions in models where the mean-field traitment is exact, and the exponentially fast closure of the energy gap with the system size at the transition. We consider exactly solvable ferromagnetic models, and show that they reduce to the Grover problem in a particular limit. We compute the coefficient in the exponential closure of the gap using an instantonic approach, and discuss the (dire) consequences for quantum annealing.

id: 0912.4888
title: Qubit-oscillator systems in the ultrastrong-coupling regime and their potential for preparing nonclassical states
authors: S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 19 pages (two-column), 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042311 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4888
abstract: We consider a system composed of a two-level system (i.e. a qubit) and a harmonic oscillator in the ultrastrong-coupling regime, where the coupling strength is comparable to the qubit and oscillator energy scales. Special emphasis is placed on the possibility of preparing nonclassical states in this system. These nonclassical states include squeezed states, Schrodinger-cat states and entangled states. We start by comparing the predictions of a number of analytical methods that can be used to describe the system under different assumptions, thus analyzing the properties of the system in various parameter regimes. We then examine the ground state of the system and analyze its nonclassical properties. We finally discuss some questions related to the possible experimental observation of the nonclassical states and the effect of decoherence.

id: 0912.4892
title: Demonstration of a quantum logic gate in a cryogenic surface-electrode ion trap
authors: Shannon X. Wang, Jaroslaw Labaziewicz, Yufei Ge, Ruth Shewmon, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, 4 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062332 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4892
abstract: We demonstrate quantum control techniques for a single trapped ion in a cryogenic, surface-electrode trap. A narrow optical transition of Sr+ along with the ground and first excited motional states of the harmonic trapping potential form a two-qubit system. The optical qubit transition is susceptible to magnetic field fluctuations, which we stabilize with a simple and compact method using superconducting rings. Decoherence of the motional qubit is suppressed by the cryogenic environment. AC Stark shift correction is accomplished by controlling the laser phase in the pulse sequencer, eliminating the need for an additional laser. Quantum process tomography is implemented on atomic and motional states using conditional pulse sequences. With these techniques we demonstrate a Cirac-Zoller Controlled-NOT gate in a single ion with a mean fidelity of 91(1)%.

id: 0912.4933
title: Nonlinear Schrodinger equation containing the time derivative of the probability density: A numerical study
authors: Ji Luo
comments: 
journal: Communications in Nonlinear Science and Numerical Simulation 19 (2014) 3591-3599
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4933
abstract: The simplest nonlinear Schrodinger equation that contains the time derivative of the probability density is investigated. This equation has the same stationary solutions as its linear counterpart, and these solutions are the eigenstates of the corresponding linear Hamiltonian. The equation leads to the usual continuity equation and thus maintains the unitarity of the wave function. For the non-stationary solutions, numerical calculations are carried out for the one-dimensional infinite square-well potential and for several time-dependent potentials that tend to the former as time increases. Results show that for various initial states, the wave function always evolves into some eigenstate of the corresponding linear Hamiltonian of the one-dimensional infinite square-well potential. For a small time-dependent perturbation potential, solutions present the process similar to the spontaneous transition between stationary states. For a periodical potential with an appropriate frequency, solutions present the process similar to the stimulated transition. This nonlinear Schrodinger equation thus presents the state evolution similar to the wave-function reduction.

id: 0912.4943
title: Semiclassical Approximation with two small parameters
authors: N.N.Trunov
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4943
abstract: We propose a new variant of the semiclassical quantisation with two independent parameters. The first one is proportional to the Planck constant as usually and the second one is connected with a deviation of the given potential from a very wide and important class of them for which an exact condition can be constructed. The accuracy is estimated for a number of special cases

id: 0912.4948
title: Faraday Rotation with Single Nuclear Spin Qubit in a High-Finesse Optical Cavity
authors: Nobuyuki Takei, Makoto Takeuchi, Yujiro Eto, Atsushi Noguchi, Peng Zhang, Masahito Ueda, Mikio Kozuma
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042331 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4948
abstract: When an off-resonant light field is coupled with atomic spins, its polarization can rotate depending on the direction of the spins via a Faraday rotation which has been used for monitoring and controlling the atomic spins. We observed Faraday rotation by an angle of more than 10 degrees for a single 1/2 nuclear spin of 171Yb atom in a high-finesse optical cavity. By employing the coupling between the single nuclear spin and a photon, we have also demonstrated that the spin can be projected or weakly measured through the projection of the transmitted single ancillary photon.

id: 0912.4956
title: Environmental Effects on the Geometric Phase
authors: A. C. G¨¹nhan, S. Turgut, N. K. Pak
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4956
abstract: The behavior of the geometric phase gained by a single spin-1/2 nucleus immersed into a thermal or a squeezed environment is investigated. Both the time dependence of the phase and its value at infinity are examined against several physical parameters. It is observed that for some intermediate ranges of the temperature and the coupling strength, the presence of squeezing enhances the geometric phase.

id: 0912.4961
title: Noisy non-transitive quantum games
authors: M. Ramzan, Salman Khan, M. Khalid Khan
comments: 18 pages, 6 .eps figures, 1 .eps table
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 265304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4961
abstract: We study the effect of quantum noise in 3 by 3 entangled quantum games. By considering different noisy quantum channels we analyze that how a two-player, three-strategy Rock-Scissor-Paper game is influenced by the quantum noise. We consider the winning non-transitive strategies R, S and P such as R beats S, S beats P, and P beats R. The game behaves as a noiseless game for maximum value of the quantum noise parameter. It is seen that Alice's payoff is heavily influenced by the depolarizing noise as compared to the amplitude damping noise. Depolarizing channel causes a monotonic decrease in players payoffs as we increase the amount of of quantum noise. In case of amplitude damping channel, the Alice's payoff function reaches its minimum for alpha=0.5 and is symmetrical. This means that larger values of quantum noise influence the game weakly. On the other hand, phase damping channel does not influence the game's payoff. Furthermore, the game's Nash equilibrium and non-transitive character of the game are not affected under the influence of quantum noise.

id: 0912.5112
title: Identifying the quantum correlations in light-harvesting complexes
authors: Kamil Bradler, Mark M. Wilde, Sai Vinjanampathy, Dmitry B. Uskov
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, significant improvements including (1) an analytical formula for the single-excitation relative entropy of entanglement (REE), (2) simulations indicating that the single-excitation REE is equal to the single-excitation discord, and (3) simulations indicating that the full REE can be much lower than the single-excitation REE
journal: Physical Review A 82, 062310 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5112
abstract: One of the major efforts in the quantum biological program is to subject biological systems to standard tests or measures of quantumness. These tests and measures should elucidate if non-trivial quantum effects may be present in biological systems. Two such measures of quantum correlations are the quantum discord and the relative entropy of entanglement. Here, we show that the relative entropy of entanglement admits a simple analytic form when dynamics and accessible degrees of freedom are restricted to a zero- and single-excitation subspace. We also simulate and calculate the amount of quantum discord that is present in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson protein complex during the transfer of an excitation from a chlorosome antenna to a reaction center. We find that the single-excitation quantum discord and relative entropy of entanglement are equal for all of our numerical simulations, but a proof of their general equality for this setting evades us for now. Also, some of our simulations demonstrate that the relative entropy of entanglement without the single-excitation restriction is much lower than the quantum discord. The first picosecond of dynamics is the relevant timescale for the transfer of the excitation, according to some sources in the literature. Our simulation results indicate that quantum correlations contribute a significant fraction of the total correlation during this first picosecond in many cases, at both cryogenic and physiological temperature.

id: 0912.5121
title: Control of quantum phenomena: Past, present, and future
authors: Constantin Brif, Raj Chakrabarti, Herschel Rabitz
comments: Review article, final version (significantly updated), 76 pages, accepted for publication in New J. Phys. (Focus issue: Quantum control)
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 075008 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5121
abstract: Quantum control is concerned with active manipulation of physical and chemical processes on the atomic and molecular scale. This work presents a perspective of progress in the field of control over quantum phenomena, tracing the evolution of theoretical concepts and experimental methods from early developments to the most recent advances. The current experimental successes would be impossible without the development of intense femtosecond laser sources and pulse shapers. The two most critical theoretical insights were (1) realizing that ultrafast atomic and molecular dynamics can be controlled via manipulation of quantum interferences and (2) understanding that optimally shaped ultrafast laser pulses are the most effective means for producing the desired quantum interference patterns in the controlled system. Finally, these theoretical and experimental advances were brought together by the crucial concept of adaptive feedback control, which is a laboratory procedure employing measurement-driven, closed-loop optimization to identify the best shapes of femtosecond laser control pulses for steering quantum dynamics towards the desired objective. Optimization in adaptive feedback control experiments is guided by a learning algorithm, with stochastic methods proving to be especially effective. Adaptive feedback control of quantum phenomena has found numerous applications in many areas of the physical and chemical sciences, and this paper reviews the extensive experiments. Other subjects discussed include quantum optimal control theory, quantum control landscapes, the role of theoretical control designs in experimental realizations, and real-time quantum feedback control. The paper concludes with a prospective of open research directions that are likely to attract significant attention in the future.

id: 0912.5134
title: Amplification of NOON States
authors: G. S. Agarwal, S. Chaturvedi, Amit Rai
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5134
abstract: We examine the behavior of a Non Gaussian state like NOON state under phase insensitive amplification. We derive analytical result for the density matrix of the NOON state for arbitrary gain of the amplifier. We consider cases of both symmetric and antisymmetric amplification of the two modes of the NOON state. We quantitatively evaluate the loss of entanglement by the amplifier in terms of the logarithmic negativity parameter. We find that NOON states are more robust than their Gaussian counterparts.

id: 0912.5137
title: Entanglement of Two-Superconducting-Qubit System Coupled with a Fixed Capacitor
authors: Li-Jun Tian, Li-Guo Qin, Hong-Biao Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 28, 050308 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5137
abstract: We study thermal entanglement in a two-superconducting-qubit system in two cases, either identical or distinct. By calculating the concurrence of system, we find that the entangled degree of the system is greatly enhanced in the case of very low temperature and Josephson energies for the identical superconducting qubits, and our result is in a good agreement with the experimental data.

id: 0912.5146
title: Raising and lowering operators for angular momentum quantum numbers l in spherical harmonics
authors: Q. H. Liu, D. M. Xun, L. Shan
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5146
abstract: Two vector operators aimed at shifting angular momentum quantum number l in spherical harmonics |lm>, primarily proposed by Prof. X. L. Ka in 2001, are further studied. For a given magnetic quantum number m, specific states |lm> in spherical harmonics with the lowest angular momentum quantum numbers l are obtained and the state with minimum angular momentum quantum number in whole set of the spherical harmonics is |0,0>. How to use these states to generate whole set of spherical harmonics is illustrated.

id: 0912.5149
title: Bounds on Shannon distinguishability in terms of partitioned measures
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 11 pages, no figures. The paper is reorganized. Many parts are recast, detected errors are corrected. Some results are improved. More explanations. To appear in QIP
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 10, 123-138 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5149
abstract: A family of quantum measures like the Shannon distinguishability is presented. These measures are defined over the two classes of POVM measurements and related to separate parts in the expression for mutual information. Changes of Ky Fan's norms and the partitioned trace distances under the operation of partial trace are discussed. Upper and lower bounds on the introduced quantities are obtained in terms of partitioned trace distances and Uhlmann's partial fidelities. These inequalities provide a kind of generalization of the well-known bounds on the Shannon distinguishability. The notion of cryptographic exponential indistinguishability for quantum states is revisited. When exponentially fast convergence is required, all the metrics induced by unitarily invariant norms are shown to be equivalent.

id: 0912.5150
title: Cluster-based architecture for fault-tolerant quantum computation
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 16 pages, 34 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042324 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5150
abstract: We present a detailed description of an architecture for fault-tolerant quantum computation, which is based on the cluster model of encoded qubits. In this cluster-based architecture, concatenated computation is implemented in a quite different way from the usual circuit-based architecture where physical gates are recursively replaced by logical gates with error-correction gadgets. Instead, some relevant cluster states, say fundamental clusters, are recursively constructed through verification and postselection in advance for the higher-level one-way computation, which namely provides error-precorrection of gate operations. A suitable code such as the Steane seven-qubit code is adopted for transversal operations. This concatenated construction of verified fundamental clusters has a simple transversal structure of logical errors, and achieves a high noise threshold ~ 3 % for computation by using appropriate verification procedures. Since the postselection is localized within each fundamental cluster with the help of deterministic bare controlled-Z gates without verification, divergence of resources is restrained, which reconciles postselection with scalability.

id: 0912.5156
title: Wave-Particle Duality and the Hamilton-Jacobi Equation
authors: Gregory I. Sivashinsky
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5156
abstract: The Hamilton-Jacobi equation of relativistic quantum mechanics is revisited. The equation is shown to permit solutions in the form of breathers (oscillating/spinning solitons), displaying simultaneous particle-like and wave-like behavior. The de Broglie wave thus acquires a clear deterministic meaning of a wave-like excitation of the classical action function. The problem of quantization in terms of the breathing action function and the double-slit experiment are discussed.

id: 0912.5163
title: Local Unambiguous Discrimination with Remaining Entanglement
authors: Yangjia Li, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 7 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5163
abstract: A bipartite state which is secretly chosen from a finite set of known entangled pure states cannot be immediately useful in standard quantum information processing tasks. To effectively make use of the entanglement contained in this unknown state, we introduce a new way to locally manipulate the original quantum system: either identify the state successfully or distill some pure entanglement. Remarkably, if many copies are available, we show that any finite set of entangled pure states, whatever orthogonal or not, can be locally distinguished in this way, which further implies that pure entanglement can be deterministically extracted from unknown pure entanglement. These results make it clear why a large class of entangled bipartite quantum operations including unitary operations and measurements that are globally distinguishable can also be locally distinguishable: they can generate pure entanglement consistently.

id: 0912.5245
title: Geometric phase of a quantum dot system in nonunitary evolution
authors: Sun Yin, D.M. Tong
comments: 4 pages and 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 044303 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5245
abstract: Practical implementations of quantum computing are always done in the presence of decoherence. Geometric phase is useful in the context of quantum computing as a tool to achieve fault tolerance. Recent experimental progresses on coherent control of single electron have suggested that electron in quantum dot systems is a promising candidate of qubit in future quantum information processing devices. In this paper, by considering a feasible quantum dot model, we calculate the geometric phase of the quantum dot system in nonunitary evolution and investigate the effect of environment parameters on the phase value.

id: 0912.5251
title: Direct Measurement of Kirkwood-Rihaczek distribution for spatial properties of coherent light beam
authors: Viktor Bollen, Yong Meng Sua, Kim Fook Lee
comments: 27 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5251
abstract: We present direct measurement of Kirkwood-Rihaczek (KR) distribution for spatial properties of coherent light beam in terms of position and momentum (angle) coordinates. We employ a two-local oscillator (LO) balanced heterodyne detection (BHD) to simultaneously extract distribution of transverse position and momentum of a light beam. The two-LO BHD could measure KR distribution for any complex wave field (including quantum mechanical wave function) without applying tomography methods (inverse Radon transformation). Transformation of KR distribution to Wigner, Glauber Sudarshan P- and Husimi or Q- distributions in spatial coordinates are illustrated through experimental data. The direct measurement of KR distribution could provide local information of wave field, which is suitable for studying particle properties of a quantum system. While Wigner function is suitable for studying wave properties such as interference, and hence provides nonlocal information of the wave field. The method developed here can be used for exploring spatial quantum state for quantum mapping and computing, optical phase space imaging for biomedical applications.

id: 0912.5267
title: Electron Spin Resonance Shift and Linewidth Broadening of Nitrogen-Vacancy Centers in Diamond as a Function of Electron Irradiation Dose
authors: Edwin Kim, Victor M. Acosta, Erik Bauch, Dmitry Budker, Philip R. Hemmer
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5267
abstract: A high-nitrogen-concentration diamond sample was subject to 200-keV electron irradiation using a transmission electron microscope. The optical and spin-resonance properties of the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers were investigated as a function of the irradiation dose up to 6.4\times1021 e-/cm2. The microwave transition frequency of the NV- center was found to shift by up to 0.6% (17.1 MHz) and the linewidth broadened with increasing electron-irradiation dose. Unexpectedly, the measured magnetic sensitivity is best at the lowest irradiation dose, even though the NV concentration increases monotonically with increasing dose. This is in large part due to a sharp reduction in optically-detected spin contrast at higher doses.

id: 0912.5282
title: Dissipative Dynamics with Trapping in Dimers
authors: Oliver Muelken, Lothar Muehlbacher, Tobias Schmid, Alexander Blumen
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 041114 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5282
abstract: The trapping of excitations in systems coupled to an environment allows to study the quantum to classical crossover by different means. We show how to combine the phenomenological description by a non-hermitian Liouville-von Neumann Equation (LvNE) approach with the numerically exact path integral Monte-Carlo (PIMC) method, and exemplify our results for a system of two coupled two-level systems. By varying the strength of the coupling to the environment we are able to estimate the parameter range in which the LvNE approach yields satisfactory results. Moreover, by matching the PIMC results with the LvNE calculations we have a powerful tool to extrapolate the numerically exact PIMC method to long times.

id: 0912.5293
title: Recurrence properties of quantum observables in wave packet dynamics
authors: C. Sudheesh, S. Lakshmibala, V. Balakrishnan
comments: 8 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5293
abstract: We investigate the recurrence properties of the time series of quantum mechanical expectation values, in terms of two representative models for a single-mode radiation field interacting with a nonlinear medium. From recurrence-time distributions, return maps and recurrence plots, we conclude that the dynamics of appropriate observables pertaining to the field can vary from quasiperiodicity to hyperbolicity, depending on the extent of the nonlinearity and of the departure from coherence of the initial state of the field. We establish that, in a simple bipartite model in which the field is effectively an open quantum system, a decaying exponential recurrence-time distribution, characteristic of a hyperbolic dynamical system, is associated with chaotic temporal evolution as characterized by a positive Liapunov exponent.

id: 0912.5312
title: High-visibilty two-photon interference at a telecom wavelength using picosecond regime separated sources
authors: P. Aboussouan, O. Alibart, D. B. Ostrowsky, P. Baldi, S. Tanzilli
comments: to appear in PRA as a rapid communication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 021801(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5312
abstract: We report on a two-photon interference experiment in a quantum relay configuration using two picosecond regime PPLN waveguide based sources emitting paired photons at 1550 nm. The results show that the picosecond regime associated with a guided-wave scheme should have important repercussions for quantum relay implementations in real conditions, essential for improving both the working distance and the efficiency of quantum cryptography and networking systems. In contrast to already reported regimes, namely femtosecond and CW, it allows achieving a 99% net visibility two-photon interference while maintaining a high effective photon pair rate using only standard telecom components and detectors.

id: 0912.5360
title: Beyond spontaneously broken symmetry in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: W. J. Mullin, F. Lalo?
comments: 10 pages 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:150401,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5360
abstract: Spontaneous symmetry breaking (SSB) for Bose-Einstein condensates cannot treat phase off-diagonal effects, and thus not explain Bell inequality violations. We describe another situation that is beyond a SSB treatment: an experiment where particles from two (possibly macroscopic) condensate sources are used for conjugate measurements of the relative phase and populations. Off-diagonal phase effects are characterized by a "quantum angle" and observed via "population oscillations", signaling quantum interference of macroscopically distinct states (QIMDS).

id: 0912.5363
title: Quantum decoherence without reduced dynamics
authors: P. W. Bryant
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures; version 2 contains a new discussion of Excitation Induced Dephasing, with references, along with general cleaning
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5363
abstract: With a choice of boundary conditions for solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation, state vectors and density operators even for closed systems evolve asymmetrically in time. For open systems, standard quantum mechanics consequently predicts irreversibility and signatures of the extrinsic arrow of time. The result is a new framework for the treatment of decoherence, not based on a reduced dynamics or a master equation. As an application, using a general model we quantitatively match previously puzzling experimental results and can conclude that they are the measurable consequence of the indistinguishability of separate, uncontrolled interactions between systems and their environment.

id: 0912.5394
title: A quantum solution to the arrow-of-time dilemma: reply
authors: Lorenzo Maccone
comments: Reply to the comment arXiv:0909.1726
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5394
abstract: I acknowledge a flaw in the paper "A quantum solution to the arrow of time dilemma": as pointed out by Jennings and Rudolph, (classical) mutual information is not an appropriate measure of information. This can be traced back to the quantum description underlying my analysis, where quantum mutual information is the appropriate measure of information. The core argument of my paper (summarized in its abstract) is not affected by this flaw. Nonetheless, I point out that such argument may not be adequate to account for all phenomena: it seems necessary to separately postulate a low entropy initial state.

id: 0912.5401
title: Pulsed Nuclear Pumping and Spin Diffusion in a Single Charged Quantum Dot
authors: Thaddeus D. Ladd, David Press, Kristiaan De Greve, Peter L. McMahon, Benedikt Friess, Christian Schneider, Martin Kamp, Sven Hoefling, Alfred Forchel, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 107401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5401
abstract: We report the observation of a feedback process between the nuclear spins in a single charged quantum dot and its trion transition, driven by a periodic sequence of optical pulses. The pulse sequence intersperses off-resonant ultrafast pulses for coherent electron-spin rotation and resonant narrow-band optical pumping. The feedback manifests as a hysteretic triangle-like pattern in the free-induction-decay of the single spin. We present a simple, quasi-analytic numerical model to describe this observation, indicating that the feedback process results from the countering effects of optical nuclear pumping and nuclear spin-diffusion inside the quantum dot. This effect allows dynamic tuning of the electron Larmor frequency to a value determined by the pulse timing, potentially allowing more complex coherent control operations.

id: 0912.5433
title: Classical and Quantal State Reconstruction
authors: M. Revzen
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5433
abstract: Analysis of state reconstruction both classical and quantum mechanical on equal footing is outlined. The meaning of "mutual unbiased bases" (MUB) of Hilbert spaces is explained in detail. An alternative quantum state reconstruction, that utilizes mutual unbiased bases (MUB), is given. The MUB approach is then used for state reconstruction in a finite, d, dimensional Hilbert spaces.

id: 0912.5436
title: Entanglement generation and evolution in open quantum systems
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures; talk at the 40th Symposium on Mathematical Physics "Geometry & Quanta", Torun, Poland (2008)
journal: Open Sys. Inf. Dynamics, vol. 16, no.2-3, 205-219 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5436
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems based on completely positive quantum dynamical semigroups, we study the continuous variable entanglement for a system consisting of two independent harmonic oscillators interacting with a general environment. We solve the Kossakowski-Lindblad master equation for the time evolution of the considered system and describe the entanglement in terms of the covariance matrix for an arbitrary Gaussian input state. Using Peres-Simon necessary and sufficient criterion for separability of two-mode Gaussian states, we show that for certain values of diffusion and dissipation coefficients describing the environment, the state keeps for all times its initial type: separable or entangled. In other cases, entanglement generation, entanglement sudden death or a periodic collapse and revival of entanglement take place. We analyze also the time evolution of the logarithmic negativity, which characterizes the degree of entanglement of the quantum state.

id: 0912.5488
title: Quantum computation and the physical computation level of biological information processing
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5488
abstract: On the basis of introspective analysis, we establish a crucial requirement for the physical computation basis of consciousness: it should allow processing a significant amount of information together at the same time. Classical computation does not satisfy the requirement. At the fundamental physical level, it is a network of two body interactions, each the input-output transformation of a universal Boolean gate. Thus, it cannot process together at the same time more than the three bit input of this gate - many such gates in parallel do not count since the information is not processed together. Quantum computation satisfies the requirement. At the light of our recent explanation of the speed up, quantum measurement of the solution of the problem is analogous to a many body interaction between the parts of a perfect classical machine, whose mechanical constraints represent the problem to be solved. The many body interaction satisfies all the constraints together at the same time, producing the solution in one shot. This shades light on the physical computation level of the theories that place consciousness in quantum measurement and explains how informations coming from disparate sensorial channels come together in the unity of subjective experience. The fact that the fundamental mechanism of consciousness is the same of the quantum speed up, gives quantum consciousness a potentially enormous evolutionary advantage.

id: 0912.5499
title: Entanglement manipulation via dynamics in multiple quantum spin systems
authors: Andrea Casaccino, Stefano Mancini, Simone Severini
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures; Major Revisions
journal: Quantum Inf Process (2011) 10, pp.107-121
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5499
abstract: We study manipulation of entanglement between two identical networks of quantum mechanical particles. Firstly, we reduce the problem of entanglement transfer to the problem of quantum state transfer. Then, we consider entanglement concentration and purification based on free dynamics on the networks and local measurements on the vertices. By introducing an appropriate measure of efficiency, we characterize the performance of the protocol. We give evidence that such a measure does not depend on the network topology, and we estimate the contribution given by the number of entangled pairs initially shared by the two networks.

id: 0912.5514
title: Trevisan's extractor in the presence of quantum side information
authors: Anindya De, Christopher Portmann, Thomas Vidick, Renato Renner
comments: 20+10 pages; v2: extract more min-entropy, use weakly random seed; v3: extended introduction, matches published version with sections somewhat reordered
journal: SIAM Journal on Computing, 41(4):915-940, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5514
abstract: Randomness extraction involves the processing of purely classical information and is therefore usually studied in the framework of classical probability theory. However, such a classical treatment is generally too restrictive for applications, where side information about the values taken by classical random variables may be represented by the state of a quantum system. This is particularly relevant in the context of cryptography, where an adversary may make use of quantum devices. Here, we show that the well known construction paradigm for extractors proposed by Trevisan is sound in the presence of quantum side information. We exploit the modularity of this paradigm to give several concrete extractor constructions, which, e.g, extract all the conditional (smooth) min-entropy of the source using a seed of length poly-logarithmic in the input, or only require the seed to be weakly random.

id: 0912.5530
title: Four and a Half Axioms for Finite Dimensional Quantum Mechanics
authors: Alexander Wilce
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5530
abstract: I discuss a set of strong, but probabilistically intelligible, axioms from which one can {\em almost} derive the appratus of finite dimensional quantum theory. Stated informally, these require that systems appear completely classical as restricted to a single measurement, that different measurements, and likewise different pure states, be equivalent (up to the action of a compact group of symmetries), and that every state be the marginal of a bipartite non-signaling state perfectly correlating two measurements. This much yields a mathematical representation of measurements and states that is already very suggestive of quantum mechanics. In particular, in any theory satisfying these axioms, measurements can be represented by orthonormal subsets of, and states, by vectors in, an ordered real Hilbert space -- in the quantum case, the space of Hermitian operators, with its usual tracial inner product. One final postulate (a simple minimization principle, still in need of a clear interpretation) forces the positive cone of this space to be homogeneous and self-dual and hence, to be the the state space of a formally real Jordan algebra. From here, the route to the standard framework of finite-dimensional quantum mechanics is quite short.

id: 0912.5532
title: Ensemble Steering, Weak Self-Duality, and the Structure of Probabilistic Theories
authors: Howard Barnum, Carl Phillipp Gaebler, Alexander Wilce
comments: 24 pages; minor changes, removed remark numbering, fixed some garbled text, improved page breaks
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5532
abstract: In any probabilistic theory, we may say a bipartite state on a composite system AB steers its marginal state (on, say, system B) if, for any decomposition of the marginal as a mixture, with probabilities p_i, of states b_i of B, there exists an observable a_i on A such that the states of B conditional on getting outcome a_i on A, are exactly the states b_i, and the probabilities of outcomes a_i are p_i. This is always so for pure bipartite states in quantum mechanics, a fact first observed by Schroedinger in 1935. Here, we show that, for weakly self-dual state spaces (those isomorphic, but perhaps not canonically isomorphic, to their dual spaces), the assumption that every state of a system A is steered by some bipartite state of a composite AA consisting of two copies of A, amounts to the homogeneity of the state cone. If the state space is actually self-dual, and not just weakly so, this implies (via the Koecher-Vinberg Theorem) that it is the self-adjoint part of a formally real Jordan algebra, and hence, quite close to being quantum mechanical.

id: 0912.5537
title: Quantum Reverse Shannon Theorem
authors: Charles H. Bennett, Igor Devetak, Aram W. Harrow, Peter W. Shor, Andreas Winter
comments: 35 pages, to appear in IEEE-IT. v2 has a fixed proof of the Clueless Eve result, a new single-letter formula for the "spread deficit", better error scaling, and an improved strong converse. v3 and v4 each make small improvements to the presentation and add references. v5 fixes broken references
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 60, no. 5, pp. 2926-2959, May 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5537
abstract: Dual to the usual noisy channel coding problem, where a noisy (classical or quantum) channel is used to simulate a noiseless one, reverse Shannon theorems concern the use of noiseless channels to simulate noisy ones, and more generally the use of one noisy channel to simulate another. For channels of nonzero capacity, this simulation is always possible, but for it to be efficient, auxiliary resources of the proper kind and amount are generally required. In the classical case, shared randomness between sender and receiver is a sufficient auxiliary resource, regardless of the nature of the source, but in the quantum case the requisite auxiliary resources for efficient simulation depend on both the channel being simulated, and the source from which the channel inputs are coming. For tensor power sources (the quantum generalization of classical IID sources), entanglement in the form of standard ebits (maximally entangled pairs of qubits) is sufficient, but for general sources, which may be arbitrarily correlated or entangled across channel inputs, additional resources, such as entanglement-embezzling states or backward communication, are generally needed. Combining existing and new results, we establish the amounts of communication and auxiliary resources needed in both the classical and quantum cases, the tradeoffs among them, and the loss of simulation efficiency when auxiliary resources are absent or insufficient. In particular we find a new single-letter expression for the excess forward communication cost of coherent feedback simulations of quantum channels (i.e. simulations in which the sender retains what would escape into the environment in an ordinary simulation), on non-tensor-power sources in the presence of unlimited ebits but no other auxiliary resource. Our results on tensor power sources establish a strong converse to the entanglement-assisted capacity theorem.

id: 0912.0050
title: Trapping ultracold dysprosium: a highly magnetic gas for dipolar physics
authors: Mingwu Lu, Seo Ho Youn, Benjamin L. Lev
comments: 4+ pages, 4 figures; minor edits in V3
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 063001 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0050
abstract: Ultracold dysprosium gases, with a magnetic moment ten times that of alkali atoms and equal only to terbium as the most magnetic atom, are expected to exhibit a multitude of fascinating collisional dynamics and quantum dipolar phases, including quantum liquid crystal physics. We report the first laser cooling and trapping of half a billion Dy atoms using a repumper-free magneto-optical trap (MOT) and continuously loaded magnetic confinement, and we characterize the trap recycling dynamics for bosonic and fermionic isotopes. The first inelastic collision measurements in the few partial wave, 100 uK to 1 mK, regime are made in a system possessing a submerged open electronic f-shell. In addition, we observe unusual stripes of intra-MOT <10 uK sub-Doppler cooled atoms.

id: 0912.0154
title: Hyperfine induced spin and entanglement dynamics in Double Quantum Dots: A homogeneous coupling approach
authors: Bjoern Erbe, John Schliemann
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 235324 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0154
abstract: We investigate hyperfine induced electron spin and entanglement dynamics in a system of two quantum dot spin qubits. We focus on the situation of zero external magnetic field and concentrate on approximation-free theoretical methods. We give an exact solution of the model for homogeneous hyperfine coupling constants (with all coupling coefficients being equal) and varying exchange coupling, and we derive the dynamics therefrom. After describing and explaining the basic dynamical properties, the decoherence time is calculated from the results of a detailed investigation of the short time electron spin dynamics. The result turns out to be in good agreement with experimental data.

id: 0912.0172
title: Balanced Tripartite Entanglement, the Alternating Group A4 and the Lie Algebra $sl(3,C) \oplus u(1)$
authors: Michel Planat, Peter Levay, Metod Saniga
comments: 14 pages
journal: Reports on Mathematical Physics 67, 1 (2010) 39-51
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0172
abstract: We discuss three important classes of three-qubit entangled states and their encoding into quantum gates, finite groups and Lie algebras. States of the GHZ and W-type correspond to pure tripartite and bipartite entanglement, respectively. We introduce another generic class B of three-qubit states, that have balanced entanglement over two and three parties. We show how to realize the largest cristallographic group $W(E_8)$ in terms of three-qubit gates (with real entries) encoding states of type GHZ or W [M. Planat, {\it Clifford group dipoles and the enactment of Weyl/Coxeter group $W(E_8)$ by entangling gates}, Preprint 0904.3691 (quant-ph)]. Then, we describe a peculiar "condensation" of $W(E_8)$ into the four-letter alternating group $A_4$, obtained from a chain of maximal subgroups. Group $A_4$ is realized from two B-type generators and found to correspond to the Lie algebra $sl(3,\mathbb{C})\oplus u(1)$. Possible applications of our findings to particle physics and the structure of genetic code are also mentioned.

id: 0912.0232
title: Continuous-time quantum walk on integer lattices and homogeneous trees
authors: Vladislav Kargin
comments: The journal version (save for formatting); 19 pages
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics, 2010, v. 140, 393-408
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0232
abstract: This paper is concerned with the continuous-time quantum walk on Z, Z^d, and infinite homogeneous trees. By using the generating function method, we compute the limit of the average probability distribution for the general isotropic walk on Z, and for nearest-neighbor walks on Z^d and infinite homogeneous trees. In addition, we compute the asymptotic approximation for the probability of the return to zero at time t in all these cases.

id: 0912.0286
title: Tuning micropillar cavity birefringence by laser induced surface defects
authors: Cristian Bonato, Dapeng Ding, Jan Gudat, Susanna Thon, Hyochul Kim, Pierre M. Petroff, Martin P. van Exter, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: RevTex, 7 pages, 4 figures (accepted for publication in Applied Physics Letters)
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 95, 251104 (2009)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0286
abstract: We demonstrate a technique to tune the optical properties of micropillar cavities by creating small defects on the sample surface near the cavity region with an intense focused laser beam. Such defects modify strain in the structure, changing the birefringence in a controllable way. We apply the technique to make the fundamental cavity mode polarization-degenerate and to fine tune the overall mode frequencies, as needed for applications in quantum information science.

id: 0912.0633
title: Quantum emulation of a spin system with topologically protected ground states using superconducting quantum circuits
authors: J. Q. You, Xiao-Feng Shi, Xuedong Hu, Franco Nori
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures; an enlarged version of arXiv: 0809.0051v1. Phys. Rev. B (in press)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 014505 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0633
abstract: Using superconducting quantum circuit elements, we propose an approach to experimentally construct a Kitaev lattice, which is an anisotropic spin model on a honeycomb lattice with three types of nearest-neighbor interactions and having topologically protected ground states. We study two particular parameter regimes to demonstrate both vortex and bond-state excitations. Our proposal outlines an experimentally realizable artificial many-body system that exhibits exotic topological properties.

id: 0912.1184
title: Generation of the Cluster States using Double Quantum Dots in Circuit QED
authors: M. M. Aghili Yajadda
comments: Honors project with original proposal, Scientific comments are most welcome
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1184
abstract: The cluster state quantum computation is a versatile approach to build a scalable quantum computer. In this thesis we theoretically demonstrate that a one dimensional array of double quantum dots with long spin relaxation time can evolve to a cluster state via capacitive coupling to a transmission line resonator. By applying an oscillating voltage to gates of the double quantum dots, we prove that the evolution operator for such interaction is an Ising-like operator. Subsequently, the interacting qubits will become highly entangled that we realize a cluster state. Furthermore, we propose an experiment to investigate validity of our theoretical method. Considering the current advanced technology in semiconductor nanofabrication, our proposed structure can be integrated on a chip where provides scalability and convenient control of the qubits. The scalability of our scheme implies that we can expand this structure to higher dimensional arrays of the qubits where paves the way for further experimental investigation on the theory of measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 0912.1225
title: The Equivalence Postulate of Quantum Mechanics: Main Theorems
authors: Alon E. Faraggi, Marco Matone
comments: 30 pages. Standard LaTex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1225
abstract: We consider the two main theorems in the derivation of the Quantum Hamilton--Jacobi Equation from the Equivalence Postulate (EP) of quantum mechanics. The first one concerns a basic cocycle condition, which holds in any dimension with Euclidean or Minkowski metrics and implies a global conformal symmetry underlying the Quantum Hamilton--Jacobi Equation. In one dimension such a condition fixes the Schwarzian equation. The second theorem concerns energy quantization which follows rigorously from consistency of the equivalence postulate.

id: 0912.1348
title: Microscopic derivation of Hubbard parameters for cold atomic gases
authors: H.P. B¨¹chler
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1348
abstract: We study the exact solution for two atomic particles in an optical lattice interacting via a Feshbach resonance. The analysis includes the influence of all higher bands, as well as the proper renormalization of molecular energy in the closed channel. Using an expansion in Bloch waves, we show that the problem reduces to a simple matrix equation, which can be solved numerically very efficient. This exact solution allows for the precise determination of the parameters in the Hubbard model and the two-particle bound state energy. We identify the regime, where a single band Hubbard model fails to describe the scattering of the atoms as well as the bound states.

id: 0912.1461
title: Hilbert Lattice Equations
authors: Norman D. Megill, Mladen Pavicic
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures
journal: Annales Henri Poincare, 10, 1335-1358 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1461
abstract: There are five known classes of lattice equations that hold in every infinite dimensional Hilbert space underlying quantum systems: generalised orthoarguesian, Mayet's E_A, Godowski, Mayet-Godowski, and Mayet's E equations. We obtain a result which opens a possibility that the first two classes coincide. We devise new algorithms to generate Mayet-Godowski equations that allow us to prove that the fourth class properly includes the third. An open problem related to the last class is answered. Finally, we show some new results on the Godowski lattices characterising the third class of equations.

id: 0912.1463
title: Bound states in two-dimensional spin systems near the Ising limit: A quantum finite-lattice study
authors: S. Dusuel, M. Kamfor, K. P. Schmidt, R. Thomale, J. Vidal
comments: 21 pages, 18 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 064412 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1463
abstract: We analyze the properties of low-energy bound states in the transverse-field Ising model and in the XXZ model on the square lattice. To this end, we develop an optimized implementation of perturbative continuous unitary transformations. The Ising model is studied in the small-field limit which is found to be a special case of the toric code model in a magnetic field. To analyze the XXZ model, we perform a perturbative expansion about the Ising limit in order to discuss the fate of the elementary magnon excitations when approaching the Heisenberg point.

id: 0912.1732
title: Geometric phases in astigmatic optical modes of arbitrary order
authors: Steven J. M. Habraken, Gerard Nienhuis
comments: final version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 082702 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1732
abstract: The transverse spatial structure of a paraxial beam of light is fully characterized by a set of parameters that vary only slowly under free propagation. They specify bosonic ladder operators that connect modes of different order, in analogy to the ladder operators connecting harmonic-oscillator wave functions. The parameter spaces underlying sets of higher-order modes are isomorphic to the parameter space of the ladder operators. We study the geometry of this space and the geometric phase that arises from it. This phase constitutes the ultimate generalization of the Gouy phase in paraxial wave optics. It reduces to the ordinary Gouy phase and the geometric phase of non-astigmatic optical modes with orbital angular momentum states in limiting cases. We briefly discuss the well-known analogy between geometric phases and the Aharonov-Bohm effect, which provides some complementary insights in the geometric nature and origin of the generalized Gouy phase shift. Our method also applies to the quantum-mechanical description of wave packets. It allows for obtaining complete sets of normalized solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation. Cyclic transformations of such wave packets give rise to a phase shift, which has a geometric interpretation in terms of the other degrees of freedom involved.

id: 0912.1860
title: Classical and Quantum Equations of Motion for a BTZ Black String in AdS Space
authors: Eric Greenwood, Evan Halstead, Peng Hao
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. Minor Clarification and corrections. Accepted for Publication in JHEP
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1860
abstract: We investigate gravitational collapse of a $(3+1)$-dimensional BTZ black string in AdS space in the context of both classical and quantum mechanics. This is done by first deriving the conserved mass per unit length of the cylindrically symmetric domain wall, which is taken as the classical Hamiltonian of the black string. In the quantum mechanical context, we take primary interest in the behavior of the collapse near the horizon and near the origin (classical singularity) from the point of view of an infalling observer. In the absence of radiation, quantum effects near the horizon do not change the classical conclusions for an infalling observer, meaning that the horizon is not an obstacle for him/her. The most interesting quantum mechanical effect comes in when investigating near the origin. First, quantum effects are able to remove the classical singularity at the origin, since the wave function is non-singular at the origin. Second, the Schr\"odinger equation describing the behavior near the origin displays non-local effects, which depend on the energy density of the domain wall. This is manifest in that derivatives of the wavefunction at one point are related to the value of the wavefunction at some other distant point.

id: 0912.1992
title: Modification of radiation pressure due to cooperative scattering of light
authors: Philippe Courteille, Simone Bux, Eleonora Lucioni, Katharina Lauber, Tom Bienaime, Robin Kaiser, Nicola Piovella
comments: 8 pages, 2 Figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 58, 69 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1992
abstract: Cooperative spontaneous emission of a single photon from a cloud of N atoms modifies substantially the radiation pressure exerted by a far-detuned laser beam exciting the atoms. On one hand, the force induced by photon absorption depends on the collective decay rate of the excited atomic state. On the other hand, directional spontaneous emission counteracts the recoil induced by the absorption. We derive an analytical expression for the radiation pressure in steady-state. For a smooth extended atomic distribution we show that the radiation pressure depends on the atom number via cooperative scattering and that, for certain atom numbers, it can be suppressed or enhanced.

id: 0912.2024
title: Nanorod optical antennas for dipolar transitions
authors: Tim H. Taminiau, Fernando D. Stefani, Niek F. van Hulst
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, submitted
journal: Nano Lett., 2011, 11 (3), pp 1020-1024
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2024
abstract: Optical antennas link objects to light. Here, we analyze metal nanorod antennas as cavities with variable reflection coefficients to derive the interaction of dipolar transitions with radiation through the antenna modes. The presented analytical model accurately describes the complete emission process, and is summarized in a phase-matching equation. We show how antenna modes evolve as they become increasingly more bound, i.e. plasmonic. The results illustrate why efficient antennas should not be too plasmonic, and how subradiant even modes can evolve into weakly-interacting dark modes. Our description is valid for the interaction of nanorods with light in general, and is thus widely applicable.

id: 0912.2069
title: Complex Correspondence Principle
authors: Carl M. Bender, Daniel W. Hook, Peter N. Meisinger, Qing-hai Wang
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:061601,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2069
abstract: Quantum mechanics and classical mechanics are two very different theories, but the correspondence principle states that quantum particles behave classically in the limit of high quantum number. In recent years much research has been done on extending both quantum mechanics and classical mechanics into the complex domain. This letter shows that these complex extensions continue to exhibit a correspondence, and that this correspondence becomes more pronounced in the complex domain. The association between complex quantum mechanics and complex classical mechanics is subtle and demonstrating this relationship prequires the use of asymptotics beyond all orders.

id: 0912.2135
title: Beyond the Gaussian
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7 (2011), 022, 12 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2135
abstract: In this paper we present a non-Gaussian integral based on a cubic polynomial, instead of a quadratic, and give a fundamental formula in terms of its discriminant. It gives a mathematical reinforcement to the recent result by Morozov and Shakirov. We also present some related results. This is simply one modest step to go beyond the Gaussian but it already reveals many obstacles related with the big challenge of going further beyond the Gaussian.

id: 0912.2183
title: Heating rate and spin flip lifetime due to near field noise in layered superconducting atom chips
authors: Rachele Fermani, Tobias Mueller, Bo Zhang, Michael J. Lim, Rainer Dumke
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 095002
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2183
abstract: We theoretically investigate the heating rate and spin flip lifetimes due to near field noise for atoms trapped close to layered superconducting structures. In particular, we compare the case of a gold layer deposited above a superconductor with the case of a bare superconductor. We study a niobium-based and a YBCO-based chip. For both niobium and YBCO chips at a temperature of 4.2 K, we find that the deposition of the gold layer can have a significant impact on the heating rate and spin flip lifetime, as a result of the increase of the near field noise. At a chip temperature of 77 K, this effect is less pronounced for the YBCO chip.

id: 0912.2247
title: Transverse radiation force in a tailored optical fiber
authors: Iver Brevik, Simen ?. Ellingsen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for publication as Rapid Communication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 81, 011806(R) (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2247
abstract: We show, by means of simple model calculations, how a weak laser beam sent through an optical fiber exerts a transverse radiation force if there is an azimuthal asymmetry present in the fiber such that one side has a slightly different refractive index than the other. The refractive index difference $\Delta n$ needs only to be very small, of order $10^{-3}$, in order to produce an appreciable transverse displacement of order 10 microns. We argue that the effect has probably already been seen in a recent experiment of She et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 243601 (2008)], and we discuss correspondence between these observations and the theory presented. The effect could be used to bend optical fibers in a predictable and controlled manner and we propose that it could be useful for micron-scale devices.

id: 0912.2253
title: Uncertainty Relation on World Crystal and its Applications to Micro Black Holes
authors: Petr Jizba, Hagen Kleinert, Fabio Scardigli
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, latex4
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:084030,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2253
abstract: We formulate generalized uncertainty relations in a crystal-like universe whose lattice spacing is of the order of Planck length -- "world crystal". In the particular case when energies lie near the border of the Brillouin zone, i.e., for Planckian energies, the uncertainty relation for position and momenta does not pose any lower bound on involved uncertainties. We apply our results to micro black holes physics, where we derive a new mass-temperature relation for Schwarzschild micro black holes. In contrast to standard results based on Heisenberg and stringy uncertainty relations, our mass-temperature formula predicts both a finite Hawking's temperature and a zero rest-mass remnant at the end of the micro black hole evaporation. We also briefly mention some connections of the world crystal paradigm with 't Hooft's quantization and double special relativity.

id: 0912.2333
title: Examining the Wigner Distribution Using Dirac Notation
authors: Frank Rioux
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2333
abstract: Expressing the Wigner distribution function in Dirac notation reveals its resemblance to a classical trajectory in phase space.

id: 0912.2374
title: Scalar Casimir Energies for Separable Coordinate Systems: Application to Semi-transparent Planes in an Annulus
authors: J. Wagner, K. A. Milton, K. Kirsten
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. Contribution to Proceedings of 9th Conference on Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions, QFEXT09
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2374
abstract: We derive a simplified general expression for the two-body scalar Casimir energy in generalized separable coordinate systems. We apply this technique to the case of radial semi-transparent planes in the annular region between two concentric Dirichlet cylinders. This situation is explored both analytically and numerically.

id: 0912.2489
title: The nonmodular topological phase and phase singularities
authors: Rajendra Bhandari
comments: Note added after Section 5, references added, minor changes
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011)3562-3569
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2489
abstract: Generalizing an earlier definition of the noncyclic geometric phase (R.Bhandari, Phys.Lett.A, 157, 221 (1991)), a nonmodular topological phase is defined with reference to a generic time-dependent two-slit interference experiment involving particles with N internal states in which the internal state of both the beams undergoes unitary evolution. A simple proof of the shorter geodesic rule for closure of the open path is presented and several useful new insights into the behaviour of the dynamical and geometrical components of the phase shift presented. An effective hamiltonian interpretation of the observable phase shifts is also presented.

id: 0912.2512
title: Communication via Quantum Neural Network
authors: A. Al- Segher, Nasser Metwally
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2512
abstract: In this study, the partially entangled neural networks is used to transfer information between two neurons, where the original teleportation protocol is employed this for this purpose. The effect of the network strength on the fidelity of the transported information is investigated. We show that as the strength of the network increases, the accuracy of the transformed information increases. As a practical application, we consider the spread of swine flu virus between two equivalent tranches of the community. In this treatment two factors are considered, one for humanity and the other for influence factor. The likelihood of infection between different age group is investigated, where we show that the strength of the neural network and the degree of infection plays an important role on transferring infection between different age group. From theoretical point of view, we show that it is possible to control the spread of the virus by controlling the network parameter. Also, by using local rotation, one can decrease the rate of infection between the young.

id: 0912.2645
title: Bose-Einstein condensation theory for any integer spin: approach based in noncommutative quantum mechanics
authors: J. Gamboa, F. Mendez
comments: 6pp
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2645
abstract: A Bose-Einstein condensation theory for any integer spin using noncommutative quantum mechanics methods is considered. The effective potential is derived as a multipolar expansion in the non-commutativity parameter ($\theta$) and, at second order in $\theta$, our procedure yields to the standard dipole-dipole interaction with $\theta^2$ playing the role of the strength interaction parameter. The generalized Gross-Pitaevskii equation containing non-local dipolar contributions is found. For $^{52}$Cr isotopes $\theta = C_{dd}/4\pi$ becomes $\sim 10^{-11}$ cm and, thus for this value of $\theta$ one cannot distinguish interactions coming from non-commutativity or those of dynamical origin.

id: 0912.2743
title: Fast Converging Path Integrals for Time-Dependent Potentials I: Recursive Calculation of Short-Time Expansion of the Propagator
authors: Antun Balaz, Ivana Vidanovic, Aleksandar Bogojevic, Aleksandar Belic, Axel Pelster
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.2011:03004,2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2743
abstract: In this and subsequent paper arXiv:1011.5185 we develop a recursive approach for calculating the short-time expansion of the propagator for a general quantum system in a time-dependent potential to orders that have not yet been accessible before. To this end the propagator is expressed in terms of a discretized effective potential, for which we derive and analytically solve a set of efficient recursion relations. Such a discretized effective potential can be used to substantially speed up numerical Monte Carlo simulations for path integrals, or to set up various analytic approximation techniques to study properties of quantum systems in time-dependent potentials. The analytically derived results are numerically verified by treating several simple models.

id: 0912.2744
title: Scaling approach to quantum non-equilibrium dynamics of many-body systems
authors: Vladimir Gritsev, Peter Barmettler, Eugene Demler
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: New J.Phys.12:113005,2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2744
abstract: Understanding non-equilibrium quantum dynamics of many-body systems is one of the most challenging problems in modern theoretical physics. While numerous approximate and exact solutions exist for systems in equilibrium, examples of non-equilibrium dynamics of many-body systems, which allow reliable theoretical analysis, are few and far between. In this paper we discuss a broad class of time-dependent interacting systems subject to external linear and parabolic potentials, for which the many-body Schr\"{o}dinger equation can be solved using a scaling transformation. We demonstrate that scaling solutions exist for both local and nonlocal interactions and derive appropriate self-consistency equations. We apply this approach to several specific experimentally relevant examples of interacting bosons in one and two dimensions. As an intriguing result we find that weakly and strongly interacting Bose-gases expanding from a parabolic trap can exhibit very similar dynamics.

id: 0912.2985
title: Constraints on Interpretations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 32 pages main text (for the general reader); 25 pages appendices (mathematical justification of the principles)
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2985
abstract: A succinct statement and justification of all the principles necessary to understand and evaluate interpretations of quantum mechanics is given. These principles provide strong constraints on interpretations. They imply the particle-like properties of mass, energy, momentum, spin, charge, and locality are actually properties of the wave function, and this in turn implies there is no evidence for the existence of particles. In addition, there is currently no experimental evidence for collapse, and a theory of collapse encounters significant hurdles. Further, the probability law is found to rule out the many-worlds interpretation, so all three major interpretations encounter serious to fatal problems. An interpretation which conforms to all the principles is given.

id: 0912.3061
title: Solvable rational extension of translationally shape invariant potentials
authors: Yves Grandati, Alain Berard
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3061
abstract: Combining recent results on rational solutions of the Riccati-Schr\"odinger equations for shape invariant potentials to the scheme developed by Fellows and Smith in the case of the one dimensional harmonic oscillator, we show that it is possible to generate an infinite set of solvable rational extensions for every translationally shape invariant potential of the second category.

id: 0912.3164
title: Building blocks for future detectors: Silicon test masses and 1550 nm laser light
authors: R. Schnabel, M. Britzger, F. Br¨¹ckner, O. Burmeister, K. Danzmann, J. D¨¹ck, T. Eberle, D. Friedrich, H. L¨¹ck, M. Mehmet, R. Nawrodt, S. Steinlechner, B. Willke
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.228:012029,2010
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3164
abstract: Current interferometric gravitational wave detectors use the combination of quasi-monochromatic, continuous-wave laser light at 1064 nm and fused silica test masses at room temperature. Detectors of the third generation, such as the Einstein-Telescope, will involve a considerable sensitivity increase. The combination of 1550 nm laser radiation and crystalline silicon test masses at low temperatures might be important ingredients in order to achieve the sensitivity goal. Here we compare some properties of the fused silica and silicon test mass materials relevant for decreasing the thermal noise in future detectors as well as the recent technology achievements in the preparation of laser radiation at 1064 nm and 1550 nm relevant for decreasing the quantum noise. We conclude that silicon test masses and 1550 nm laser light have the potential to form the future building blocks of gravitational wave detection.

id: 0912.3209
title: Current-Phase Relation of a Bose-Einstein Condensate Flowing Through a Weak Link
authors: F. Piazza, L. A. Collins, A. Smerzi
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3209
abstract: We study the current-phase relation of a Bose-Einstein condensate flowing through a repulsive square barrier by solving analytically the one dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation. The barrier height and width fix the current-phase relation $j(\delta\phi)$, which tends to $j\sim\cos(\delta\phi/2)$ for weak barriers and to the Josephson sinusoidal relation $j\sim\sin(\delta\phi)$ for strong barriers. Between these two limits, the current-phase relation depends on the barrier width. In particular, for wide enough barriers, we observe two families of multivalued current-phase relations. Diagrams belonging to the first family, already known in the literature, can have two different positive values of the current at the same phase difference. The second family, new to our knowledge, can instead allow for three different positive currents still corresponding to the same phase difference. Finally, we show that the multivalued behavior arises from the competition between hydrodynamic and nonlinear-dispersive components of the flow, the latter due to the presence of a soliton inside the barrier region.

id: 0912.3252
title: Frequency-modulation saturation spectroscopy of molecular iodine hyperfine structure near 640 nm with a diode laser source
authors: V. M. Khodakovskiy, V. I. Romanenko, I. V. Matsnev, R.A. Malitskiy, A. M. Negriyko, L.P. Yatsenko
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3252
abstract: In a frequency-modulation spectroscopy experiment, using the radiation from a single frequency diode laser, the spectra of molecular iodine hyperfine structure near 640 nm were recorded on the transition $B^3\Pi_{0_u^{+}}-X^1\Sigma^+_{g}$. The frequency reference given by the value of the modulation frequency (12.5 MHz in given experiment) allows determination of the frequency differences between hyperfine components with accuracy better than 0.1 MHz using the fitting procedure in experiment with only one laser.

id: 0912.3304
title: Theory of two-dimensional macroscopic quantum tunneling in a Josephson junction coupled with an LC circuit
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Takeo Kato, Thilo Bauch
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Proceedings of LT25
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 150, 052105 (2009)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3304
abstract: We investigate classical thermal activation (TA) and macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) for a Josephson junction coupled with an LC circuit theoretically. The TA and MQT escape rate are calculated analytically by taking into account the two-dimensional nature of the classical and quantum phase dynamics. We find that the MQT escape rate is largely suppressed by the coupling to the LC circuit. On the other hand, this coupling gives rise to slight reduction of the TA escape rate. These results are relevant for the interpretation of a recent experiment on the MQT and TA phenomena in grain boundary YBCO Josephson junctions.

id: 0912.3437
title: A note on scattering in deformed space with minimal length
authors: M. M. Stetsko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3437
abstract: We consider the elastic scattering in deformed space with minimal length. We give the basic relation for the elastic scattering in deformed space. We also investigate the partial wave method in deformed space. It is shown that the relations for the scattering amplitude and cross-section formally coincides with ordinary ones.

id: 0912.3442
title: Stochastic Foundation of Quantum Mechanics and the Origin of Particle Spin
authors: L. Fritsche, M. Haugk
comments: 48 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3442
abstract: The present contribution is based on the assumption that the probabilistic character of quantum mechanics does not originate from uncertainties caused by the process of measurement or observation, but rather reflects the presence of objectively existing vacuum fluctuations whose action on massive particles is calibrated by Planck's constant and effects an additional irregular motion. We describe a one-particle system by introducing two equally large sub-ensembles for each of which one obtains an equation of motion that has the form of a Navier-Stokes- or ''anti''-Navier-Stokes-type equation, respectively. By averaging over the total ensemble one obtains a new equation of motion which can be converted into the time-dependent Schroedinger equation. The concept allows the inclusion of electromagnetic fields and can be extended to interacting N-particle systems. We analyze the problem of how an experimental setup can consistently be decomposed into the quantum system under study and the residual quantum system ''apparatus''. The irregular extra motion of the particle under study allows a decomposition of the associated ensemble into two sub-ensembles the members of which perform, respectively, a right-handed or left-handed irregular circular motion about a given axis which becomes physically relevant in the presence of a magnetic field. We demonstrate that this orientation-decomposed ''Zitterbewegung'' behaves - in accordance with Schroedinger's original idea - as a spin-type angular momentum which appears in addition to a possible orbital angular moment of the particle. We derive the non-relativistic time-dependent Pauli equation and propose a theory of the Stern-Gerlach experiment. The Dirac equation can be derived similarly.

id: 0912.3456
title: Switchable ultrastrong coupling in circuit QED
authors: B. Peropadre, P. Forn-Diaz, E. Solano, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 023601 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3456
abstract: Superconducting quantum circuits possess the ingredients for quantum information processing and for developing on-chip microwave quantum optics. From the initial manipulation of few-level superconducting systems (qubits) to their strong coupling to microwave resonators, the time has come to consider the generation and characterization of propagating quantum microwaves. In this paper, we design a key ingredient that will prove essential in the general frame: a swtichable coupling between qubit(s) and transmission line(s) that can work in the ultrastrong coupling regime, where the coupling strength approaches the qubit transition frequency. We propose several setups where two or more loops of Josephson junctions are directly connected to a closed (cavity) or open transmission line. We demonstrate that the circuit induces a coupling that can be modulated in strength and type. Given recent studies showing the accessibility to the ultrastrong regime, we expect our ideas to have an immediate impact in ongoing experiments.

id: 0912.3485
title: Zeno physics in ultrastrong circuit QED
authors: I. Lizuain, J. Casanova, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, J. G. Muga, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062131 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3485
abstract: We study the Zeno and anti-Zeno effects in a superconducting qubit interacting strongly and ultrastrongly with a microwave resonator. Using a model of a frequently measured two-level system interacting with a quantized mode, we show different behaviors and total control of the Zeno times depending on whether the rotating-wave approximation can be applied in the Jaynes-Cummings model, or not. We exemplify showing the strong dependence of our results with the properties of the initial field states and suggest applications for quantum tomography.

id: 0912.3503
title: Absolutely Secure Communications by Johnson-like Noise and Kirchhoff's Laws
authors: Laszlo B. Kish
comments: Invited paper for the Journal of the Society of Instrument and Control Engineers (SICE), Japan, for the special issue on "Fluctuations and Noise"
journal: Journal of the Society of Instrument and Control Engineers (SICE, Japan) Vol. 49 (2010) 212-216
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3503
abstract: We survey the most important results and some recent developments about the secure key exchange protocol where the security is based on the Second Law of Thermodynamics and the robustness of classical physical information. We conclude that a classical physical system offers a higher level of control and security during the communication. We also mention some recent attempts inspired by this communicator to create other systems where Alice and Bob do not form an organic single system and/or the Second Law is irrelevant. It seems philosophically that they cannot be unconditionally secure, however it is yet an open question how to crack them; how can they be best used for conditionally secure communications, and what are the practical implications.

id: 0912.3531
title: Universality in dissipative Landau-Zener transitions
authors: Peter P. Orth, Adilet Imambekov, Karyn Le Hur
comments: 6 pages, 2 figs; added finite temperature results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032118 (2010)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3531
abstract: We introduce a random variable approach to investigate the dynamics of a dissipative two-state system. Based on an exact functional integral description, our method reformulates the problem as that of the time evolution of a quantum state vector subject to a Hamiltonian containing random noise fields. This numerically exact, non-perturbative formalism is particularly well suited in the context of time-dependent Hamiltonians, both at zero and finite temperature. As an important example, we consider the renowned Landau-Zener problem in the presence of an Ohmic environment with a large cutoff frequency at finite temperature. We investigate the 'scaling' limit of the problem at intermediate times, where the decay of the upper spin state population is universal. Such a dissipative situation may be implemented using a cold-atom bosonic setup.

id: 0912.3559
title: Topological states in two-dimensional optical lattices
authors: Tudor D. Stanescu, Victor Galitski, S. Das Sarma
comments: 29 pages, 34 figures (references and new section added; published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013608 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3559
abstract: We present a general analysis of two-dimensional optical lattice models that give rise to topologically non-trivial insulating states. We identify the main ingredients of the lattice models that are responsible for the non-trivial topological character and argue that such states can be realized within a large family of realistic optical lattice Hamiltonians with cold atoms. We focus our quantitative analysis on the properties of topological states with broken time-reversal symmetry specific to cold-atom settings. In particular, we analyze finite-size effects, multi-orbital phenomena that give rise to a variety of distinct topological states and transitions between them, the dependence on the trap geometry, and most importantly, the behavior of the edge states for different types of soft and hard boundaries. Furthermore, we demonstrate the possibility of experimentally detecting the topological states through light Bragg scattering of the edge and bulk states.

id: 0912.3612
title: Polariton crystallization in driven arrays of lossy nonlinear resonators
authors: Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 113601 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3612
abstract: We investigate the steady states of a lossy array of nonlinear optical resonators that are driven by lasers and interact via mutual photon tunneling. For weak nonlinearities, we find two-mode squeezing of polaritons in modes whose quasi-momenta match the relative phases of the laser drives. For strong nonlinearities the spatial polariton density-density correlations indicate that the polaritons crystallize and are predominantly found at a specific distance from each other despite being injected by a coherent light source and damped by the environment.

id: 0912.3646
title: Ultracold quantum gases in triangular optical lattices
authors: C. Becker, P. Soltan-Panahi, J. Kronj?ger, S. D?rscher, K. Bongs, K. Sengstock
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 065025
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3646
abstract: Over the last years the exciting developments in the field of ultracold atoms confined in optical lattices have led to numerous theoretical proposals devoted to the quantum simulation of problems e.g. known from condensed matter physics. Many of those ideas demand for experimental environments with non-cubic lattice geometries. In this paper we report on the implementation of a versatile three-beam lattice allowing for the generation of triangular as well as hexagonal optical lattices. As an important step the superfluid-Mott insulator (SF-MI) quantum phase transition has been observed and investigated in detail in this lattice geometry for the first time. In addition to this we study the physics of spinor Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) in the presence of the triangular optical lattice potential, especially spin changing dynamics across the SF-MI transition. Our results suggest that below the SF-MI phase transition, a well-established mean-field model describes the observed data when renormalizing the spin-dependent interaction. Interestingly this opens new perspectives for a lattice driven tuning of a spin dynamics resonance occurring through the interplay of quadratic Zeeman effect and spin-dependent interaction. We finally discuss further lattice configurations which can be realized with our setup.

id: 0912.3675
title: A Nanoscale Experiment Measuring Gravity's Role in Breaking the Unitarity of Quantum Dynamics
authors: Jasper van Wezel, Tjerk H. Oosterkamp
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures; final version
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A, 468, 35 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3675
abstract: Modern, state of the art nanomechanical devices are capable of creating spatial superpositions that are massive enough to begin to experimentally access the quantum to classical crossover, and thus force us to consider the possible ways in which the usual quantum dynamics may be affected. One recent theoretical proposal describes the crossover from unitary quantum mechanics to classical dynamics as a form of spontaneous symmetry breaking. Here, we propose a specific experimental setup capable of identifying the source of unitarity breaking in such a mechanism. The experiment is aimed specifically at clarifying the role played by gravity, and distinguishes the resulting dynamics from that suggested by alternative scenarios for the quantum to classical crossover. We give both a theoretical description of the expected dynamics, and a discussion of the involved experimental parameter values and the proposed experimental protocol.

id: 0912.3864
title: Naturally-phasematched second harmonic generation in a whispering gallery mode resonator
authors: J. U. F¨¹rst, D. V. Strekalov, D. Elser, M. Lassen, U. L. Andersen, C. Marquardt, G. Leuchs
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 153901 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3864
abstract: We demonstrate for the first time natural phase matching for optical frequency doubling in a high-Q whispering gallery mode resonator made of Lithium Niobate. A conversion efficiency of 9% is achieved at 30 micro Watt in-coupled continuous wave pump power. The observed saturation pump power of 3.2 mW is almost two orders of magnitude lower than the state-of-the-art. This suggests an application of our frequency doubler as a source of non-classical light requiring only a low-power pump, which easily can be quantum noise limited. Our theoretical analysis of the three-wave mixing in a whispering gallery mode resonator provides the relative conversion efficiencies for frequency doubling in various modes.

id: 0912.3936
title: Resonances from perturbations of quantum graphs with rationally related edges
authors: Pavel Exner, Jiri Lipovsky
comments: LaTeX source file with 10 pdf figures, 24 pages; a replaced version with minor improvements, to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3936
abstract: We discuss quantum graphs consisting of a compact part and semiinfinite leads. Such a system may have embedded eigenvalues if some edge lengths in the compact part are rationally related. If such a relation is perturbed these eigenvalues may turn into resonances; we analyze this effect both generally and in simple examples.

id: 0912.3979
title: From quantum to classical description of intense laser-atom physics with Bohmian trajectories
authors: X. Y. Lai, Qing-yu Cai, M. S. Zhan
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J.Phys.11:113035,2009
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3979
abstract: In this paper, Bohmian mechanics is introduced to the intense laser-atom physics. The motion of atomic electron in intense laser field is obtained from the Bohm-Newton equation. We find the quantum potential that dominates the quantum effect of a physical system becomes negligible as the electron is driven far away from the parent ion by the intense laser field, i.e. the behavior of the electron smoothly trends to be classical soon after the electron was ionized. Our numerical calculations present a direct positive evidence for the semiclassical trajectory methods in the intense laser-atom physics where the motion of the ionized electron is treated by the classical mechanics, while quantum mechanics is needed before the ionization.

id: 0912.4034
title: Dynamics of a Quantum Phase Transition and Relaxation to a Steady State
authors: Jacek Dziarmaga
comments: 117 pages; review accepted in Advances in Physics
journal: Advances in Physics, vol. 59, issue 6, pp. 1063-1189 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4034
abstract: We review recent theoretical work on two closely related issues: excitation of an isolated quantum condensed matter system driven adiabatically across a continuous quantum phase transition or a gapless phase, and apparent relaxation of an excited system after a sudden quench of a parameter in its Hamiltonian. Accordingly the review is divided into two parts. The first part revolves around a quantum version of the Kibble-Zurek mechanism including also phenomena that go beyond this simple paradigm. What they have in common is that excitation of a gapless many-body system scales with a power of the driving rate. The second part attempts a systematic presentation of recent results and conjectures on apparent relaxation of a pure state of an isolated quantum many-body system after its excitation by a sudden quench. This research is motivated in part by recent experimental developments in the physics of ultracold atoms with potential applications in the adiabatic quantum state preparation and quantum computation.

id: 0912.4271
title: A Quantum Monte Carlo Method at Fixed Energy
authors: Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, David Gosset, Harvey B. Meyer
comments: 
journal: Computer Physics Communications, Volume 182, Issue 8, August 2011, Pages 1663-1673
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4271
abstract: In this paper we explore new ways to study the zero temperature limit of quantum statistical mechanics using Quantum Monte Carlo simulations. We develop a Quantum Monte Carlo method in which one fixes the ground state energy as a parameter. The Hamiltonians we consider are of the form $H=H_{0}+\lambda V$ with ground state energy E. For fixed $H_{0}$ and V, one can view E as a function of $\lambda$ whereas we view $\lambda$ as a function of E. We fix E and define a path integral Quantum Monte Carlo method in which a path makes no reference to the times (discrete or continuous) at which transitions occur between states. For fixed E we can determine $\lambda(E)$ and other ground state properties of H.

id: 0912.4565
title: Theory of Macroscopic Quantum Dynamics in High-Tc Josephson Junctions
authors: Shiro Kawabata
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, conference proceedings of ISQM-Tokyo '08
journal: Proceedings of the 9th International Symposium on Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in the Light of New Technology (World Scientific, 2009) 231
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4565
abstract: We have theoretically investigated macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) and the influence of nodal quasiparticles and zero energy bound states (ZES) on MQT in s-wave/d-wave hybrid Josephson junctions. In contrast to d-wave/d-wave junctions, the low-energy quasiparticle dissipation resulting from nodal quasiparticles and ZES is suppressed due to a quasiparticle-tunneling blockade effect in an isotropic s-wave superconductor. Therefore, the inherent dissipation in these junctions is found to be weak. This result suggests high potential of s-wave/d-wave hybrid junctions for applications in quantum information devices.

id: 0912.4659
title: Probability Density in the Complex Plane
authors: Carl M. Bender, Daniel W. Hook, Peter N. Meisinger, Qing-hai Wang
comments: 38 pages, 17figures
journal: Annals Phys.325:2332-2362,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4659
abstract: The correspondence principle asserts that quantum mechanics resembles classical mechanics in the high-quantum-number limit. In the past few years many papers have been published on the extension of both quantum mechanics and classical mechanics into the complex domain. However, the question of whether complex quantum mechanics resembles complex classical mechanics at high energy has not yet been studied. This paper introduces the concept of a local quantum probability density $\rho(z)$ in the complex plane. It is shown that there exist infinitely many complex contours $C$ of infinite length on which $\rho(z) dz$ is real and positive. Furthermore, the probability integral $\int_C\rho(z) dz$ is finite. Demonstrating the existence of such contours is the essential element in establishing the correspondence between complex quantum and classical mechanics. The mathematics needed to analyze these contours is subtle and involves the use of asymptotics beyond all orders.

id: 0912.4762
title: Probing the Kondo Lattice Model with Alkaline Earth Atoms
authors: Michael Foss-Feig, Michael Hermele, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 051603(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4762
abstract: We study transport properties of alkaline-earth atoms governed by the Kondo Lattice Hamiltonian plus a harmonic confining potential, and suggest simple dynamical probes of several different regimes of the phase diagram that can be implemented with current experimental techniques. In particular, we show how Kondo physics at strong coupling, low density, and in the heavy fermion phase is manifest in the dipole oscillations of the conduction band upon displacement of the trap center.

id: 0912.4837
title: More studies on Metamaterials Mimicking de Sitter space
authors: Miao Li, Rong-Xin Miao, Yi Pang
comments: 8 pages
journal: Opt.Express 18:9026-9033,2010
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4837
abstract: We estimate the dominating frequencies contributing to the Casimir energy in a cavity of metamaterials mimicking de Sitter space, by solving the eigenvalue problem of Maxwell equations. It turns out the dominating frequencies are the inverse of the size of the cavity, and the degeneracy of these frequencies also explains our previous result on the unusually large Casimir energy. Our result suggests that carrying out the experiment in laboratory is possible theoretically.

id: 0912.3633
title: One-Dimensional Impenetrable Anyons in Thermal Equilibrium. IV. Large Time and Distance Asymptotic Behavior of the Correlation Functions
authors: Ovidiu I. Patu, Vladimir E. Korepin, Dmitri V. Averin
comments: 26 pages, RevTeX 4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 115204
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3633
abstract: This work presents the derivation of the large time and distance asymptotic behavior of the field-field correlation functions of impenetrable one-dimensional anyons at finite temperature. In the appropriate limits of the statistics parameter, we recover the well-known results for impenetrable bosons and free fermions. In the low-temperature (usually expected to be the "conformal") limit, and for all values of the statistics parameter away from the bosonic point, the leading term in the correlator does not agree with the prediction of the conformal field theory, and is determined by the singularity of the density of the single-particle states at the bottom of the single-particle energy spectrum.

id: 0912.4429
title: Variational Approximations in a Path-Integral Description of Potential Scattering
authors: J. Carron, R. Rosenfelder
comments: 35 pages, 3 figures, 6 tables, Latex with amsmath, amssymb; v2: 28 pages, EPJ style, misprints corrected, note added about correct treatment of complex Gaussian integrals with the theory of "pencils", matches published version
journal: Eur.Phys.J.A45:193-215,2010
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4429
abstract: Using a recent path integral representation for the T-matrix in nonrelativistic potential scattering we investigate new variational approximations in this framework. By means of the Feynman-Jensen variational principle and the most general ansatz quadratic in the velocity variables -- over which one has to integrate functionally -- we obtain variational equations which contain classical elements (trajectories) as well as quantum-mechanical ones (wave spreading).We analyse these equations and solve them numerically by iteration, a procedure best suited at high energy. The first correction to the variational result arising from a cumulant expansion is also evaluated. Comparison is made with exact partial-wave results for scattering from a Gaussian potential and better agreement is found at large scattering angles where the standard eikonal-type approximations fail.

id: 0912.5052
title: Electronic and Level Statistics Properties of Si/SiO2 Quantum Dots
authors: I. Filikhin, S.G. Matinyan, B.K. Schmid, B. Vlahovic
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physica E 42 (2010) 1979-1983
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5052
abstract: Spherical shaped Si quantum dots (QDs) embedded into the SiO2 substrate are considered in the single sub-band effective mass approach. Nonparabolicity of the Si conduction band is described by the energy dependence of electron effective mass. Calculations of low-lying single electron and hole energy levels are performed. For small sizes QD (diameter D<6nm) there is a strong confinement regime when the number of energy levels is restricted to several levels. The first order of the perturbation theory is used to calculate neutral exciton recombination energy taking into account the Coulomb force between electron and heavy hole. The PL exciton data are reproduced well by our model calculations. For weak confinement regime (size D>10 nm), when the number of confinement levels is limited by several hundred, we considered the statistical properties of the electron confinement. Distribution function for the electron energy levels is calculated and results are discussed.

id: 0912.2943
title: Interaction of a propagating guided matter wave with a localized potential
authors: Giovanni Luca Gattobigio, Antoine Couvert, Bertrand Georgeot, David Gu¨¦ry-Odelin
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 12 (2010) 085013
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2943
abstract: We provide a theoretical framework to describe the interaction of a propagating guided matter wave with a localized potential in terms of quantum scattering in a confined environment. We analyze how this scattering correlates the longitudinal and transverse degrees of freedom and work out analytically the output state under the Born approximation using a Gaussian localized potential. In this limit, it is possible to engineer the potential and achieve coherent control of the output channels. The robustness of this approximation is studied by comparing the stationary scattering theory to numerical simulations involving incident wave packets. It remains valid in a domain of weak localized potential that is achievable experimentally. We infer a possible method to determine the longitudinal coherence length of a guided atom laser. Then, we detail the non-perturbative regime of the interaction of the guided matter wave with the localized potential using a coupled channel approach. This approach is worked out explicitly with a square potential. It yields new non-perturbative effects such as the occurrence of confinement-induced resonances. The perspectives opened by this work for experiments are discussed.

id: 0912.4674
title: On Chebyshev polynomials and torus knots
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, A.M. Pavlyuk
comments: 6 pages (two-column UJP style)
journal: Ukr. J. Phys. 55 (2010) 129-134
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4674
abstract: In this work we demonstrate that the q-numbers and their two-parameter generalization, the q,p-numbers, can be used to obtain some polynomial invariants for torus knots and links. First, we show that the q-numbers, which are closely connected with the Chebyshev polynomials, can also be related with the Alexander polynomials for the class T(s,2) of torus knots, s being an odd integer, and used for finding the corresponding skein relation. Then, we develop this procedure in order to obtain, with the help of q,p-numbers, the generalized two-variable Alexander polynomials, and prove their direct connection with the HOMFLY polynomials and the skein relation of the latter.

id: 0912.5187
title: Statistical Complexity in Traveling Densities
authors: Ricardo Lopez-Ruiz, Jaime Sanudo
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5187
abstract: In this work, we analyze the behavior of statistical complexity in several systems where two identical densities that travel in opposite direction cross each other. The crossing between two Gaussian, rectangular and triangular densities is studied in detail. For these three cases, the shape of the total density presenting an extreme value in complexity is found.

id: 0912.5139
title: Casimir densities for a boundary in Robertson-Walker spacetime
authors: A. A. Saharian, M. R. Setare
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Lett.B687:253-257,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5139
abstract: For scalar and electromagnetic fields we evaluate the vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor induced by a curved boundary in the Robertson--Walker spacetime with negative spatial curvature. In order to generate the vacuum densities we use the conformal relation between the Robertson-Walker and Rindler spacetimes and the corresponding results for a plate moving by uniform proper acceleration through the Fulling--Rindler vacuum. For the general case of the scale factor the vacuum energy-momentum tensor is presented as the sum of the boundary free and boundary induced parts.

id: 0912.0125
title: Geometry-Temperature Interplay in the Casimir Effect
authors: Holger Gies, Alexej Weber
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, contribution to the IX. Conference on Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT09), 21-25 September 2009, Oklahoma, USA
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A25:2279-2292,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0125
abstract: We discuss Casimir phenomena which are dominated by long-range fluctuations. A prime example is given by "geothermal" Casimir phenomena where thermal fluctuations in open Casimir geometries can induce significantly enhanced thermal corrections. We illustrate the underlying mechanism with the aid of the inclined-plates configuration, giving rise to enhanced power-law temperature dependences compared to the parallel-plates case. In limiting cases, we find numerical evidence even for fractional power laws induced by long-range fluctuations. We demonstrate that thermal energy densities for open geometries are typically distributed over length scales of 1/T. As an important consequence, approximation methods for thermal corrections based on local energy-density estimates such as the proximity-force approximation are expected to become unreliable even at small surface separations.

id: 0912.4139
title: Spontaneous symmetry breaking and mass generation as built-in phenomena in logarithmic nonlinear quantum theory
authors: Konstantin G. Zloshchastiev
comments: Dedicated to memory of V. L. Ginzburg (1916-2009). Updates: (v2) chapter on BEC/fluid/gravity correspondence; (v3) comments on BEC-vacuum thermodynamics, induced relativity postulates, Mach's principle, Weyl curvature hypothesis, BEC-vacuum cosmology and origin of fundamental scalar field; (v4) appendix with quantum-informational arguments towards LogSE; (v5 [pub]) refs about superfluid vacuum
journal: Acta Phys.Polon.B42:261-292,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4139
abstract: Our primary task is to demonstrate that the logarithmic nonlinearity in the quantum wave equation can cause the spontaneous symmetry breaking and mass generation phenomena on its own, at least in principle. To achieve this goal, we view the physical vacuum as a kind of the fundamental Bose-Einstein condensate embedded into the fictitious Euclidean space. The relation of such description to that of the physical (relativistic) observer is established via the fluid/gravity correspondence map, the related issues, such as the induced gravity and scalar field, relativistic postulates, Mach's principle and cosmology, are discussed. For estimate the values of the generated masses of the otherwise massless particles such as the photon, we propose few simple models which take into account small vacuum fluctuations. It turns out that the photon's mass can be naturally expressed in terms of the elementary electrical charge and the extensive length parameter of the nonlinearity. Finally, we outline the topological properties of the logarithmic theory and corresponding solitonic solutions.

id: 0912.0163
title: Dephasing-induced diffusive transport in anisotropic Heisenberg model
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 15 pages, 9 PS figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 043001, 2010
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0163
abstract: We study transport properties of anisotropic Heisenberg model in a disordered magnetic field experiencing dephasing due to external degrees of freedom. In the absence of dephasing the model can display, depending on parameter values, the whole range of possible transport regimes: ideal ballistic conduction, diffusive, or ideal insulating behavior. We show that the presence of dephasing induces normal diffusive transport in a wide range of parameters. We also analyze the dependence of spin conductivity on the dephasing strength. In addition, by analyzing the decay of spin-spin correlation function we discover a presence of long-range order for finite chain sizes. All our results for a one-dimensional spin chain at infinite temperature can be equivalently rephrased for strongly-interacting disordered spinless fermions.

id: 0912.4763
title: Landau-Zener transition in quadratic-nonlinear two-state systems
authors: A.M. Ishkhanyan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 055601 (2010)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4763
abstract: A comprehensive theory of the Landau-Zener transition in quadratic nonlinear two-state systems is developed. A compact analytic formula involving elementary functions only is derived for the final transition probability. The formula provides a highly accurate approximation for the whole rage of the variation of the Landau-Zener parameter.

id: 0912.2814
title: Gravitomagnetism in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ronald J. Adler, Pisin Chen
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:025004,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2814
abstract: We give a systematic treatment of the quantum mechanics of a spin zero particle in a combined electromagnetic field and a weak gravitational field, which is produced by a slow moving matter source. The analysis is based on the Klein-Gordon equation expressed in generally covariant form and coupled minimally to the electromagnetic field. The Klein-Gordon equation is recast into Schroedinger equation form (SEF), which we then analyze in the non-relativistic limit. We include a discussion of some rather general observable physical effects implied by the SEF, concentrating on gravitomagnetism. Of particular interest is the interaction of the orbital angular momentum of the particle with the gravitomagnetic field.

id: 0912.0886
title: Neumann Casimir effect: a singular boundary-interaction approach
authors: C. D. Fosco, F. C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: New title and reference added
journal: Phys. Lett. B690:189-195,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0886
abstract: Dirichlet boundary conditions on a surface can be imposed on a scalar field, by coupling it quadratically to a $\delta$-like potential, the strength of which tends to infinity. Neumann conditions, on the other hand, require the introduction of an even more singular term, which renders the reflection and transmission coefficients ill-defined because of UV divergences. We present a possible procedure to tame those divergences, by introducing a minimum length scale, related to the non-zero `width' of a {\em nonlocal} term. We then use this setup to reach (either exact or imperfect) Neumann conditions, by taking the appropriate limits. After defining meaningful reflection coefficients, we calculate the Casimir energies for flat parallel mirrors, presenting also the extension of the procedure to the case of arbitrary surfaces. Finally, we discuss briefly how to generalize the worldline approach to the nonlocal case, what is potentially useful in order to compute Casimir energies in theories containing nonlocal potentials; in particular, those which we use to reproduce Neumann boundary conditions.

id: 0912.1305
title: Vortex entanglement in Bose-Einstein condensates coupled to Laguerre-Gauss beams
authors: N. Lo Gullo, S. McEndoo, Th. Busch, M. Paternostro
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, RevTex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 053625 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1305
abstract: We study the establishment of vortex entanglement in remote and weakly interacting Bose Einstein condensates. We consider a two-mode photonic resource entangled in its orbital angular momentum (OAM) degree of freedom and, by exploiting the process of light-to-BEC OAM transfer, demonstrate that such entanglement can be efficiently passed to the matter-like systems. Our proposal thus represents a building block for novel low-dissipation and long-memory communication channels based on OAM. We discuss issues of practical realizability, stressing the feasibility of our scheme and present an operative technique for the indirect inference of the set vortex entanglement.

id: 0912.4493
title: Thermalization in a quasi-1D ultracold bosonic gas
authors: I. E. Mazets, J. Schmiedmayer
comments: revtex4, 3 figures. Final version of the text, accepted for publication (see journal ref.)
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 055023
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.4493
abstract: We study the collisional processes that can lead to thermalization in one-dimensional systems. For two body collisions excitations of transverse modes are the prerequisite for energy exchange and thermalzation. At very low temperatures excitations of transverse modes are exponentially suppressed, thermalization by two body collisions stops and the system should become integrable. In quantum mechanics virtual excitations of higher radial modes are possible. These virtually excited radial modes give rise to effective three-body velocity-changing collisions which lead to thermalization. We show that these three-body elastic interactions are suppressed by pairwise quantum correlations when approaching the strongly correlated regime. If the relative momentum $k$ is small compared to the two-body coupling constant $c$ the three-particle scattering state is suppressed by a factor of $(k/c)^{12}$, which is proportional to $\gamma ^{12}$, that is to the square of the three-body correlation function at zero distance in the limit of the Lieb-Liniger parameter $\gamma \gg 1$. This demonstrates that in one dimensional quantum systems it is not the freeze-out of two body collisions but the strong quantum correlations which ensures absence of thermalization on experimentally relevant time scales.

id: 0912.1406
title: Proposal for manipulating and detecting spin and orbital states of trapped electrons on helium using cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: D. I. Schuster, A. Fragner, M. I. Dykman, S. A. Lyon, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, supplemental materials
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 040503 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.1406
abstract: We propose to couple an on-chip high finesse superconducting cavity to the lateral-motion and spin state of a single electron trapped on the surface of superfluid helium. We estimate the motional coherence times to exceed 15 microseconds, while energy will be coherently exchanged with the cavity photons in less than 10 nanoseconds for charge states and faster than 1 microsecond for spin states, making the system attractive for quantum information processing and cavity quantum electrodynamics experiments. Strong interaction with cavity photons will provide the means for both nondestructive readout and coupling of distant electrons.

id: 0912.2209
title: Ground States of a Mixture of Two Species of Spinor Bose Gases with Interspecies Spin Exchange
authors: Yu Shi
comments: 10 pages, version published in PRA. This paper was submitted to both arXiv and PRA on December 11 2009, but the first referee contacted by PRA did not report, and a second referee was appointed three months later. It was also reported in 5th CAS cross-strait and international conference on quantum manipulation, Beijing December 19-20 2009
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 023603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2209
abstract: We consider a mixture of two species of spin-1 atoms with interspecies spin exchange, which may cooperate or compete with the intraspecies spin exchanges and thus dramatically affect the ground state. It represents a new class of bosonic gases differing from single-species spinor gases. We determine the exact ground states in several parameter regimes, and study the composite structures by using the generating function method generalized here to be applicable to a mixture of two species of spinor gases. The most interesting phase is the so-called entangled Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC), which is fragmented BEC with quantum entanglement between the two species, and with both interspecies and intraspecies singlet pairs. For comparison, we also apply the generating function method to a mixture of two species of pseudospin-1/2 atoms, for which the total spin quantum number of each species is fixed as half of the atom number, in contrast with the case of spin-1, for which it is a variable determined by energetics. Consequently, singlet pairs in entangled BEC of a pseudospin-1/2 mixture are all interspecies. Interspecies spin exchange leads to novel features beyond those of spinor BEC of a single species of atoms as well as mixtures without interspecies spin exchange.

id: 0912.2909
title: Convergence of expansions in Schr?dinger and Dirac eigenfunctions, with an application to the R-matrix theory
authors: Julia Stasi¨½ska
comments: Revised version, accepted for publication in Journal of Mathematical Physics, 21 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 022101 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.2909
abstract: Expansion of a wave function in a basis of eigenfunctions of a differential eigenvalue problem lies at the heart of the R-matrix methods for both the Schr\"odinger and Dirac particles. A central issue that should be carefully analyzed when functional series are applied is their convergence. In the present paper, we study the properties of the eigenfunction expansions appearing in nonrelativistic and relativistic $R$-matrix theories. In particular, we confirm the findings of Rosenthal [J. Phys. G: Nucl. Phys. 13, 491 (1987)] and Szmytkowski and Hinze [J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 29, 761 (1996); J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 29, 6125 (1996)] that in the most popular formulation of the R-matrix theory for Dirac particles, the functional series fails to converge to a claimed limit.

