id: 1001.0342
title: Quantum Fluctuations Contribution to the Random Walk of a Single Molecule and New Estimate of the Planck Constant
authors: Jean Paul Mbelek
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0342
abstract: It is shown, by considering the case of the harmonic oscillator, that quantum fluctuations may be the most significant contribution to the random walk of a single molecule. From this point, the controversy on the existence of a standard quantum limit (SQL) is addressed and settled on the experimental ground. Comparisons to the experimental data yet avalaible in the literature provide a new estimate of the reduced Planck constant yielding \hbar = (1.1 \pm 0.2) ~ 10^{-34} J.s.

id: 1001.0767
title: Algorithms for Quantum Computers
authors: Jamie Smith, Michele Mosca
comments: 48 pages. Part of the "Handbook of Natural Computing," upcoming from Springer Verlag. Corrected and updated author details and acknowledgments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0767
abstract: This paper surveys the field of quantum computer algorithms. It gives a taste of both the breadth and the depth of the known algorithms for quantum computers, focusing on some of the more recent results. It begins with a brief review of quantum Fourier transform based algorithms, followed by quantum searching and some of its early generalizations. It continues with a more in-depth description of two more recent developments: algorithms developed in the quantum walk paradigm, followed by tensor network evaluation algorithms (which include approximating the Tutte polynomial).

id: 1001.1034
title: Mixing-time and large-decoherence in continuous-time quantum walks on one-dimension regular networks
authors: S. Salimi, R. Radgohar
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Inf Process 12, 303-320(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1034
abstract: In this paper, we study mixing and large decoherence in continuous-time quantum walks on one dimensional regular networks, which are constructed by connecting each node to its $2l$ nearest neighbors($l$ on either side). In our investigation, the nodes of network are represented by a set of identical tunnel-coupled quantum dots in which decoherence is induced by continuous monitoring of each quantum dot with nearby point contact detector. To formulate the decoherent CTQWs, we use Gurvitz model and then calculate probability distribution and the bounds of instantaneous and average mixing times. We show that the mixing times are linearly proportional to the decoherence rate. Moreover, adding links to cycle network, in appearance of large decoherence, decreases the mixing times.

id: 1001.1139
title: Spatial search in a honeycomb network
authors: G. Abal, R. Donangelo, F.L. Marquezino, R. Portugal
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures; Minor typos corrected, one Reference added. accepted in Math. Structures in Computer Science, special volume on Quantum Computing
journal: Mathematical Structures in Computer Science, v. 20, p. 999-1009, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1139
abstract: The spatial search problem consists in minimizing the number of steps required to find a given site in a network, under the restriction that only oracle queries or translations to neighboring sites are allowed. In this paper, a quantum algorithm for the spatial search problem on a honeycomb lattice with $N$ sites and torus-like boundary conditions. The search algorithm is based on a modified quantum walk on a hexagonal lattice and the general framework proposed by Ambainis, Kempe and Rivosh is used to show that the time complexity of this quantum search algorithm is $O(\sqrt{N \log N})$.

id: 1001.3989
title: Emergence of Randomness and Arrow of Time in Quantum Walks
authors: Yutaka Shikano, Kota Chisaki, Etsuo Segawa, Norio Konno
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062129 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3989
abstract: Quantum walks are powerful tools not only to construct the quantum speedup algorithms but also to describe specific models in physical processes. Furthermore, the discrete time quantum walk has been experimentally realized in various setups. We apply the concept of the quantum walk to the problems in quantum foundations. We show that randomness and the arrow of time in the quantum walk gradually emerge by periodic projective measurements from the mathematically obtained limit distribution under the time scale transformation.

id: 1001.5326
title: Discrete-Time Quantum Walk - Dynamics and Applications
authors: C.M. Chandrashekar
comments: 199 pages, 52 figures, Thesis completed during 2009 at University of Waterloo (IQC), V2 : Index of figures has been made compact
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5326
abstract: This dissertation presents investigations on dynamics of discrete-time quantum walk and some of its applications. Quantum walks has been exploited as an useful tool for quantum algorithms in quantum computing. Beyond quantum computational purposes, it has been used to explain and control the dynamics in various physical systems. In order to use the quantum walk to its fullest potential, it is important to know and optimize the properties purely due to quantum dynamics and in presence of noise. Various studies of its dynamics in the absence and presence of noise have been reported. We propose new approaches to optimize the dynamics, discuss symmetries and effect of noise on the quantum walk. Making use of its properties, we propose the use of quantum walk as an efficient new tool for various applications in physical systems and quantum information processing. In the first and second part of this dissertation, we discuss evolution process of the quantum walks, propose and demonstrate the optimization of discrete-time quantum walk using quantum coin operation from SU(2) group and discuss some of its properties. We investigate symmetry operations and environmental effects on dynamics of the walk on a line and an n-cycle highlighting the interplay between noise and topology. Using the properties and behavior of quantum walk discussed in part two, in part three we propose the application of quantum walk to realize quantum phase transition in optical lattice, that is to efficiently control and redistribute ultracold atoms in optical lattice. We also discuss the implementation scheme. Another application we consider is creation of spatial entanglement using quantum walk on a quantum many body system.

id: 1001.5131
title: Quantum Persistence: A Random Walk Scenario
authors: Sanchari Goswami, Parongama Sen, Arnab Das
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, revtex4. To be published in PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 021121 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5131
abstract: In this paper we extend the concept of persistence, well defined for classical stochastic dynamics, to the context of quantum dynamics. We demonstrate the idea via quantum random walk and a successive measurement scheme, where persistence is defined as the time during which a given site remains unvisited by the walker. We also investigated the behavior of related quantities, e.g., the first-passage time and the succession probability (newly defined), etc. The study reveals power law scaling behavior of these quantities with new exponents. Comparable features of the classical and the quantum walks are discussed.

id: 1001.5108
title: Long-lived quantum coherence in photosynthetic complexes at physiological temperature
authors: Gitt Panitchayangkoon, Dugan Hayes, Kelly A. Fransted, Justin R. Caram, Elad Harel, Jianzhong Wen, Robert E. Blankenship, Gregory S. Engel
comments: PDF files, 15 pages, 3 figures (included in the PDF file)
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5108
abstract: Photosynthetic antenna complexes capture and concentrate solar radiation by transferring the excitation to the reaction center which stores energy from the photon in chemical bonds. This process occurs with near-perfect quantum efficiency. Recent experiments at cryogenic temperatures have revealed that coherent energy transfer - a wavelike transfer mechanism - occurs in many photosynthetic pigment-protein complexes (1-4). Using the Fenna-Matthews-Olson antenna complex (FMO) as a model system, theoretical studies incorporating both incoherent and coherent transfer as well as thermal dephasing predict that environmentally assisted quantum transfer efficiency peaks near physiological temperature; these studies further show that this process is equivalent to a quantum random walk algorithm (5-8). This theory requires long-lived quantum coherence at room temperature, which never has been observed in FMO. Here we present the first evidence that quantum coherence survives in FMO at physiological temperature for at least 300 fs, long enough to perform a rudimentary quantum computational operation. This data proves that the wave-like energy transfer process discovered at 77 K is directly relevant to biological function. Microscopically, we attribute this long coherence lifetime to correlated motions within the protein matrix encapsulating the chromophores, and we find that the degree of protection afforded by the protein appears constant between 77 K and 277 K. The protein shapes the energy landscape and mediates an efficient energy transfer despite thermal fluctuations. The persistence of quantum coherence in a dynamic, disordered system under these conditions suggests a new biomimetic strategy for designing dedicated quantum computational devices that can operate at high temperature.

