id: 1001.0004
title: The Lie Algebraic Significance of Symmetric Informationally Complete Measurements
authors: D. M. Appleby, Steven T. Flammia, Christopher A. Fuchs
comments: 56 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 022202 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0004
abstract: Examples of symmetric informationally complete positive operator valued measures (SIC-POVMs) have been constructed in every dimension less than or equal to 67. However, it remains an open question whether they exist in all finite dimensions. A SIC-POVM is usually thought of as a highly symmetric structure in quantum state space. However, its elements can equally well be regarded as a basis for the Lie algebra gl(d,C). In this paper we examine the resulting structure constants, which are calculated from the traces of the triple products of the SIC-POVM elements and which, it turns out, characterize the SIC-POVM up to unitary equivalence. We show that the structure constants have numerous remarkable properties. In particular we show that the existence of a SIC-POVM in dimension d is equivalent to the existence of a certain structure in the adjoint representation of gl(d,C). We hope that transforming the problem in this way, from a question about quantum state space to a question about Lie algebras, may help to make the existence problem tractable.

id: 1001.0017
title: Testing product states, quantum Merlin-Arthur games and tensor optimisation
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Ashley Montanaro
comments: 44 pages, 1 figure, 7 appendices; v6: added references, rearranged sections, added discussion of connections to classical CS. Final version to appear in J of the ACM
journal: Journal of the ACM vol. 60 no. 1, 2013; previous version in Proc. of the 2010 IEEE 51st Annual Symp. on Found. of Comp. Sci. (2010) pp. 633-642
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0017
abstract: We give a test that can distinguish efficiently between product states of n quantum systems and states which are far from product. If applied to a state psi whose maximum overlap with a product state is 1-epsilon, the test passes with probability 1-Theta(epsilon), regardless of n or the local dimensions of the individual systems. The test uses two copies of psi. We prove correctness of this test as a special case of a more general result regarding stability of maximum output purity of the depolarising channel. A key application of the test is to quantum Merlin-Arthur games with multiple Merlins, where we obtain several structural results that had been previously conjectured, including the fact that efficient soundness amplification is possible and that two Merlins can simulate many Merlins: QMA(k)=QMA(2) for k>=2. Building on a previous result of Aaronson et al, this implies that there is an efficient quantum algorithm to verify 3-SAT with constant soundness, given two unentangled proofs of O(sqrt(n) polylog(n)) qubits. We also show how QMA(2) with log-sized proofs is equivalent to a large number of problems, some related to quantum information (such as testing separability of mixed states) as well as problems without any apparent connection to quantum mechanics (such as computing injective tensor norms of 3-index tensors). As a consequence, we obtain many hardness-of-approximation results, as well as potential algorithmic applications of methods for approximating QMA(2) acceptance probabilities. Finally, our test can also be used to construct an efficient test for determining whether a unitary operator is a tensor product, which is a generalisation of classical linearity testing.

id: 1001.0018
title: Nonadaptive quantum query complexity
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 9 pages; v2: new title, updated with new results on learning
journal: Information Processing Letters 110 (2010), pp. 1110-1113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0018
abstract: We study the power of nonadaptive quantum query algorithms, which are algorithms whose queries to the input do not depend on the result of previous queries. First, we show that any bounded-error nonadaptive quantum query algorithm that computes some total boolean function depending on n variables must make Omega(n) queries to the input in total. Second, we show that, if there exists a quantum algorithm that uses k nonadaptive oracle queries to learn which one of a set of m boolean functions it has been given, there exists a nonadaptive classical algorithm using O(k log m) queries to solve the same problem. Thus, in the nonadaptive setting, quantum algorithms can achieve at most a very limited speed-up over classical query algorithms.

id: 1001.0067
title: Efficient numerical method to calculate three-tangle of mixed states
authors: Kun Cao, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Guang-Can Guo, Lixin He
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0067
abstract: We demonstrate an efficient numerical method to calculate three-tangle of general mixed states. We construct a "energy function" (target function) for the three-tangle of the mixed state under certain constrains. The "energy function" (target function) is then optimized via a replica exchange Monte Carlo method. We have extensively tested the method for the examples with known analytical results, showing remarkable agreement. The method can be applied to other optimization problems in quantum information theory.

id: 1001.0078
title: Classification of the Entangled States $2 \times M \times N$
authors: Junli Li, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0078
abstract: We extend the matrix decomposition method(MDM) in classifying the $2\times N\times N$ truly entangled states to $2\times M\times N$ system under the condition of stochastic local operations and classical communication(SLOCC). It is found that the MDM is quite practical and convenient in operation for the asymmetrical tripartite states, and an explicit example of the classification of $2\times 6\times 7$ quantum system is presented.

id: 1001.0089
title: Environment Assisted Precision Measurement
authors: G. Goldstein, P. Cappellaro, J. R. Maze, J. S. Hodges, L. Jiang, A. S. S?rensen, M. D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0089
abstract: We describe a method to enhance the sensitivity of precision measurements that takes advantage of a quantum sensor's environment to amplify its response to weak external perturbations. An individual qubit is used to sense the dynamics of surrounding ancillary qubits, which are in turn affected by the external field to be measured. The resulting sensitivity enhancement is determined by the number of ancillas that are coupled strongly to the sensor qubit; it does not depend on the exact values of the coupling strengths and is resilient to many forms of decoherence. The method achieves nearly Heisenberg-limited precision measurement, using a novel class of entangled states. We discuss specific applications to improve clock sensitivity using trapped ions and magnetic sensing based on electronic spins in diamond.

id: 1001.0116
title: One Dimensional Magnetized TG Gas Properties in an External Magnetic Field
authors: Zhao Liang Wang, An Min Wang
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0116
abstract: With Girardeau's Fermi-Bose mapping, we have constructed the eigenstates of a TG gas in an external magnetic field. When the number of bosons $N$ is commensurate with the number of potential cycles $M$, the probability of this TG gas in the ground state is bigger than the TG gas raised by Girardeau in 1960. Through the comparison of properties between this TG gas and Fermi gas, we find that the following issues are always of the same: their average value of particle's coordinate and potential energy, system's total momentum, single-particle density and the pair distribution function. But the reduced single-particle matrices and their momentum distributions between them are different.

id: 1001.0156
title: Entanglement distribution maximization over one-side Gaussian noisy channel
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang, Zong-Wen Yu, Jia-Zhong Hu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0156
abstract: The optimization of entanglement evolution for two-mode Gaussian pure states under one-side Gaussian map is studied. Even there isn't complete information about the one-side Gaussian noisy channel, one can still maximize the entanglement distribution by testing the channel with only two specific states.

id: 1001.0187
title: Hybrid and optical implementation of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm
authors: Luis A. Garcia, Jagdish R. Luthra
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0187
abstract: A hybrid model of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm is presented, inspired by the proposals of hybrid computation by S. Lloyd and P. van Loock et. al. The model is based on two observations made about both the discrete and continuous algorithms already available. First, the Fourier transform is a single-step operation in a continuous-variable (CV) setting. Additionally, any implementation of the oracle is nontrivial in both schemes. The steps of the computation are very similar to those in the CV algorithm, with the main difference being the way in which the qunats, or quantum units of analogic information, and the qubits interact in the oracle. Using both discrete and continuous states of light, linear devices, and photo-detection, an optical implementation of the oracle is proposed. For simplicity, infinitely squeezed states are used in the continuous register, whereas the optical qubit is encoded in the dual-rail logic of the KLM protocol. The initial assumption of ideal states as qunats will be dropped to study the effects of finite squeezing in the quality of the computation.

id: 1001.0250
title: Morlet wavelets in quantum mechanics
authors: John Ashmead
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0250
abstract: Wavelets offer significant advantages for the analysis of problems in quantum mechanics. Because wavelets are localized in both time and frequency they avoid certain subtle but potentially fatal conceptual errors that can result from the use of plane wave or delta function decomposition. Morlet wavelets are particularly well-suited for this work: as Gaussians, they have a simple analytic form and they work well with Feynman path integrals. To take full advantage of Morlet wavelets we need an explicit form for the inverse Morlet transform and a manifestly covariant form for the four-dimensional Morlet wavelet. We supply both here.

id: 1001.0291
title: Triply-resonant Optical Parametric Oscillator by Four-wave Mixing with Rubidium Vapor inside an Optical Cavity
authors: Xudong Yu, Min Xiao, Jing Zhang
comments: Appear in Appl. Phys. Lett
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 96, 041101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0291
abstract: We present an experimental demonstration of simultaneous above-threshold oscillations of the Stokes and anti-Stokes fields together with the single pumping beam with rubidium atoms inside an optical standing-wave cavity. The triple resonant conditions can be achieved easily by making use of the large dispersions due to two-photon transitions in the three-level atomic system. This work provides a way to achieve high efficient nonlinear frequency conversion and the generated bright Stokes and anti-Stokes cavity output beams are potential resource for applications in quantum information science.

id: 1001.0295
title: Distinguishing quantum channels via magic squares game
authors: M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: 23 pages, 8 .eps figures, 3 tables
journal: Quant. Info. Process. 9, 667 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0295
abstract: We study the effect of quantum memory in magic squares game when played in quantum domain. We consider different noisy quantum channels and analyze their influence on the magic squares quantum pseudo-telepathy game. We show that the probability of success can be used to distinguish the quantum channels. It is seen that the mean success probability decreases with increase of quantum noise. Where as the mean success probability increases with increase of quantum memory. It is also seen that the behaviour of amplitude damping and phase damping channels is similar. On the other hand, the behaviour of depolarizing channel is similar to the flipping channels. Therefore, the probability of success of the game can be used to distinguish the quantum channels.

id: 1001.0308
title: How to prepare quantum states that follow classical paths
authors: Pouria Pedram
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Europhysics Letters
journal: EPL 92 (2010) 30007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0308
abstract: We present an alternative quantization procedure for the one-dimensional non-relativistic quantum mechanics. We show that, for the case of a free particle and a particle in a box, the complete classical and quantum correspondence can be obtained using this formulation. The resulting wave packets do not disperse and strongly peak on the classical paths. Moreover, for the case of the free particle, they satisfy minimum uncertainty relation.

id: 1001.0311
title: Exact solutions of a particle in a box with a delta function potential: The factorization method
authors: Pouria Pedram, M. Vahabi
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, to appear in American Journal of Physics
journal: American Journal of Physics 78 (2010) 839
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0311
abstract: We use the factorization method to find the exact eigenvalues and eigenfunctions for a particle in a box with the delta function potential $V(x)=\lambda\delta(x-x_{0})$. We show that the presence of the potential results in the discontinuity of the corresponding ladder operators. The presence of the delta function potential allows us to obtain the full spectrum in the first step of the factorization procedure even in the weak coupling limit $\lambda\to 0$.

id: 1001.0335
title: Wave communication across regular lattices
authors: Birgit Hein, Gregor Tanner
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 103, 260501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0335
abstract: We propose a novel way to communicate signals in the form of waves across a d - dimensional lattice. The mechanism is based on quantum search algorithms and makes it possible to both search for marked positions in a regular grid and to communicate between two (or more) points on the lattice. Remarkably, neither the sender nor the receiver needs to know the position of each other despite the fact that the signal is only exchanged between the contributing parties. This is an example of using wave interference as a resource by controlling localisation phenomena effectively. Possible experimental realisations will be discussed.

id: 1001.0342
title: Quantum Fluctuations Contribution to the Random Walk of a Single Molecule and New Estimate of the Planck Constant
authors: Jean Paul Mbelek
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0342
abstract: It is shown, by considering the case of the harmonic oscillator, that quantum fluctuations may be the most significant contribution to the random walk of a single molecule. From this point, the controversy on the existence of a standard quantum limit (SQL) is addressed and settled on the experimental ground. Comparisons to the experimental data yet avalaible in the literature provide a new estimate of the reduced Planck constant yielding \hbar = (1.1 \pm 0.2) ~ 10^{-34} J.s.

id: 1001.0343
title: Entanglement and symmetry in permutation symmetric states
authors: Damian J. H. Markham
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Preliminary versions of some of these results were presented in the QIT 16 workshop in Japan, D. Markham, Proceedings of QIT 16, Japan (2007). Updated to reflect changes for publication: expanded proofs and some new examples given
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042332 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0343
abstract: We investigate the relationship between multipartite entanglement and symmetry, focusing on permutation symmetric states. We use the Majorana representation, where these states correspond to points on a sphere. Symmetry of the representation under rotation is equivalent to symmetry of the states under products of local unitaries. The geometric measure of entanglement is thus phrased entirely as a geometric optimisation, and a condition for the equivalence of entanglement measures written in terms of point symmetries. Finally we see that different symmetries of the states correspond to different types of entanglement with respect to SLOCC interconvertibility.

id: 1001.0344
title: Topological quantum order: stability under local perturbations
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Matthew Hastings, Spyridon Michalakis
comments: 41 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51 093512 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0344
abstract: We study zero-temperature stability of topological phases of matter under weak time-independent perturbations. Our results apply to quantum spin Hamiltonians that can be written as a sum of geometrically local commuting projectors on a D-dimensional lattice with certain topological order conditions. Given such a Hamiltonian H_0 we prove that there exists a constant threshold \epsilon>0 such that for any perturbation V representable as a sum of short-range bounded-norm interactions the perturbed Hamiltonian H=H_0+\epsilon V has well-defined spectral bands originating from O(1) smallest eigenvalues of H_0. These bands are separated from the rest of the spectrum and from each other by a constant gap. The band originating from the smallest eigenvalue of H_0 has exponentially small width (as a function of the lattice size). Our proof exploits a discrete version of Hamiltonian flow equations, the theory of relatively bounded operators, and the Lieb-Robinson bound.

id: 1001.0397
title: Decoherence as a signature of an excited state quantum phase transition
authors: A. Relano, J.M. Arias, J. Dukelsky, J.E. Garcia-Ramos, P. Perez-Fernandez
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A78:060102,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0397
abstract: We analyze the decoherence induced on a single qubit by the interaction with a two-level boson system with critical internal dynamics. We explore how the decoherence process is affected by the presence of quantum phase transitions in the environment. We conclude that the dynamics of the qubit changes dramatically when the environment passes through a continuous excited state quantum phase transition. If the system-environment coupling energy equals the energy at which the environment has a critical behavior, the decoherence induced on the qubit is maximal and the fidelity tends to zero with finite size scaling obeying a power-law.

id: 1001.0398
title: Decoherence due to an excited state quantum phase transition in a two-level boson model
authors: P. Perez-Fernandez, A. Relano, J.M. Arias, J. Dukelsky, J.E. Garcia-Ramos
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A80:032111,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0398
abstract: The decoherence induced on a single qubit by its interaction with the environment is studied. The environment is modelled as a scalar two-level boson system that can go through either first order or continuous excited state quantum phase transitions, depending on the values of the control parameters. A mean field method based on the Tamm-Damkoff approximation is worked out in order to understand the observed behaviour of the decoherence. Only the continuous excited state phase transition produces a noticeable effect in the decoherence of the qubit. This is maximal when the system-environment coupling brings the environment to the critical point for the continuous phase transition. In this situation, the decoherence factor (or the fidelity) goes to zero with a finite size scaling power law.

id: 1001.0445
title: Adiabatic Creation of Atomic Squeezing in Dark States vs. Decoherences
authors: Z. R. Gong, Xiaoguang Wang, C. P. Sun
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012112 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0445
abstract: We study the multipartite correlations of the multi-atom dark states, which are characterized by the atomic squeezing beyond the pairwise entanglement. It is shown that, in the photon storage process with atomic ensemble via electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) mechanism, the atomic squeezing and the pairwise entanglement can be created by adiabatically manipulating the Rabi frequency of the classical light field on the atomic ensemble. We also consider the sudden death for the atomic squeezing and the pairwise entanglement under various decoherence channels. An optimal time for generating the greatest atomic squeezing and pairwise entanglement is obtained by studying in details the competition between the adiabatic creation of quantum correlation in the atomic ensemble and the decoherence that we describe with three typical decoherence channels.

id: 1001.0468
title: Wave and Particle in Molecular Interference Lithography
authors: Thomas Juffmann, Stefan Truppe, Philipp Geyer, Andras G. Major, Sarayut Deachapunya, Hendrik Ulbricht, Markus Arndt
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 263601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0468
abstract: The wave-particle duality of massive objects is a cornerstone of quantum physics and a key property of many modern tools such as electron microscopy, neutron diffraction or atom interferometry. Here we report on the first experimental demonstration of quantum interference lithography with complex molecules. Molecular matter-wave interference patterns are deposited onto a reconstructed Si(111) 7x7 surface and imaged using scanning tunneling microscopy. Thereby both the particle and the quantum wave character of the molecules can be visualized in one and the same image. This new approach to nanolithography therefore also represents a sensitive new detection scheme for quantum interference experiments.

id: 1001.0539
title: Quantum noise and self-sustained radiation of PT-symmetric systems
authors: Henning Schomerus
comments: 4+1 pages (slightly expanded published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 233601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0539
abstract: The observation that PT-symmetric Hamiltonians can have real-valued energy levels even if they are non-Hermitian has triggered intense activities, with experiments, in particular, focusing on optical systems, where Hermiticity can be broken by absorption and amplification. For classical waves, absorption and amplification are related by time-reversal symmetry. This work shows that microreversibility-breaking quantum noise turns PT-symmetric systems into self-sustained sources of radiation, which distinguishes them from ordinary, Hermitian quantum systems.

id: 1001.0543
title: Optimal reconstruction of states in qutrits system
authors: Fei Yan, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: The optimal reconstruction scheme for the three-qutrit case and the discussion on the physical complexity of it have been added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 044102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0543
abstract: Based on mutually unbiased measurements, an optimal tomographic scheme for the multiqutrit states is presented explicitly. Because the reconstruction process of states based on mutually unbiased states is free of information waste, we refer to our scheme as the optimal scheme. By optimal we mean that the number of the required conditional operations reaches the minimum in this tomographic scheme for the states of qutrit systems. Special attention will be paid to how those different mutually unbiased measurements are realized; that is, how to decompose each transformation that connects each mutually unbiased basis with the standard computational basis. It is found that all those transformations can be decomposed into several basic implementable single- and two-qutrit unitary operations. For the three-qutrit system, there exist five different mutually unbiased-bases structures with different entanglement properties, so we introduce the concept of physical complexity to minimize the number of nonlocal operations needed over the five different structures. This scheme is helpful for experimental scientists to realize the most economical reconstruction of quantum states in qutrit systems.

id: 1001.0547
title: Dispersion supported BB84 quantum key distribution using phase modulated light
authors: Jose Mora, Jose Capmany
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0547
abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate that, contrary to what it was thought up to now, BB84 operation is feasible using the double phase modulator (PM-PM) configuration in frequency coded systems. This is achieved by exploiting the phase to intensity conversion due to the chromatic dispersion provided by the fiber linking Alice and Bob. Thus, we refer to this system as dispersion supported or DS BB84 PM-PM configuration.

id: 1001.0608
title: An Efficient Quantum Algorithm for some Instances of the Group Isomorphism Problem
authors: Fran?ois Le Gall
comments: 20 pages; this is the full version of a paper that will appear in the Proceedings of the 27th International Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of Computer Science (STACS 2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0608
abstract: In this paper we consider the problem of testing whether two finite groups are isomorphic. Whereas the case where both groups are abelian is well understood and can be solved efficiently, very little is known about the complexity of isomorphism testing for nonabelian groups. Le Gall has constructed an efficient classical algorithm for a class of groups corresponding to one of the most natural ways of constructing nonabelian groups from abelian groups: the groups that are extensions of an abelian group $A$ by a cyclic group $Z_m$ with the order of $A$ coprime with $m$. More precisely, the running time of that algorithm is almost linear in the order of the input groups. In this paper we present a quantum algorithm solving the same problem in time polynomial in the logarithm of the order of the input groups. This algorithm works in the black-box setting and is the first quantum algorithm solving instances of the nonabelian group isomorphism problem exponentially faster than the best known classical algorithms.

id: 1001.0661
title: N-slit interference: Path integrals, Bohmian trajectories
authors: Valeriy I Sbitnev
comments: 17 pages, 16 figures, added simulation of the fullerene molecular interference and 4 figures. PACS numbers: 03.75.-b, 03.75.Dg, 42.25.Fx, 42.25.Hz, 45.20.Jj, 47.10.Df, 61.05.fm
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0661
abstract: Path integrals give a possibility to compute in details routes of particles from particle sources through slit gratings and further to detectors. The path integral for a particle passing through the Gaussian slit results in the Gaussian wavepacket. The wavepackets prepared on N slits and superposed together give rise to interference pattern in the near-field zone. It transforms to diffraction in the far-field zone represented by divergent principal rays, at that all rays are partitioned from each other by (N-2) subsidiary rays. The Bohmian trajectories in the near-field zone of N-slit gratings show wavy behavior. And they become straight in the far-field zone. The trajectories show zigzag behavior on the interference Talbot carpet (ratio of particle wavelength to a distance between slits are much smaller than 1 and N>>1). Interference from the the N-slit gratings is simulated by scattering monochromatic neutrons (wavelength=0.5 nm). Also we have considered simulation of interference fringes arising at scattering on an N-slit grating of fullerene molecules (according to the real experiment stated in e-print 1001.0468).

id: 1001.0674
title: The 3-dimensional cube is the only periodic, connected cubic graph with perfect state transfer
authors: Simone Severini
comments: 15 pages, 5 EPS figures; the main result is now weaker because of an error in the previous version. I would like to thank Matthew Russell for pointing out the error to me
journal: 2010 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 254 012012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0674
abstract: There is perfect state transfer between two vertices of a graph, if a single excitation can travel with fidelity one between the corresponding sites of a spin system modeled by the graph. When the excitation is back at the initial site, for all sites at the same time, the graph is said to be periodic. A graph is cubic if each of its vertices has a neighbourhood of size exactly three. We prove that the 3-dimensional cube is the only periodic, connected cubic graph with perfect state transfer. We conjecture that this is also the only connected cubic graph with perfect state transfer.

id: 1001.0694
title: Photon Counting OTDR : Advantages and Limitations
authors: Patrick Eraerds, Matthieu Legre, Jun Zhang, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures, accepted for publication by IEEE Journal of Lightwave Technology
journal: IEEE Journal of Lightwave Technology, Vol. 28, No. 6, 952-964, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0694
abstract: We give detailed insight into photon counting OTDR (nu-OTDR) operation, ranging from Geiger mode operation of avalanche photodiodes (APD), analysis of different APD bias schemes, to the discussion of OTDR perspectives. Our results demonstrate that an InGaAs/InP APD based nu-OTDR has the potential of outperforming the dynamic range of a conventional state-of-the-art OTDR by 10 dB as well as the 2-point resolution by a factor of 20. Considering the trace acquisition speed of nu-OTDRs, we find that a combination of rapid gating for high photon flux and free running mode for low photon flux is the most efficient solution. Concerning dead zones, our results are less promising. Without additional measures, e.g. an optical shutter, the photon counting approach is not competitive.

id: 1001.0705
title: Structural change in multipartite entanglement sharing: a random matrix approach
authors: G. Gennaro, S. Campbell, M. Paternostro, G. M. Palma
comments: 10 pages, RevTeX4 (Minor typo's corrected. Closer to published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 062315 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0705
abstract: We study the typical entanglement properties of a system comprising two independent qubit environments interacting via a shuttling ancilla. The initial preparation of the environments is modeled using random-matrix techniques. The entanglement measure used in our study is then averaged over many histories of randomly prepared environmental states. Under a Heisenberg interaction model, the average entanglement between the ancilla and one of the environments remains constant, regardless of the preparation of the latter and the details of the interaction. We also show that, upon suitable kinematic and dynamical changes in the ancilla-environment subsystems, the entanglement-sharing structure undergoes abrupt modifications associated with a change in the multipartite entanglement class of the overall system's state. These results are invariant with respect to the randomized initial state of the environments.

id: 1001.0767
title: Algorithms for Quantum Computers
authors: Jamie Smith, Michele Mosca
comments: 48 pages. Part of the "Handbook of Natural Computing," upcoming from Springer Verlag. Corrected and updated author details and acknowledgments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0767
abstract: This paper surveys the field of quantum computer algorithms. It gives a taste of both the breadth and the depth of the known algorithms for quantum computers, focusing on some of the more recent results. It begins with a brief review of quantum Fourier transform based algorithms, followed by quantum searching and some of its early generalizations. It continues with a more in-depth description of two more recent developments: algorithms developed in the quantum walk paradigm, followed by tensor network evaluation algorithms (which include approximating the Tutte polynomial).

id: 1001.0788
title: The EPR correlation in Kerr-Newman spacetime
authors: Jackson Said, Kristian Zarb Adami
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:124012,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0788
abstract: The EPR correlation has become an integral part of quantum communications as has general relativity in classical communication theory, however when combined an apparent deterioration is observed for spin states. We consider appropriate changes in directions of measurement to exploit full EPR entanglement for a pair of particles and show that it can be deduced only up to the outer even horizon of a Kerr-Newman black hole, even in the case of freely falling observer.

id: 1001.0836
title: Quantum Annealing with Jarzynski Equality (CCP2009)
authors: Masayuki Ohzeki, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure, Proceeding of Conference on Computational Physics 2009, Taiwan
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0836
abstract: We show a practical application of an well-known nonequilibrium relation, the Jarzynski equality, in quantum computation. Its implementation may open a way to solve combinatorial optimization problems, minimization of a real single-valued function, cost function, with many arguments. It has been disclosed that the ordinary quantum computational algorithm to solve a kind of hard optimization problems, has a bottleneck that its computational time is restricted to be extremely slow without relevant errors. However, by our novel strategy shown in the present study, we might overcome such a difficulty.

id: 1001.0844
title: Dynamics of entanglement in the transverse Ising model
authors: Zhe Chang, Ning Wu
comments: To be published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022312 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0844
abstract: We study the evolution of nearest-neighbor entanglement in the one dimensional Ising model with an external transverse field. The system is initialized as the so called "thermal ground state" of the pure Ising model. We analyze properties of generation of entanglement for different regions of external transverse fields. We find that the derivation of the time at which the entanglement reaches its first maximum with respect to the reciprocal transverse field has a minimum at the critical point. This is a new indicator of quantum phase transition.

id: 1001.0866
title: Comment on `Effective polar potential in the central force Schr?dinger equation'
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0866
abstract: We analyze a recent pedagogical proposal for an alternative treatment of the angular part of the Schr\"odinger equation with a central potential. We show that the authors' arguments are unclear, unconvincing and misleading.

id: 1001.0909
title: Critical properties of Sudden Quench Dynamics in the anisotropic XY Model
authors: Hongli Guo, Zhao Liu, Heng Fan, Shu Chen
comments: published on EPJB
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0909
abstract: We study the zero temperature quantum dynamical critical behavior of the anisotropic XY chain under a sudden quench in a transverse field. We demonstrate theoretically that both quench magnetic susceptibility and two-particle quench correlation can be used to describe the dynamical quantum phase transition (QPT) properties. Either the quench magnetic susceptibility or the derivative of correlation functions as a function of initial magnetic field $a$ exhibits a divergence at the critical points when final magnetic field $b$ is fixed. A special case that final magnetic field $b$ is just at the critical point is discussed separately. Some of the critical exponents of the dynamical QPT are obtained and the long-range correlation of the quench system is analyzed. We also compare our result with that of the static QPT.

id: 1001.0934
title: Multi-gigahertz operation of photon counting InGaAs avalanche photodiodes
authors: Z. L. Yuan, A. W. Sharpe, J. F. Dynes, A. R. Dixon, A. J. Shields
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 96, 071101 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0934
abstract: We report a 2 GHz operation of InGaAs avalanche photodiodes for efficient single photon detection at telecom wavelengths. Employing a self-differencing circuit that incorporates tuneability in both frequency and arm balancing, extremely weak avalanches can now be sensed so as to suppress afterpulsing. The afterpulse probability is characterized as 4.84% and 1.42% for a photon detection efficiency of 23.5% and 11.8%, respectively. The device will further increase the secure bit rate for fiber wavelength quantum key distribution.

id: 1001.0952
title: From quantum feedback to probabilistic error correction: Manipulation of quantum beats in cavity QED
authors: P. Barberis-Blostein, D. G. Norris, L. A. Orozco, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 12 023002 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0952
abstract: It is shown how to implement quantum feedback and probabilistic error correction in an open quantum system consisting of a single atom, with ground- and excited-state Zeeman structure, in a driven two-mode optical cavity. The ground state superposition is manipulated and controlled through conditional measurements and external fields, which shield the coherence and correct quantum errors. Modeling of an experimentally realistic situation demonstrates the robustness of the proposal for realization in the laboratory.

id: 1001.0962
title: Spectral singularities and Bragg scattering in complex crystals
authors: S. Longhi
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0962
abstract: Spectral singularities that spoil the completeness of Bloch-Floquet states may occur in non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with complex periodic potentials. Here an equivalence is established between spectral singularities in complex crystals and secularities that arise in Bragg diffraction patterns. Signatures of spectral singularities in a scattering process with wave packets are elucidated for a PT-symmetric complex crystal.

id: 1001.0964
title: Spectral singularities in a non-Hermitian Friedrichs-Fano-Anderson model
authors: S. Longhi
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 165125 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0964
abstract: Spectral singularities are predicted to occur in a non-Hermitian extension of the Friedrichs-Fano-Anderson model describing the decay of a discrete state $|a >$ coupled to a continuum of modes. A physical realization of the model, based on electronic or photonic transport in a semi-infinite tight-binding lattice with an imaginary impurity site at the lattice boundary, is proposed. The occurrence of the spectral singularities is shown to correspond either to a diverging reflection probability (for an amplifying impurity) or to a vanishing reflection probability (for an absorbing impurity) from the lattice boundary. In the former case, the spectral singularity of the resolvent is also responsible for the non-decay of state $|a>$ into the continuum, in spite of the absence of bound states.

id: 1001.0968
title: Photonic Phase Gate via an Exchange of Fermionic Spin Waves in a Spin Chain
authors: Alexey V. Gorshkov, Johannes Otterbach, Eugene Demler, Michael Fleischhauer, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. V2: extended the discussion of the main idea, removed supplementary information and inessential extensions, added references. V3: slightly modified references and text - final version as published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 060502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0968
abstract: We propose a new protocol for implementing the two-qubit photonic phase gate. In our approach, the pi phase is acquired by mapping two single photons into atomic excitations with fermionic character and exchanging their positions. The fermionic excitations are realized as spin waves in a spin chain, while photon storage techniques provide the interface between the photons and the spin waves. Possible imperfections and experimental systems suitable for implementing the gate are discussed.

id: 1001.0974
title: Dynamic localization and transport in complex crystals
authors: S. Longhi
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 235102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0974
abstract: The behavior of a Bloch particle in a complex crystal with PT symmetry subjected to a sinusoidal ac force is theoretically investigated. For unbroken PT symmetry and in the single-band approximation, it is shown that time reversal symmetry of the ac force preserves the reality of the quasienergy spectrum. Like in ordinary crystals, exact band collapse, corresponding to dynamic localization, is attained for a sinusoidal band shape. The wave packet dynamics turns out to be deeply modified at the PT symmetry breaking point, where band merging occurs and Bragg scattering in the crystal becomes highly non-reciprocal.

id: 1001.0975
title: Photon scattering by a three-level emitter in a one-dimensional waveguide
authors: D. Witthaut, A. S. Sorensen
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys 12, 043052 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0975
abstract: We discuss the scattering of photons from a three-level emitter in a one-dimensional waveguide, where the transport is governed by the interference of spontaneously emitted and directly transmitted waves. The scattering problem is solved in closed form for different level structures. Several possible applications are discussed: The state of the emitter can be switched deterministically by Raman scattering, thus enabling applications in quantum computing such as a single photon transistor. An array of emitters gives rise to a photonic band gap structure, which can be tuned by a classical driving laser. A disordered array leads to Anderson localization of photons, where the localization length can again be controlled by an external driving.

id: 1001.1000
title: Optical analogue of population trapping in the continuum: classical and quantum interference effects
authors: S. Longhi
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 023811 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1000
abstract: A quantum theory of light propagation in two optical channel waveguides tunnelling-coupled to a common continuum of modes (such as those of a slab waveguide) is presented, and classical and quantum interference effects are investigated. For classical light, the photonic system realizes an optical analogue of coherent population trapping in the continuum encountered in atomic physics, where destructive interference between different light leakage channels leads to the appearance of a trapped state embedded in the continuum. For nonclassical light, two-photon interference effects are predicted, such as the tendency of photon pairs to bunch when decaying into the continuum.

id: 1001.1006
title: Unfrustrated Qudit Chains and their Ground States
authors: Ramis Movassagh, Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, Daniel Nagaj, Tobias J. Osborne, Peter W. Shor
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures. Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012318 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1006
abstract: We investigate chains of 'd' dimensional quantum spins (qudits) on a line with generic nearest neighbor interactions without translational invariance. We find the conditions under which these systems are not frustrated, i.e. when the ground states are also the common ground states of all the local terms in the Hamiltonians. The states of a quantum spin chain are naturally represented in the Matrix Product States (MPS) framework. Using imaginary time evolution in the MPS ansatz, we numerically investigate the range of parameters in which we expect the ground states to be highly entangled and find them hard to approximate using our MPS method.

id: 1001.1034
title: Mixing-time and large-decoherence in continuous-time quantum walks on one-dimension regular networks
authors: S. Salimi, R. Radgohar
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Inf Process 12, 303-320(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1034
abstract: In this paper, we study mixing and large decoherence in continuous-time quantum walks on one dimensional regular networks, which are constructed by connecting each node to its $2l$ nearest neighbors($l$ on either side). In our investigation, the nodes of network are represented by a set of identical tunnel-coupled quantum dots in which decoherence is induced by continuous monitoring of each quantum dot with nearby point contact detector. To formulate the decoherent CTQWs, we use Gurvitz model and then calculate probability distribution and the bounds of instantaneous and average mixing times. We show that the mixing times are linearly proportional to the decoherence rate. Moreover, adding links to cycle network, in appearance of large decoherence, decreases the mixing times.

id: 1001.1041
title: Dynamical control of two-level system's decay and long time freezing
authors: Wenxian Zhang, Jun Zhuang
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012310 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1041
abstract: We investigate with exact numerical calculation coherent control of a two-level quantum system's decay by subjecting the two-level system to many periodic ideal $2\pi$ phase modulation pulses. For three spectrum intensities (Gaussian, Lorentzian, and exponential), we find both suppression and acceleration of the decay of the two-level system, depending on difference between the spectrum peak position and the eigen frequency of the two-level system. Most interestingly, the decay of the two-level system freezes after many control pulses if the pulse delay is short. The decay freezing value is half of the decay in the first pulse delay.

id: 1001.1062
title: Entanglement Generation of Clifford Quantum Cellular Automata
authors: Johannes G¨¹tschow
comments: to appear in the "DPG spring meeting 2009" special issue of Applied Physics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1062
abstract: Clifford quantum cellular automata (CQCAs) are a special kind of quantum cellular automata (QCAs) that incorporate Clifford group operations for the time evolution. Despite being classically simulable, they can be used as basic building blocks for universal quantum computation. This is due to the connection to translation-invariant stabilizer states and their entanglement properties. We will give a self-contained introduction to CQCAs and investigate the generation of entanglement under CQCA action. Furthermore, we will discuss finite configurations and applications of CQCAs.

id: 1001.1071
title: Quantum diffusion
authors: Roumen Tsekov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. 83 (2011) 035004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1071
abstract: Quantum diffusion is studied via dissipative Madelung hydrodynamics. Initially the wave packet spreads ballistically, than passes for an instant through normal diffusion and later tends asymptotically to a sub-diffusive law. It is shown that the apparent quantum diffusion coefficient is not a universal physical parameter since it depends on the initial wave packet preparation. The overdamped quantum diffusion of an electron in the field of a periodic potential is also investigated; in this case the wave packet spreads logarithmically in time. Thermo-quantum diffusion of heavier particles as hydrogen, deuterium and tritium atoms in periodic potentials is studied and a simple estimate of the tunneling effect is obtained in the frames of a quasi-equilibrium semiclassical approach. The effective thermo-quantum temperature is also discussed in relation to the known temperature dependence of muon diffusivity in solids.

id: 1001.1088
title: On the "principle of the quantumness", the quantumness of Relativity, and the computational grand-unification
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: To be published on AIP Proceedings of Vaxjo conference. The ideas on Quantum-Circuit Field Theory are more recent. V4 Largely improved, with new interesting results and concepts. Dirac equation solved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1088
abstract: After reviewing recently suggested operational "principles of the quantumness", I address the problem on whether Quantum Theory (QT) and Special Relativity (SR) are unrelated theories, or instead, if the one implies the other. I show how SR can be indeed derived from causality of QT, within the computational paradigm "the universe is a huge quantum computer", reformulating QFT as a Quantum-Computational Field Theory (QCFT). In QCFT SR emerges from the fabric of the computational network, which also naturally embeds gauge invariance. In this scheme even the quantization rule and the Planck constant can in principle be derived as emergent from the underlying causal tapestry of space-time. In this way QT remains the only theory operating the huge computer of the universe. Is QCFT only a speculative tautology (theory as simulation of reality), or does it have a scientific value? The answer will come from Occam's razor, depending on the mathematical simplicity of QCFT. Here I will just start scratching the surface of QCFT, analyzing simple field theories, including Dirac's. The number of problems and unmotivated recipes that plague QFT strongly motivates us to undertake the QCFT project, since QCFT makes all such problems manifest, and forces a re-foundation of QFT.

id: 1001.1138
title: Quasi-classical model of dynamic molecular structure and non-destructive wavepacket manipulation by ultrashort laser pulses
authors: W A Bryan, C R Calvert, R B King, G R A J Nemeth, J B Greenwood, I D Williams, W R Newell
comments: 15 pages, 7 colour figures
journal: W A Bryan et al 2010 New J. Phys. 12 073019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1138
abstract: A quasi-classical model (QCM) of molecular dynamics in intense femtosecond laser fields has been developed, and applied to a study of the effect of an ultrashort `control' pulse on the vibrational motion of a deuterium molecular ion in its ground electronic state. A nonadiabatic treatment accounts for the initial ionization-induced vibrational population caused by an ultrashort `pump' pulse. In the QCM, the nuclei move classically on the molecular potential as it is distorted by the laser-induced Stark shift and transition dipole. The nuclei then adjust to the modified potential, non-destructively shifting the vibrational population and relative phase. This shift has been studied as a function of control pulse parameters. Excellent agreement is observed with predictions of time-dependent quantum simulations, lending confidence to the validity of the model and permitting new observations to be made. The applicability of the QCM to more complex multi-potential energy surface molecules (where a quantum treatment is at best difficult) is discussed.

id: 1001.1139
title: Spatial search in a honeycomb network
authors: G. Abal, R. Donangelo, F.L. Marquezino, R. Portugal
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures; Minor typos corrected, one Reference added. accepted in Math. Structures in Computer Science, special volume on Quantum Computing
journal: Mathematical Structures in Computer Science, v. 20, p. 999-1009, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1139
abstract: The spatial search problem consists in minimizing the number of steps required to find a given site in a network, under the restriction that only oracle queries or translations to neighboring sites are allowed. In this paper, a quantum algorithm for the spatial search problem on a honeycomb lattice with $N$ sites and torus-like boundary conditions. The search algorithm is based on a modified quantum walk on a hexagonal lattice and the general framework proposed by Ambainis, Kempe and Rivosh is used to show that the time complexity of this quantum search algorithm is $O(\sqrt{N \log N})$.

id: 1001.1140
title: Quantum computer of wire circuit architecture
authors: S. A. Moiseev, F.F. Gubaidullin, S. N. Andrianov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1140
abstract: First solid state quantum computer was built using transmons (cooper pair boxes). The operation of the computer is limited because of using a number of the rigit cooper boxes working with fixed frequency at temperatures of superconducting material. Here, we propose a novel architecture of quantum computer based on a flexible wire circuit of many coupled quantum nodes containing controlled atomic (molecular) ensembles. We demonstrate wide opportunities of the proposed computer. Firstly, we reveal a perfect storage of external photon qubits to multi-mode quantum memory node and demonstrate a reversible exchange of the qubits between any arbitrary nodes. We found optimal parameters of atoms in the circuit and self quantum modes for quantum processing. The predicted perfect storage has been observed experimentally for microwave radiation on the lithium phthalocyaninate molecule ensemble. Then also, for the first time we show a realization of the efficient basic two-qubit gate with direct coupling of two arbitrary nodes by using appropriate atomic frequency shifts in the circuit nodes. Proposed two-qubit gate runs with a speed drastically accelerated proportionally to the number of atoms in the node. The direct coupling and accelerated two-qubit gate can be realized for large number of the circuit nodes. Finally, we describe two and three-dimensional scalable architectures that pave the road to construction of universal multi-qubit quantum computer operating at room temperatures.

id: 1001.1144
title: Evolution of Entanglement of Two Qubits Interacting through Local and Collective Environments
authors: M. Merkli, G.P. Berman, F. Borgonovi, K. Gebresellasie
comments: 28 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1144
abstract: We analyze rigorously the dynamics of the entanglement between two qubits which interact only through collective and local environments. Our approach is based on the resonance perturbation theory which assumes a small interaction between the qubits and the environments. The main advantage of our approach is that the expressions for (i) characteristic time-scales, such as decoherence, disentanglement, and relaxation, and (ii) observables are not limited by finite times. We introduce a new classification of decoherence times based on clustering of the reduced density matrix elements. The characteristic dynamical properties such as creation and decay of entanglement are examined. We also discuss possible applications of our results for superconducting quantum computation and quantum measurement technologies.

id: 1001.1169
title: Efficient Evaluation of Casimir Force in Arbitrary Three-dimensional Geometries by Integral Equation Methods
authors: Jie L. Xiong, Mei Song Tong, Phillip Atkins, Weng Cho Chew
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1169
abstract: In this paper, we generalized the surface integral equation method for the evaluation of Casimir force in arbitrary three-dimensional geometries. Similar to the two-dimensional case, the evaluation of the mean Maxwell stress tensor is cast into solving a series of three-dimensional scattering problems. The formulation and solution of the three-dimensional scattering problem is well-studied in classical computational electromagnetics. This paper demonstrates that this quantum electrodynamic phenomena can be studied using the knowledge and techniques of classical electrodynamics.

id: 1001.1181
title: Equivalence of the generalized and complex Kohn variational methods
authors: J. N. Cooper, M. Plummer, E. A. G. Armour
comments: 33 pages, no figures. This version of the article has been accepted by J. Phys. A.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1181
abstract: For Kohn variational calculations on low energy positron hydrogen molecule elastic scattering, we prove that the phase shift approximation obtained using the complex Kohn method is precisely equal to a value which can be obtained immediately via the real-generalized Kohn method. Our treatment is sufficiently general to be applied directly to arbitrary potential scattering or single open channel scattering problems, with exchange if required. In the course of our analysis, we develop a framework formally to describe the anomalous behaviour of our generalized Kohn calculations in the regions of the well known Schwartz singularities. This framework also explains the mathematical origin of the anomaly-free singularities we reported in a previous article. Moreover, we demonstrate a novelty, that explicit solutions of the Kohn equations are not required in order to calculate optimal phase shift approximations. We relate our rigorous framework to earlier descriptions of the Kohn-type methods.

id: 1001.1191
title: Fast geometric gate operation of superconducting charge qubits in circuit QED
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information Processing 11, 1381 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1191
abstract: A scheme for coupling superconducting charge qubits via a one-dimensional superconducting transmission line resonator is proposed. The qubits are working at their optimal points, where they are immune to the charge noise and possess long decoherence time. Analysis on the dynamical time evolution of the interaction is presented, which is shown to be insensitive to the initial state of the resonator field. This scheme enables fast gate operation and is readily scalable to multiqubit scenario.

id: 1001.1228
title: Relativistic Klein-Gordon charge effects by information-theoretic measures
authors: D. Manzano, R.J. Yanez, J.S. Dehesa
comments: Accepted in New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1228
abstract: The charge spreading of ground and excited states of Klein-Gordon particles moving in a Coulomb potential is quantitatively analyzed by means of the ordinary moments and the Heisenberg measure as well as by use of the most relevant information-theoretic measures of global (Shannon entropic power) and local (Fisher's information) types. The dependence of these complementary quantities on the nuclear charge Z and the quantum numbers characterizing the physical states is carefully discussed. The comparison of the relativistic Klein-Gordon and non-relativistic Schrodinger values is made. The non-relativistic limits at large principal quantum number n and for small values of Z are also reached.

id: 1001.1250
title: Recursion relations for generalized Fresnel coefficients: Casimir force in a planar cavity
authors: Marin-Slobodan Tomas
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, slightly expanded
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 044104 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1250
abstract: We emphasize and demonstrate that, besides using the usual recursion relations involving successive layers, generalized Fresnel coefficients of a multilayer can equivalently be calculated using the recursion relations involving stacks of layers, as introduced some time ago [M. S. Tomas, Phys. Rev. A 51, 2545 (1995)]. Moreover, since the definition of the generalized Fresnel coefficients employed does not imply properties of the stacks, these nonstandard recursion relations can be used to calculate Fresnel coefficients not only for local systems but also for a general multilayer consisting of various types (local, nonlocal, inhomogeneous etc.) of layers. Their utility is illustrated by deriving a few simple algorithms for calculating the reflectivity of a Bragg mirror and extending the formula for the Casimir force in a planar cavity to arbitrary media.

id: 1001.1295
title: Low-temperature coherence properties of Z_2 quantum memory
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures; PRA, accepted
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022304 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1295
abstract: We investigate low-temperature coherence properties of the Z_2 quantum memory which is capable of storing the information of a single logical qubit. We show that the memory has superposition of macroscopically distinct states for some values of a control parameter and at sufficiently low temperature, and that the code states of this memory have no instability except for the inevitable one. However, we also see that the coherence power of this memory is limited by space and time. We also briefly discuss the RVB memory, which is an improvement of the Z_2 quantum memory, and the relations of our results to the obscured symmetry breaking in statistical physics.

id: 1001.1331
title: Using adiabatic coupling techniques in atom-chip waveguide structures
authors: B. O'Sullivan, P. Morrissey, T. Morgan, Th. Busch
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in Physica Scripta for the CEWQO2009 proceedings
journal: Phys. Scr. T140, 014029 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1331
abstract: Adiabatic techniques are well known tools in multi-level electron systems to transfer population between different states with high fidelity. Recently it has been realised that these ideas can also be used in ultra-cold atom systems to achieve coherent manipulation of the atomic centre-of-mass states. Here we present an investigation into a realistic setup using three atomic waveguides created on top of an atom chip and show that such systems hold large potential for the observation of adiabatic phenomena in experiments.

id: 1001.1385
title: Efficient Optimal Minimum Error Discrimination of Symmetric Quantum States
authors: Antonio Assalini, Gianfranco Cariolaro, Gianfranco Pierobon
comments: 5 pages, 1 Table, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1385
abstract: This paper deals with the quantum optimal discrimination among mixed quantum states enjoying geometrical uniform symmetry with respect to a reference density operator $\rho_0$. It is well-known that the minimal error probability is given by the positive operator-valued measure (POVM) obtained as a solution of a convex optimization problem, namely a set of operators satisfying geometrical symmetry, with respect to a reference operator $\Pi_0$, and maximizing $\textrm{Tr}(\rho_0 \Pi_0)$. In this paper, by resolving the dual problem, we show that the same result is obtained by minimizing the trace of a semidefinite positive operator $X$ commuting with the symmetry operator and such that $X >= \rho_0$. The new formulation gives a deeper insight into the optimization problem and allows to obtain closed-form analytical solutions, as shown by a simple but not trivial explanatory example. Besides the theoretical interest, the result leads to semidefinite programming solutions of reduced complexity, allowing to extend the numerical performance evaluation to quantum communication systems modeled in Hilbert spaces of large dimension.

id: 1001.1390
title: A generalized Fannes inequality
authors: Shigeru Furuichi, Kenjiro Yanagi, Ken Kuriyama
comments: 
journal: Journal of inequalities in pure and applied mathematics, Vol.8(2007), Issue 1, Article 5, 6pp
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1390
abstract: We axiomatically characterize the Tsallis entropy of a finite quantum system. In addition, we derive a continuity property of Tsallis entropy. This gives a generalization of the Fannes inequality.

id: 1001.1420
title: Exact Coupling Coefficient Distribution in the Doorway Mechanism
authors: Heiner Kohler, Thomas Guhr, Sven Aberg
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1420
abstract: In many--body and other systems, the physics situation often allows one to interpret certain, distinct states by means of a simple picture. In this interpretation, the distinct states are not eigenstates of the full Hamiltonian. Hence, there is an interaction which makes the distinct states act as doorways into background states which are modeled statistically. The crucial quantities are the overlaps between the eigenstates of the full Hamiltonian and the doorway states, that is, the coupling coefficients occuring in the expansion of true eigenstates in the simple model basis. Recently, the distribution of the maximum coupling coefficients was introduced as a new, highly sensitive statistical observable. In the particularly important regime of weak interactions, this distribution is very well approximated by the fidelity distribution, defined as the distribution of the overlap between the doorway states with interaction and without interaction. Using a random matrix model, we calculate the latter distribution exactly for regular and chaotic background states in the cases of preserved and fully broken time--reversal invariance. We also perform numerical simulations and find excellent agreement with our analytical results.

id: 1001.1422
title: Group velocity control in a four level system through interacting dark resonances
authors: Kh.Saaidi, S. Dehnar Sydid, S.W.Rabiei
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1422
abstract: We investigate dispersion and absorption properties of a weak probe field in a four level atomic system through interacting dark resonances. We show that two narrow peaks appears in the optical spectra due to the presence of interacting dark resonances. This two narrow peaks leads to the superluminal light propagation with strong absorption. However, if a weak incoherent pump field is exerted to the probe transition, then the peaks structures can be changed such that two absorption peaks transformed to two gain deeps. We Show that both subluminal and superluminal light propagation occur in this system, where controlled by the incoherent pumping strength.

id: 1001.1429
title: Deterministic multi-mode photonic device for quantum information processing
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043822 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1429
abstract: We propose the implementation of a light source, which can deterministically generate a rich variety of multi-mode quantum states. The desired states are encoded in the collective population of different ground hyperfine states of an atomic ensemble and converted to multi-mode photonic states by excitation to optically excited levels followed by cooperative spontaneous emission. Among our examples of applications, we demonstrate how two-photon entangled states can be prepared and implemented in a protocol for reference frame free quantum key distribution and how one-dimensional as well as higher-dimensional cluster states can be produced.

id: 1001.1436
title: Quantum value indefiniteness
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 19 pages, 2 tables, 2 figures; contribution to PC09
journal: Natural Computing 10(4), 1371-1382 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1436
abstract: The indeterministic outcome of a measurement of an individual quantum is certified by the impossibility of the simultaneous, definite, deterministic pre-existence of all conceivable observables from physical conditions of that quantum alone. We discuss possible interpretations and consequences for quantum oracles.

id: 1001.1567
title: Production of entanglement in Raman three-level systems using feedback
authors: R. N. Stevenson, A. R. R. Carvalho, J. J. Hope
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1567
abstract: We examine the theoretical limits of the generation of entanglement in a damped coupled ion-cavity system using jump-based feedback. Using Raman transitions to produce entanglement between ground states reduces the necessary feedback bandwidth, but does not improve the overall effect of the spontaneous emission on the final entanglement. We find that the fidelity of the resulting entanglement will be limited by the asymmetries produced by vibrations in the trap, but that the concurrence remains above 0.88 for realistic ion trap sizes.

id: 1001.1664
title: Extracting high fidelity quantum computer hardware from random systems
authors: A. Walther, B. Julsgaard, L. Rippe, Yan Ying, S. Kr?ll, R. Fisher, S. Glaser
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures. Written for The Proceedings of the Nobelsymposium on qubits for future quantum computers, Gothenburg, May-09
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1664
abstract: An overview of current status and prospects of the development of quantum computer hardware based on inorganic crystals doped with rare-earth ions is presented. Major parts of the experimental work in this area has been done in two places, Canberra, Australia and Lund, Sweden, and the present description follows more closely the Lund work. Techniques will be described that include optimal filtering of the initially inhomogeneously broadened profile down to well separated and narrow ensembles, as well as the use of advanced pulse-shaping in order to achieve robust arbitrary single-qubit operations with fidelities above 90%, as characterized by quantum state tomography. It is expected that full scalability of these systems will require the ability to determine the state of single rare-earth ions. It has been proposed that this can be done using special readout ions doped into the crystal and an update is given on the work to find and characterize such ions. Finally, a few aspects on the possibilities for remote entanglement of ions in separate rare-earth-ion-doped crystals are considered.

id: 1001.1704
title: Quantum communication with photon-number entangled states and realistic photodetection
authors: Vladyslav C. Usenko, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 1342 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1704
abstract: We address the effects of realistic photodetection, with nonunit quantum efficiency and background noise (dark counts), on the performances of quantum communication schemes based on photon-number entangled states. We consider channels based on Gaussian twin-beam states and non-Gaussian two-mode coherent states and evaluate the channel capacity by optimizing the bit discrimination threshold. We found that TWB-based channels are more robust against noise than TMC-based ones and that this result is almost independent on the statistics of dark counts.

id: 1001.1706
title: Eigenstates with the auxiliary field method
authors: Claude Semay, Bernard Silvestre-Brac
comments: Extended version published in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 43 (2010) 265302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1706
abstract: The auxiliary field method is a powerful technique to obtain approximate closed-form energy formulas for eigenequations in quantum mechanics. Very good results can be obtained for Schr\"odinger and semirelativistic Hamiltonians with various potentials, even in the case of many-body problems. This method can also provide approximate eigenstates in terms of well known wavefunctions, for instance harmonic oscillator or hydrogen-like states, but with a characteristic size which depends on quantum numbers. In this paper, we consider two-body Schr\"odinger equations with linear, logarithmic and exponential potentials and show that analytical approximations of the corresponding eigenstates can be obtained with the auxiliary field method, with a very good accuracy in some cases.

id: 1001.1722
title: Distributed Quantum Programming
authors: Ellie D'Hondt, Yves Vandriessche
comments: 30 pages, to appear in a special issue of Natural Computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1722
abstract: In this paper we explore the structure and applicability of the Distributed Measurement Calculus (DMC), an assembly language for distributed measurement-based quantum computations. We describe the formal language's syntax and semantics, both operational and denotational, and state several properties that are crucial to the practical usability of our language, such as equivalence of our semantics, as well as compositionality and context-freeness of DMC programs. We show how to put these properties to use by constructing a composite program that implements distributed controlled operations, in the knowledge that the semantics of this program does not change under the various composition operations. Our formal model is the basis of a quantum virtual machine construction for distributed quantum computations, which we elaborate upon in the latter part of this work. This virtual machine embodies the formal semantics of DMC such that programming execution no longer needs to be analysed by hand. Far from a literal translation, it requires a substantial concretisation of the formal model at the level of data structures, naming conventions and abstraction mechanisms. At the same time we provide automatisation techniques for program specification where possible to obtain an expressive and user-friendly programming environment.

id: 1001.1732
title: Trade-off capacities of the quantum Hadamard channels
authors: Kamil Bradler, Patrick Hayden, Dave Touchette, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 27 pages, 6 figures, some slight refinements and submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 81, 062312 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1732
abstract: Coding theorems in quantum Shannon theory express the ultimate rates at which a sender can transmit information over a noisy quantum channel. More often than not, the known formulas expressing these transmission rates are intractable, requiring an optimization over an infinite number of uses of the channel. Researchers have rarely found quantum channels with a tractable classical or quantum capacity, but when such a finding occurs, it demonstrates a complete understanding of that channel's capabilities for transmitting classical or quantum information. Here, we show that the three-dimensional capacity region for entanglement-assisted transmission of classical and quantum information is tractable for the Hadamard class of channels. Examples of Hadamard channels include generalized dephasing channels, cloning channels, and the Unruh channel. The generalized dephasing channels and the cloning channels are natural processes that occur in quantum systems through the loss of quantum coherence or stimulated emission, respectively. The Unruh channel is a noisy process that occurs in relativistic quantum information theory as a result of the Unruh effect and bears a strong relationship to the cloning channels. We give exact formulas for the entanglement-assisted classical and quantum communication capacity regions of these channels. The coding strategy for each of these examples is superior to a naive time-sharing strategy, and we introduce a measure to determine this improvement.

id: 1001.1750
title: The statistical strength of experiments to reject local realism with photon pairs and inefficient detectors
authors: Yanbao Zhang, Emanuel Knill, Scott Glancy
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures, minor changes (add more references, replace the old plots, etc.).
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032117 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1750
abstract: Because of the fundamental importance of Bell's theorem, a loophole-free demonstration of a violation of local realism (LR) is highly desirable. Here, we study violations of LR involving photon pairs. We quantify the experimental evidence against LR by using measures of statistical strength related to the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence, as suggested by van Dam et al. [W. van Dam, R. Gill and P. Grunwald, IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory. 51, 2812 (2005)]. Specifically, we analyze a test of LR with entangled states created from two independent polarized photons passing through a polarizing beam splitter. We numerically study the detection efficiency required to achieve a specified statistical strength for the rejection of LR depending on whether photon counters or detectors are used. Based on our results, we find that a test of LR free of the detection loophole requires photon counters with efficiencies of at least 89.71%, or photon detectors with efficiencies of at least 91.11%. For comparison, we also perform this analysis with ideal unbalanced Bell states, which are known to allow rejection of LR with detector efficiencies above 2/3.

id: 1001.1754
title: Coherent states and rational surfaces
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Eva-Maria Graefe
comments: References added; version to appear in J Phys A
journal: J.Phys.A43:255205, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1754
abstract: The state spaces of generalised coherent states associated with special unitary groups are shown to form rational curves and surfaces in the space of pure states. These curves and surfaces are generated by the various Veronese embeddings of the underlying state space into higher-dimensional state spaces. This construction is applied to the parameterisation of generalised coherent states, which is useful for practical calculations and provides an elementary combinatorial approach to the geometry of the coherent state space. The results are extended to Hilbert spaces with indefinite inner products, leading to the introduction of a new kind of generalised coherent states.

id: 1001.1777
title: Addressing the clumsiness loophole in a Leggett-Garg test of macrorealism
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Ari Mizel
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics vol. 42, no. 2, pages 256-265 (February 2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1777
abstract: The rise of quantum information theory has lent new relevance to experimental tests for non-classicality, particularly in controversial cases such as adiabatic quantum computing superconducting circuits. The Leggett-Garg inequality is a "Bell inequality in time" designed to indicate whether a single quantum system behaves in a macrorealistic fashion. Unfortunately, a violation of the inequality can only show that the system is either (i) non-macrorealistic or (ii) macrorealistic but subjected to a measurement technique that happens to disturb the system. The "clumsiness" loophole (ii) provides reliable refuge for the stubborn macrorealist, who can invoke it to brand recent experimental and theoretical work on the Leggett-Garg test inconclusive. Here, we present a revised Leggett-Garg protocol that permits one to conclude that a system is either (i) non-macrorealistic or (ii) macrorealistic but with the property that two seemingly non-invasive measurements can somehow collude and strongly disturb the system. By providing an explicit check of the invasiveness of the measurements, the protocol replaces the clumsiness loophole with a significantly smaller "collusion" loophole.

id: 1001.1785
title: Channel Capacities of an Exactly Solvable Spin-Star System
authors: N. Arshed, A.H. Toor, D.A. Lidar
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 81, 062353 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1785
abstract: We calculate the entanglement-assisted and unassisted channel capacities of an exactly solvable spin star system, which models the quantum dephasing channel. The capacities for this non-Markovian model exhibit a strong dependence on the coupling strengths of the bath spins with the system, the bath temperature, and the number of bath spins. For equal couplings and bath frequencies, the channel becomes periodically noiseless.

id: 1001.1793
title: Variational quantum tomography with incomplete information by means of semidefinite programs
authors: Thiago O. Maciel, Andr¨¦ T. Ces¨¢rio, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. In the previous version there was a mistake about lower bounds to arbitrary expectation values. It is now corrected
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics C, Vol. 22, No. 12 (2011) 1-12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1793
abstract: We introduce a new method to reconstruct unknown quantum states out of incomplete and noisy information. The method is a linear convex optimization problem, therefore with a unique minimum, which can be efficiently solved with Semidefinite Programs. Numerical simulations indicate that the estimated state does not overestimate purity, and neither the expectation value of optimal entanglement witnesses. The convergence properties of the method are similar to compressed sensing approaches, in the sense that, in order to reconstruct low rank states, it needs just a fraction of the effort correspondig to an informationally complete measurement.

id: 1001.1803
title: Decoherence and damping in ideal gases
authors: Janos Polonyi
comments: final version, to appear in Europhysical Letter
journal: Europhysics Letter, 91 67003 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1803
abstract: The particle and current densities are shown to display damping and undergo decoherence in ideal quantum gases. The damping is read off from the equations of motion reminiscent of the Navier-Stokes equations and shows some formal similarity with Landau damping. The decoherence leads to consistent density and current histories with characteristic length and time scales given by the ideal gas.

id: 1001.1818
title: Quantum noise of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical cavity, correlations and entanglement
authors: G. Szirmai, D. Nagy, P. Domokos
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, extended discussion on experimental connections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043639 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1818
abstract: A Bose-Einstein condensate of ultracold atoms inside the field of a laser-driven optical cavity exhibits dispersive optical bistability. We describe this system by using mean-field approximation and by analyzing the correlation functions of the linearized quantum fluctuations around the mean-field solution. The entanglement and the statistics of the atom-field quadratures are given in the stationary state. It is shown that the mean-field solution, i.e. the Bose-Einstein condensate is robust against entanglement generation for most part of the phase diagram.

id: 1001.1827
title: Quantum measurement problem and cluster separability
authors: Petr Hajicek
comments: 31 pages, no figure. Published version
journal: Foundation of Physics 41 (2011) 640
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1827
abstract: A modified Beltrametti-Cassinelli-Lahti model of measurement apparatus that satisfies both the probability reproducibility condition and the objectification requirement is constructed. Only measurements on microsystems are considered. The cluster separability forms a basis for the first working hypothesis: the current version of quantum mechanics leaves open what happens to systems when they change their separation status. New rules that close this gap can therefore be added without disturbing the logic of quantum mechanics. The second working hypothesis is that registration apparatuses for microsystems must contain detectors and that their readings are signals from detectors. This implies that separation status of a microsystem changes during both preparation and registration. A new rule that specifies what happens at these changes and that guarantees the objectification is formulated and discussed. A part of our result has certain similarity with 'collapse of the wave function'.

id: 1001.1850
title: Persistent entanglement in two coupled SQUID rings in the quantum to classical transition - A quantum jumps approach
authors: M. J. Everitt
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Published as part of a special issue for the 11th International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations/4th Feynman festival in Olomouc 2009 (This paper extends the results presented in arXiv:0909.4488)
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research: Volume 30, Issue 5 (2009), Page 412
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1850
abstract: We explore the quantum-classical crossover of two coupled, identical, superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) rings. The motivation for this work is based on a series of recent papers. In ~[1] we showed that the entanglement characteristics of chaotic and periodic (entrained) solutions of the Duffing oscillator differed significantly and that in the classical limit entanglement was preserved only in the chaotic-like solutions. However, Duffing oscillators are a highly idealised toy system. Motivated by a wish to explore more experimentally realisable systems we extended our work in [2,3] to an analysis of SQUID rings. In [3] we showed that the two systems share a common feature. That is, when the SQUID ring's trajectories appear to follow (semi) classical orbits entanglement persists. Our analysis in[3] was restricted to the quantum state diffusion unravelling of the master equation - representing unit efficiency heterodyne detection (or ambi-quadrature homodyne detection). Here we show that very similar behaviour occurs using the quantum jumps unravelling of the master equation. Quantum jumps represents a discontinuous photon counting measurement process. Hence, the results presented here imply that such persistent entanglement is independent of measurement process and that our results may well be quite general in nature.

id: 1001.1893
title: Uniform cross phase modulation for nonclassical radiation pulses
authors: Karl-Peter Marzlin, Zeng-Bin Wang, Sergey A. Moiseev, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures. To appear in J. Opt. Soc. Am. B
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 27, Issue 6, pp. A36-A45 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1893
abstract: We propose a scheme to achieve a uniform cross phase modulation (XPM) for two nonclassical light pulses and study its application for quantum non-demolition measurements of the photon number in a pulse and for controlled phase gates in quantum information. We analyze the scheme by quantizing a common phenomenological model for classical XPM. Our analysis first treats the ideal case of equal cross-phase modulation and pure unitary dynamics. This establishes the groundwork for more complicated studies of non-unitary dynamics and difference in phase shifts between the two pulses where decohering effects severely affect the performance of the scheme.

id: 1001.1926
title: Can Everett be Interpreted Without Extravaganza?
authors: Louis Marchildon
comments: Succinct analysis forthcoming in Found. Phys
journal: Foundations of Physics 41 (2011) 357-62
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1926
abstract: Everett's relative states interpretation of quantum mechanics has met with problems related to probability, the preferred basis, and multiplicity. The third theme, I argue, is the most important one. It has led to developments of the original approach into many-worlds, many-minds, and decoherence-based approaches. The latter especially have been advocated in recent years, in an effort to understand multiplicity without resorting to what is often perceived as extravagant constructions. Drawing from and adding to arguments of others, I show that proponents of decoherence-based approaches have not yet succeeded in making their ontology clear.

id: 1001.1927
title: How to produce quantum entanglement for ascertaining incompatible properties in double-slit experiments
authors: Giuseppe Nistic¨°, Angela Sestito
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1927
abstract: Double-slit experiment very well lends itself in describing the problem of measuring simultaneously incompatible properties. In such a context, we theoretically design an ideal experiment for spin-7/2 particles, able to produce the entanglement which makes possible the detection.

id: 1001.1947
title: Quantum Byzantine Agreement with a Single Qutrit
authors: Mohamed Bourennane, Adan Cabello, Marek Zukowski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1947
abstract: Quantum mechanics provides several methods to generate and securely distribute private lists of numbers suitably correlated to solve the Three Byzantine Generals Problem. So far, these methods are based on three-qutrit singlet states, four-qubit entangled states, and three or two pairwise quantum key distribution channels. Here we show that the problem can be solved using a single qutrit. This scheme presents some advantages over previous schemes, and emphasizes the specific role of qutrits in basic quantum information processing.

id: 1001.2029
title: Hedged maximum likelihood estimation
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout
comments: 4 pages + 2 short appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 200504 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2029
abstract: This paper proposes and analyzes a new method for quantum state estimation, called hedged maximum likelihood (HMLE). HMLE is a quantum version of Lidstone's Law, also known as the "add beta" rule. A straightforward modification of maximum likelihood estimation (MLE), it can be used as a plugin replacement for MLE. The HMLE estimate is a strictly positive density matrix, slightly less likely than the ML estimate, but with much better behavior for predictive tasks. Single-qubit numerics indicate that HMLE beats MLE, according to several metrics, for nearly all "true" states. For nearly-pure states, MLE does slightly better, but neither method is optimal.

id: 1001.2120
title: Quantum dynamics in the bosonic Josephson junction
authors: Maya Chuchem, Katrina Smith-Mannschott, Moritz Hiller, Tsampikos Kottos, Amichay Vardi, Doron Cohen
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures, improved version, pedagogical orientation, 3 extra appendices that are not included in the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053617 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2120
abstract: We employ a semiclassical picture to study dynamics in a bosonic Josephson junction with various initial conditions. Phase-diffusion of coherent preparations in the Josephson regime is shown to depend on the initial relative phase between the two condensates. For initially incoherent condensates, we find a universal value for the buildup of coherence in the Josephson regime. In addition, we contrast two seemingly similar on-separatrix coherent preparations, finding striking differences in their convergence to classicality as the number of particles increases.

id: 1001.2127
title: Entanglement of Atomic Qubits using an Optical Frequency Comb
authors: D. Hayes, D. N. Matsukevich, P. Maunz, D. Hucul, Q. Quraishi, S. Olmschenk, W. Campbell, J. Mizrahi, C. Senko, C. Monroe
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2127
abstract: We demonstrate the use of an optical frequency comb to coherently control and entangle atomic qubits. A train of off-resonant ultrafast laser pulses is used to efficiently and coherently transfer population between electronic and vibrational states of trapped atomic ions and implement an entangling quantum logic gate with high fidelity. This technique can be extended to the high field regime where operations can be performed faster than the trap frequency. This general approach can be applied to more complex quantum systems, such as large collections of interacting atoms or molecules.

id: 1001.2130
title: Solitons of two-component Bose-Einstein condensates modulated in space and time
authors: W. B. Cardoso, A. T. Avelar, D. Bazeia, M. S. Hussein
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010) 2356
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2130
abstract: In this paper we present soliton solutions of two coupled nonlinear Schodinger equations modulated in the bspace and time. The approach allows us to obatin solitons with large variety of solutions depending on the nonlinearity and the potential profiles. As examples we show three cases with soliton solution in such system, one of them with potential varying between repulsive and attractive behavior and the others with nonlinearity localized and delocalized, respectively.

id: 1001.2135
title: Constraining the Correlation Distance in Quantum Measurements
authors: Jean Schneider
comments: White paper submitted to the ESA Fundamental Physics Roadmap Advisory Team
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2135
abstract: Standard Quantum Physics states that the outcome of measurements for some distant entangled subsystems are instantaneously statistically correlated, whatever their mutual distance. This correlation presents itself as if there were a correlation at a distance with infinite speed. It is expressed by the Bell Theorem. It has been experimentally verified over distances up to 18 km with a time resolution of a few picosecond, which can be translated into an apparent effective correlation speed larger than 10^7 c. The purpose of the present White Paper is to discuss the scientific interest and the feasibility to extend the correlation distance up to the Earth-Moon distance, i.e. 2 10^4 times larger than in present experiments. We are thus led to propose to install on the Moon a polarimter and a high performance photon detector with a high temporal resolution. Such an exploratory experiment would provide new tests of Quantum Physics and could perhaps discriminate between standard Quantum Physics and for instance the Bohmian theory.

id: 1001.2174
title: Semifluxon degeneracy choreography in Aharonov-Bohm billiards
authors: M V Berry, S Popescu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2174
abstract: Every energy level of a charged quantum particle confined in a region threaded by a magnetic flux line with quantum flux one-half must be degenerate for some position of the semifluxon within the boundary B. This is illustrated by computations for which B is a circle and a conformal transformation of a circle without symmetry. As the shape of B is varied, two degeneracies between the same pair of levels can collide and annihilate. Degeneracy of three levels requires three shape parameters, or the positions of three semifluxons; degeneracy of N levels can be generated by int{N(N+1)/4} semifluxons. The force on the semifluxon is derived.

id: 1001.2215
title: Quantum Analogue Computing
authors: Vivien M. Kendon, Kae Nemoto, William J. Munro
comments: 10 pages, to appear in the Visions 2010 issue of Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. A
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A August 13, 2010 368:3621-3632
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2215
abstract: We briefly review what a quantum computer is, what it promises to do for us, and why it is so hard to build one. Among the first applications anticipated to bear fruit is quantum simulation of quantum systems. While most quantum computation is an extension of classical digital computation, quantum simulation differs fundamentally in how the data is encoded in the quantum computer. To perform a quantum simulation, the Hilbert space of the system to be simulated is mapped directly onto the Hilbert space of the (logical) qubits in the quantum computer. This type of direct correspondence is how data is encoded in a classical analogue computer. There is no binary encoding, and increasing precision becomes exponentially costly: an extra bit of precision doubles the size of the computer. This has important consequences for both the precision and error correction requirements of quantum simulation, and significant open questions remain about its practicality. It also means that the quantum version of analogue computers, continuous variable quantum computers (CVQC) becomes an equally efficient architecture for quantum simulation. Lessons from past use of classical analogue computers can help us to build better quantum simulators in future.

id: 1001.2225
title: Separability Criterion for One-Sided Gaussian Channels
authors: Jason Hoelscher-Obermaier, Peter van Loock
comments: currently 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2225
abstract: We show that the following nontrivial necessary precondition for an entanglement evolution equation for pure Gaussian states under one-sided Gaussian channels holds. Suppose a Gaussian quantum channel acts on one mode of a pure entangled multi-mode Gaussian input state. Then, for a fixed channel, either all output states are entangled or none of them are. In other words, if the input state is Gaussian, pure and entangled, the separability after a one-sided Gaussian quantum channel does not depend on the input state, but only on the channel. Furthermore, a simple linear-algebraic separability criterion allows to decide whether a given channel destroys the entanglement of pure entangled input states or leaves them entangled.

id: 1001.2234
title: Tomographic approach to the violation of Bell's inequalities for quantum states of two qutrits
authors: Bruno Leggio, Vladimir I Man'ko, Margarita A Man'ko, Antonino Messina
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2009) 4101 - 4105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2234
abstract: The tomographic method is employed to investigate the presence of quantum correlations in two classes of parameter-dependent states of two qutrits. The violation of some Bell's inequalities in a wide domain of the parameter space is shown. A comparison between the tomographic approach and a recent method elaborated by Wu, Poulsen and Molmer shows the better adequacy of the former method with respect to the latter one.

id: 1001.2257
title: Static Quantum Games Revisited
authors: Marcin Markiewicz, Adrian Kosowski, Tomasz Tylec, Jaroslaw Pykacz, Cyril Gavoille
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2257
abstract: The so called \emph{quantum game theory} has recently been proclaimed as one of the new branches in the development of both quantum information theory and game theory. However, the notion of a quantum game itself has never been strictly defined, which has led to a lot of conceptual confusion among different authors. In this paper we introduce a new conceptual framework of a \emph{scenario} and an \emph{implementation} of a game. It is shown that the procedures of "quantization" of games proposed in the literature lead in fact to several different games which can be defined within the same scenario, but apart from this they may have nothing in common with the original game. Within the framework we put forward, a lot of conceptual misunderstandings that have arisen around "quantum games" can be stated clearly and resolved uniquely. In particular, the proclaimed essential role of entanglement in several static "quantum games", and their connection with Bell inequalities, is disproved.

id: 1001.2342
title: Finite Quantum Grand Canonical Ensemble and Temperature from Single Electron Statistics in a Mesoscopic Device
authors: Enrico Prati
comments: 1 Figure
journal: Journal of Statistical Mechanics P01003 (2010) [IF 2.758]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2342
abstract: I present a theoretical model of a quantum statistical ensemble for which, unlike in conventional physics, the total number of particles is extremely small. The thermodynamical quantities are calculated by taking a small $N$ by virtue of the orthodicity of canonical ensemble. The finite quantum grand partition function of a Fermi-Dirac system is calculated. The model is applied to a quantum dot coupled with a small two dimensional electron system. Such system consists of an alternatively single and double occupied electron system confined in a quantum dot, which exhanges one electron with a small $N$ two dimensional electron reservoir. The analytic determination of the temperature of a $(1\leftrightarrow 2)$ electron system and the role of ergodicity are discussed. The generalized temperature expression in the small $N$ regime recovers the usual temperature expression by taking the limit of $N\to\infty$ of the electron bath.

id: 1001.2356
title: Multi-Error-Correcting Amplitude Damping Codes
authors: Runyao Duan, Markus Grassl, Zhengfeng Ji, Bei Zeng
comments: 5 pages. Submitted to ISIT 2010
journal: Proceedings 2010 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2010), Austin, USA, June 2010, pp. 2672-2676
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2356
abstract: We construct new families of multi-error-correcting quantum codes for the amplitude damping channel. Our key observation is that, with proper encoding, two uses of the amplitude damping channel simulate a quantum erasure channel. This allows us to use concatenated codes with quantum erasure-correcting codes as outer codes for correcting multiple amplitude damping errors. Our new codes are degenerate stabilizer codes and have parameters which are better than the amplitude damping codes obtained by any previously known construction.

id: 1001.2359
title: Light pulse in $¦«$-type cold atomic gases
authors: Ran Wei, Bo Zhao, Youjin Deng, Shuai Chen, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 81,043403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2359
abstract: We investigate the behavior of the light pulse in $Lambda$-type cold atomic gases with two counterpropagating control lights with equal strength by directly simulating the dynamic equations and exploring the dispersion relation. Our analysis shows that, depending on the length $L_0$ of the stored wave packet and the decay rate $\gamma$ of ground-spin coherence, the recreated light can behave differently. For long $L_0$ and/or large $\gamma$, a stationary light pulse is produced, while two propagating light pulses appear for short $L_0$ and/or small $\gamma$. In the $\gamma \to 0$ limit, the light always splits into two propagating pulses for sufficiently long time. This scenario agrees with a recent experiment [Y.-W.Lin, et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 213601(2009)] where two propagating light pulses are generated in laser-cooled cold atomic ensembles.

id: 1001.2444
title: State transfer in static and dynamic spin chains with disorder
authors: David Petrosyan, Georgios M. Nikolopoulos, P. Lambropoulos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042307 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2444
abstract: We examine the speed and fidelity of several protocols for state or single excitation transfer in finite spin chains subject to diagonal and off-diagonal disorder. We find that, for a given chain length and maximal achievable inter-spin exchange (XY) coupling strength, the optimal static spin-coupling protocol, implementing the fastest state transfer between the two ends of the chain, is more susceptible to off-diagonal (XY coupling) disorder, as compared to a much slower but robust adiabatic transfer protocol with time-dependent coupling strengths.

id: 1001.2447
title: PPM demodulation: On approaching fundamental limits of optical communications
authors: Saikat Guha, Jonathan L. Habif, Masahiro Takeoka
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, IEEE ISIT, Austin, TX (2010)
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Volume 58 Issue 3, 257, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2447
abstract: We consider the problem of demodulating M-ary optical PPM (pulse-position modulation) waveforms, and propose a structured receiver whose mean probability of symbol error is smaller than all known receivers, and approaches the quantum limit. The receiver uses photodetection coupled with optimized phase-coherent optical feedback control and a phase-sensitive parametric amplifier. We present a general framework of optical receivers known as the conditional pulse nulling receiver, and present new results on ultimate limits and achievable regions of spectral versus photon efficiency tradeoffs for the single-spatial-mode pure-loss optical communication channel.

id: 1001.2448
title: Entanglement in atomic resonance fluorescence
authors: P. Gr¨¹nwald, W. Vogel
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 233602 (2010); Erratum: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 119903(E) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2448
abstract: The resonance fluorescence from regular atomic systems is shown to represent a continuous source of non-Gaussian entangled radiation propagating in two different directions. For a single atom entanglement occurs under the same conditions as squeezing. For more atoms, the entanglement can be more robust against dephasing than squeezing, hence providing a useful continuous source for various applications of entangled radiation.

id: 1001.2489
title: Casimir Friction Force and Energy Dissipation for Moving Harmonic Oscillators
authors: Johan S. H?ye, Iver Brevik
comments: 12 pages, no figures. Discussion extended, references added. To appear in Europhysics Letters
journal: EPL 91 (2010) 60003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2489
abstract: The Casimir friction problem for a pair of dielectric particles in relative motion is analyzed, utilizing a microscopic model in which we start from statistical mechanics for harmonically oscillating particles at finite temperature moving nonrelativistically with constant velocity. The use of statistical mechanics in this context has in our opinion some definite advantages, in comparison with the more conventional quantum electrodynamic description of media that involves the use of a refractive index. The statistical-mechanical description is physical and direct, and the oscillator model, in spite of its simplicity, is nevertheless able to elucidate the essentials of the Casimir friction. As is known, there are diverging opinions about this kind of friction in the literature. Our treatment elaborates upon, and extends, an earlier theory presented by us back in 1992. There we found a finite friction force at any finite temperature, whereas at zero temperature the model led to a zero force. As an additional development in the present paper we evaluate the energy dissipation making use of an exponential cutoff truncating the relative motion of the oscillators. For the dissipation we also establish a general expression that is not limited to the simple oscillator model.

id: 1001.2586
title: Linear Scaling Solution of the Time-Dependent Self-Consistent-Field Equations
authors: Matt Challacombe
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2586
abstract: A new approach to solving the Time-Dependent Self-Consistent-Field equations is developed based on the double quotient formulation of Tsiper [J. Phys. B, 34 L401 (2001)]. Dual channel, quasi-independent non-linear optimization of these quotients is found to yield convergence rates approaching those of the best case (single channel) Tamm-Dancoff approximation. This formulation is variational with respect to matrix truncation, admitting linear scaling solution of the matrix-eigenvalue problem, which is demonstrated for bulk excitons in the polyphenylene vinylene oligimer and the (4,3) carbon nanotube segment.

id: 1001.2602
title: Engineering directed excitonic energy transfer
authors: Alejandro Perdomo, Leslie Vogt, Ali Najmaie, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2602
abstract: We provide an intuitive platform for engineering exciton transfer dynamics. We show that careful consideration of the spectral density, which describes the system-bath interaction, leads to opportunities to engineer the transfer of an exciton. Since excitons in nanostructures are proposed for use in quantum information processing and artificial photosynthetic designs, our approach paves the way for engineering a wide range of desired exciton dynamics. We carefully describe the validity of the model and use experimentally relevant material parameters to show counter-intuitive examples of a directed exciton transfer in a linear chain of quantum dots.

id: 1001.2651
title: Exponential error rates in multiple state discrimination on a quantum spin chain
authors: Michael Nussbaum, Arleta Szkola
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2651
abstract: We consider decision problems on finite sets of hypotheses represented by pairwise different shift-invariant states on a quantum spin chain. The decision in favor of one of the hypotheses is based on outputs of generalized measurements performed on local states on blocks of finite size. We assume existence of the mean quantum Chernoff distances of any pair of states from the given set and refer to the minimum of them as the mean generalized quantum Chernoff distance. We establish that this minimum specifies an asymptotic bound on the exponential decay of the averaged probability of rejecting the true state in increasing block size, if the mean quantum Chernoff distance of any pair of the hypothetic states is achievable as an asymptotic error exponent in the corresponding binary problem. This assumption is in particular fulfiled by shift-invariant product states (i.i.d. states). Further, we provide a constructive proof for the existence of a sequence of quantum tests in increasing block size, which achieves an asymptotic error exponent which is equal to the mean generalized quantum Chernoff distance of the given set of states up to a factor, which depends on the set itself. It can be arbitrary close to 1 and is not less than $1/m$ for $m$ being the number of different pairs of states from the set considered.

id: 1001.2656
title: Entanglement and topological order in self-dual cluster states
authors: Wonmin Son, Luigi Amico, Saverio Pascazio, Rosario Fazio, Vlatko Vedral
comments: This paper has been withdrawn as it has been superseded by arXiv:1103.0251
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2656
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn as it has been superseded by arXiv:1103.0251

id: 1001.2670
title: The Linewidth of Ramsey Laser with Bad Cavity
authors: Yang Li, Wei Zhuang, Jinbiao Chen, Hong Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2670
abstract: We investigate a new laser scheme by using Ramsey separated-field technique with bad cavity. By studying the linewidth of the stimulated-emission spectrum of this kind of laser inside the cavity, we find its linewidth is more than two orders of magnitude narrower than atomic natural linewidth, and it is far superior to that of conventional optical Ramsey method and any other available subnatural linewidth spectroscopy at present. Since any cavity related noise is reduced to cavity-pulling effect in bad cavity laser, this Ramsey laser provides the possibility of precision subnatural linewidth spectroscopy, which is critical for the next generation of optical clock and atom interferometers.

id: 1001.2675
title: Pseudo-Hermiticity and Electromagnetic Wave Propagation in Dispersive Media
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 8 pages, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 1307-1310 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2675
abstract: Pseudo-Hermitian operators appear in the solution of Maxwell's equations for stationary non-dispersive media with arbitrary (space-dependent) permittivity and permeability tensors. We offer an extension of the results in this direction to certain stationary dispersive media. In particular, we use the WKB approximation to derive an explicit expression for the planar time-harmonic solutions of Maxwell's equations in an inhomogeneous dispersive medium and study the combined affect of inhomogeneity and dispersion.

id: 1001.2683
title: On foundations of quantum physics
authors: Evgeni A. Solov'ev
comments: This article is extended version of paper: Solov'ev, E.A.: Phys.At.Nuc. v. 72, 853 (2009)
journal: Phys.At.Nuc. v. 72, 853 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2683
abstract: Some aspects of the interpretation of quantum theory are discussed. It is emphasized that quantum theory is formulated in the Cartesian coordinate system; in other coordinates the result obtained with the help of the Hamiltonian formalism and commutator relations between 'canonically conjugated' coordinate and momentum operators leads to a wrong version of quantum mechanics. The origin of time is analyzed in detail by the example of atomic collision theory. It is shown that for a closed system like the three-body (two nuclei + electron) time-dependent Schroedinger equation has no physical meaning since in the high impact energy limit it transforms into an equation with two independent time-like variables; the time appears in the stationary Schroedinger equation as a result of extraction of a classical subsystem (two nuclei) from a closed three-body system. Following the Einstein-Rozen-Podolsky experiment and Bell's inequality the wave function is interpreted as an actual field of information in the elementary form. The relation between physics and mathematics is also discussed.

id: 1001.2714
title: Superfast Cooling
authors: S. Machnes, M. B. Plenio, B. Reznik, A. M. Steane, A. Retzker
comments: 5 pages 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 183001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2714
abstract: Currently laser cooling schemes are fundamentally based on the weak coupling regime. This requirement sets the trap frequency as an upper bound to the cooling rate. In this work we present a numerical study that shows the feasibility of cooling in the strong coupling regime which then allows cooling rates that are faster than the trap frequency with state of the art experimental parameters. The scheme we present can work for trapped atoms or ions as well as mechanical oscillators. It can also cool medium size ions chains close to the ground state.

id: 1001.2749
title: Neutrino oscillations with a polarized laser beam: an analogical demonstration experiment
authors: C. Weinheimer
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, this article will be published without the 4 appendices in Progress in Particle and Nuclear Physics, Conference Proceedings of the Int. School on Nuclear Physics 2009 in Erice/Italy
journal: C. Weinheimer, Prog. Part. Nucl. Phys. 64 (2010) 205-209
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2749
abstract: The underlying physics of neutrino oscillation in vacuum can be demonstrated by an optical analogical experiment. Two different neutrino flavors are represented by two polarization states of a laser beam, whereas the different phase propagation in vacuum is mimicked by the propagation difference of an ordinary and an extraordinary beam in a birefringent crystal. This allows us to demonstrate neutrino oscillation by optical methods in a fully microscopic way at the particle level. The description of both realizations of oscillation is also mathematically identical. In our demonstration experiment we can vary the oscillation parameters such as propagation length L and mixing angle Theta.

id: 1001.2818
title: Atomic and Molecular Systems Driven by Intense Chaotic Light
authors: Kamal P Singh, Jan M Rost
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2818
abstract: We investigate dynamics of atomic and molecular systems exposed to intense, shaped chaotic fields and a weak femtosecond laser pulse theoretically. As a prototype example, the photoionization of a hydrogen atom is considered in detail. The net photoionization undergoes an optimal enhancement when a broadband chaotic field is added to the weak laser pulse. The enhanced ionization is analyzed using time-resolved wavepacket evolution and the population dynamics of the atomic levels. We elucidate the enhancement produced by spectrally-shaped chaotic fields of two different classes, one with a tunable bandwidth and another with a narrow bandwidth centered at the first atomic transition. Motivated by the large bandwidth provided in the high harmonic generation, we also demonstrate the enhancement effect exploiting chaotic fields synthesized from discrete, phase randomized, odd-order and all-order high harmonics of the driving pulse. These findings are generic and can have applications to other atomic and simple molecular systems.

id: 1001.2867
title: Why Everettians Should Appreciate the Transactional Interpretation
authors: R. E. Kastner, John G. Cramer
comments: Discussion expanded and revised; Prof. John Cramer added as co-author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2867
abstract: The attractive feature of the Everett approach is its admirable spirit of approaching the quantum puzzle with a Zen-like "beginner's mind" in order to try to envision what the pure formalism might be saying about quantum reality, even if that journey leads to a strange place. It is argued that the transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics (TI), appropriately interpreted, shares the same motivation and achieves much more, with far fewer conceptual perplexities, by taking into account heretofore overlooked features of the quantum formalism itself (i.e. advanced states). In particular, TI does not need to talk about brain states, consciousness, or observers (rational or otherwise). In its possibilist variant ("PTI"), it shares the realist virtues of treating state vector branches as genuine dynamical entities, without having to explain how or why all of their associated outcomes actually happen (they don't), how to account for a plenitude of counterpart observers in some coherent notion of trans-temporal identity of the bifurcating observers (observers don't bifurcate in TI), nor how the certainty of all outcomes could be consistent with any coherent theory of probability, let alone the Born probability (the Born probability emerges naturally in TI). In short, TI is precisely the one-world interpretation Kent is looking for in his (2010).

id: 1001.2877
title: Nearest-neighbor coupling asymmetry in the generation of cluster states
authors: Peng Xue, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 085326 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2877
abstract: We demonstrate that charge-qubit cluster state generation by capacitive coupling is anisotropic. Specifically, horizontal vs vertical nearest-neighbor inter-qubit coupling differs in a rectangular lattice. We show how to ameliorate this anisotropy by applying potential biases to the array of double dots.

id: 1001.2953
title: Optical Trapping of an Ion
authors: Ch. Schneider, M. Enderlein, T. Huber, T. Schaetz
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2953
abstract: For several decades, ions have been trapped by radio frequency (RF) and neutral particles by optical fields. We implement the experimental proof-of-principle for trapping an ion in an optical dipole trap. While loading, initialization and final detection are performed in a RF trap, in between, this RF trap is completely disabled and substituted by the optical trap. The measured lifetime of milliseconds allows for hundreds of oscillations within the optical potential. It is mainly limited by heating due to photon scattering. In future experiments the lifetime may be increased by further detuning the laser and cooling the ion. We demonstrate the prerequisite to merge both trapping techniques in hybrid setups to the point of trapping ions and atoms in the same optical potential.

id: 1001.2960
title: Optimal Dynamical Decoupling Sequence for Ohmic Spectrum
authors: Yu Pan, Zairong Xi, Wei Cui
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: PhysRevA.81.022309 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2960
abstract: We investigate the optimal dynamical decoupling sequence for a qubit coupled to an ohmic environment. By analytically computing the derivatives of the decoherence function, the optimal pulse locations are found to satisfy a set of nonlinear equations which can be easily solved. These equations incorporates the environment information such as high-energy (UV) cutoff frequency \omega_c, giving a complete description of the decoupling process. The solutions explain previous experimental and theoretical results of locally optimized dynamical decoupling (LODD) sequence in high-frequency dominated environment, which were obtained by purely numerical computation and experimental feedback. As shown in numerical comparison, these solutions outperform the Uhrig dynamical decoupling (UDD) sequence by one or more orders of magnitude in the ohmic case.

id: 1001.2966
title: Information-Theoretic Uncertainty Relation and Random-Phase Entropy
authors: Kyoung Kon Kim, Sang Pyo Kim, Sok Kuh Kang
comments: RevTex 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2966
abstract: Dunkel and Trigger [Phys. Rev. A {71}, 052102 (2005)] show that the Leipnik's joint entropy monotonously increases for the initially maximally classical Gaussian wave packet for a free particle. After expressing the joint entropy of the general Gaussian wave packets for quadratic Hamiltonians as $S (t) = ln (e/2) + ln (2 Delta x (t) Delta p (t)/hbar)$, we show that a class of general Gaussian wave packets does not warrant the monotonous increase of the joint entropy. We propose that the random-phase entropy with respect to the squeeze angle always monotonously increases even for non-maximally classical states.

id: 1001.3032
title: Quantum Behavior of Measurement Apparatus
authors: Taoufik Amri
comments: APS Preprint format : 19 pages with 6 figures, a new figure (Fig. 2) was added. Questions and comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3032
abstract: We precise for the first time the quantum behavior of a measurement apparatus in the framework of the usual interpretation of quantum physics. We show how such a behavior can also be studied by the retrodiction of pre-measurement states corresponding to its responses. We translate in terms of these states some interesting properties of the behavior of an apparatus, such as the projectivity, the fidelity, the non-Gaussian character, or the non-classicality of measurements performed by this one. We also propose an experimental procedure allowing the tomography of these pre-measurement states for optical detectors. We illustrate the relevance of these new notions for measurements, by evaluating them for two detectors widely used in quantum optics: the avalanche photodiode and the homodyne detection.

id: 1001.3057
title: Nonlinear gauge interactions: a possible solution to the "measurement problem" in quantum mechanics
authors: Johan Hansson
comments: 11 pages, Accepted for publication
journal: Phys.Essays 23:237,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3057
abstract: Two fundamental, and unsolved problems in physics are: i) the resolution of the "measurement problem" in quantum mechanics ii) the quantization of strongly nonlinear (nonabelian) gauge theories. The aim of this paper is to suggest that these two problems might be linked, and that a mutual, simultaneous solution to both might exist. We propose that the mechanism responsible for the "collapse of the wave function" in quantum mechanics is the nonlinearities already present in the theory via nonabelian gauge interactions. Unlike all other models of spontaneous collapse, our proposal is, to the best of our knowledge, the only one which does not introduce any new elements into the theory. A possible experimental test of the model would be to compare the coherence lengths - here defined as the distance over which quantum mechanical superposition is still valid - for, \textit{e.g}, electrons and photons in a double-slit experiment. The electrons should have a finite coherence length, while photons should have a much longer coherence length (in principle infinite, if gravity - a very weak effect indeed unless we approach the Planck scale - is ignored).

id: 1001.3080
title: A primer on quantum mechanics and its interpretations
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 36 pages main text, 17 pages appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3080
abstract: All the concepts and principles necessary to understand quantum mechanics on an initial level are given in a form suitable for the non-expert. The concepts explained include visualizing the wave function, wave-particle duality, the implications of Schrodinger's cat, probability, the uncertainty principle, collapse of the wave function, and others. However, because of the peculiar, non-intuitive nature of quantum mechanics, one must understand the potential interpretations of its mathematics before one can properly understand these concepts. Thus the paper is organized aorund interpretations, conceptual pictures that explain the peculiar properties of the theory. The only interpretation that currently satisfies all the constraints imposed by experiments and the theory itself makes use of a perceiving Mind which is outside the laws of quantum mechanics.

id: 1001.3093
title: Quantum Einstein's Brownian motion
authors: R. Tsekov
comments: The paper is dedicated to the 100th anniversary of A.B. Datsev
journal: Ann. Univ. Sofia, Fac. Phys. SE (2012) 103-111
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3093
abstract: Einstein's Brownian motion of a quantum particle in a classical environment is studied via virial and equipartition theorems. The effect of continuous measurement in a strongly dissipative environment is accounted for and a quantum generalization of the classical Einstein law of Brownian motion is obtained. A thermo-quantum Smoluchowski diffusion equation is derived via a generalization of the Madelung quantum hydrodynamics. The latter is applied for description of the quantum tunneling at equilibrium and stationary states as well as of the motion of an electron in metals, i.e. the Smoluchowski-Poisson problem.

id: 1001.3110
title: Non-Hermitian description of a superconducting phase qubit measurement
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, Gennady P. Berman, Alan R. Bishop
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Quanum Inform. 08, 895 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3110
abstract: We present an approach based on a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian to describe the process of measurement by tunneling of a phase qubit state. We derive simple analytical expressions which describe the dynamics of measurement, and compare our results with those experimentally available.

id: 1001.3116
title: Minor-embedding in adiabatic quantum computation: II. Minor-universal graph design
authors: Vicky Choi
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing: Volume 10, Issue 3 (2011), Page 343
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3116
abstract: In [Choi08], we introduced the notion of minor-embedding in adiabatic quantum optimization. A minor-embedding of a graph G in a quantum hardware graph U is a subgraph of U such that G can be obtained from it by contracting edges. In this paper, we describe the intertwined adiabatic quantum architecture design problem, which is to construct a hardware graph U that satisfies all known physical constraints and, at the same time, permits an efficient minor-embedding algorithm. We illustrate an optimal complete-graph-minor hardware graph. Given a family F of graphs, a (host) graph U is called F-minor-universal if for each graph G in F, U contains a minor-embedding of G. The problem for designing a F-minor-universal hardware graph U_{sparse} in which F consists of a family of sparse graphs (e.g., bounded degree graphs) is open.

id: 1001.3131
title: Absorption-free superluminal light propagation in a V-type system
authors: Khaled Saaidi, Bahareh Ruzbahani, S. Worya Rabiei, Mohammad Mahmoudi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3131
abstract: Dispersion and absorption properties of a weak probe field in a three-level V-type atomic system is studied. By application of indirect incoherent pump fields the effect of populating upper levels on optical properties of the atomic medium in presence of a strong coherent pump field is investigated. It is shown that the slope of dispersion changes from positive to negative just by changing the intensity of the coherent or indirect incoherent pump fields. It is demonstrated that the absorption-free subluminal and superluminal light propagation appears in this system.

id: 1001.3145
title: Entanglement of Periodic States, the Quantum Fourier Transform and Shor's Factoring Algorithm
authors: Yonatan Most, Yishai Shimoni, Ofer Biham
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3145
abstract: The preprocessing stage of Shor's algorithm generates a class of quantum states referred to as periodic states, on which the quantum Fourier transform is applied. Such states also play an important role in other quantum algorithms that rely on the quantum Fourier transform. Since entanglement is believed to be a necessary resource for quantum computational speedup, we analyze the entanglement of periodic states and the way it is affected by the quantum Fourier transform. To this end, we derive a formula that evaluates the Groverian entanglement measure for periodic states. Using this formula, we explain the surprising result that the Groverian entanglement of the periodic states built up during the preprocessing stage is only slightly affected by the quantum Fourier transform.

id: 1001.3211
title: Testing Ultrafast Two-Photon Spectral Amplitudes via Optical Fibres
authors: G.Brida, V.Caricato, M.V.Chekhova, M.Genovese, M.Gramegna, T.Sh.Iskhakov
comments: 
journal: Optics Express Vol. 18 (2010) 12915
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3211
abstract: We test two-dimensional TPSA of biphoton light emitted via ultrafast spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) using the effect of group-velocity dispersion in optical fibres. Further, we apply this technique to demonstrate the engineering of biphoton spectral properties by acting on the pump pulse shape.

id: 1001.3245
title: A toric varieties approach to geometrical structure of multipartite states
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: Talk given at the Vaxjo conference on Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations-5 (QTRF-5)
journal: AIP Conf.Proc, 1232, 283-287, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3245
abstract: We investigate the geometrical structures of multipartite states based on construction of toric varieties. In particular, we describe pure quantum systems in terms of affine toric varieties and projective embedding of these varieties in complex projective spaces. We show that a quantum system can be corresponds to a toric variety of a fan which is constructed by gluing together affine toric varieties of polytopes. Moreover, we show that the projective toric varieties are the spaces of separable multipartite quantum states. The construction is a generalization of the complex multi-projective Segre variety. Our construction suggests a systematic way of looking at the structures of multipartite quantum systems.

id: 1001.3248
title: Complex and real Hermite polynomials and related quantizations
authors: Katarzyna Gorska, Jean Pierre Gazeau, Nicolae Cotfas
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3248
abstract: It is known that the anti-Wick (or standard coherent state) quantization of the complex plane produces both canonical commutation rule and quantum spectrum of the harmonic oscillator (up to the addition of a constant). In the present work, we show that these two issues are not necessarily coupled: there exists a family of separable Hilbert spaces, including the usual Fock-Bargmann space, and in each element in this family there exists an overcomplete set of unit-norm states resolving the unity. With the exception of the Fock-Bargmann case, they all produce non-canonical commutation relation whereas the quantum spectrum of the harmonic oscillator remains the same up to the addition of a constant. The statistical aspects of these non-equivalent coherent states quantizations are investigated. We also explore the localization aspects in the real line yielded by similar quantizations based on real Hermite polynomials.

id: 1001.3281
title: Engineering Atomic Quantum Reservoirs for Photons
authors: Susanne Pielawa, Luiz Davidovich, David Vitali, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043802 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3281
abstract: We present protocols for creating entangled states of two modes of the electromagnetic field, by using a beam of atoms crossing microwave resonators. The atoms are driven by a transverse, classical field and pump correlated photons into (i) two modes of a cavity and (ii) the modes of two distant cavities. The protocols are based on a stochastic dynamics, characterized by random arrival times of the atoms and by random interaction times between atoms and cavity modes. The resulting effective model yields a master equation, whose steady state is an entangled state of the cavity modes. In this respect, the atoms act like a quantum reservoir, pulling the cavity modes into an entangled, Einstein-Podolski-Rosen (EPR) state, whose degree of entanglement is controlled by the intensity and the frequency of the transverse field. This scheme is robust against stochastic fluctuations in the atomic beam, and it does not require atomic detection nor velocity selection.

id: 1001.3313
title: Sub-shot-noise quantum metrology with entangled identical particles
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, U. Marzolino
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX
journal: Annals of Physics 325 (2010) 924-935
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3313
abstract: The usual notion of separability has to be reconsidered when applied to states describing identical particles. A definition of separability not related to any a priori Hilbert space tensor product structure is needed: this can be given in terms of commuting subalgebras of observables. Accordingly, the results concerning the use of the quantum Fisher information in quantum metrology are generalized and physically reinterpreted.

id: 1001.3375
title: The Scattering Approach to the Casimir Force
authors: S. Reynaud, A. Canaguier-Durand, R. Messina, A. Lambrecht, P.A. Maia Neto
comments: Proceedings of the QFEXT'09 conference (Oklahoma, 2009)
journal: Quantum Field Theory under the influence of External Conditions, K.A. Milton and M. Bordag eds (World Scientific, 2010) p 55-67
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3375
abstract: We present the scattering approach which is nowadays the best tool for describing the Casimir force in realistic experimental configurations. After reminders on the simple geometries of 1d space and specular scatterers in 3d space, we discuss the case of stationary arbitrarily shaped mirrors in electromagnetic vacuum. We then review specific calculations based on the scattering approach, dealing for example with the forces or torques between nanostructured surfaces and with the force between a plane and a sphere. In these various cases, we account for the material dependence of the forces, and show that the geometry dependence goes beyond the trivial {\it Proximity Force Approximation} often used for discussing experiments.

id: 1001.3384
title: The Feynman-De Broglie-Bohm Propagator for a Semiclassical Formulation of the Gross-Pitaevskii Equation
authors: J. M. F. Bassalo, P. T. S. Alencar, D. G. da Silva, A. Nassar, M.Cattani
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3384
abstract: In this paper we present the Feynman-de Broglie-Bohm propagator for a semiclassical formulation of the Gross-Pitaeviskii equation.

id: 1001.3389
title: Simple synchronization of independent picosecond photon sources for quantum communication experiments
authors: O. Landry, J.A.W. van Houwelingen, P. Aboussouan, A. Beveratos, S. Tanzilli, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures, 1 appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3389
abstract: An essential requirement for the future of quantum communication is the capability to create undistinguishable photons at distant locations. The main challenge is to control the various sources of timing jitter in order to conserve temporal undistinguishability. We report on a system that enables a large tolerance against such jitter by using synchronized sources of photons with coherence lengths on the order of centimeters.

id: 1001.3419
title: Quantum Darwinism in an Everyday Environment: Huge Redundancy in Scattered Photons
authors: C. Jess Riedel, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures (PRL version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 020404 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3419
abstract: We study quantum Darwinism--the redundant recording of information about the preferred states of a decohering system by its environment--for an object illuminated by a black body. In the cases of point-source and isotropic illumination, we calculate the quantum mutual information between the object and its photon environment. We demonstrate that this realistic model exhibits fast and extensive proliferation of information about the object into the environment and results in redundancies orders of magnitude larger than the exactly soluble models considered to date.

id: 1001.3430
title: Reconfigurable, site-selective manipulation of atomic quantum systems in two-dimensional arrays of dipole traps
authors: Jens Kruse, Christian Gierl, Malte Schlosser, Gerhard Birkl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 060308(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3430
abstract: We trap atoms in versatile two-dimensional (2D) arrays of optical potentials, prepare flexible 2D spin configurations, perform site-selective coherent manipulation, and demonstrate the implementation of simultaneous measurements of different system properties, such as dephasing and decoherence. This novel approach for the flexible manipulation of atomic quantum systems is based on the combination of 2D arrays of microlenses and 2D arrays of liquid crystal light modulators. It offers novel types of control for the investigation of quantum degenerate gases, quantum information processing, and quantum simulations.

id: 1001.3454
title: Non-Markovian effect on the geometric phase of a dissipative qubit
authors: Juan-Juan Chen, Jun-Hong An, Qing-Jun Tong, Hong-Gang Luo, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022120 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3454
abstract: We study the geometric phase of a two-level atom coupled to an environment with Lorentzian spectral density. The non-Markovian effect on the geometric phase is explored analytically and numerically. In the weak coupling limit the lowest-order correction to the geometric phase is derived analytically and the general case is calculated numerically. It is found that the correction to the geometric phase is significantly large if the spectral width is small and in this case the non-Markovian dynamics has a significant impact to the geometric phase. When the spectral width increases, the correction to the geometric phase becomes negligible, which shows the robustness of the geometric phase to the environmental white noises. The result is significant to the quantum information processing based on the geometric phase.

id: 1001.3465
title: The $\ell_{1}$-norm in quantum information via the approach of Yang-Baxter Equation
authors: Kai Niu, Kang Xue, Qing Zhao, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3465
abstract: The role of $\ell_{1}$-norm in Quantum Mechanics (QM) has been studied through Wigner's D-functions where $\ell_{1}$-norm means $\sum_{i}\left|C_{i}\right|$ for $\left|\Psi\right\rangle =\sum_{i}C_{i}\left|\psi_{i}\right\rangle $ if $\left|\psi_{i}\right\rangle $ are uni-orthogonal and normalized basis. It was shown that the present two types of transformation matrix acting on the natural basis in physics consist in an unified braiding matrix, which can be viewed as a particular solution of the Yang-Baxter equation (YBE). The maximum of the $\ell_{1}$-norm is connected with the maximally entangled states and topological quantum field theory (TQFT) with two-component anyons while the minimum leads to the permutation for fermions or bosons.

id: 1001.3537
title: Suppression of decoherence in a generalization of the spin-bath model
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 065304, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3537
abstract: The works on decoherence due to spin baths usually agree in studying a one-spin system in interaction with a large spin bath. In this paper we generalize those models by analyzing a many-spin system and by studying decoherence or its suppression in function of the relation between the numbers of spins of the system and the bath. This model may help to identify clusters of particles unaffected by decoherence, which, as a consequence, can be used to store quantum information.

id: 1001.3541
title: Riccati equation and the problem of decoherence
authors: Bart?omiej Gardas
comments: 4 pages, accepted by Journal of Mathematical Physics,
journal: J. Math. Phys 51, 062103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3541
abstract: The block operator matrix theory is used to investigate the problem of a single qubit. We will establish a connection between the Riccati operator equation and the possibility of obtaining an exact reduced dynamics for the qubit in question. The model of the half spin particle in the rotating magnetic field coupling with the external environment is discussed. We show that the model defined in such a way can be reduced to a time independent problem.

id: 1001.3543
title: On monotone `metrics' of the classical channel space:non-asymptotic theory
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: Statement of theorem is a bit strengthened
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3543
abstract: The aim of the manuscript is to characterize monotone `metric' in the space of Markov map. Here, `metric' means the square of the norm defined on the tangent space, and not necessarily induced from an inner product (this property hereafter will be called inner-product-assumption), different from usual metric used in differential geometry. As for metrics in So far, there have been plenty of literatures on the metric in the space of probability distributions and quantum states. Among them, Cencov proved the monotone metric in probability distribution space is unique up to constant multiple, and identical to Fisher information metric. Petz characterized all the monotone metrics in the quantum state space using operator mean. As for channels, however, only a little had been known. In this paper, we impose monotonicity by concatenation of channels before and after the given channel families, and invariance by tensoring identity channels. (Notably, we do not use the inner-product-assumption.) To obtain this result, `resource conversion' technique, which is widely used in quantum information, is used. We consider distillation from and formation to a family of channels. Under these axioms, we identify the largest and the smallest `metrics'. Interestingly, they are not induced from any inner product, i.e., not a metric. Indeed, one can prove that any `metric' satisfying our axioms can not be a metric. This result has some impact on the axiomatic study of the monotone metric in the space of classical and quantum states, since both conventional theory relies on the inner-product-assumption. Also, we compute the lower and the upper bound for some concrete examples.

id: 1001.3547
title: On the monotone metric of classical channel and distribution spaces: asymptotic theory
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: Some of the proofs are simplified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3547
abstract: The aim of the manuscript is to characterize monotone metric in the space of Markov map. Here, metric may not be Riemanian, or equivalently, may not be induced from an inner product. So far, there have been plenty of literatures on the metric in the space of probability distributions and quantum states. Among them, Cencov and Petz characterized all the monotone metrics in the classical and quantum state space. As for channels, however, only a little is known about its geometrical structures. In that author's previous manuscript, the upper and the lower bound of monotone channel metric was derived using resource conversion theory, and it is proved that any monotone metric cannot be Riemanian. . Due to the latter result, we cannot rely on Cencov's theory, to build a geometric theory consistent across probability distributions and channels. To dispense with the assumption that a metric is Riemanian, we introduce some assumptions on asymptotic behavior;weak asymptotic additivity and lower asymptotic continuity. The proof utilizes resource conversion technique. In the end of the paper, an implication on quantum state metrics is discussed.

id: 1001.3564
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of a damped driven two-state system
authors: Pinja Haikka, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3564
abstract: We study a driven two-state system interacting with a structured environment. We introduce the non-Markovian master equation ruling the system dynamics, and we derive its analytic solution for general reservoir spectra. We compare the non-Markovian dynamics of the Bloch vector for two classes of reservoir spectra: the Ohmic and the Lorentzian reservoir. Finally, we derive the analytic conditions for complete positivity with and without the secular approximation. Interestingly, the complete positivity conditions have a transparent physical interpretation in terms of the characteristic timescales of phase diffusion and relaxation processes.

id: 1001.3566
title: Jump probabilities in the non-Markovian quantum jump method
authors: Kari Harkonen
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 065302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3566
abstract: The dynamics of a non-Markovian open quantum system described by a general time-local master equation is studied. The propagation of the density operator is constructed in terms of two processes: (i) deterministic evolution and (ii) evolution of a probability density functional in the projective Hilbert space. The analysis provides a derivation for the jump probabilities used in the recently developed non-Markovian quantum jump (NMQJ) method (Piilo et al 2008 Phys. Rev. Lett. 100 180402).

id: 1001.3578
title: Casimir Invariants for Systems Undergoing Collective Motion
authors: C. Allen Bishop, Mark S. Byrd, Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062327 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3578
abstract: Dicke states are states of a collection of particles which have been under active investigation for several reasons. One reason is that the decay rates of these states can be quite different from a set of independently evolving particles. Another reason is that a particular class of these states are decoherence-free or noiseless with respect to a set of errors. These noiseless states, or more generally subsystems, can avoid certain types of errors in quantum information processing devices. Here we provide a method for calculating invariants of systems of particles undergoing collective motions. These invariants can be used to determine a complete set of commuting observables for a class of Dicke states as well as identify possible logical operations for decoherence-free/noiseless subsystems. Our method is quite general and provides results for cases where the constituent particles have more than two internal states.

id: 1001.3583
title: Another look at the optimal Bayes cost in the binary decision problem
authors: Bernhard K. Meister
comments: 5 pages, major revision of section 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3583
abstract: The problem of quantum state discrimination between two wave functions of a particle in a square well potential is considered. The optimal minimum-error probability for the state discrimination is known to be given by the Helstrom bound. A new strategy is introduced here whereby the square well is compressed isoenergetically, modifying the wave-functions. The new contracted chamber is then probed using the conventional optimal strategy, and the error probability is calculated. It is shown that in some cases the Helstrom bound can be violated, i.e. the state discrimination can be realized with a smaller error probability.

id: 1001.3603
title: Enhancing image contrast using coherent states and photon number resolving detectors
authors: Aaron Pearlman, Alexander Ling, Elizabeth Goldschmidt, Jingyun Fan, Alan Migdall
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Optics Express
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3603
abstract: We experimentally map the transverse profile of diffraction-limited beams using photon-number-resolving detectors. We observe strong compression of diffracted beam profiles for high detected photon number. This effect leads to higher contrast than a conventional irradiance profile between two Airy disk-beams separated by the Rayleigh criterion.

id: 1001.3634
title: Is the decoherence of a system the result of its interaction with the environment?
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 4 Pages, 5 Figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A25:1431-1439,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3634
abstract: According to a usual reading, decoherence is a process resulting from the interaction between a small system and its large environment where information and energy are dissipated. The particular models treated in the literature on the subject reinforce this idea since, in general, the behavior of a particle immersed in a large "bath" composed by many particles is studied. The aim of this letter is to warn against this usual simplified reading. By means of the analysis of a well-known model, we will show that decoherence may occur in a system interacting with an environment consisting of only one particle.

id: 1001.3655
title: Dualities and positivity in the study of quantum entanglement
authors: Lukasz Skowronek
comments: A shortened and amended version of author's Master's Thesis
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. Vol. 8, No. 5 (2010) 721-754
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3655
abstract: We present a survey on mathematical topics relating to separable states and entanglement witnesses. The convex cone duality between separable states and entanglement witnesses is discussed and later generalized to other families of operators, leading to their characterization via multiplicative properties. The condition for an operator to be an entanglement witness is rephrased as a problem of positivity of a family of real polynomials. By solving the latter in a specific case of a three-parameter family of operators, we obtain explicit description of entanglement witnesses belonging to that family. A related problem of block positivity over real numbers is discussed. We also consider a broad family of block positivity tests and prove that they can never be sufficient, which should be useful in case of future efforts in that direction. Finally, we introduce the concept of length of a separable state and present new results concerning relationships between the length and Schmidt rank. In particular, we prove that separable states of length lower of equal 3 have Schmidt ranks equal to their lengths. We also give an example of a state which has length 4 and Schmidt rank 3.

id: 1001.3693
title: Effective polar potential in the central force Schrodinger equation
authors: M.S.Shikakhwa, M.Mustafa
comments: This is an author-created, un-copyedited version of an article accepted for publication in European Journal of Physics
journal: M S Shikakhwa et al 2010 Eur. J. Phys. 31 151-156
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3693
abstract: The angular part of the Schrodinger equation for a central potential is brought to the one-dimensional 'Schrodinger form' where one has a kinetic energy plus potential energy terms. The resulting polar potential is seen to be a family of potentials characterized by the square of the magnetic quantum number m. It is demonstrated that this potential can be viewed as a confining potential that attempts to confine the particle to the xy-plane, with a strength that increases with increasing m. Linking the solutions of the equation to the conventional solutions of the angular equation, i.e. the associated Legendre functions, we show that the variation in the spatial distribution of the latter for different values of the orbital angular quantum number l can be viewed as being a result of 'squeezing' with different strengths by the introduced 'polar potential'.

id: 1001.3722
title: Quantum algebra in the mixed light pseudoscalar meson states
authors: Li-Jun Tian, Yan-Ling Jin, Ying Jiang
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C71:1528,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3722
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the entanglement degrees of pseudoscalar meson states via quantum algebra Y(su(3)). By making use of transition effect of generators J of Y(su(3)), we construct various transition operators in terms of J of Y(su(3)), and act them on eta-pion-eta mixing meson state. The entanglement degrees of both the initial state and final state are calculated with the help of entropy theory. The diagrams of entanglement degrees are presented. Our result shows that a state with desired entanglement degree can be achieved by acting proper chosen transition operator on an initial state. This sheds new light on the connect among quantum information, particle physics and Yangian algebra.

id: 1001.3738
title: Preparing a mechanical oscillator in non-Gaussian quantum states
authors: Farid Khalili, Stefan Danilishin, Haixing Miao, Helge Muller-Ebhardt, Huan Yang, Yanbei Chen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3738
abstract: We propose a protocol for coherently transferring non-Gaussian quantum states from optical field to a mechanical oscillator. The open quantum dynamics and continuous-measurement process, which can not be treated by the stochastic-master-equation formalism, are studied by a new path-integral-based approach. We obtain an elegant relation between the quantum state of the mechanical oscillator and that of the optical field, which is valid for general linear quantum dynamics. We demonstrate the experimental feasibility of such protocol by considering the cases of both large-scale gravitational-wave detectors and small-scale cavity-assisted optomechanical devices.

id: 1001.3807
title: PEPS as ground states: degeneracy and topology
authors: Norbert Schuch, Ignacio Cirac, David Perez-Garcia
comments: 54 pages, 110 diagrams, 1 figure. v2: minor changes. v3: accepted version, minor changes
journal: Annals of Physics 325, 2153 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3807
abstract: We introduce a framework for characterizing Matrix Product States (MPS) and Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS) in terms of symmetries. This allows us to understand how PEPS appear as ground states of local Hamiltonians with finitely degenerate ground states and to characterize the ground state subspace. Subsequently, we apply our framework to show how the topological properties of these ground states can be explained solely from the symmetry: We prove that ground states are locally indistinguishable and can be transformed into each other by acting on a restricted region, we explain the origin of the topological entropy, and we discuss how to renormalize these states based on their symmetries. Finally, we show how the anyonic character of excitations can be understood as a consequence of the underlying symmetries.

id: 1001.3810
title: Canonical quantization of the electromagnetic field in the presence of non-dispersive bi-anisotropic inhomogeneous magnetodielectric media
authors: M. Amooshahi, B. Nasre Esfahani
comments: 27 pages, No figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3810
abstract: By introducing a suitable Lagrangian, a canonical quantization of the electromagnetic field in the presence of a non-dispersive bi-anisotropic inhomogeneous magnetodielectric medium is investigated. A tensor projection operator is defined and the commutation relation between the vector potential and its canonically conjugate variable is written in terms of the projection operator. The quantization method is generalized in the presence of the atomic systems. The spontaneous emission of a two-level atom located in a non-dispersive anisotropic megnetodielectric medium is studied.

id: 1001.3830
title: Creating path entanglement and violating Bell inequalities by independent photon sources
authors: R. Wiegner, C. Thiel, J. von Zanthier, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3830
abstract: We demonstrate a novel approach of violating position dependent Bell inequalities by photons emitted via independent photon sources in free space. We trace this violation back to path entanglement created a posteriori by the selection of modes due to the process of detection.

id: 1001.3837
title: Visualizing quantum entanglement and the EPR paradox during the photodissociation of a diatomic molecule using two ultrashort laser pulses
authors: Szczepan Chelkowski, Andr¨¦ D. Bandrauk
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3837
abstract: We investigate theoretically the dissociative ionization of a H2+ molecule using two ultrashort laser (pump-probe) pulses. The pump pulse prepares a dissociating nuclear wave packet on an ungerade surface of H2+. Next, an UV (or XUV) probe pulse ionizes this dissociating state at large (R = 20 - 100 bohr) internuclear distance. We calculate the momenta distributions of protons and photoelectrons which show a (two-slit-like) interference structure. A general, simple interference formula is obtained which depends on the electron and protons momenta, as well as on the pump-probe delay on the pulses durations and polarizations. This interference can be interpreted as visualization of an electron state delocalized over the two-centres. This state is an entangled state of a hydrogen atom with a momentum p and a proton with an opposite momentum. -p dissociating on the ungerade surface of H2+. This pump-probe scheme can be used to reveal the nonlocality of the electron which intuitively should be localized on just one of the protons separated by the distance R much larger than the atomic Bohr orbit.

id: 1001.3855
title: Simulation of Electronic Structure Hamiltonians Using Quantum Computers
authors: James D. Whitfield, Jacob Biamonte, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures, 5 tables. v3 Accepted for publication in Journal of Molecular Physics
journal: Molecular Physics, Volume 109, Issue 5 March 2011 , pages 735 - 750
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3855
abstract: Over the last century, a large number of physical and mathematical developments paired with rapidly advancing technology have allowed the field of quantum chemistry to advance dramatically. However, the lack of computationally efficient methods for the exact simulation of quantum systems on classical computers presents a limitation of current computational approaches. We report, in detail, how a set of pre-computed molecular integrals can be used to explicitly create a quantum circuit, i.e. a sequence of elementary quantum operations, that, when run on a quantum computer, to obtain the energy of a molecular system with fixed nuclear geometry using the quantum phase estimation algorithm. We extend several known results related to this idea and discuss the adiabatic state preparation procedure for preparing the input states used in the algorithm. With current and near future quantum devices in mind, we provide a complete example using the hydrogen molecule, of how a chemical Hamiltonian can be simulated using a quantum computer.

id: 1001.3882
title: Spontaneous emission of a nanoscopic emitter in a strongly scattering disordered medium
authors: P. V. Ruijgrok, R. W¨¹est, A. A. Rebane, A. Renn, V. Sandoghdar
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3882
abstract: Fluorescence lifetimes of nitrogen-vacancy color centers in individual diamond nanocrystals were measured at the interface between a glass substrate and a strongly scattering medium. Comparison of the results with values recorded from the same nanocrystals at the glass-air interface revealed fluctuations of fluorescence lifetimes in the scattering medium. After discussing a range of possible systematic effects, we attribute the observed lengthening of the lifetimes to the reduction of the local density of states. Our approach is very promising for exploring the strong three-dimensional localization of light directly on the microscopic scale.

id: 1001.3889
title: Precision spectral manipulation of optical pulses using a coherent photon echo memory
authors: B. C. Buchler, M. Hosseini, G. H¨¦tet, B. M. Sparkes, P. K. Lam
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3889
abstract: Photon echo schemes are excellent candidates for high efficiency coherent optical memory. They are capable of high-bandwidth multi-pulse storage, pulse resequencing and have been shown theoretically to be compatible with quantum information applications. One particular photon echo scheme is the gradient echo memory (GEM). In this system, an atomic frequency gradient is induced in the direction of light propagation leading to a Fourier decomposition of the optical spectrum along the length of the storage medium. This Fourier encoding allows precision spectral manipulation of the stored light. In this letter, we show frequency shifting, spectral compression, spectral splitting, and fine dispersion control of optical pulses using GEM.

id: 1001.3949
title: Physics counterpart of the PT non-hermitian tight-binding chain
authors: L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:032109,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3949
abstract: We explore an alternative way of finding the link between a PT non-Hermitian Hamiltonian and a Hermitian one. Based on the analysis of the scattering problem for an imaginary potential and its time reversal process, it is shown that any real-energy eigenstate of a PT tight-binding lattice with on-site imaginary potentials shares the same wave function with a resonant transmission state of the corresponding Hermitian lattice embedded in a chain. It indicates that the PT eigenstate of a PT non-Hermitian Hamiltonian has connection to the resonance transmission state of the extended Hermitian Hamiltonian.

id: 1001.3953
title: Atomic quantum memories for light
authors: A.S. Sheremet, O.S. Mishina, E. Giacobino, D.V. Kupriyanov
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, submitted to the proceedings of the NATO Advanced Research Workshop ("Quantum Communication and Security", Gdansk, 9-12 September, 2009)
journal: Procceding of the NATO Advanced Research Wprkshop on "Quantum Criptography and Comouting: Theory and Implementations", Gdansk, Poland, 2009; IOS press BV, Amsterdam, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3953
abstract: We consider the coherent stimulated Raman process developing in an optically dense and disordered atomic medium in application to the quantum memory scheme. Our theoretical model predicts that the hyperfine interaction in the excited state of alkali atoms can positively affect on the quantum memory efficiency. Based on the concept of the coherent information transfer we analyze and compare the memory requirements for storage of single photon and macroscopic multi-photon light pulses.

id: 1001.3961
title: Phase Evolution in Spatial Dark States
authors: S. McEndoo, S. Croke, J. Brophy, Th. Busch
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043640 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3961
abstract: Adiabatic techniques using multi-level systems have recently been generalised from the optical case to settings in atom optics, solid state and even classical electrodynamics. The most well known example of these is the so called STIRAP process, which allows transfer of a particle between different states with large fidelity. Here we generalise and examine this process for an atomic centre-of-mass state with a non-trivial phase distribution and show that even though dark state dynamics can be achieved for the atomic density, the phase dynamics will still have to be considered as a dynamical process. In particular we show that the combination of adiabatic and non-adiabatic behaviour can be used to engineer phase superposition states.

id: 1001.3971
title: Topics in Estimation of Quantum Channels
authors: Caleb J. O'Loan
comments: Thesis, completed last year
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3971
abstract: A quantum channel is a mapping which sends density matrices to density matrices. The estimation of quantum channels is of great importance to the field of quantum information. In this thesis two topics related to estimation of quantum channels are investigated. The first of these is the upper bound of Sarovar and Milburn (2006) on the Fisher information obtainable by measuring the output of a channel. Two questions raised by Sarovar and Milburn about their bound are answered. A Riemannian metric on the space of quantum states is introduced, related to the construction of the Sarovar and Milburn bound. Its properties are characterized. The second topic investigated is the estimation of unitary channels. The situation is considered in which an experimenter has several non-identical unitary channels that have the same parameter. It is shown that it is possible to improve estimation using the channels together, analogous to the case of identical unitary channels. Also, a new method of phase estimation is given based on a method sketched by Kitaev (1996). Unlike other phase estimation procedures which perform similarly, this procedure requires only very basic experimental resources.

id: 1001.3989
title: Emergence of Randomness and Arrow of Time in Quantum Walks
authors: Yutaka Shikano, Kota Chisaki, Etsuo Segawa, Norio Konno
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062129 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3989
abstract: Quantum walks are powerful tools not only to construct the quantum speedup algorithms but also to describe specific models in physical processes. Furthermore, the discrete time quantum walk has been experimentally realized in various setups. We apply the concept of the quantum walk to the problems in quantum foundations. We show that randomness and the arrow of time in the quantum walk gradually emerge by periodic projective measurements from the mathematically obtained limit distribution under the time scale transformation.

id: 1001.4085
title: Unified approach to topological quantum computation with anyons: From qubit encoding to Toffoli gate
authors: Haitan Xu, J. M. Taylor
comments: 4.5 pages, 3 figures, published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012332 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4085
abstract: Topological quantum computation may provide a robust approach for encoding and manipulating information utilizing the topological properties of anyonic quasi-particle excitations. We develop an efficient means to map between dense and sparse representations of quantum information (qubits) and a simple construction of multi-qubit gates, for all anyon models from Chern-Simons-Witten SU(2)$_k$ theory that support universal quantum computation by braiding ($k\geq 3,\ k \neq 4$). In the process, we show how the constructions of topological quantum memory and gates for $k=2,4$ connect naturally to those for $k\geq 3,\ k \neq 4$, unifying these concepts in a simple framework. Furthermore, we illustrate potential extensions of these ideas to other anyon models outside of Chern-Simons-Witten field theory.

id: 1001.4111
title: The fundamental importance of discourse in theoretical physics
authors: Philip V. Fellman, Jonathan Vos Post, Christine M. Carmichael
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4111
abstract: The purpose of the following paper is to demonstrate that the "limits of physics" are in a very important way determined by the conceptual framework and language of discourse that we use to describe physical reality. In this paper we examine three areas where the structure of discourse has been particularly difficult. In this regard we examine three problems, the problem of time (which is discussed in two sections of the paper), the problem of non-locality in quantum mechanics and some related general difficulties of interpretation specific to the Copenhagen school, and the concept of maximality as it is employed with respect to cosmic inflation in general relativity and quantum cosmology.

id: 1001.4134
title: Overlapping Resonances in the Resistance of Superposition States to Decoherence
authors: Asoka Biswas, Moshe Shapiro, Paul Brumer
comments: 5 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4134
abstract: Overlapping resonances are shown to provide new insights into the extent of decoherence experienced by a system superposition state in the regime of strong system- environment coupling. As an example of this general approach, a generic system comprising spin-half particles interacting with a thermalized oscillator environment is considered. We find that (a) amongst the collection of parametrized Hamiltonians, the larger the overlapping resonances contribution, the greater the maximum possible purity, and (b) for a fixed Hamiltonian, the larger the overlapping resonances contribution, the larger the range of possible values of the purity as one varies the phases in the system superposition states. Systems displaying decoherence free subspaces show that largest overlapping resonances contribution.

id: 1001.4159
title: Simple model of self-supported deformed states of isolated atoms
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula
comments: 0 pages, 10 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 81, 012121 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4159
abstract: We propose a simple three-body model of an atom in which one electron on a circular Rydberg orbit is treated as an independent particle and the remaining core electrons are collectively described as a single object. Within this model we predict the existence of stable deformed states of atoms. The deformation is generated by a bootstrap mechanism. The atomic core is polarized by the excited electron and the induced dipole moment keeps this electron localized. The deformed stable states of the atom are similar to the Trojan states observed in recent experiments. However, in the present case the breaking of the rotational symmetry does not require the presence of external fields.

id: 1001.4182
title: Optimizing type-I polarization-entangled photons
authors: Radhika Rangarajan, Michael Goggin, Paul Kwiat
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, 1 Table
journal: Optics Express Vol. 17, Iss. 21, pp. 18920 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4182
abstract: Optical quantum information processing needs ultra-bright sources of entangled photons, especially from synchronizable femtosecond lasers and low-cost cw-diode lasers. Decoherence due to timing information and spatial mode-dependent phase has traditionally limited the brightness of such sources. We report on a variety of methods to optimize type-I polarization-entangled sources - the combined use of different compensation techniques to engineer high-fidelity pulsed and cw-diode laser-pumped sources, as well as the first production of polarization-entanglement directly from the highly nonlinear biaxial crystal BiB3O6 (BiBO). Using spatial compensation, we show more than a 400-fold improvement in the phase flatness, which otherwise limits efficient collection of entangled photons from BiBO, and report the highest fidelity to date (99%) of any ultrafast polarization-entanglement source. Our numerical code, available on our website, can design optimal compensation crystals and simulate entanglement from a variety of type-I phasematched nonlinear crystals.

id: 1001.4222
title: Phase control of spatial interference from two duplicated two-level atoms
authors: Luling Jin, Yueping Niu, Shangqing Gong
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4222
abstract: We report the phase control of spatial interference of resonance fluorescence from two duplicated two-level atoms, driving by two orthogonally polarized fields. In this closed-loop system, the relative phase is of crucial importance to the recovery of the interference patten in the fluorescence light even with strong driving.In order to improve the experimental realizability, we propose a scheme to recover the visibility with fixed relative phase by adjusting the relative intensities between the two driving fields or alternatively by using a standing-wave field.

id: 1001.4302
title: Quantum correlations through event horizons: Fermionic versus bosonic entanglement
authors: E. Martin-Martinez, J. Leon
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, revtex 4, title changed to match journal publication and Journal reference added
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:032320,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4302
abstract: We disclose the behaviour of quantum and classical correlations among all the different spatial-temporal regions of a space-time with an event horizon, comparing fermionic with bosonic fields. We show the emergence of conservation laws for entanglement and classical correlations, pointing out the crucial role that statistics plays in the information exchange (and more specifically, the entanglement tradeoff) across horizons. The results obtained here could shed new light on the problem of information behaviour in non-inertial frames and in the presence of horizons, giving a better insight about the black hole information paradox.

id: 1001.4319
title: Role of a Phase Factor in the Boundary Condition of a One-Dimensional Junction
authors: Yoshiyuki Furuhashi, Masao Hirokawa, Kazumitsu Nakahara, Yutaka Shikano
comments: 19 pages, to appear in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, Special issues: Quantum Phases: 50 Years of the Aharonov-Bohm Effect and 25 Years of the Berry Phase
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 354010 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4319
abstract: One-dimensional quantum systems can be experimentally studied in recent nano-technology like the carbon nanotube and the nanowire. We have considered the mathematical model of the one-dimensional Schr\"{o}dinger particle with a junction and have analyzed the phase factor in the boundary condition of the junction. We have shown that the phase factor in the tunneling case appears in the situation of the non-adiabatic transition with the three energy levels in the exact WKB analysis.

id: 1001.4328
title: Wave Packet under Continuous Measurement via Bohmian Mechanics
authors: Antonio B. Nassar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4328
abstract: A new quantum mechanical description of the dynamics of wave packet under continuous measurement is formulated via Bohmian mechanics. The solution to this equation is found through a wave packet approach which establishes a direct correlation between a classical variable with a quantum variable describing the dynamics of the center of mass and the width of the wave packet. The approach presented in this paper gives a comparatively clearer picture than approaches using restrited path integrals and master equation approaches. This work shows how the extremely irregular character of classical chaos can be reconciled with the smooth and wavelike nature of phenomena on the atomic scale. It is demonstrated that a wave packet under continuous quantum measurement displays both chaotic and non-chaotic features. The Lyapunov characteristic exponents for the trajectories of classical particle and the quantum wave packet center of mass are calculated and their chaoticities are demonstrated to be about the same. Nonetheless, the width of the wave packet exhibits a non-chaotic behavior and allows for the possibility to beat the standard quantum limit by means of transient, contractive states.

id: 1001.4343
title: Imprinting Light Phase on Matter Wave Gratings in Superradiance Scattering
authors: Xiaoji Zhou, Fan Yang, Xuguang Yue, T. Vogt, Xuzong Chen
comments: 6 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4343
abstract: Superradiance scattering from a Bose-Einstein condensate is studied with a two-frequency pumping beam. We demonstrate the possibility of fully tuning the backward mode population as a function of the locked initial relative phase between the two frequency components of the pumping beam. This result comes from an imprinting of this initial relative phase on two matter wave gratings, formed by the forward mode or backward mode condensate plus the condensate at rest, so that cooperative scattering is affected. A numerical simulation using a semiclassical model agrees with our observations.

id: 1001.4386
title: 3nj Morphogenesis and Semiclassical Disentangling
authors: Roger W. Anderson, Vincenzo Aquilanti, Annalisa Marzuoli
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. Chem. A 113 (2009) 15106-15117
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4386
abstract: Recoupling coefficients (3nj symbols) are unitary transformations between binary coupled eigenstates of N=(n+1) mutually commuting SU(2) angular momentum operators. They have been used in a variety of applications in spectroscopy, quantum chemistry and nuclear physics and quite recently also in quantum gravity and quantum computing. These coefficients, naturally associated to cubic Yutsis graphs, share a number of intriguing combinatorial, algebraic, and analytical features that make them fashinating objects to be studied on their own. In this paper we develop a bottom--up, systematic procedure for the generation of 3nj from 3(n-1)j diagrams by resorting to diagrammatical and algebraic methods. We provide also a novel approach to the problem of classifying various regimes of semiclassical expansions of 3nj coefficients (asymptotic disentangling of 3nj diagrams) for n > 2 by means of combinatorial, analytical and numerical tools.

id: 1001.4394
title: Molecular heat pump for rotational states
authors: C. Lazarou, M. Keller, B.M. Garraway
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 013418 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4394
abstract: In this work we investigate the theory for three different uni-directional population transfer schemes in trapped multilevel systems which can be utilized to cool molecular ions. The approach we use exploits the laser-induced coupling between the internal and motional degrees of freedom so that the internal state of a molecule can be mapped onto the motion of that molecule in an external trapping potential. By sympathetically cooling the translational motion back into its ground state the mapping process can be employed as part of a cooling scheme for molecular rotational levels. This step is achieved through a common mode involving a laser-cooled atom trapped alongside the molecule. For the coherent mapping we will focus on adiabatic passage techniques which may be expected to provide robust and efficient population transfers. By applying far-detuned chirped adiabatic rapid passage pulses we are able to achieve an efficiency of better than 98% for realistic parameters and including spontaneous emission. Even though our main focus is on cooling molecular states, the analysis of the different adiabatic methods has general features which can be applied to atomic systems.

id: 1001.4421
title: Playing relativistic billiards beyond graphene
authors: Emerson Sadurni, Thomas Seligman, Fabrice Mortessagne
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures. Submitted to NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 12:053014,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4421
abstract: The possibility of using hexagonal structures in general and graphene in particular to emulate the Dirac equation is the basis of our considerations. We show that Dirac oscillators with or without restmass can be emulated by distorting a tight binding model on a hexagonal structure. In a quest to make a toy model for such relativistic equations we first show that a hexagonal lattice of attractive potential wells would be a good candidate. First we consider the corresponding one-dimensional model giving rise to a one-dimensional Dirac oscillator, and then construct explicitly the deformations needed in the two-dimensional case. Finally we discuss, how such a model can be implemented as an electromagnetic billiard using arrays of dielectric resonators between two conducting plates that ensure evanescent modes outside the resonators for transversal electric modes, and describe an appropriate experimental setup.

id: 1001.4446
title: Heat pumping with optically driven excitons
authors: Erik M. Gauger, Joachim Wabnig
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 073301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4446
abstract: We present a theoretical study showing that an optically driven excitonic two-level system in a solid state environment acts as a heat pump by means of repeated phonon emission or absorption events. We derive a master equation for the combined phonon bath and two-level system dynamics and analyze the direction and rate of energy transfer as a function of the externally accessible driving parameters. We discover that if the driving laser is detuned from the exciton transition, cooling the phonon environment becomes possible.

id: 1001.4449
title: Purification of Single-photon Entanglement
authors: D. Salart, O. Landry, N. Sangouard, N. Gisin, H. Herrmann, B. Sanguinetti, C. Simon, W. Sohler, R. T. Thew, A. Thomas, H. Zbinden
comments: Main article: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: PRL 104, 180504 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4449
abstract: Single-photon entanglement is a simple form of entanglement that exists between two spatial modes sharing a single photon. Despite its elementary form, it provides a resource as useful as polarization-entangled photons and it can be used for quantum teleportation and entanglement swapping operations. Here, we report the first experiment where single-photon entanglement is purified with a simple linear-optics based protocol. Besides its conceptual interest, this result might find applications in long distance quantum communication based on quantum repeaters.

id: 1001.4559
title: Thermalization and temperature distribution in a driven ion chain
authors: G.-D. Lin, L.-M. Duan
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 075015 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4559
abstract: We study thermalization and non-equilibrium dynamics in a dissipative quantum many-body system -- a chain of ions with two points of the chain driven by thermal bath under different temperature. Instead of a simple linear temperature gradient as one expects from the classical heat diffusion process, the temperature distribution in the ion chain shows surprisingly rich patterns, which depend on the ion coupling rate to the bath, the location of the driven ions, and the dissipation rates of the other ions in the chain. Through simulation of the temperature evolution, we show that these unusual temperature distribution patterns in the ion chain can be quantitatively tested in experiments within a realistic time scale.

id: 1001.4575
title: EPR-Bohr and Quantum Trajectories: Entaglement and Nonlocality
authors: Edward R. Floyd
comments: 15 pages of LaTeX, 2 figures. PACS Nos. 3.65Ta, 3.65Ca, 3.65Ud. Keywords: EPR, entanglement, nonlocality, determinism, quantum trajectories, action at a distance
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4575
abstract: Quantum trajectories are used to investigate the EPR-Bohr debate in a modern sense by examining entanglement and nonlocality. We synthesize a single "entanglement molecule" from the two scattered particles of the EPR experiment. We explicitly investigate the behavior of the entanglement molecule rather than the behaviors of the two scattered particles to gain insight into the EPR-Bohr debate. We develop the entanglement molecule's wave function in polar form and its reduced action, both of which manifest entanglement. We next apply Jacobi's theorem to the reduced action to generate the equation of quantum motion for the entanglement molecule to produce its quantum trajectory. The resultant quantum trajectory manifests entanglement and has retrograde segments interspersed between segments of forward motion. This alternating of forward and retrograde segments generates nonlocality and, within the entanglement molecule, action at a distance. Dissection of the equation of quantum motion for the entanglement molecule, while rendering the classical behavior of the two scattered particles, also reveals an emergent "entanglon" that maintains the entanglement between the scattered particles. The characteristics of the entanglon and its relationship to nonlocality are examined.

id: 1001.4587
title: A study on the relations between the topological parameter and entanglement
authors: Chunfang Sun, Kang Xue, Gangcheng Wang, Chunfeng Wu
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4587
abstract: In this paper, some relations between the topological parameter $d$ and concurrences of the projective entangled states have been presented. It is shown that for the case with $d=n$, all the projective entangled states of two $n$-dimensional quantum systems are the maximally entangled states (i.e. $C=1$). And for another case with $d\neq n$, $C$ both approach $0$ when $d\rightarrow +\infty$ for $n=2$ and $3$. Then we study the thermal entanglement and the entanglement sudden death (ESD) for a kind of Yang-Baxter Hamiltonian. It is found that the parameter $d$ not only influences the critical temperature $T_{c}$, but also can influence the maximum entanglement value at which the system can arrive at. And we also find that the parameter $d$ has a great influence on the ESD.

id: 1001.4600
title: Quantum gate using qubit states separated by terahertz
authors: K. Toyoda, S. Haze, R. Yamazaki, S. Urabe
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4600
abstract: A two-qubit quantum gate is realized using electronic excited states in a single ion with an energy separation on the order of a terahertz times the Planck constant as a qubit. Two phase locked lasers are used to excite a stimulated Raman transition between two metastable states $D_{3/2}$ and $D_{5/2}$ separated by 1.82 THz in a single trapped $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ion to construct a qubit, which is used as the target bit for the Cirac-Zoller two-qubit controlled NOT gate. Quantum dynamics conditioned on a motional qubit is clearly observed as a fringe reversal in Ramsey interferometry.

id: 1001.4632
title: Imprints of the Quantum World in Classical Mechanics
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson, Basil Hiley
comments: Paper submitted to Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4632
abstract: The imprints left by quantum mechanics in classical (Hamiltonian) mechanics are much more numerous than is usually believed. We show Using no physical hypotheses) that the Schroedinger equation for a nonrelativistic system of spinless particles is a classical equation which is equivalent to Hamilton's equations.

id: 1001.4660
title: Storing Quantum Information via Atomic Dark Resonances
authors: Filippo Caruso
comments: Master Thesis (2005), University of Catania, 107 pages, 40 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4660
abstract: In this thesis, after a brief review of some concepts of Quantum Optics, we analyze a three-level atomic system in the conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT), and we investigate the propagation of a gaussian pulse along a cigar-shaped cloud of both cold and hot atoms in EIT regime. In particular, we show that it is possible to amplify a slow propagating pulse without population inversion. We also analyze the regime of anomalous light propagation showing that it is possible to observe superluminal energy propagation. In these conditions, it is possible to imprint reversibly ('write') the information carried by the photons onto the atoms, specifically as a coherent pattern of atomic spins, and later the information stored in the atomic spins can be transferred back ('read') to the light field, implementing in this way a quantum memory. Besides, we analyze the propagation of a quantum field in an EIT medium sustaining dark state polaritons (DSP) in a quasi-particle picture. Here, the decoherence effects in this quantum memory for photons, by analyzing the fidelity of the quantum state transfer, and the emergence of parastatistics in the quasi-particle picture in gain medium are discussed. Finally, we introduce a polarization quantum memory for photons by using a tripod atomic configuration in which two ideal EIT windows appear and the two DSPs, scattering each other, show a solitonic behavior.

id: 1001.4666
title: Comment on "Uncertainty relations in terms of the Tsallis entropy
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Lukasz Rudnicki
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4666
abstract: We prove that the inequality used recently by Wilk and W{\l}odarczyk [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 79}, 062108 (2009)] to find a better lower bound in the uncertainty relations for the R\'enyi entropies is invalid. Thus, the problem of improving the bound given in our paper [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 74}, 052101 (2006)] remains unsolved.

id: 1001.4668
title: Entropic Uncertainty Relations in Quantum Physics
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Lukasz Rudnicki
comments: 35 pages, review paper
journal: Statistical Complexity, Ed. K. D. Sen, Springer, 2011, Ch. 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4668
abstract: Uncertainty relations have become the trademark of quantum theory since they were formulated by Bohr and Heisenberg. This review covers various generalizations and extensions of the uncertainty relations in quantum theory that involve the R\'enyi and the Shannon entropies. The advantages of these entropic uncertainty relations are pointed out and their more direct connection to the observed phenomena is emphasized. Several remaining open problems are mentioned

id: 1001.4669
title: Non-Markovian reservoir-dependent squeezing
authors: J. Paavola
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Proceedings of CEWQO2009
journal: Phys. Scr. T140, 014030 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4669
abstract: The squeezing dynamics of a damped harmonic oscillator are studied for different types of environment without making the Markovian approximation. The squeezing dynamics of a coherent state depend on the reservoir spectrum in a unique way that can, in the weak coupling approximation, be analyzed analytically. Comparison of squeezing dynamics for Ohmic, sub-Ohmic and super-Ohmic environments is done showing a clear connection between the squeezing--non-squeezing oscillations and reservoir structure. Understanding the effects occurring due to structured reservoirs is important both from a purely theoretical point of view and in connection with evolving experimental techniques and future quantum computing applications.

id: 1001.4688
title: Generalized Observables, Bell's Inequalities and Mixtures in the ESR Model for QM
authors: Claudio Garola, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure, Found. Phys
journal: Foundations of Physics (2011) 41:424-449
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4688
abstract: The extended semantic realism (ESR) model proposes a new theoretical perspective which embodies the mathematical formalism of standard (Hilbert space) quantum mechanics (QM) into a noncontextual framework, reinterpreting quantum probabilities as conditional instead of absolute. We provide in this review an overall view on the present status of our research on this topic. We attain in a new, shortened way a mathematical representation of the generalized observables introduced by the ESR model and a generalization of the projection postulate of elementary QM. Basing on these results we prove that the Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (BCHSH) inequality, a modified BCHSH inequality and quantum predictions hold together in the ESR model because they refer to different parts of the picture of the physical world supplied by the model. Then we show that a new mathematical representation of mixtures must be introduced in the ESR model which does not coincide with the standard representation in QM and avoids some deep problems that arise from the representation of mixtures provided by QM. Finally we get a nontrivial generalization of the Luders postulate, which is justified in a special case by introducing a reasonable physical assumption on the evolution of the compound system made up of the measured system and the measuring apparatus.

id: 1001.4712
title: Tunneling and transmission resonances of a Dirac particle by a double barrier
authors: Victor M. Villalba, Luis Gonzalez-Arraga
comments: To appear in Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4712
abstract: We calculate the tunneling process of a Dirac particle across two square barriers separated a distance $d$, as well as the scattering by a double cusp barrier where the centers of the cusps are separated a distance larger than their screening lengths. Using the scattering matrix formalism, we obtain the transmission and reflection amplitudes for the scattering processes of both configurations. We show that, the presence of transmission resonances modifies the Lorentizian shape of the energy resonances and induces the appearance of additional maxima in the transmission coefficient in the range of energies where transmission resonances occur. We calculate the Wigner time-delay and show how their maxima depend on the position of the transmission resonance.

id: 1001.4756
title: On Estimation of Fully Entangled Fraction
authors: Rui-Juan Gu, Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys., 53, 265(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4756
abstract: We study the fully entangled fraction (FEF) of arbitrary mixed states. New upper bounds of FEF are derived. These upper bounds make complements on the estimation of the value of FEF. For weakly mixed quantum states, an upper bound is shown to be very tight to the exact value of FEF.

id: 1001.4763
title: Compressibility, zero sound, and effective mass of a fermionic dipolar gas at finite temperature
authors: J. P. Kestner, S. Das Sarma
comments: 19 pages, 12 figures; substantially revised and expanded
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033608 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4763
abstract: The compressibility, zero sound dispersion, and effective mass of a gas of fermionic dipolar molecules is calculated at finite temperature for one-, two-, and three-dimensional uniform systems, and in a multilayer quasi-two-dimensional system. The compressibility is nonmonotonic in the reduced temperature, $T/T_F$, exhibiting a maximum at finite temperature. This effect might be visible in a quasi-low-dimensional experiment, providing a clear signature of the onset of many-body quantum degeneracy effects. The collective mode dispersion and effective mass show similar nontrivial temperature and density dependence. In a quasi-low-dimensional system, the zero sound mode may propagate at experimentally attainable temperatures.

id: 1001.4785
title: Complementarity paradox solved: surprising consequences
authors: E. V. Flores, J. M. De Tata
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4785
abstract: Afshar et al. claim that their experiment shows a violation of the complementarity inequality. In this work, we study their claim using a modified Mach-Zehnder setup that represents a simpler version of the Afshar experiment. We find that our results are consistent with Afshar et al. experimental findings. However, we show that within standard quantum mechanics the results of the Afshar experiment do not lead to a violation of the complementarity inequality. We show that their claim originates from a particular technique they use to analyze their results. In their analysis, they assume a classical concept, that particles have a definite trajectory before detection, thus, they obtain which-way information by particle detection plus path extrapolation by applying momentum conservation. This analysis technique is standard in experimental particle physics. Important discoveries such as the detection of vector bosons have been made through the application of this technique. We note that particle detection plus path extrapolation is a suitable technique within de Broglie-Bohm theory of quantum mechanics.

id: 1001.4804
title: Quantum Limits on Parameter Estimation
authors: Garry Goldstein, Mikhail D. Lukin, Paola Cappellaro
comments: Submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4804
abstract: We present a new proof of the quantum Cramer-Rao bound for precision parameter estimation [1-3] and extend it to a more general class of measurement procedures. We analyze a generalized framework for parameter estimation that covers most experimentally accessible situations, where multiple rounds of measurements, auxiliary systems or external control of the evolution are available. The proof presented demonstrates the equivalence of these more general metrology procedures to the simplest optimal strategy for which the bound is proven: a single measurement of a two-level system interacting with a time-independent Hamiltonian.

id: 1001.4813
title: Inverse spin-s portrait and representation of qudit states by single probability vectors
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures, PDF LaTeX, submitted to the Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 31 (2010) 32-54
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4813
abstract: Using the tomographic probability representation of qudit states and the inverse spin-portrait method, we suggest a bijective map of the qudit density operator onto a single probability distribution. Within the framework of the approach proposed, any quantum spin-j state is associated with the (2j+1)(4j+1)-dimensional probability vector whose components are labeled by spin projections and points on the sphere. Such a vector has a clear physical meaning and can be relatively easily measured. Quantum states form a convex subset of the 2j(4j+3) simplex, with the boundary being illustrated for qubits (j=1/2) and qutrits (j=1). A relation to the (2j+1)^2- and (2j+1)(2j+2)-dimensional probability vectors is established in terms of spin-s portraits. We also address an auxiliary problem of the optimum reconstruction of qudit states, where the optimality implies a minimum relative error of the density matrix due to the errors in measured probabilities.

id: 1001.4831
title: Dynamics and quantum Zeno effect for a qubit in either a low- or high-frequency bath: A non-markovian approach beyond the rotating-wave approximation
authors: Xiufeng Cao, J. Q. You, H. Zheng, Franco Nori
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022119 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4831
abstract: We use a non-Markovian approach to study the decoherence dynamics of a qubit in either a low- or high-frequency bath modeling the qubit environment. This approach is based on a unitary transformation and does not require the rotating-wave approximation. We show that for low-frequency noise, the bath shifts the qubit energy towards higher energies (blue shift), while the ordinary high-frequency cutoff Ohmic bath shifts the qubit energy towards lower energies (red shift). In order to preserve the coherence of the qubit, we also investigate the quantum Zeno effect in two cases: low- and high-frequency baths. For very frequent projective measurements, the low-frequency bath gives rise to the quantum anti-Zeno effect on the qubit. The quantum Zeno effect only occurs in the high-frequency cutoff Ohmic bath, after considering counter-rotating terms. For a high-frequency environment, the decay rate should be faster (without frequent measurements) or slower (with frequent measurements, in the Zeno regime), compared to the low-frequency bath case. The experimental implementation of our results here could distinguish the type of bath (either a low- or high-frequency one) and protect the coherence of the qubit by modulating the dominant frequency of its environment.

id: 1001.4844
title: Entropy and specific heat for open systems in steady states
authors: X. L. Huang, B. Cui, X. X. Yi
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4844
abstract: The fundamental assumption of statistical mechanics is that the system is equally likely in any of the accessible microstates. Based on this assumption, the Boltzmann distribution is derived and the full theory of statistical thermodynamics can be built. In this paper, we show that the Boltzmann distribution in general can not describe the steady state of open system. Based on the effective Hamiltonian approach, we calculate the specific heat, the free energy and the entropy for an open system in steady states. Examples are illustrated and discussed.

id: 1001.4860
title: Demonstration of unconditional one-way quantum computations for continuous variables
authors: Ryuji Ukai, Noriaki Iwata, Yuji Shimokawa, Seiji C. Armstrong, Alberto Politi, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 106, 240504 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4860
abstract: Quantum computing promises to exploit the laws of quantum mechanics for processing information in ways fundamentally different from today's classical computers, leading to unprecedented efficiency. One-way quantum computation, sometimes referred to as the cluster model of quantum computation, is a very promising approach to fulfil the capabilities of quantum information processing. The cluster model is realizable through measurements on a highly entangled cluster state with no need for controlled unitary evolutions. Here we demonstrate unconditional one-way quantum computation experiments for continuous variables using a linear cluster state of four entangled optical modes. We implement an important set of quantum operations, linear transformations, in the optical phase space through one-way computation. Though not sufficient, these are necessary for universal quantum computation over continuous variables, and in our scheme, in principle, any such linear transformation can be unconditionally and deterministically applied to arbitrary single-mode quantum states.

id: 1001.4870
title: Quantum Algorithm of Evolutionary Analysis of 1D Cellular Automata
authors: B. Pavlyshenko
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4870
abstract: It is shown that irreversible classical cellular automata can be performed by quantum algorithm using additional ancilla registers. The algorithm for cellular automata states analysis has been proposed. This algorithm is based on the elements of Grover's algorithm - the inversion of amplitude of searched states and unitary transform of inversion about the average. The inversion of searched states amplitudes can be performed by quantum Toffoli gate.

id: 1001.4875
title: Entanglement degradation in the solid state: interplay of adiabatic and quantum noise
authors: B. Bellomo, G. Compagno, A. D'Arrigo, G. Falci, R. Lo Franco, E. Paladino
comments: Replaced with published version. Minor changes
journal: Physical Review A 81, 062309 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4875
abstract: We study entanglement degradation of two non-interacting qubits subject to independent baths with broadband spectra typical of solid state nanodevices. We obtain the analytic form of the concurrence in the presence of adiabatic noise for classes of entangled initial states presently achievable in experiments. We find that adiabatic (low frequency) noise affects entanglement reduction analogously to pure dephasing noise. Due to quantum (high frequency) noise, entanglement is totally lost in a state-dependent finite time. The possibility to implement on-chip both local and entangling operations is briefly discussed.

id: 1001.4993
title: Comment on "A glance beyond the quantum model" [arXiv:0907.0372]
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: "A glance beyond the quantum model" appeared as ProcRoySocA 2010 466, 881-890, DOI:10.1098/rspa.2009.0453. This "comment" (written as MSWord, 4 pages, converted to PDF) submitted to ProcRoySocA 1/27/2010
journal: Proc.Roy.Soc.Lond.A466:881-890,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4993
abstract: The aim of "A glance beyond the quantum model" [arXiv:0907.0372] to modernize the Correspondence Principle is compromised by an assumption that a classical model must start with the idea of particles, whereas in empirical terms particles are secondary to events. The discussion also proposes, contradictorily, that observers who wish to model the macroscopic world classically should do so in terms of classical fields, whereas, if we are to use fields, it would more appropriate to adopt the mathematics of random fields. Finally, the formalism used for discussion of Bell inequalities introduces two assumptions that are not necessary for a random field model, locality of initial conditions and non-contextuality, even though these assumptions are, in contrast, very natural for a classical particle model. Whether we discuss physics in terms of particles or in terms of events and (random) fields leads to differences that a glance would be well to notice.

id: 1001.5057
title: New Slant on the EPR-Bell Experiment
authors: Peter Evans, Huw Price, K. B. Wharton
comments: 26 pages, 7 figures; extensively revised for resubmission
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5057
abstract: The best case for thinking that quantum mechanics is nonlocal rests on Bell's Theorem, and later results of the same kind. However, the correlations characteristic of EPR-Bell (EPRB) experiments also arise in familiar cases elsewhere in QM, where the two measurements involved are timelike rather than spacelike separated; and in which the correlations are usually assumed to have a local causal explanation, requiring no action-at-a-distance. It is interesting to ask how this is possible, in the light of Bell's Theorem. We investigate this question, and present two options. Either (i) the new cases are nonlocal, too, in which case action-at-a-distance is more widespread in QM than has previously been appreciated (and does not depend on entanglement, as usually construed); or (ii) the means of avoiding action-at-a-distance in the new cases extends in a natural way to EPRB, removing action-at-a-distance in these cases, too. There is a third option, viz., that the new cases are strongly disanalogous to EPRB. But this option requires an argument, so far missing, that the physical world breaks the symmetries which otherwise support the analogy. In the absence of such an argument, the orthodox combination of views -- action-at-a-distance in EPRB, but local causality in its timelike analogue -- is less well established than it is usually assumed to be.

id: 1001.5148
title: Negative entanglement measure for bipartite separable mixed states
authors: Cheng-Jie Zhang, Yong-Jian Han, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Yu-Chun Wu, Xiang-Fa Zhou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062312 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5148
abstract: We define a negative entanglement measure for separable states which shows that how much entanglement one should compensate the unentangled state at least for changing it into an entangled state. For two-qubit systems and some special classes of states in higher-dimensional systems, the explicit formula and the lower bounds for the negative entanglement measure have been presented, and it always vanishes for bipartite separable pure states. The negative entanglement measure can be used as a useful quantity to describe the entanglement dynamics and the quantum phase transition. In the transverse Ising model, the first derivatives of negative entanglement measure diverge on approaching the critical value of the quantum phase transition, although these two-site reduced density matrices have no entanglement at all. In the 1D Bose-Hubbard model, the NEM as a function of $t/U$ changes from zero to negative on approaching the critical point of quantum phase transition.

id: 1001.5159
title: On the linear dispersion--linear potential quantum oscillator
authors: Martin Greiter
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 325, 1349 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5159
abstract: We solve the bi-linear quantum oscillator H=v|p|+F|x| both quasi-classically and numerically.

id: 1001.5185
title: Estimating Concurrence via Entanglement Witnesses
authors: Jacek Jurkowski, Dariusz Chruscinski
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5185
abstract: We show that each entanglement witness detecting given bipartite entangled state provides an estimation of its concurrence. We illustrate our result with several well known examples of entanglement witnesses and compare the corresponding estimation of concurrence with other estimations provided by the trace norm of partial transposition and realignment.

id: 1001.5200
title: An Adaptive, Fixed-Point Version of Grover's Algorithm
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 20 pages (17 files: 1 .tex, 1.sty, 11 .eps, 3 .m, 1 .xxx);V2-minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5200
abstract: We give an adaptive, fixed-point version of Grover's algorithm. By this we mean that our algorithm performs an infinite sequence of gradually diminishing steps (so we say it's adaptive) that drives the starting state to the target state with absolute certainty (so we say it's a fixed-point algorithm). Our algorithm is motivated by Bloch sphere geometry. We include with the ArXiv distribution of this paper some simple software (Octave/Matlab m-files) that implements, tests and illustrates some of the results of this paper.

id: 1001.5205
title: Suppressing local enviromental noise in non clasical communication
authors: N. Metwally, A.-S. Obada
comments: We have got a new result, therefore we shall modified this work
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5205
abstract: We have modified the work

id: 1001.5234
title: Compensating the Noise of a Communication Channel via Asymmetric Encoding of Quantum Information
authors: Marco Lucamarini, Giovanni Di Giuseppe, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 140504 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5234
abstract: An asymmetric preparation of the quantum states sent through a noisy channel can enable a new way to monitor and actively compensate the channel noise. The paradigm of such an asymmetric treatment of quantum information is the Bennett 1992 protocol, in which the ratio between conclusive and inconclusive counts is in direct connection with the channel noise. Using this protocol as a guiding example, we show how to correct the phase drift of a communication channel without using reference pulses, interruptions of the quantum transmission or public data exchanges.

id: 1001.5251
title: Generation of two-photon EPR and Wstates
authors: W.B. Cardoso, W.C. Qiang, A.T. Avelar, B. Baseia
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43, 155502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5251
abstract: In this paper we present a scheme for generation of two-photon EPR and W states in the cavity QED context. The scheme requires only one three-level Rydberg atom and two or three cavities. The atom is sent to interact with cavities previously prepared in vacuum states, via two-photon process. An appropriate choice of the interaction times one obtains the mentioned state with maximized fidelities. These specific times and the values of success probability and fidelity are discussed.

id: 1001.5255
title: Adiabatic Perturbation Theory and Geometric Phases for Degenerate Systems
authors: Gustavo Rigolin, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: 5 pages, no figures, RevTex4; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 170406 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5255
abstract: We introduce an adiabatic perturbation theory for quantum systems with degenerate energy spectra. This perturbative series enables one to rigorously establish conditions for the validity of the adiabatic theorem of quantum mechanics for degenerate systems. The same formalism can be used to find non-adiabatic corrections to the non-Abelian Wilczek-Zee geometric phase. These corrections are relevant to assess the validity of the practical implementation of the concept of fractional exchange statistics. We illustrate the formalism by exactly solving a time-dependent problem and comparing its solution to the perturbative one.

id: 1001.5307
title: Computing on Anonymous Quantum Network
authors: Hirotada Kobayashi, Keiji Matsumoto, Seiichiro Tani
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5307
abstract: This paper considers distributed computing on an anonymous quantum network, a network in which no party has a unique identifier and quantum communication and computation are available. It is proved that the leader election problem can exactly (i.e., without error in bounded time) be solved with at most the same complexity up to a constant factor as that of exactly computing symmetric functions (without intermediate measurements for a distributed and superposed input), if the number of parties is given to every party. A corollary of this result is a more efficient quantum leader election algorithm than existing ones: the new quantum algorithm runs in O(n) rounds with bit complexity O(mn^2), on an anonymous quantum network with n parties and m communication links. Another corollary is the first quantum algorithm that exactly computes any computable Boolean function with round complexity O(n) and with smaller bit complexity than that of existing classical algorithms in the worst case over all (computable) Boolean functions and network topologies. More generally, any n-qubit state can be shared with that complexity on an anonymous quantum network with n parties.

id: 1001.5308
title: Effect of an atom on a quantum guided field in a weakly driven fiber-Bragg-grating cavity
authors: Fam Le Kien, K. Hakuta
comments: Accepted for Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5308
abstract: We study the interaction of an atom with a quantum guided field in a weakly driven fiber-Bragg-grating (FBG) cavity. We present an effective Hamiltonian and derive the density-matrix equations for the combined atom-cavity system. We calculate the mean photon number, the second-order photon correlation function, and the atomic excited-state population. We show that, due to the confinement of the guided cavity field in the fiber cross-section plane and in the space between the FBG mirrors, the presence of the atom in the FBG cavity can significantly affect the mean photon number and the photon statistics even though the cavity finesse is moderate, the cavity is long, and the probe field is weak.

id: 1001.5326
title: Discrete-Time Quantum Walk - Dynamics and Applications
authors: C.M. Chandrashekar
comments: 199 pages, 52 figures, Thesis completed during 2009 at University of Waterloo (IQC), V2 : Index of figures has been made compact
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5326
abstract: This dissertation presents investigations on dynamics of discrete-time quantum walk and some of its applications. Quantum walks has been exploited as an useful tool for quantum algorithms in quantum computing. Beyond quantum computational purposes, it has been used to explain and control the dynamics in various physical systems. In order to use the quantum walk to its fullest potential, it is important to know and optimize the properties purely due to quantum dynamics and in presence of noise. Various studies of its dynamics in the absence and presence of noise have been reported. We propose new approaches to optimize the dynamics, discuss symmetries and effect of noise on the quantum walk. Making use of its properties, we propose the use of quantum walk as an efficient new tool for various applications in physical systems and quantum information processing. In the first and second part of this dissertation, we discuss evolution process of the quantum walks, propose and demonstrate the optimization of discrete-time quantum walk using quantum coin operation from SU(2) group and discuss some of its properties. We investigate symmetry operations and environmental effects on dynamics of the walk on a line and an n-cycle highlighting the interplay between noise and topology. Using the properties and behavior of quantum walk discussed in part two, in part three we propose the application of quantum walk to realize quantum phase transition in optical lattice, that is to efficiently control and redistribute ultracold atoms in optical lattice. We also discuss the implementation scheme. Another application we consider is creation of spatial entanglement using quantum walk on a quantum many body system.

id: 1001.5440
title: Manipulating and protecting entanglement by means of spin environments
authors: T. J. G. Apollaro, A. Cuccoli, C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro, F. Plastina, P. Verrucchi
comments: 7 pages and a bit, 7 figures, RevTeX4
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 083046 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5440
abstract: We study the dynamical behavior of two initially entangled qubits, each locally coupled to an environment embodied by an interacting spin chain. We consider energy-exchange qubit-environment couplings resulting in a rich and highly non trivial entanglement dynamics. We obtain exact results for the time-evolution of the concurrence between the two qubits and find that, by tuning the interaction parameters, one can freeze the dynamics of entanglement, therefore inhibiting its relaxation into the spin environments, as well as activate a sudden-death phenomenon. We also discuss the effects of an environmental quantum phase transition on the features of the two-qubit entanglement dynamics.

id: 1001.5441
title: Sudden transition between classical and quantum decoherence
authors: L. Mazzola, J. Piilo, S. Maniscalco
comments: version accepted for publication by Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 200401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5441
abstract: We study the dynamics of quantum and classical correlations in the presence of nondissipative decoherence. We discover a class of initial states for which the quantum correlations, quantified by the quantum discord, are not destroyed by decoherence for times t < \bar{t}. In this initial time interval classical correlations decay. For t > \bar{t}, on the other hand, classical correlations do not change in time and only quantum correlations are lost due to the interaction with the environment. Therefore, at the transition time \bar{t} the open system dynamics exhibits a sudden transition from classical to quantum decoherence regime.

id: 1001.5453
title: Bound on distributed entanglement
authors: Jeong San Kim, Soojoon Lee
comments: 5 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 385305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5453
abstract: Using the convex-roof extended negativity and the negativity of assistance as quantifications of bipartite entanglement, we consider the possible remotely-distributed entanglement. For two pure states $\ket{\phi}_{AB}$ and $\ket{\psi}_{CD}$ on bipartite systems $AB$ and $CD$, we first show that the possible amount of entanglement remotely distributed on the system $AC$ by joint measurement on the system $BD$ is not less than the product of two amounts of entanglement for the states $\ket{\phi}_{AB}$ and $\ket{\psi}_{CD}$ in two-qubit and two-qutrit systems. We also provide some sufficient conditions, for which the result can be generalized into higher-dimensional quantum systems.

id: 1001.5465
title: Efficient implementation of bipartite nonlocal unitary gates using prior entanglement and classical communication
authors: Li Yu, Robert B. Griffiths, Scott M. Cohen
comments: Minor corrections so as to agree with the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062315 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5465
abstract: Any bipartite nonlocal unitary operation can be carried out by teleporting a quantum state from one party to the other, performing the unitary gate locally, and teleporting a state back again. This paper investigates unitaries which can be carried out using less prior entanglement and classical communication than are needed for teleportation. Large families of such unitaries are constructed using (projective) representations of finite groups. Among the tools employed are: a diagrammatic approach for representing entangled states, a theorem on the necessary absence of information at certain times and locations, and a representation of bipartite unitaries based on a group Fourier transform.

id: 1001.0098
title: Light cone dynamics and reverse Kibble-Zurek mechanism in two-dimensional superfluids following a quantum quench
authors: L. Mathey, A. Polkovnikov
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 033605 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0098
abstract: We study the dynamics of the relative phase of a bilayer of two-dimensional superfluids after the two superfluids have been decoupled. We find that on short time scales the relative phase shows "light cone" like dynamics and creates a metastable superfluid state, which can be supercritical. We also demonstrate similar light cone dynamics for the transverse field Ising model. On longer time scales the supercritical state relaxes to a disordered state due to dynamical vortex unbinding. This scenario of dynamically suppressed vortex proliferation constitutes a reverse-Kibble-Zurek effect. We study this effect both numerically using truncated Wigner approximation and analytically within a newly suggested time dependent renormalization group approach (RG). In particular, within RG we show that there are two possible fixed points for the real time evolution corresponding to the superfluid and normal steady states. So depending on the initial conditions and the microscopic parameters of the Hamiltonian the system undergoes a non-equilibrium phase transition of the Kosterlitz-Thouless type. The time scales for the vortex unbinding near the critical point are exponentially divergent, similar to the equilibrium case.

id: 1001.0122
title: Stark effect, polarizability and electroabsorption in silicon nanocrystals
authors: Ceyhun Bulutay, Mustafa Kulakci, Ra?it Turan
comments: Published version, 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 125333 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0122
abstract: Demonstrating the quantum-confined Stark effect (QCSE) in silicon nanocrystals (NCs) embedded in oxide has been rather elusive, unlike the other materials. Here, the recent experimental data from ion-implanted Si NCs is unambiguously explained within the context of QCSE using an atomistic pseudopotential theory. This further reveals that the majority of the Stark shift comes from the valence states which undergo a level crossing that leads to a nonmonotonic radiative recombination behavior with respect to the applied field. The polarizability of embedded Si NCs including the excitonic effects is extracted over a diameter range of 2.5--6.5 nm, which displays a cubic scaling, $\alpha=c D^3$, with $c=2.436\times 10^{-11}$ C/(Vm), where $D$ is the NC diameter. Finally, based on intraband electroabsorption analysis, it is predicted that p-doped Si NCs will show substantial voltage tunability, whereas n-doped samples should be almost insensitive. Given the fact that bulk silicon lacks the linear electro-optic effect as being a centrosymmetric crystal, this may offer a viable alternative for electrical modulation using p-doped Si NCs.

id: 1001.0131
title: Complex Elliptic Pendulum
authors: Carl M. Bender, Daniel W. Hook, Karta Kooner
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0131
abstract: This paper briefly summarizes previous work on complex classical mechanics and its relation to quantum mechanics. It then introduces a previously unstudied area of research involving the complex particle trajectories associated with elliptic potentials.

id: 1001.0332
title: Fluctuating Twistor-Beam Solutions and Holographic Pre-Quantum Kerr-Schild Geometry
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, talk at the 1-th Mediteranien Conf. Class.Quant.Grav
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.222:012044,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0332
abstract: Kerr-Schild (KS) geometry is based on a congruence of twistor null lines which forms a holographic space-time determined by the Kerr theorem. We describe in details integration of the non-stationary Debney-Kerr-Schild equations for electromagnetic excitations of black-holes taking into account the consistent back-reaction to metric. The exact KS solutions have the form of singular beam-like pulses supported on twistor null lines of the Kerr congruence. These twistor-beam pulses have very strong back reaction to metric and BH horizon and produce a fluctuating holographic KS geometry which takes an intermediate position between the Classical and Quantum gravity.

id: 1001.0456
title: Design of microcavities in diamond-based photonic crystals by Fourier- and real-space analysis of cavity fields
authors: Janine Riedrich-M?ller, Elke Neu, Christoph Becher
comments: 25 pages, 15 figures
journal: Photon. Nanostruct.: Fundam. Appl., 8, 150-162 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0456
abstract: We present the design of two-dimensional photonic crystal microcavities in thin diamond membranes well suited for coupling of color centers in diamond. By comparing simulated and ideal field distributions in Fourier and real space and by according modification of air hole positions and size, we optimize the cavity structure yielding high quality factors up to Q = 320000 with a modal volume of V = 0.35 (lambda/n)^3. Using the very same approach we also improve previous designs of a small modal volume microcavity in silicon, gaining a factor of 3 in cavity Q. In view of practical realization of photonic crystals in synthetic diamond films, it is necessary to investigate the influence of material absorption on the quality factor. We show that this influence can be predicted by a simple model, replacing time consuming simulations.

id: 1001.0493
title: A simple strategy for renormalization: QED at one-loop level
authors: Ji-Feng Yang, Zhao-Ting Pan
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures, revtex4, publsihed in Int. J. Mod. Phys. A
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A25:4255-4290,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0493
abstract: We demonstrate our simple strategy for renormalization with QED at one-loop level, basing on an elaboration of the effective field theory philosophy. No artificial regularization or deformation of the original theory is introduced here and hence no manipulation of infinities, ambiguities arise instead of infinities. Ward identities first come to reduce the number of ambiguities, the residual ones could in principle be removed by imposing physical boundary conditions. Renormalization group equations arise as "decoupling theorems" in the underlying theory perspective. In addition, a technical theorem concerning routing of external momenta is also presented and illustrated with the self-energy and vertex function as examples.

id: 1001.0495
title: Ma-Xu quantization rule and exact WKB condition for translationally shape invariant potentials
authors: Yves Grandati, Alain Berard
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0495
abstract: For translationally shape invariant potentials, the exact quantization rule proposed by Ma and Xu is a direct consequence of exactness of the modified WKB quantization condition proved by Barclay. We propose here a very direct alternative way to calculate the appropriate correction for the whole class of translationally shape invariant potentials.

id: 1001.0659
title: On the Veldkamp Space of GQ(4, 2)
authors: Metod Saniga
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures; v2 - slightly polished, subsection on fans of ovoids and three figures added
journal: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics 8 s (2011) 39-47
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0659
abstract: The Veldkamp space, in the sense of Buekenhout and Cohen, of the generalized quadrangle GQ(4, 2) is shown not to be a (partial) linear space by simply giving several examples of Veldkamp lines (V-lines) having two or even three Veldkamp points (V-points) in common. Alongside the ordinary V-lines of size five, one also finds V-lines of cardinality three and two. There, however, exists a subspace of the Veldkamp space isomorphic to PG(3, 4) having 45 perps and 40 plane ovoids as its 85 V-points, with its 357 V-lines being of four distinct types. A V-line of the first type consists of five perps on a common line (altogether 27 of them), the second type features three perps and two ovoids sharing a tricentric triad (240 members), whilst the third and fourth type each comprises a perp and four ovoids in the rosette centered at the (common) center of the perp (90). It is also pointed out that 160 non-plane ovoids (tripods) fall into two distinct orbits -- of sizes 40 and 120 -- with respect to the stabilizer group of a copy of GQ(2, 2); a tripod of the first/second orbit sharing with the GQ(2, 2) a tricentric/unicentric triad, respectively. Finally, three remarkable subconfigurations of V-lines represented by fans of ovoids through a fixed ovoid are examined in some detail.

id: 1001.0777
title: Analytic functions of the annihilation operator
authors: Aleksandar Petrovic
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0777
abstract: A method for construction of analytic function f of the annihilation operator is given for the first time. f(z) is analytic on some compact domain that does not separate the complex plane. A new form of the identity is given, which is well suited for domain of function. Using Runge's polynomial approximation theorem, such a function f of the annihilation operator is defined on the whole domain. The constructed operators are given in terms of dyads formed of Fock states.

id: 1001.0882
title: Exotic smooth R^4, noncommutative algebras and quantization
authors: Torsten Asselmeyer-Maluga, Jerzy Krol
comments: 31 pages, 6 figures, svjour style, argumentation about closed transversals modified (sec. 4.2)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Geometric Topology (math.GT); K-Theory and Homology (math.KT); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0882
abstract: The paper shows deep connections between exotic smoothings of small R^4, noncommutative algebras of foliations and quantization. At first, based on the close relation of foliations and noncommutative C*-algebras we show that cyclic cohomology invariants characterize some small exotic R^4. Certain exotic smooth R^4's define a generalized embedding into a space which is K-theoretic equivalent to a noncommutative Banach algebra. Furthermore, we show that a factor III von Neumann algebra is naturally related with nonstandard smoothing of a small R^4 and conjecture that this factor is the unique hyperfinite factor III_1. We also show how an exotic smoothing of a small R^4 is related to the Drinfeld-Turaev (deformation) quantization of the Poisson algebra (X(S,SL(2,C),{,}) of complex functions on the space of flat connections X(S,SL(2,C) over a surface S, and that the result of this quantization is the skein algebra (K_t(S),[,]) for the deformation parameter t=exp(h/4). This skein algebra is retrieved as a II_1 factor of horocycle flows which is Morita equivalent to the II_infty factor von Neumann algebra which in turn determines the unique factor III_1 as crossed product. Moreover, the structure of Casson handles determine the factor II_1 algebra too. Thus, the quantization of the Poisson algebra of closed circles in a leaf of the codimension 1 foliation of S^3 gives rise to the factor III_1 associated with exotic smoothness of R^4. Finally, the approach to quantization via exotic 4-smoothness is considered as a fundamental question in dimension 4 and compared with the topos approach to quantum theories.

id: 1001.0950
title: Archimedean Atomic Lattice Effect Algebras with Complete Lattice of Sharp Elements
authors: Zdenka Riecanova
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 6 (2010), 001, 8 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0950
abstract: We study Archimedean atomic lattice effect algebras whose set of sharp elements is a complete lattice. We show properties of centers, compatibility centers and central atoms of such lattice effect algebras. Moreover, we prove that if such effect algebra $E$ is separable and modular then there exists a faithful state on $E$. Further, if an atomic lattice effect algebra is densely embeddable into a complete lattice effect algebra $\widehat{E}$ and the compatiblity center of $E$ is not a Boolean algebra then there exists an $(o)$-continuous subadditive state on $E$.

id: 1001.1091
title: Comment on "The spin symmetry for deformed generalized P?schl-Teller potential"
authors: L. Aggoun, F. Benamira, L. Guechi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1091
abstract: In this comment, we show that the solutions of the-wave Dirac equation for deformed generalized P\"{o}schl-Teller potential obtained by Wei et al are valid only for $q\geq1$ and $\frac{1}{2\alpha}\ln{q}<r<\infty$. When $0<q<1$, we prove that the energy eigenvalues for the bound states are given by the solution of a transcendental equation involving the hypergeometric function. To test our results, the Morse potential is considered as limiting case.

id: 1001.1130
title: Quantum Algorithm for Preparing Thermal Gibbs States - Detailed Analysis
authors: Chen-Fu Chiang, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 10 pages, fixed typos
journal: NATO Science for Peace and Security Series - D: Information and Communication Secu- rity, vol.26, pp. 138-147, (2010)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1130
abstract: In a recent work [10], Poulin and one of us presented a quantum algorithm for preparing thermal Gibbs states of interacting quantum systems. This algorithm is based on Grovers's technique for quantum state engineering, and its running time is dominated by the factor D/Z(\beta), where D and Z(\beta) denote the dimension of the quantum system and its partition function at inverse temperature \beta, respectively. We present here a modified algorithm and a more detailed analysis of the errors that arise due to imperfect simulation of Hamiltonian time evolutions and limited performance of phase estimation (finite accuracy and nonzero probability of failure). This modfication together with the tighter analysis allows us to prove a better running time by the effect of these sources of error on the overall complexity. We think that the ideas underlying of our new analysis could also be used to prove a better performance of quantum Metropolis sampling by Temme et al. [12].

id: 1001.1149
title: The Bicomplex Quantum Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Raphael Gervais Lavoie, Louis Marchildon, Dominic Rochon
comments: Figures suppressed. To appear in Nuovo Cimento B
journal: Il Nuovo Cimento 125 B (2010) 1173-92
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1149
abstract: The problem of the quantum harmonic oscillator is investigated in the framework of bicomplex numbers, which are pairs of complex numbers making up a commutative ring with zero divisors. Starting with the commutator of the bicomplex position and momentum operators, and adapting the algebraic treatment of the standard quantum harmonic oscillator, we find eigenvalues and eigenkets of the bicomplex harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian. We construct an infinite-dimensional bicomplex module from these eigenkets. Turning next to the differential equation approach, we obtain coordinate-basis eigenfunctions of the bicomplex harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian in terms of hyperbolic Hermite polynomials.

id: 1001.1190
title: Position Dependent Mass Schroedinger Equation and Isospectral Potentials : Intertwining Operator approach
authors: Bikashkali Midya, Barnana Roy, Rajkumar Roychoudhury
comments: Some references have been added
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 51, 022109 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1190
abstract: Here we have studied first and second-order intertwining approach to generate isospectral partner potentials of position-dependent (effective) mass Schroedinger equation. The second-order intertwiner is constructed directly by taking it as second order linear differential operator with position depndent coefficients and the system of equations arising from the intertwining relationship is solved for the coefficients by taking an ansatz. A complete scheme for obtaining general solution is obtained which is valid for any arbitrary potential and mass function. The proposed technique allows us to generate isospectral potentials with the following spectral modifications: (i) to add new bound state(s), (ii) to remove bound state(s) and (iii) to leave the spectrum unaffected. To explain our findings with the help of an illustration, we have used point canonical transformation (PCT) to obtain the general solution of the position dependent mass Schrodinger equation corresponding to a potential and mass function. It is shown that our results are consistent with the formulation of type A N-fold supersymmetry [14,18] for the particular case N = 1 and N = 2 respectively.

id: 1001.1253
title: Pitchfork bifurcations in blood-cell shaped dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Stefan Rau, J?rg Main, Patrick K?berle, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 031605(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1253
abstract: We demonstrate that the method of coupled Gaussian wave packets is a full-fledged alternative to direct numerical solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation of condensates with electromagnetically induced attractive 1/r interaction, or with dipole-dipole interaction. Moreover, Gaussian wave packets are superior in that they are capable of producing both stable and unstable stationary solutions, and thus of giving access to yet unexplored regions of the space of solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. We apply the method to clarify the theoretical nature of the collapse mechanism of blood-cell shaped dipolar condensates: On the route to collapse the condensate passes through a pitchfork bifurcation, where the ground state itself turns unstable, before it finally vanishes in a tangent bifurcation.

id: 1001.1322
title: Modularity, Atomicity and States in Archimedean Lattice Effect Algebras
authors: Jan Paseka
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 6 (2010), 003, 9 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1322
abstract: Effect algebras are a generalization of many structures which arise in quantum physics and in mathematical economics. We show that, in every modular Archimedean atomic lattice effect algebra $E$ that is not an orthomodular lattice there exists an $(o)$-continuous state $\omega$ on $E$, which is subadditive. Moreover, we show properties of finite and compact elements of such lattice effect algebras.

id: 1001.1463
title: Ultra-Fast Converging Path-Integral Approach for Rotating Ideal Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Antun Balaz, Ivana Vidanovic, Aleksandar Bogojevic, Axel Pelster
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures, uses elsarticle.cls
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374 (2010) 1539
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1463
abstract: A recently developed efficient recursive approach for analytically calculating the short-time evolution of the one-particle propagator to extremely high orders is applied here for numerically studying the thermodynamical and dynamical properties of a rotating ideal Bose gas of $^{87}$Rb atoms in an anharmonic trap. At first, the one-particle energy spectrum of the system is obtained by diagonalizing the discretized short-time propagator. Using this, many-boson properties such as the condensation temperature, the ground-state occupancy, density profiles, and time-of-flight absorption pictures are calculated for varying rotation frequencies. The obtained results improve previous semiclassical calculations, in particular for smaller particle numbers. Furthermore, we find that typical time scales for a free expansion are increased by an order of magnitude for the delicate regime of both critical and overcritical rotation.

id: 1001.1542
title: A hierarchy of compatibility and comeasurability levels in quantum logics with unique conditional probabilities
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 12 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. (Beijing, China) 54 (2010) pp. 974-980
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1542
abstract: In the quantum mechanical Hilbert space formalism, the probabilistic interpretation is a later ad-hoc add-on, more or less enforced by the experimental evidence, but not motivated by the mathematical model itself. A model involving a clear probabilistic interpretation from the very beginning is provided by the quantum logics with unique conditional probabilities. It includes the projection lattices in von Neumann algebras and here probability conditionalization becomes identical with the state transition of the Lueders - von Neumann measurement process. This motivates the definition of a hierarchy of five compatibility and comeasurability levels in the abstract setting of the quantum logics with unique conditional probabilities. Their meanings are: the absence of quantum interference or influence, the existence of a joint distribution, simultaneous measurability, and the independence of the final state after two successive measurements from the sequential order of these two measurements. A further level means that two elements of the quantum logic (events) belong to the same Boolean subalgebra. In the general case, the five compatibility and comeasurability levels appear to differ, but they all coincide in the common Hilbert space formalism of quantum mechanics, in von Neumann algebras, and in some other cases.

id: 1001.1548
title: Classical Particle in a Complex Elliptic Potential
authors: Carl M. Bender, Daniel W. Hook, Karta Singh Kooner
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: J.Phys.A43:165201,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1548
abstract: This paper reports a numerical study of complex classical trajectories of a particle in an elliptic potential. This study of doubly-periodic potentials is a natural sequel to earlier work on complex classical trajectories in trigonometric potentials. For elliptic potentials there is a two-dimensional array of identical cells in the complex plane, and each cell contains a pair of turning points. The particle can travel both horizontally and vertically as it visits these cells, and sometimes the particle is captured temporarily by a pair of turning points. If the particle's energy lies in a conduction band, the particle drifts through the lattice of cells and is never captured by the same pair of turning points more than once. However, if the energy of the particle is not in a conduction band, the particle can return to previously visited cells.

id: 1001.1727
title: In-plane nanoelectromechanical resonators based on silicon nanowire piezoresistive detection
authors: Ervin Mile, Guillaume Jourdan, Igor Bargatin, Sebastien Labarthe, Carine Marcoux, Philippe Andreucci, Sebastien Hentz, Chaddy Kharrat, Eric Colinet, Laurent Duraffourg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1727
abstract: We report an actuation/detection scheme with a top-down nano-electromechanical system for frequency shift-based sensing applications with outstanding performance. It relies on electrostatic actuation and piezoresistive nanowire gauges for in-plane motion transduction. The process fabrication is fully CMOS compatible. The results show a very large dynamic range (DR) of more than 100dB and an unprecedented signal to background ratio (SBR) of 69dB providing an improvement of two orders of magnitude in the detection efficiency presented in the state of the art in NEMS field. Such a dynamic range results from both negligible 1/f-noise and very low Johnson noise compared to the thermomechanical noise. This simple low-power detection scheme paves the way for new class of robust mass resonant sensor.

id: 1001.1863
title: Functional integral for non-Lagrangian systems
authors: Denis Kochan
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022112 (2010)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1863
abstract: A novel functional integral formulation of quantum mechanics for non-Lagrangian systems is presented. The new approach, which we call "stringy quantization," is based solely on classical equations of motion and is free of any ambiguity arising from Lagrangian and/or Hamiltonian formulation of the theory. The functionality of the proposed method is demonstrated on several examples. Special attention is paid to the stringy quantization of systems with a general A-power friction force $-\kappa[\dot{q}]^A$. Results for $A = 1$ are compared with those obtained in the approaches by Caldirola-Kanai, Bateman and Kostin. Relations to the Caldeira-Leggett model and to the Feynman-Vernon approach are discussed as well.

id: 1001.2201
title: Strong and weak coupling of two coupled qubits
authors: Elena del Valle
comments: 20 pages, 15 reduced quality figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 053811 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2201
abstract: I investigate the dynamics and power spectrum of two coupled qubits (two-level systems) under incoherent continuous pump and dissipation. New regimes of strong coupling are identified, that are due to additional paths of coherence flow in the system. Dressed states are reconstructed even in the regime of strong decoherence. The results are analytical and offer an exact description of strong-coupling in presence of pumping and decay in a nontrivial (nonlinear) system.

id: 1001.2314
title: Circuit partitions and #P-complete products of inner products
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2314
abstract: We present a simple, natural #P-complete problem. Let G be a directed graph, and let k be a positive integer. We define q(G;k) as follows. At each vertex v, we place a k-dimensional complex vector x_v. We take the product, over all edges (u,v), of the inner product <x_u,x_v>. Finally, q(G;k) is the expectation of this product, where the x_v are chosen uniformly and independently from all vectors of norm 1 (or, alternately, from the Gaussian distribution). We show that q(G;k) is proportional to G's cycle partition polynomial, and therefore that it is #P-complete for any k>1.

id: 1001.2335
title: Measuring Renyi Entanglement Entropy with Quantum Monte Carlo
authors: Matthew B. Hastings, Ivan Gonzalez, Ann B. Kallin, Roger G. Melko
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; improved data in fig. 3 and 4, corrected direct swap data in fig. 2
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 157201 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2335
abstract: We develop a quantum Monte Carlo procedure, in the valence bond basis, to measure the Renyi entanglement entropy of a many-body ground state as the expectation value of a unitary {\it Swap} operator acting on two copies of the system. An improved estimator involving the ratio of {\it Swap} operators for different subregions enables simulations to converge the entropy in a time polynomial in the system size. We demonstrate convergence of the Renyi entropy to exact results for a Heisenberg chain. Finally, we calculate the scaling of the Renyi entropy in the two-dimensional Heisenberg model and confirm that the N\'eel groundstate obeys the expected area law for systems up to linear size L=28.

id: 1001.2527
title: Spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensate in a tilted optical lattice
authors: Jonas Larson, Jani-Petri Martikainen, Anssi Collin, Erik Sjoqvist
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043620 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2527
abstract: Bloch oscillations appear for a particle in a weakly tilted periodic potential. The intrinsic spin Hall effect is an outcome of a spin-orbit coupling. We demonstrate that both these phenomena can be realized simultaneously in a gas of weakly interacting ultracold atoms exposed to a tilted optical lattice and to a set of spatially dependent light fields inducing an effective spin-orbit coupling. It is found that both the spin Hall as well as the Bloch oscillation effects may coexist, showing, however, a strong correlation between the two. These correlations are manifested as a transverse spin current oscillating in-phase with the Bloch oscillations.

id: 1001.2642
title: The Generalized Uncertainty Principle and Quantum Gravity Phenomenology
authors: Ahmed Farag Ali, Saurya Das, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: 3 pages. Talk given by SD at the 12th Marcel Grossmann conference (Paris, July, 2009)
journal: The Twelfth Marcel Grossmann Meeting: pp. 2407-2409. (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2642
abstract: In this article we examine a Generalized Uncertainty Principle which differs from the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle by terms linear and quadratic in particle momenta, as proposed by the authors in an earlier paper. We show that this affects all Hamiltonians, and in particular those which describe low energy experiments. We discuss possible observational consequences. Further, we also show that this indicates that space may be discrete at the fundamental level.

id: 1001.2718
title: Quantum Mechanics from Periodic Dynamics: the bosonic case
authors: Donatello Dolce
comments: 6 pages. Talk given at QTRF5, Vaxjo, Sweden. Updated references
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. -- May 4, 2010 -- Volume 1232, pp. 222-227
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2718
abstract: Enforcing the periodicity hypothesis of the "old" formulation of Quantum Mechanics we show the possibility for a new scenario where Special Relativity and Quantum Mechanics are unified in a Deterministic Field Theory [arXiv:0903.3680]. A novel interpretation of the AdS/CFT conjecture is discussed.

id: 1001.2738
title: Note on sampling without replacing from a finite collection of matrices
authors: David Gross, Vincent Nesme
comments: 3 pages. Answers a question raised in arXiv:0910.1879. v2: minus one typo.
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2738
abstract: This technical note supplies an affirmative answer to a question raised in a recent pre-print [arXiv:0910.1879] in the context of a "matrix recovery" problem. Assume one samples m Hermitian matrices X_1, ..., X_m with replacement from a finite collection. The deviation of the sum X_1+...+X_m from its expected value in terms of the operator norm can be estimated by an "operator Chernoff-bound" due to Ahlswede and Winter. The question arose whether the bounds obtained this way continue to hold if the matrices are sampled without replacement. We remark that a positive answer is implied by a classical argument by Hoeffding. Some consequences for the matrix recovery problem are sketched.

id: 1001.2758
title: Beyond the Quantum
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.World 22N11:32-37,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2758
abstract: At the 1927 Solvay conference, three different theories of quantum mechanics were presented; however, the physicists present failed to reach a consensus. Today, many fundamental questions about quantum physics remain unanswered. One of the theories presented at the conference was Louis de Broglie's pilot-wave dynamics. This work was subsequently neglected in historical accounts; however, recent studies of de Broglie's original idea have rediscovered a powerful and original theory. In de Broglie's theory, quantum theory emerges as a special subset of a wider physics, which allows non-local signals and violation of the uncertainty principle. Experimental evidence for this new physics might be found in the cosmological-microwave-background anisotropies and with the detection of relic particles with exotic new properties predicted by the theory.

id: 1001.2831
title: Quantum Model of Bertrand Duopoly
authors: Salman Khan, M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: 9 pages, 2 .eps figure
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. Vol. 27, No. 8 (2010) 080302
subjects: General Finance (q-fin.GN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2831
abstract: We present the quantum model of Bertrand duopoly and study the entanglement behavior on the profit functions of the firms. Using the concept of optimal response of each firm to the price of the opponent, we found only one Nash equilibirum point for maximally entangled initial state. The very presence of quantum entanglement in the initial state gives payoffs higher to the firms than the classical payoffs at the Nash equilibrium. As a result the dilemma like situation in the classical game is resolved.

id: 1001.2988
title: PT-symmetric models in curved manifolds
authors: David Krejcirik, Petr Siegl
comments: 37 pages, PDFLaTeX with 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 485204
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2988
abstract: We consider the Laplace-Beltrami operator in tubular neighbourhoods of curves on two-dimensional Riemannian manifolds, subject to non-Hermitian parity and time preserving boundary conditions. We are interested in the interplay between the geometry and spectrum. After introducing a suitable Hilbert space framework in the general situation, which enables us to realize the Laplace-Beltrami operator as an m-sectorial operator, we focus on solvable models defined on manifolds of constant curvature. In some situations, notably for non-Hermitian Robin-type boundary conditions, we are able to prove either the reality of the spectrum or the existence of complex conjugate pairs of eigenvalues, and establish similarity of the non-Hermitian m-sectorial operators to normal or self-adjoint operators. The study is illustrated by numerical computations.

id: 1001.3055
title: Quantum work statistics of linear and nonlinear parametric oscillators
authors: Sebastian Deffner, Obinna Abah, Eric Lutz
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Chem. Phys. 375 (2010) 200
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3055
abstract: We consider the nonequilibrium work distribution of a quantum oscillator with modulated angular frequency. We examine the discrete-to-continuous transition of the distribution as the temperature and the degree of nonadiabaticity of the frequency transformation are increased. We further develop a perturbative approach to analyze the effect of weak quartic anharmonicities, as well as of a random electric field on a charged oscillator. We find in both cases that the degree of nonadiabaticity is enhanced by the perturbation.

id: 1001.3285
title: On the Boundary conditions for the Radial Schrodinger Equation
authors: Anzor A.Khelashvili, Teimuraz P. Nadareishvili
comments: 4 pages
journal: Bulletin of the Georgian National Academy of Sciences. vol 5, no. 2; pp37-41;2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3285
abstract: Exploring the idea that equation for radial wave function must be compatible with the full Schrodinger equation, a boundary condition is derived.

id: 1001.3391
title: Quantum theory, gravity, and the standard model of particle physics : using the hints of today to build the final theory of tomorrow
authors: T. P. Singh
comments: 10 pages. Fourth prize in FQXi Essay Contest `What is ultimately possible in physics?' [this http URL]
journal: 
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3391
abstract: When a mountaineer is ascending one of the great peaks of the Himalayas she knows that an entirely new vista awaits her at the top, whose ramifications will be known only after she gets there. Her immediate goal though, is to tackle the obstacles on the way up, and reach the summit. In a similar vein, one of the immediate goals of contemporary theoretical physics is to build a quantum, unified description of general relativity and the standard model of particle physics. Once that peak has been reached, a new (yet unknown) vista will open up. In this essay I propose a novel approach towards this goal. One must address and resolve a fundamental unsolved problem in the presently known formulation of quantum theory : the unsatisfactory presence of an external classical time in the formulation. Solving this problem takes us to the very edge of theoretical physics as we know it today!

id: 1001.3633
title: A Representation of Quantum Measurement in Order-Unit Spaces
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 12 pages, the original publication is available at htt://www.springerlink.com
journal: 2008 Found. Phys. 38, 783 - 795
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3633
abstract: A certain generalization of the mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics beyond operator algebras is considered. The approach is based on the concept of conditional probability and the interpretation of the Lueders - von Neumann quantum measurement as a probability conditionalization rule. A major result shows that the operator algebras must be replaced by order-unit spaces with some specific properties in the generalized approach, and it is analyzed under which conditions these order-unit spaces become Jordan algebras. An application of this result provides a characterization of the projection lattices in operator algebras.

id: 1001.3656
title: PT Symmetric Schr?dinger Operators: Reality of the Perturbed Eigenvalues
authors: Emanuela Caliceti, Francesco Cannata, Sandro Graffi
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 6 (2010), 009, 8 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3656
abstract: We prove the reality of the perturbed eigenvalues of some PT symmetric Hamiltonians of physical interest by means of stability methods. In particular we study 2-dimensional generalized harmonic oscillators with polynomial perturbation and the one-dimensional $x^2(ix)^{\epsilon}$ for $-1<\epsilon<0$.

id: 1001.3665
title: Adiabatic evolution of 1D shape resonances: an artificial interface conditions approach
authors: Ali Faraj, Andrea Mantile, Francis Nier
comments: 60 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3665
abstract: Artificial interface conditions parametrized by a complex number $\theta_{0}$ are introduced for 1D-Schr\"odinger operators. When this complex parameter equals the parameter $\theta\in i\R$ of the complex deformation which unveils the shape resonances, the Hamiltonian becomes dissipative. This makes possible an adiabatic theory for the time evolution of resonant states for arbitrarily large time scales. The effect of the artificial interface conditions on the important stationary quantities involved in quantum transport models is also checked to be as small as wanted, in the polynomial scale $(h^N)_{N\in \N}$ as $h\to 0$, according to $\theta_{0}$.

id: 1001.3669
title: Dual-path state reconstruction scheme for propagating quantum microwaves and detector noise tomography
authors: E. P. Menzel, F. Deppe, M. Mariantoni, M. ?. Araque Caballero, A. Baust, T. Niemczyk, E. Hoffmann, A. Marx, E. Solano, R. Gross
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 100401 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3669
abstract: Quantum state reconstruction involves measurement devices that are usually described by idealized models, but not known in full detail in experiments. For weak propagating microwaves, the detection process requires linear amplifiers which obscure the signal with random noise. Here, we introduce a theory which nevertheless allows one to use these devices for measuring all quadrature moments of propagating quantum microwaves based on cross-correlations from a dual-path amplification setup. Simultaneously, the detector noise properties are determined, allowing for tomography. We demonstrate the feasibility of our novel concept by proof-of-principle experiments with classical mixtures of weak coherent microwaves.

id: 1001.3753
title: Quantum Computing with Superqubits
authors: Leonardo Castellani, Pietro Antonio Grassi, Luca Sommovigo
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3753
abstract: We analyze some aspects of quantum computing with super-qubits (squbits). We propose the analogue of a superfield formalism, and give a physical interpretation for the Grassmann coefficients in the squbit expansion as fermionic creation operators of an auxiliary quantum system. In the simplest case the squbit is a superposition of one Bose X Bose and one Fermi X Fermi state, and its norm is invariant under a U(2) group realized with Clifford-valued matrices. This case can be generalized to a superposition of n_B bosonic and n_F fermionic states, with a norm invariant under U(n_B + n_F). Entanglement between squbits, super quantum gates and teleportation are discussed.

id: 1001.3773
title: Comparative study of theoretical methods for nonequilibrium quantum transport
authors: J. Eckel, F. Heidrich-Meisner, S.G. Jakobs, M. Thorwart, M. Pletyukhov, R. Egger
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures; published version
journal: New. J. Phys. 12, 043042 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3773
abstract: We present a detailed comparison of three different methods designed to tackle nonequilibrium quantum transport, namely the functional renormalization group (fRG), the time-dependent density matrix renormalization group (tDMRG), and the iterative summation of real-time path integrals (ISPI). For the nonequilibrium single-impurity Anderson model (including a Zeeman term at the impurity site), we demonstrate that the three methods are in quantitative agreement over a wide range of parameters at the particle-hole symmetric point as well as in the mixed-valence regime. We further compare these techniques with two quantum Monte Carlo approaches and the time-dependent numerical renormalization group method.

id: 1001.3795
title: Non-Boolean probabilities and quantum measurement
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 12 pages, the original publication is available at this http URL
journal: 2001 J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 34, 6031-6042
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3795
abstract: A non-Boolean extension of the classical probability model is proposed. The non-Boolean probabilities reproduce typical quantum phenomena. The proposed model is more general and more abstract, but easier to interpret, than the quantum mechanical Hilbert space formalism and exhibits a particular phenomenon (state-independent conditional probabilities) which may provide new opportunities for an understanding of the quantum measurement process. Examples of the proposed model are provided, using Jordan operator algebras.

id: 1001.3797
title: Why Do the Quantum Observables Form a Jordan Operator Algebra?
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 10 pages, the original publication is available at this http URL
journal: 2004 International Journal of Theoretical Physics 43, 35 - 46
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3797
abstract: The Jordan algebra structure of the bounded real quantum observables was recognized already in the early days of quantum mechanics. While there are plausible reasons for most parts of this structure, the existence of the distributive nonassociative multiplication operation is hard to justify from a physical or statistical point of view. Considering the non-Boolean extension of classical probabilities, presented in a recent paper, it is shown in this paper that such a multiplication operation can be derived from certain properties of the conditional probabilities and the observables, i.e., from postulates with a clear statistical interpretation. The well-known close relation between Jordan operator algebras and C*-algebras then provides the connection to the quantum-mechanical Hilbert space formalism, thus resulting in a novel axiomatic approach to general quantum mechanics that includes the types II and III von Neumann algebras.

id: 1001.3828
title: Conditional expectations associated with quantum states
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 10 pages, the original publication is available at this http URL
journal: 2005 J. Math. Phys. 46, 043507
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3828
abstract: An extension of the conditional expectations (those under a given subalgebra of events and not the simple ones under a single event) from the classical to the quantum case is presented. In the classical case, the conditional expectations always exist; in the quantum case, however, they exist only if a certain weak compatibility criterion is satisfied. This compatibility criterion was introduced among others in a recent paper by the author. Then, state-independent conditional expectations and quantum Markov processes are studied. A classical Markov process is a probability measure, together with a system of random variables, satisfying the Markov property and can equivalently be described by a system of Markovian kernels (often forming a semigroup). This equivalence is partly extended to quantum probabilities. It is shown that a dynamical (semi)group can be derived from a given system of quantum observables satisfying the Markov property, and the group generators are studied. The results are presented in the framework of Jordan operator algebras, and a very general type of observables (including the usual real-valued observables or self-adjoint operators) is considered.

id: 1001.3842
title: Different Types of Conditional Expectation and the Lueders - von Neumann Quantum Measurement
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 10 pages, the original publication is available at this http URL
journal: 2007 International Journal of Theoretical Physics 46, 1823 - 1835
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3842
abstract: In operator algebra theory, a conditional expectation is usually assumed to be a projection map onto a sub-algebra. In the paper, a further type of conditional expectation and an extension of the Lueders - von Neumann measurement to observables with continuous spectra are considered; both are defined for a single operator and become a projection map only if they exist for all operators. Criteria for the existence of the different types of conditional expectation and of the extension of the Lueders - von Neumann measurement are presented, and the question whether they coincide is studied. All this is done in the general framework of Jordan operator algebras. The examples considered include the type I and type II operator algebras, the standard Hilbert space model of quantum mechanics, and a no-go result concerning the conditional expectation of observables that satisfy the canonical commutator relation.

id: 1001.3943
title: Solutions of the spatially-dependent mass Dirac equation with the spin and pseudo-spin symmetry for the Coulomb-like potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 24 pages
journal: Appl. Math. Com. 216, 545(2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3943
abstract: We study the effect of spatially dependent mass function over the solution of the Dirac equation with the Coulomb potential in the (3+1)-dimensions for any arbitrary spin-orbit $\kappa $ state$.$ In the framework of the spin and pseudospin symmetry concept, the analytic bound state energy eigenvalues and the corresponding upper and lower two-component spinors of the two Dirac particles are obtained by means of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method, in closed form. This physical choice of the mass function leads to an exact analytical solution for the pseudospin part of the Dirac equation. The special cases $% \kappa =\pm 1$ ($l=\widetilde{l}=0,$ i.e., s-wave)$,$ the constant mass and the non-relativistic limits are briefly investigated.

id: 1001.3944
title: Rotating wave approximation and entropy
authors: Andreas Kurcz, Antonio Capolupo, Almut Beige, Emilio Del Giudice, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, introduction extended
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 3726 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3944
abstract: This paper studies composite quantum systems, like atom-cavity systems and coupled optical resonators, in the absence of external driving by resorting to methods from quantum field theory. Going beyond the rotating wave approximation, it is shown that the usually neglected counter-rotating part of the Hamiltonian relates to the entropy operator and generates an irreversible time evolution. The vacuum state of the system is shown to evolve into a generalized coherent state exhibiting entanglement of the modes in which the counter-rotating terms are expressed. Possible consequences at observational level in quantum optics experiments are currently under study.

id: 1001.3945
title: A periodic orbit formula for quantum reactions through transition states
authors: Roman Schubert, Holger Waalkens, Arseni Goussev, Stephen Wiggins
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012707 (2010)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3945
abstract: Transition State Theory forms the basis of computing reaction rates in chemical and other systems. Recently it has been shown how transition state theory can rigorously be realized in phase space using an explicit algorithm. The quantization has been demonstrated to lead to an efficient procedure to compute cumulative reaction probabilities and the associated Gamov-Siegert resonances. In this letter these results are used to express the cumulative reaction probability as an absolutely convergent sum over periodic orbits contained in the transition state.

id: 1001.3964
title: Spacetime and Matter - a duality of partial orders
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: Fourth prize in the 2009 FQXi essay contest "What is Ultimately Possible in Physics?"
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3964
abstract: A new kind of duality between the deep structures of spacetime and matter is proposed here, considering two partial orders which incorporate causality, extensity, and discreteness. This may have surprising consequences for the emergence of quantum mechanics, which are discussed.

id: 1001.4090
title: Thermodynamic Evidence for Water as a Quantum Mechanical Liquid
authors: A. Widom, S. Sivasubramanian, D. Drosdoff, Y.N. Srivastava
comments: ReVTeX 4, 4 pages no figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4090
abstract: We consider general theoretical models of water and in particular the nature of the motions of the hydrogen nuclei. If the motion of hydrogen nuclei is classical, then the thermodynamic pressure equation of state for heavy water wherein the hydrogen nuclei are deuterons is identical to the pressure equation of state for light water wherein the hydrogen nuclei are protons. Since the experimental thermodynamic phase diagram for light water is clearly measurably different from the experimental thermodynamic phase diagram for heavy water, one may deduce that the motions of hydrogen nuclei are quantum mechanical in nature. This conclusion is in physical agreement with a recent analysis of X-ray, neutron and deep inelastic neutron scattering data.

id: 1001.4279
title: Quantum Criticality and Novel Phases: Summary and Outlook
authors: A. J. Schofield
comments: Conference summary for the 2009 Dresden Meeting on Quantum Criticality and Novel Phases. 7 pages and 4 figures. The associated presentation may be found at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4279
abstract: This conference summary and outlook provides a personal overview of the topics and themes of the August 2009 Dresden meeting on quantum criticality and novel phases. The dichotomy between the local moment and the itinerant views of magnetism is revisited and refreshed in new materials, new probes and new theoretical ideas. New universality and apparent zero temperature phases of matter move us beyond the old ideas of quantum criticality. This is accompanied by alternative pairing interactions and as yet unidentified phases developing in the vicinity of quantum critical points. In discussing novel order, the magnetic analogues of superconductivity are considered as candidate states for the hidden order that sometimes develops in the vicinity of quantum critical points in metallic systems. These analogues can be thought of as "pairing" in the particle-hole channel and are tabulated. This analogy is used to outline a framework to study the relation between ferromagnetic fluctuations and the propensity of a metal to nematic type phases which at weak coupling correspond to Pomeranchuk instabilities. This question can be related to the fundamental relations of Fermi liquid theory.

id: 1001.4304
title: Unification and Emergence in Physics: the Problem of Articulation
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: Third prize winner, 2009 FQXi essay contest, "What is ultimately possible in physics?"
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4304
abstract: What is physics? What are the limits of what physics can say about the world? In seeking ever-broader theoretical `umbrellas' for physical phenomena, we are seeking unifying principles. Emergent phenomena have turned out to be some of the most difficult to explain, causing a `clash of umbrellas' so-to-speak, at the interface between the quantum and classical domains. This essay explores the role of articulation in this particularly vexing problem and ultimately addresses the question of whether the language and mathematics we use to describe the universe is sufficient in its present form and application.

id: 1001.4311
title: Consistent Histories in Quantum Cosmology
authors: David A. Craig, Parampreet Singh
comments: To appear in Foundations of Physics special issue on quantum foundations
journal: Found.Phys.41:371-379,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4311
abstract: We illustrate the crucial role played by decoherence (consistency of quantum histories) in extracting consistent quantum probabilities for alternative histories in quantum cosmology. Specifically, within a Wheeler-DeWitt quantization of a flat Friedmann-Robertson-Walker cosmological model sourced with a free massless scalar field, we calculate the probability that the univese is singular in the sense that it assumes zero volume. Classical solutions of this model are a disjoint set of expanding and contracting singular branches. A naive assessment of the behavior of quantum states which are superpositions of expanding and contracting universes may suggest that a "quantum bounce" is possible i.e. that the wave function of the universe may remain peaked on a non-singular classical solution throughout its history. However, a more careful consistent histories analysis shows that for arbitrary states in the physical Hilbert space the probability of this Wheeler-DeWitt quantum universe encountering the big bang/crunch singularity is equal to unity. A quantum Wheeler-DeWitt universe is inevitably singular, and a "quantum bounce" is thus not possible in these models.

id: 1001.4327
title: Approximate bound state solutions of Dirac equation with Hulth¨¦n potential including Coulomb-like tensor potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 28 pages
journal: Appl. Math. Com. 216, 911(2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4327
abstract: We solve the Dirac equation approximately for the attractive scalar $S(r)$ and repulsive vector $V(r)$ Hulth\'{e}n potentials including a Coulomb-like tensor potential with arbitrary spin-orbit coupling quantum number $\kappa .$ In the framework of the spin and pseudospin symmetric concept, we obtain the analytic energy spectrum and the corresponding two-component upper- and lower-spinors of the two Dirac particles by means of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method in closed form. The limit of zero tensor coupling and the non-relativistic solution are obtained. The energy spectrum for various levels is presented for several $\kappa $ values under the condition of exact spin symmetry in the presence or absence of tensor coupling.

id: 1001.4352
title: Solutions of a particle with fractional $¦Ä$-potential in a fractional dimensional space
authors: Sami I. Muslih
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4352
abstract: A Fourier transformation in a fractional dimensional space of order $\la$ ($0<\la\leq 1$) is defined to solve the Schr\"odinger equation with Riesz fractional derivatives of order $\a$. This new method is applied for a particle in a fractional $\delta$-potential well defined by $V(x) =- \gamma\delta^{\la}(x)$, where $\gamma>0$ and $\delta^{\la}(x)$ is the fractional Dirac delta function. A complete solutions for the energy values and the wave functions are obtained in terms of the Fox H-functions. It is demonstrated that the eigen solutions are exist if $0< \la<\a$. The results for $\la= 1$ and $\a=2$ are in exact agreement with those presented in the standard quantum mechanics.

id: 1001.4363
title: A short proof of stability of topological order under local perturbations
authors: S. Bravyi, M. B. Hastings
comments: 15 pages
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. {\bf 307}, 609 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4363
abstract: Recently, the stability of certain topological phases of matter under weak perturbations was proven. Here, we present a short, alternate proof of the same result. We consider models of topological quantum order for which the unperturbed Hamiltonian $H_0$ can be written as a sum of local pairwise commuting projectors on a $D$-dimensional lattice. We consider a perturbed Hamiltonian $H=H_0+V$ involving a generic perturbation $V$ that can be written as a sum of short-range bounded-norm interactions. We prove that if the strength of $V$ is below a constant threshold value then $H$ has well-defined spectral bands originating from the low-lying eigenvalues of $H_0$. These bands are separated from the rest of the spectrum and from each other by a constant gap. The width of the band originating from the smallest eigenvalue of $H_0$ decays faster than any power of the lattice size.

id: 1001.4373
title: Chromium single photon emitters in diamond fabricated by ion implantation
authors: Igor Aharonovich, Stefania Castelletto, Brett C. Johnson, Jeffrey C. McCallum, David A. Simpson, Andrew D. Greentree, Steven Prawer
comments: 
journal: Phys Rev B Rapid 2010
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4373
abstract: Controlled fabrication and identification of bright single photon emitters is at the heart of quantum optics and materials science. Here we demonstrate a controlled engineering of a chromium bright single photon source in bulk diamond by ion implantation. The Cr center has fully polarized emission with a ZPL centered at 749 nm, FWHM of 4 nm, an extremely short lifetime of ~1 ns, and a count rate of 500 kcounts/s. By combining the polarization measurements and the vibronic spectra, a model of the center has been proposed consisting of one interstitial chromium atom with a transition dipole along one of the <100> directions.

id: 1001.4586
title: Heuristic rule for constructing physics axiomatization
authors: Florin Moldoveanu
comments: Fourth Prize in the "What is Ultimately Possible in Physics" FQXi essay contest
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4586
abstract: Constructing the Theory of Everything (TOE) is an elusive goal of today's physics. Goedel's incompleteness theorem seems to forbid physics axiomatization, a necessary part of the TOE. The purpose of this contribution is to show how physics axiomatization can be achieved guided by a new heuristic rule. This will open up new roads into constructing the ultimate theory of everything. Three physical principles will be identified from the heuristic rule and they in turn will generate uniqueness results of various technical strengths regarding space, time, non-relativistic and relativistic quantum mechanics, electroweak symmetry and the dimensionality of space-time. The hope is that the strong force and the Standard Model axiomatizations are not too far out. Quantum gravity and cosmology are harder problems and maybe new approaches are needed. However, complete physics axiomatization seems to be an achievable goal, no longer part of philosophical discussions, but subject to rigorous mathematical proofs.

id: 1001.4736
title: Broadband noise decoherence in solid-state complex architectures
authors: E Paladino, A D'Arrigo, A Mastellone, G Falci
comments: Proceedings of Nobel Symposium 141: Qubits for Future Quantum Information
journal: Phys. Scr. T137, 014017 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4736
abstract: Broadband noise represents a severe limitation towards the implementation of a solid-state quantum information processor. Considering common spectral forms, we propose a classification of noise sources based on the effects produced instead of on their microscopic origin. We illustrate a multi-stage approach to broadband noise which systematically includes only the relevant information on the environment, out of the huge parametrization needed for a microscopic description. We apply this technique to a solid-state two-qubit gate in a fixed coupling implementation scheme.

id: 1001.4819
title: Spatial contraction of the Poincare group and Maxwell's equations in the electric limit
authors: H.T. Reich, S. Wickramasekara
comments: Annals of Physics, In Press
journal: Annals Phys. 325:1081-1103,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4819
abstract: The contraction of the Poincare group with respect to the space trans- lations subgroup gives rise to a group that bears a certain duality relation to the Galilei group, that is, the contraction limit of the Poincare group with respect to the time translations subgroup. In view of this duality, we call the former the dual Galilei group. A rather remarkable feature of the dual Galilei group is that the time translations constitute a central subgroup. Therewith, in unitary irreducible representations (UIR) of the group, the Hamiltonian appears as a Casimir operator proportional to the identity H = EI, with E (and a spin value s) uniquely characterizing the representation. Hence, a physical system characterized by a UIR of the dual Galilei group displays no non-trivial time evolution. Moreover, the combined U(1) gauge group and the dual Galilei group underlie a non- relativistic limit of Maxwell's equations known as the electric limit. The analysis presented here shows that only electrostatics is possible for the electric limit, wholly in harmony with the trivial nature of time evolution governed by the dual Galilei group.

id: 1001.4827
title: The quantum ground state of self-organized atomic crystals in optical resonators
authors: Sonia Fern¨¢ndez-Vidal, Gabriele De Chiara, Jonas Larson, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043407 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4827
abstract: Cold atoms, driven by a laser and simultaneously coupled to the quantum field of an optical resonator, can self-organize in periodic structures. These structures are supported by the optical lattice, which emerges from the laser light they scatter into the cavity mode, and form when the laser intensity exceeds a threshold value. We study theoretically the quantum ground state of these structures above the pump threshold of self-organization, by mapping the atomic dynamics of the self-organized crystal to a Bose-Hubbard model. We find that the quantum ground state of the self-organized structure can be the one of a Mott-insulator or a superfluid, depending on the pump strength of the driving laser. For very large pump strengths, where the intracavity intensity is maximum and one would expect a Mott-insulator state, we find intervals of parameters where the system is superfluid. These states could be realized in existing experimental setups.

id: 1001.5085
title: Meaning of the wave function
authors: Shan Gao
comments: 22 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Chemistry, 111: n/a (2011) Early View
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5085
abstract: We investigate the meaning of the wave function by analyzing the mass and charge density distributions of a quantum system. According to protective measurement, a charged quantum system has mass and charge density distributing in space, proportional to the modulus square of its wave function. In a realistic interpretation, the wave function of a quantum system can be taken as a description of either a physical field or the ergodic motion of a particle. If the wave function is a physical field, then the mass and charge density will be distributed throughout space at a given time for a charged quantum system, and thus there will exist gravitational and electrostatic self-interactions of its wave function. This not only violates the superposition principle of quantum mechanics but also contradicts experimental observations. Thus the wave function cannot be a description of a physical field but a description of the ergodic motion of a particle. For the later there is only a localized particle with mass and charge at every instant, and thus there will not exist any self-interaction for the wave function. It is further argued that the classical ergodic models, which assume continuous motion of particles, cannot be consistent with quantum mechanics. Based on the negative result, we suggest that the wave function is a description of the quantum motion of particles, which is random and discontinuous in nature. On this interpretation, the modulus square of the wave function not only gives the density of probability of the particle being found in certain locations, but also gives the density of objective probability of the particle being there. We show that this new interpretation of the wave function provides a natural realistic alternative to the orthodox interpretation, and its implications for other realistic interpretations of quantum mechanics are also briefly discussed.

id: 1001.5131
title: Quantum Persistence: A Random Walk Scenario
authors: Sanchari Goswami, Parongama Sen, Arnab Das
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, revtex4. To be published in PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 021121 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5131
abstract: In this paper we extend the concept of persistence, well defined for classical stochastic dynamics, to the context of quantum dynamics. We demonstrate the idea via quantum random walk and a successive measurement scheme, where persistence is defined as the time during which a given site remains unvisited by the walker. We also investigated the behavior of related quantities, e.g., the first-passage time and the succession probability (newly defined), etc. The study reveals power law scaling behavior of these quantities with new exponents. Comparable features of the classical and the quantum walks are discussed.

id: 1001.5163
title: A simple realization of gl(2,c) Lie algebra with vector operators on sphere
authors: Q. H. Liu, X. P. Rong, D. M. Xun
comments: 3 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5163
abstract: By utilization of three elementary vector operators as position, angular momentum and their cross product, a simple realization of gl(2,c) Lie algebra on sphere are constructed. The coherent states based on this algebra can then be constructed by standard manner.

id: 1001.5226
title: Phase separation and pairing regimes in the one-dimensional asymmetric Hubbard model
authors: L. Barbiero, M. Casadei, M. Dalmonte, C. Degli Esposti Boschi, E. Ercolessi, F. Ortolani
comments: 13 pages, RevTeX 4, 12 eps figures, some additional refs. with respect to v1 and citation errors fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 224512 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5226
abstract: We address some open questions regarding the phase diagram of the one-dimensional Hubbard model with asymmetric hopping coefficients and balanced species. In the attractive regime we present a numerical study of the passage from on-site pairing dominant correlations at small asymmetries to charge-density waves in the region with markedly different hopping coefficients. In the repulsive regime we exploit two analytical treatments in the strong- and weak-coupling regimes in order to locate the onset of phase separation at small and large asymmetries respectively.

id: 1001.4163
title: Casimir energy, dispersion, and the Lifshitz formula
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Jef Wagner, Prachi Parashar, Iver Brevik
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4163
abstract: Despite suggestions to the contrary, we show in this paper that the usual dispersive form of the electromagnetic energy must be used to derive the Lifshitz force between parallel dielectric media. This conclusion follows from the general form of the quantum vacuum energy, which is the basis of the multiple-scattering formalism. As an illustration, we explicitly derive the Lifshitz formula for the interaction between parallel dielectric semispaces, including dispersion, starting from the expression for the total energy of the system. The issues of constancy of the energy between parallel plates and of the observability of electrostrictive forces are briefly addressed.

id: 1001.4964
title: Combinatorial Algebra for second-quantized Quantum Theory
authors: P. Blasiak, G. H. E. Duchamp, A. I. Solomon, A. Horzela, K. A. Penson
comments: 28 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4964
abstract: We describe an algebra G of diagrams which faithfully gives a diagrammatic representation of the structures of both the Heisenberg-Weyl algebra H - the associative algebra of the creation and annihilation operators of quantum mechanics - and U(L_H), the enveloping algebra of the Heisenberg Lie algebra L_H. We show explicitly how G may be endowed with the structure of a Hopf algebra, which is also mirrored in the structure of U(L_H). While both H and U(L_H) are images of G, the algebra G has a richer structure and therefore embodies a finer combinatorial realization of the creation-annihilation system, of which it provides a concrete model.

id: 1001.5108
title: Long-lived quantum coherence in photosynthetic complexes at physiological temperature
authors: Gitt Panitchayangkoon, Dugan Hayes, Kelly A. Fransted, Justin R. Caram, Elad Harel, Jianzhong Wen, Robert E. Blankenship, Gregory S. Engel
comments: PDF files, 15 pages, 3 figures (included in the PDF file)
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5108
abstract: Photosynthetic antenna complexes capture and concentrate solar radiation by transferring the excitation to the reaction center which stores energy from the photon in chemical bonds. This process occurs with near-perfect quantum efficiency. Recent experiments at cryogenic temperatures have revealed that coherent energy transfer - a wavelike transfer mechanism - occurs in many photosynthetic pigment-protein complexes (1-4). Using the Fenna-Matthews-Olson antenna complex (FMO) as a model system, theoretical studies incorporating both incoherent and coherent transfer as well as thermal dephasing predict that environmentally assisted quantum transfer efficiency peaks near physiological temperature; these studies further show that this process is equivalent to a quantum random walk algorithm (5-8). This theory requires long-lived quantum coherence at room temperature, which never has been observed in FMO. Here we present the first evidence that quantum coherence survives in FMO at physiological temperature for at least 300 fs, long enough to perform a rudimentary quantum computational operation. This data proves that the wave-like energy transfer process discovered at 77 K is directly relevant to biological function. Microscopically, we attribute this long coherence lifetime to correlated motions within the protein matrix encapsulating the chromophores, and we find that the degree of protection afforded by the protein appears constant between 77 K and 277 K. The protein shapes the energy landscape and mediates an efficient energy transfer despite thermal fluctuations. The persistence of quantum coherence in a dynamic, disordered system under these conditions suggests a new biomimetic strategy for designing dedicated quantum computational devices that can operate at high temperature.

id: 1001.5445
title: Gravity from Quantum Information
authors: Jae-Weon Lee, Hyeong-Chan Kim, Jungjai Lee
comments: 7 pages, revtex4-1, 2 figures, recent supporting results added
journal: J. Korean Phys. Soc. 63 (2013) 1094
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5445
abstract: It is suggested that the Einstein equation can be derived from Landauer's principle applied to an information erasing process at a local Rindler horizon and Jacobson's idea linking the Einstein equation with thermodynamics. When matter crosses the horizon, the information of the matter disappears and the horizon entanglement entropy increases to compensate the entropy reduction. The Einstein equation describes an information-energy relation during this process, which implies that entropic gravity is related to the quantum entanglement of the vacuum and has a quantum information theoretic origin.

id: 1001.5457
title: Spontaneous symmetry breaking in a generalized orbital compass model
authors: Lukasz Cincio, Jacek Dziarmaga, Andrzej M. Oles
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, improved presentation, version to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 104416 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5457
abstract: We introduce a generalized two-dimensional orbital compass model, which interpolates continuously from the classical Ising model to the orbital compass model with frustrated quantum interactions, and investigate it using the multiscale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA). The results demonstrate that increasing frustration of exchange interactions triggers a second order quantum phase transition to a degenerate symmetry broken state which minimizes one of the interactions in the orbital compass model. Using boson expansion within the spin-wave theory we unravel the physical mechanism of the symmetry breaking transition as promoted by weak quantum fluctuations and explain why this transition occurs only surprisingly close to the maximally frustrated interactions of the orbital compass model. The spin waves remain gapful at the critical point, and both the boson expansion and MERA do not find any algebraically decaying spin-spin correlations in the critical ground state.

id: 1001.2630
title: Casimir effect at nonzero temperature for wedges and cylinders
authors: Simen ?. Ellingsen, Iver Brevik, Kimball A. Milton
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:065031,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.2630
abstract: We consider the Casimir-Helmholtz free energy at nonzero temperature $T$ for a circular cylinder and perfectly conducting wedge closed by a cylindrical arc, either perfectly conducting or isorefractive. The energy expression at nonzero temperature may be regularized to obtain a finite value, except for a singular corner term in the case of the wedge which is present also at zero temperature. Assuming the medium in the interior of the cylinder or wedge be nondispersive with refractive index $n$, the temperature dependence enters only through the non-dimensional parameter $2\pi naT$, $a$ being the radius of the cylinder or cylindrical arc. We show explicitly that the known zero temperature result is regained in the limit $aT\to 0$ and that previously derived high temperature asymptotics for the cylindrical shell are reproduced exactly.

id: 1001.4816
title: The Morse potential and phase-space quantum mechanics
authors: B. Belchev, M.A. Walton
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4816
abstract: We consider the time-independent Wigner functions of phase-space quantum mechanics (a.k.a. deformation quantization) for a Morse potential. First, we find them by solving the $\ast$-eigenvalue equations, using a method that can be applied to potentials that are polynomial in an exponential. A Mellin transform converts the $\ast$-eigenvalue equations to difference equations, and factorized solutions are found directly for all values of the parameters. The symbols of both diagonal and off-diagonal density operator elements in the energy basis are found this way. The Wigner transforms of the density matrices built from the known wave functions are then shown to confirm the solutions.

id: 1001.0274
title: Bosons, fermions and anyons in the plane, and supersymmetry
authors: Peter A. Horvathy, Mikhail S. Plyushchay, Mauricio Valenzuela
comments: 54 pages. Typos corrected, refs updated. Published version
journal: Annals Phys.325:1931-1975,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0274
abstract: Universal vector wave equations allowing for a unified description of anyons, and also of usual bosons and fermions in the plane are proposed. The existence of two essentially different types of anyons, based on unitary and also on non-unitary infinite-dimensional half-bounded representations of the (2+1)D Lorentz algebra is revealed. Those associated with non-unitary representations interpolate between bosons and fermions. The extended formulation of the theory includes the previously known Jackiw-Nair (JN) and Majorana-Dirac (MD) descriptions of anyons as particular cases, and allows us to compose bosons and fermions from entangled anyons. The theory admits a simple supersymmetric generalization, in which the JN and MD systems are unified in N=1 and N=2 supermultiplets. Two different non-relativistic limits of the theory are investigated. The usual one generalizes Levy-Leblond's spin 1/2 theory to arbitrary spin, as well as to anyons. The second, "Jackiw-Nair" limit (that corresponds to Inonu-Wigner contraction with both anyon spin and light velocity going to infinity), is generalized to boson/fermion fields and interpolating anyons. The resulting exotic Galilei symmetry is studied in both the non-supersymmetric and the supersymmetric cases.

id: 1001.5388
title: New forms of BRST symmetry in rigid rotor
authors: Sumit Kumar Rai, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: 10 Pages, revtex, No Figs
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A, 25, 2281-2288, 2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5388
abstract: We derive the different forms of BRST symmetry by using the Batalin-Fradkin-Vilkovisky formalism in a rigid rotor. The so called "dual-BRST" symmetry is obtained from usual BRST symmetry by making a canonical transformation in the ghost sector. On the other hand, a canonical transformation in the sector involving Lagrange multiplier and its corresponding momentum leads to a new form of BRST as well as dual-BRST symmetry.

id: 1001.3893
title: Dynamics of Correlations of Bose and Fermi Particles
authors: V.I. Gerasimenko, D.O. Polishchuk
comments: 30 pages
journal: Math. Meth. Appl. Sci. 34 (1) (2011) 76-93
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3893
abstract: We discuss the origin of the microscopic description of correlations in quantum many-particle systems obeying Fermi-Dirac and Bose-Einstein statistics. For correlation operators that give the alternative description of the quantum state evolution of Bose and Fermi particles, we deduce the von Neumann hierarchy of nonlinear equations and construct the solution of its initial-value problem in the corresponding spaces of sequences of trace class operators. The links of constructed solution both with the solution of the quantum BBGKY hierarchy and with the nonlinear BBGKY hierarchy for marginal correlation operators are discussed. The solutions of the Cauchy problems of these hierarchies are constructed for initial data satisfying a chaos property.

id: 1001.4857
title: On Di¨®si-Penrose criterion of gravity-induced quantum collapse
authors: Shan Gao
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Int. J. Theor.Phys., 49, 849-853, 2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4857
abstract: It is shown that the Di\'osi-Penrose criterion of gravity-induced quantum collapse may be inconsistent with the discreteness of space-time, which is generally considered as an indispensable element in a complete theory of quantum gravity. Moreover, the analysis also suggests that the discreteness of space-time may result in rapider collapse of the superposition of energy eigenstates than required by the Di\'osi-Penrose criterion.

id: 1001.5120
title: Asymptotics of eigenvalues of non-self adjoint Schr?dinger operators on a half-line
authors: Kwang C. Shin
comments: No figure. To appear in CMFT
journal: CMFT 10 (2010) 111-133.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.5120
abstract: We study the eigenvalues of the non-self adjoint problem $-y^{\prime\prime}+V(x)y=E y$ on the half-line $0\leq x<+\infty$ under the Robin boundary condition at $x=0$, where $V$ is a monic polynomial of degree $\geq 3$. We obtain a Bohr-Sommerfeld-like asymptotic formula for $E_n$ that depends on the boundary conditions. Consequently, we solve certain inverse spectral problems, recovering the potential $V$ and boundary condition from the first $(m+2)$ terms of the asymptotic formula.

id: 1001.4300
title: New Reductions and Nonlinear Systems for 2D Schrodinger Operators
authors: P. Grinevich, A. Mironov, S. Novikov
comments: LaTeX, 13 pages, 2 fugures
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4300
abstract: New Completely Integrable (2+1)-System is studied. It is based on the so-called L-A-B-triples $L_t=[H,L]-fL$ where L is a 2D Schrodinger Operator. This approach was invented by S.Manakov and B.Dubrovin, I.Krichever, S.Novikov(DKN) in the works published in 1976. A nonstandard reduction for the 2D Schrodinger Operator (completely different from the one found by S.Novikov and A.Veselov in 1984) compatible with time dynamics of the new Nonlinear System, is studied here. It can be naturally treated as a 2D extension of the famous Burgers System. The Algebro-Geometric (AG) Periodic Solutions here are very specific and unusual (for general and reduced cases). The reduced system is linearizable like Burgers. However, the general one (and probably the reduced one also) certainly lead in the stationary AG case to the nonstandard examples of algebraic curves $\Gamma\subset W$ in the full complex 2D manifold of Bloch-Floquet functions W for the periodic elliptic 2D operator H where $H\psi(x,y,P)=\lambda(P)\psi(x,y,P),P\in \Gamma$. However, in the nontrivial case the operators are nonselfadjoint. A Conjecture is formulated that for the nontrivial selfadjoint elliptic 2D Schrodinger operators H with periodic coefficients The Whole 2D Complex Manifolds W cannot not contain any Zariski open part of algebraic curve $\Gamma$ except maybe one selected level $H\psi=const$ found in 1976 by DKN. Version 2 contains new results. It also corrects some non-accurate claims; in particular, the non-reduced system is non-linearizable in any trivial sense. In version 3 a misprint in the formulation of Theorem 1 was corrected.

id: 1001.4922
title: Quantum entanglement and entropy in particle creation
authors: Shih-Yuin Lin, Chung-Hsien Chou, B. L. Hu
comments: 14 pages, no figure; Typos corrected.
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:084018,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4922
abstract: We investigate the basic theoretical issues in the quantum entanglement of particle pairs created from the vacuum in a time-dependent background field or spacetime. Similar to entropy generation from these processes which depends on the choice of physical variables and how certain information is coarse-grained, entanglement dynamics hinges on the choice of measurable quantities and how the two parties are selected as well as the background dynamics of the field or spacetime. We discuss the conditions of separability of quantum states in particle creation processes and point out the differences in how the von Neumann entropy is used as a measure of entropy generation versus for entanglement dynamics. We show by an explicit construction that adoption of a different set of physical variables yields a different entanglement entropy. As an application of these theoretical considerations we show how the particle number and the quantum phase enter the entanglement dynamics in cosmological particle production.

id: 1001.3385
title: Nonequilibrium quantum dynamics of atomic dark solitons
authors: A D Martin, J Ruostekoski
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures, to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics 12 (2010) 055018
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3385
abstract: We study quantum dynamics of bosonic atoms that are excited to form a phase kink, or several kinks, by an imprinting potential in a one-dimensional trap. We calculate dissipation due to quantum and thermal fluctuations in soliton trajectories, collisions and the core structure. Single-shot runs show weak filling of a soliton core, typically deeper solitons in the case of stronger fluctuations and spreading/disappearing solitons due to collisions. We also analyze a soliton system in an optical lattice that shows especially strong fluctuation-induced phenomena.

id: 1001.4194
title: Single-molecule Nanomagnets
authors: Jonathan R. Friedman, Myriam P. Sarachik
comments: original version (40 pages, including 9 figures); access to published version via this http URL
journal: Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. 1, 109 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4194
abstract: Single molecule magnets straddle the classical and quantum mechanical worlds, displaying many fascinating phenomena. They may have important technological applications in information storage and quantum computation. We review the physical properties of two prototypical molecular nanomagnets, Mn_12-acetate and Fe_8: each behaves as a rigid, spin-10 object, and exhibits tunneling between up and down directions. As temperature is lowered, the spin reversal process evolves from thermal activation to pure quantum tunneling. At low temperatures, magnetic avalanches occur in which the magnetization of an entire sample rapidly reverses. We discuss the important role that symmetry-breaking fields play in driving tunneling and in producing Berry-phase interference. Recent experimental advances indicate that quantum coherence can be maintained on time scales sufficient to allow a meaningful number of quantum computing operations to be performed. Efforts are underway to create monolayers and to address and manipulate individual molecules.

id: 1001.1996
title: Quantum imaging: Scattered observations on "Copenhagen"
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: 
journal: Alternatives Theatrales, 102-3, pp 81-2 (November 2009)
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1996
abstract: Remarks on Michael Frayn's play "Copenhagen".

id: 1001.1016
title: Maximum relative excitation of a specific vibrational mode via optimum laser pulse duration
authors: Xiang Zhou, Zhibin Lin, Chenwei Jiang, Meng Gao, Roland E. Allen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review B 82, 075433 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1016
abstract: For molecules and materials responding to femtosecond-scale optical laser pulses, we predict maximum relative excitation of a Raman-active vibrational mode with period T when the pulse has an FWHM duration of 0.42 T. This result follows from a general analytical model, and is precisely confirmed by detailed density-functional-based dynamical simulations for C60 and a carbon nanotube, which include anharmonicity, nonlinearity, no assumptions about the polarizability tensor, and no averaging over rapid oscillations within the pulse. The mode specificity is, of course, best at low temperature and for pulses that are electronically off-resonance, and the energy deposited in any mode is proportional to the fourth power of the electric field.

id: 1001.4048
title: Coupling Nitrogen Vacancy Centers in Diamond to Superconducting Flux Qubits
authors: D. Marcos, M. Wubs, J. M. Taylor, R. Aguado, M. D. Lukin, A. S. Sorensen
comments: Accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett. Updated text and Supplementary Material added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 210501 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4048
abstract: We propose a method to achieve coherent coupling between Nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond and superconducting (SC) flux qubits. The resulting coupling can be used to create a coherent interaction between the spin states of distant NV centers mediated by the flux qubit. Furthermore, the magnetic coupling can be used to achieve a coherent transfer of quantum information between the flux qubit and an ensemble of NV centers. This enables a long-term memory for a SC quantum processor and possibly an interface between SC qubits and light.

id: 1001.3730
title: Fermion structure of non-Abelian vortices in high density QCD
authors: Shigehiro Yasui, Kazunori Itakura, Muneto Nitta
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, clarification added in Introduction, reference added
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:105003,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.3730
abstract: We study the internal structure of a non-Abelian vortex in color superconductivity with respect to quark degrees of freedom. Stable non-Abelian vortices appear in the Color-Flavor-Locked phase whose symmetry SU(3)_{c+L+R} is further broken to SU(2)_{c+L+R} x U(1)_{c+L+R} at the vortex cores. Microscopic structure of vortices at scales shorter than the coherence length can be analyzed by the Bogoliubov-de Gennes (B-dG) equation (rather than the Ginzburg-Landau equation). We obtain quark spectra from the B-dG equation by treating the diquark gap having the vortex configuration as a background field. We find that there are massless modes (zero modes) well-localized around a vortex, in the triplet and singlet states of the unbroken symmetry SU(2)_{c+L+R} x U(1)_{c+L+R}. The velocities v_i of the massless modes (i=t,s for triplet and singlet) change at finite chemical potential \mu, and decrease as \mu becomes large. Therefore, low energy excitations in the vicinity of the vortices are effectively described by 1+1 dimensional massless fermions whose velocities are reduced v_i<1.

id: 1001.4614
title: Instantaneous coherent destruction of tunneling and fast quantum state preparation for strongly pulsed spin qubits in diamond
authors: Martijn Wubs
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. Published in the special issue of Chemical Physics in honor of Peter Hanggi
journal: Chem. Phys. 375, 163 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4614
abstract: Qubits driven by resonant strong pulses are studied and a parameter regime is explored in which the dynamics can be solved in closed form. Instantaneous coherent destruction of tunneling can be seen for longer pulses, whereas shorter pulses allow a fast preparation of the qubit state. Results are compared with recent experiments of pulsed nitrogen-vacancy center spin qubits in diamond.

id: 1001.0809
title: Excitation energy transfer: Study with non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Xian-Ting Liang
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 051918 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0809
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the non-Markovian dynamics of a model to mimic the excitation energy transfer (EET) between chromophores in photosynthesis systems. The numerical path integral method is used. This method includes the non-Markovian effects of the environmental affects and it does not need the perturbation approximation in solving the dynamics of systems of interest. It implies that the coherence helps the EET between chromophores through lasting the transfer time rather than enhances the transfer rate of the EET. In particular, the non-Markovian environment greatly increase the efficiency of the EET in the photosynthesis systems.

id: 1001.1673
title: On the tensor convolution and the quantum separability problem
authors: Gabriel Pietrzkowski
comments: 13 pages, two sections added
journal: Open Sys. Inf. Dyn. 17, 4(2010) pp. 331-346
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.1673
abstract: We consider the problem of separability: decide whether a Hermitian operator on a finite dimensional Hilbert tensor product is separable or entangled. We show that the tensor convolution defined for certain mappings on an almost arbitrary locally compact abelian group, give rise to formulation of an equivalent problem to the separability one.

id: 1001.4280
title: Monotonicity of quantum ground state energies: Bosonic atoms and stars
authors: Michael K.-H. Kiessling
comments: 
journal: J.Statist.Phys.137:1063-1078,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.4280
abstract: The N-dependence of the non-relativistic bosonic ground state energy is studied for quantum N-body systems with either Coulomb or Newton interactions. The Coulomb systems are "bosonic atoms," with their nucleus fixed, and the Newton systems are "bosonic stars". In either case there exists some third order polynomial in N such that the ratio of the ground state energy to the respective polynomial grows monotonically in N. Some applications of these new monotonicity results are discussed.

