id: 1002.0040
title: New Aspects of Geometric Phases in Experiments with polarized Neutrons
authors: S. Sponar, J. Klepp, K. Durstberger-Rennhofer, R. Loidl, S. Filipp, M. Lettner, R. A. Bertlmann, G. Badurek, H.Rauch, Y. Hasegawa
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 354015 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0040
abstract: Geometric phase phenomena in single neutrons have been observed in polarimeter and interferometer experiments. Interacting with static and time dependent magnetic fields, the state vectors acquire a geometric phase tied to the evolution within spin subspace. In a polarimeter experiment the non-additivity of quantum phases for mixed spin input states is observed. In a Si perfect-crystal interferometer experiment appearance of geometric phases, induced by interaction with an oscillating magnetic field, is verified. The total system is characterized by an entangled state, consisting of neutron and radiation fields, governed by a Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian. In addition, the influence of the geometric phase on a Bell measurement, expressed by the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality, is studied. It is demonstrated that the effect of geometric phase can be balanced by an appropriate change of Bell angles.

id: 1002.0066
title: Two-spinors, oscillator algebras, and qubits: Aspects of manifestly covariant approach to relativistic quantum information
authors: Marek Czachor
comments: 53 pages, version accepted in Quantum Inf. Processing (special issue on foundations), in v3 a missing 2 in (295), (297), (306) is corrected
journal: Quantum Information Processing 9, 171-232 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0066
abstract: The first part of the paper reviews applications of 2-spinor methods to relativistic qubits (analogies between tetrads in Minkowski space and 2-qubit states, qubits defined by means of null directions and their role for elimination of the Peres-Scudo-Terno phenomenon, advantages and disadvantages of relativistic polarization operators defined by the Pauli-Lubanski vector, manifestly covariant approach to unitary representations of inhomogeneous SL(2,C)). The second part deals with electromagnetic fields quantized by means of harmonic oscillator Lie algebras (not necessarily taken in irreducible representations). As opposed to non-relativistic singlets one has to distinguish between maximally symmetric and EPR states. The distinction is one of the sources of `strange' relativistic properties of EPR correlations. As an example, EPR averages are explicitly computed for linear polarizations in states that are antisymmetric in both helicities and momenta. The result takes the familiar form $\pm p\cos 2(\alpha-\beta)$ independently of the choice of representation of harmonic oscillator algebra. Parameter $p$ is determined by spectral properties of detectors and the choice of EPR state, but is unrelated to detector efficiencies. Brief analysis of entanglement with vacuum and vacuum violation of Bell's inequality is given. The effects are related to inequivalent notions of vacuum states. Technical appendices discuss details of the representation I employ in field quantization. In particular, M-shaped delta-sequences are used to define Dirac deltas regular at zero.

id: 1002.0085
title: Framework for classifying logical operators in stabilizer codes
authors: Beni Yoshida, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0085
abstract: Entanglement, as studied in quantum information science, and non-local quantum correlations, as studied in condensed matter physics, are fundamentally akin to each other. However, their relationship is often hard to quantify due to the lack of a general approach to study both on the same footing. In particular, while entanglement and non-local correlations are properties of states, both arise from symmetries of global operators that commute with the system Hamiltonian. Here, we introduce a framework for completely classifying the local and non-local properties of all such global operators, given the Hamiltonian and a bi-partitioning of the system. This framework is limited to descriptions based on stabilizer quantum codes, but may be generalized. We illustrate the use of this framework to study entanglement and non-local correlations by analyzing global symmetries in topological order, distribution of entanglement and entanglement entropy.

id: 1002.0127
title: Quantum state engineering, purification, and number resolved photon detection with high finesse optical cavities
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Christine A. Muschik, Geza Giedke, K. G. H. Vollbrecht
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043832 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0127
abstract: We propose and analyze a multi-functional setup consisting of high finesse optical cavities, beam splitters, and phase shifters. The basic scheme projects arbitrary photonic two-mode input states onto the subspace spanned by the product of Fock states |n>|n> with n=0,1,2,.... This protocol does not only provide the possibility to conditionally generate highly entangled photon number states as resource for quantum information protocols but also allows one to test and hence purify this type of quantum states in a communication scenario, which is of great practical importance. The scheme is especially attractive as a generalization to many modes allows for distribution and purification of entanglement in networks. In an alternative working mode, the setup allows of quantum non demolition number resolved photodetection in the optical domain.

id: 1002.0147
title: Multi mode nano scale Raman echo quantum memory
authors: S.A.Moiseev, E.S.Moiseev
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0147
abstract: Low loss magnetic surface plasmon polariton (SPP) modes characterized by enhanced electrical field component and subwavelength confinement on the dielectric and negative-index metamaterial interface are presented. We demonstrate a possibility of storage and perfect retrieval of the low loss magnetic SPP fields by using a photon echo quantum memory on Raman atomic transition. We describe specific properties of the proposed technique which opens a possibility for efficient nano scale multi-mode quantum memory.

id: 1002.0167
title: Quantum quench in interacting field theory: a self-consistent approximation
authors: Spyros Sotiriadis, John Cardy
comments: 20 pages, 15 figures / new citations added, minor changes, typos corrected.
journal: Phys.Rev.B81:134305,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0167
abstract: We study a composite quantum quench of the energy gap and the interactions in the interacting \phi^4 model using a self-consistent approximation. Firstly we review the results for free theories where a quantum quench of the energy gap or mass leads for long times to stationary behaviour with thermal characteristics. An exception to this rule is the 2d case with zero mass after the quench. In the composite quench however we find that the effect of the interactions in our approximation is simply to effectively change the value of the mass. This means on the one hand that the interacting model also exhibits the same stationary behaviour and on the other hand that this is now true even for the massless 2d case.

id: 1002.0176
title: Thermal quantum discord in the anisotropic Heisenberg XXZ model with the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction
authors: Yi-Xin Chen, Zhi Yin
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0176
abstract: The thermal quantum discord (QD) is studied in a two-qubit Heisenberg XXZ system with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction. We compare the thermal QD with thermal entanglement in this system and find remarkable differences between them. For instance, we show situations where QD decreases asymptotically to zero with temperature $T$ while entanglement decreases to zero at the point of critical temperature, situations where QD decreases with certain tunable parameters such as $D_z$ and $D_x$ when entanglement increases. We find that the characteristic of QD is exotic in this system and this possibly offers a potential solution to enhance entanglement of a system. We also show that tunable parameter $D_x$ is more efficient than parameter $D_z$ in most regions for controlling the QD.

id: 1002.0196
title: Passive scheme with a photon-number-resolving detector for monitoring the untrusted source in a plug-and-play quantum-key-distribution system
authors: Bingjie Xu, Xiang Peng, Hong Guo
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 82, 042301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0196
abstract: A passive scheme with a beam splitter and a photon-number-resolving (PNR) detector is proposed to verify the photon statistics of an untrusted source in a plug-and-play quantum-key-distribution system by applying a three-intensity decoy-state protocol. The practical issues due to statistical fluctuation and detection noise are analyzed. The simulation results show that the scheme can work efficiently when the total number of optical pulses sent from Alice to Bob is above 10^8, and the dark count rate of the PNR detector is below 0.5 counts/pulse, which is realizable with current techniques. Furthermore, we propose a practical realization of the PNR detector with a variable optical attenuator combined with a threshold detector.

id: 1002.0200
title: Energy-Entanglement Relation for Quantum Energy Teleportation
authors: Masahiro Hotta
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Physics Letter A
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:3416-3421,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0200
abstract: Protocols of quantum energy teleportation (QET), while retaining causality and local energy conservation, enable the transportation of energy from a subsystem of a many-body quantum system to a distant subsystem by local operations and classical communication through ground-state entanglement. We prove two energy-entanglement inequalities for a minimal QET model. These relations help us to gain a profound understanding of entanglement itself as a physical resource by relating entanglement to energy as an evident physical resource.

id: 1002.0210
title: Photon-number correlations by photon-number resolving detectors
authors: Alessia Allevi, Maria Bondani, Alessandra Andreoni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0210
abstract: We demonstrate that by using a pair of photodetectors endowed with internal gain we are able to quantify the correlation coefficient between the two components of a pulsed bipartite state in the mesoscopic intensity regime (less than 100 mean photons).

id: 1002.0225
title: Noise resilient quantum interface based on QND interaction
authors: Petr Marek, Radim Filip
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042325 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0225
abstract: We propose a quantum interface protocol based on two quantum-non-demolition interactions (QND) arranged either in sequence or in parallel. Since the QND coupling arises naturally in interactions between light and a macroscopic ensemble of atoms, or between light and a micro-mechanical oscillator, the proposed interface is capable of transferring a state of light onto these matter systems. The transfer itself is perfect and deterministic for any quantum state, for arbitrarily small interaction strengths, and for arbitrarily large noise of the target system. It requires an all-optical pre-processing, requiring a coupling stronger than that between the light and the matter, and a displacement feed-forward correction of the matter system. We also suggest a probabilistic version of the interface, which eliminates the need for the feed-forward correction at a cost of reduced success rate. An application of the interface can be found in construction of a quantum memory, or in the state preparation for quantum sensing.

id: 1002.0230
title: The output entropy of quantum channels and operations
authors: M.E.Shirokov
comments: 47 pages
journal: Sbornik: Mathematics, 202:10 (2011), 131-160
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0230
abstract: Continuity properties of the output entropy of positive linear maps between Banach spaces of trace class operators are investigated with the special attention to the classes of quantum channels and operations. It is shown that finiteness of the output entropy of a positive map on the whole input state space implies its continuity. Sufficient conditions for this property expressed in terms of the Kraus representation of quantum channels and operations are presented. The characterization of a positive map "preserving continuity of the entropy" (in the sense that continuity of the entropy on a set of input states implies continuity of its output entropy on this set) is obtained and its applications to the class of quantum operations are considered. The special relation between continuity properties of the output entropies of complementary quantum operations is established and its corollaries are discussed. Continuity conditions for the output entropy of positive maps considered as a function of a pair (map, input state) are also obtained. Several applications to the quantum information theory are presented in the last part of the paper.

id: 1002.0232
title: Discrimination of binary coherent states using a homodyne detector and a photon number resolving detector
authors: Christoffer Wittmann, Ulrik L. Andersen, Masahiro Takeoka, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0232
abstract: We investigate quantum measurement strategies capable of discriminating two coherent states probabilistically with significantly smaller error probabilities than can be obtained using non- probabilistic state discrimination. We apply a postselection strategy to the measurement data of a homodyne detector as well as a photon number resolving detector in order to lower the error probability. We compare the two different receivers with an optimal intermediate measurement scheme where the error rate is minimized for a fixed rate of inconclusive results. The photon number resolving (PNR) receiver is experimentally demonstrated and compared to an experimental realization of a homodyne receiver with postselection. In the comparison it becomes clear, that the perfromance of the new PNR receiver surpasses the performance of the homodyne receiver, which we proof to be optimal within any Gaussian operations and conditional dynamics.

id: 1002.0252
title: Ion-trap simulation of the quantum phase transition in an exactly solvable model of spins coupled to bosons
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Simone Paganelli, Fernando Galve
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 81, 052118 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0252
abstract: It is known that arrays of trapped ions can be used to efficiently simulate a variety of many-body quantum systems. Here, we show how it is possible to build a model representing a spin chain interacting with bosons which is exactly solvable. The exact spectrum of the model at zero temperature and the ground state properties are studied. We show that a quantum phase transition occurs when the coupling between spins and bosons reaches a critical value, which corresponds to a level crossing in the energy spectrum. Once the critical point is reached, the number of bosonic excitations in the ground state, which can be assumed as an order parameter, starts to be different from zero. The population of the bosonic mode is accompanied by a macroscopic magnetization of the spins. This double effect could represent an useful resource for the phase transition detection since a measure on the phonon can give information about the phase of the spin system. A finite temperature phase diagram is also given in the adiabatic regime.

id: 1002.0257
title: Cold atom scattering by cavity fields in a two-dimensional geometry
authors: John Martin, Thierry Bastin
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0257
abstract: The quantum theory of the cold atom scattering by cavity fields in a two-dimensional geometry is presented. A distinct regime from the usual Raman-Nath, Bragg and Stern-Gerlach regimes is investigated, considering the situation where the cavity light field acts as a repulsive and an attractive two-dimensional potential. General expressions for the scattering lengths (the two-dimensional analogues to the three-dimensional scattering cross-sections) of finding the atoms deexcited or not after their interaction with the cavity are derived. The connection with the classical Rabi limit when the incident atomic kinetic energy is high compared with the atom-field interaction energy is made. In the cold atom regime characterized by much lower incident atomic kinetic energies, the scattering process exhibits very peculiar properties in connection with quasibound states of the atomic motion induced by the attractive potential of the cavity light field.

id: 1002.0268
title: Entangled three-particle states in magnetic field: Periodic correlations and density matrices
authors: Amitabha Chakrabarti, Anirban Chakraborti
comments: 10 pages including 2 figures, APS REVTeX4 format.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0268
abstract: We present a novel study of the time evolutions of entangled states of three spin-1/2 particles in the presence of a constant external magnetic field, which causes the individual spins to precess and leads to remarkable periodicities in the correlations and density matrices. The emerging patterns of periodicity are studied explicitly for different entangled states and in detail for a particular initial configuration of the velocities. Contributions to precession of anomalous magnetic moments are analysed and general results are also obtained. We then introduce an electric field orthogonal to the magnetic field, linking to the preceding case via a suitable Lorentz transformation, and obtain the corresponding Wigner rotations of the spin states. Finally, we point out for the first time that the entangled states corresponding to well-known ones in the study of 3-particle entanglements, may be classified systematically using a particular coupling of three angular momenta.

id: 1002.0280
title: Continuous variable entanglement distillation of Non-Gaussian Mixed States
authors: Ruifang Dong, Mikael Lassen, Joel Heersink, Christoph Marquardt, Radim Filip, Gerd Leuchs, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0280
abstract: Many different quantum information communication protocols such as teleportation, dense coding and entanglement based quantum key distribution are based on the faithful transmission of entanglement between distant location in an optical network. The distribution of entanglement in such a network is however hampered by loss and noise that is inherent in all practical quantum channels. Thus, to enable faithful transmission one must resort to the protocol of entanglement distillation. In this paper we present a detailed theoretical analysis and an experimental realization of continuous variable entanglement distillation in a channel that is inflicted by different kinds of non-Gaussian noise. The continuous variable entangled states are generated by exploiting the third order non-linearity in optical fibers, and the states are sent through a free-space laboratory channel in which the losses are altered to simulate a free-space atmospheric channel with varying losses. We use linear optical components, homodyne measurements and classical communication to distill the entanglement, and we find that by using this method the entanglement can be probabilistically increased for some specific non-Gaussian noise channels.

id: 1002.0310
title: From qubits and actions to the Pauli-Schroedinger equation
authors: Salomon S. Mizrahi
comments: Presented at the 15th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics, Belgrade, Serbia, May 30 to June 03 2008
journal: Physica Scripta T 135 014007 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0310
abstract: Here I show that a classical or quantum bit state plus one simple operation, an action, are sufficient ingredients to derive a quantum dynamical equation that rules the sequential changes of the state. Then, by assuming that a freely moving massive particle is the qubit carrier, it is found that both, the particle position in physical space and the qubit state, change in time according to the Pauli-Schroedinger equation. So, this approach suggests the following conjecture: because it carries one qubit of information the particle motion has its description enslaved by the very existence of the internal degree of freedom. It is compelled to be no more described classically but by a wavefunction. I also briefly discuss the Dirac equation in terms of qubits.

id: 1002.0314
title: Entanglement and the Thermodynamic Arrow of Time
authors: David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 10 pages with 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E81:061130,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0314
abstract: We discuss quantum entanglement in the context of the thermodynamic arrow of time. We review the role of correlations in entropy-decreasing events and prove that the occurrence of a transformation between two thermodynamic states constitutes a new type of entanglement witness, one not defined as a separating plane in state space between separable and entangled states, but as a physical process dependent on the local initial properties of the states. Extending work by Partovi, we consider a general entangled multipartite system that allows large reversals of the thermodynamic arrow of time. We describe a hierarchy of arrows that arises from the different correlations allowed in a quantum state and examine these features in the context of Maxwell's Demon. We examine in detail the case of three qubits, and also propose some simple experimental demonstrations possible with small numbers of qubits.

id: 1002.0346
title: Motional effects on the efficiency of excitation transfer
authors: Ali Asadian, Markus Tiersch, Gian Giacomo Guerreschi, Jianming Cai, Sandu Popescu, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 25 pages, 11 figures; completely revised; version accepted for publication
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 075019 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0346
abstract: Energy transfer plays a vital role in many natural and technological processes. In this work, we study the effects of mechanical motion on the excitation transfer through a chain of interacting molecules with application to biological scenarios of transfer processes. Our investigation demonstrates that, for various types of mechanical oscillations, the transfer efficiency is significantly enhanced over that of comparable static configurations. This enhancement is a genuine quantum signature, and requires the collaborative interplay between the quantum-coherent evolution of the excitation and the mechanical motion of the molecules; it has no analogue in the classical incoherent energy transfer. This effect may not only occur naturally, but it could be exploited in artificially designed systems to optimize transport processes. As an application, we discuss a simple and hence robust control technique.

id: 1002.0350
title: Interference of two photons of different color
authors: M. G. Raymer, S. J. van Enk, C. J. McKinstrie, H. J. McGuinness
comments: Published in a special issue of Optics Communications, dedicated to Krzysztof Wodkiewicz
journal: Opt. Commun. 283, 747 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0350
abstract: We consider the interference of two photons with different colors in the context of a Hong-Ou-Mandel experiment, in which single photons enter each of the input ports of a beam splitter, and exit in the same, albeit undetermined, output port. Such interference is possible if one uses an active (energy-non-conserving) beam splitter. We find scenarios in which one "red" and one "blue" photon enter the beam splitter, and either two red or two blue photons exit, but never one of each color. We show how the precise form of the active beam-splitter transformation determines in what way the spectral degrees of freedom of the input photons should be related to each other for perfect destructive interference of the different-color components in the output. We discuss two examples of active beam splitters: one is a gedanken experiment involving a moving mirror and the other is a more realistic example involving four-wave mixing in an optical fiber.

id: 1002.0368
title: Adiabatic Quantum Simulators
authors: J.D. Biamonte, V. Bergholm, J.D. Whitfield, J. Fitzsimons, A. Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: AIP Advances 1, 022126 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0368
abstract: In his famous 1981 talk, Feynman proposed that unlike classical computers, which would presumably experience an exponential slowdown when simulating quantum phenomena, a universal quantum simulator would not. An ideal quantum simulator would be controllable, and built using existing technology. In some cases, moving away from gate-model-based implementations of quantum computing may offer a more feasible solution for particular experimental implementations. Here we consider an adiabatic quantum simulator which simulates the ground state properties of sparse Hamiltonians consisting of one- and two-local interaction terms, using sparse Hamiltonians with at most three-local interactions. Properties of such Hamiltonians can be well approximated with Hamiltonians containing only two-local terms. The register holding the simulated ground state is brought adiabatically into interaction with a probe qubit, followed by a single diabatic gate operation on the probe which then undergoes free evolution until measured. This allows one to recover e.g. the ground state energy of the Hamiltonian being simulated. Given a ground state, this scheme can be used to verify the QMA-complete problem LOCAL HAMILTONIAN, and is therefore likely more powerful than classical computing.

id: 1002.0400
title: Spectral properties of a thresholdless dressed-atom laser
authors: Min Luo, Gao-xiang Li, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: Special Issue of Journal Modern Optics - Fetschrift in honour of Lorenzo Narducci
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0400
abstract: We investigate spectral properties of the atomic fluorescence and the output field of the cavity-mode of a single-atom dressed-state laser in a photonic crystal. We pay a particular attention to the behavior of the spectra in the presence of the frequency dependent reservoir and search for signatures of the thresholdless lasing. Although the thresholdless behavior has been predicted by analyzing the photon statistics of the cavity field, we find that the threshold behavior still exists in the spectrum of the cavity field. We find that the structure of cavity field spectrum depends strongly on the strange of the pumping rate. For low pumping rates, the spectrum is not monochromatic, it is composed of a set of discrete lines reveling the discrete (quantum) structure of the combined dressed-atom plus the cavity field system. We find that for a certain value of the pumping rate, the multi-peak structure converts into a single very narrow line centered at the cavity field frequency. A physical explanation of the behavior of the spectra is provided in terms of dressed states of the system.

id: 1002.0420
title: Universal 2-local Hamiltonian Quantum Computing
authors: Daniel Nagaj
comments: recomputed the necessary number of interactions, new geometric layout, added references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032330 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0420
abstract: We present a Hamiltonian quantum computation scheme universal for quantum computation (BQP). Our Hamiltonian is a sum of a polynomial number (in the number of gates L in the quantum circuit) of time-independent, constant-norm, 2-local qubit-qubit interaction terms. Furthermore, each qubit in the system interacts only with a constant number of other qubits. The computer runs in three steps - starts in a simple initial product-state, evolves it for time of order L^2 (up to logarithmic factors) and wraps up with a two-qubit measurement. Our model differs from the previous universal 2-local Hamiltonian constructions in that it does not use perturbation gadgets, does not need large energy penalties in the Hamiltonian and does not need to run slowly to ensure adiabatic evolution.

id: 1002.0426
title: Spin kinetic theory - quantum kinetic theory in extended phase space
authors: M. Marklund, J. Zamanian, G. Brodin
comments: 10 pages, to appear in Transport Theory and Statistical Physics, proceedings of Vlasovia III, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0426
abstract: The concept of phase space distribution functions and their evolution is used in the case of en enlarged phase space. In particular, we include the intrinsic spin of particles and present a quantum kinetic evolution equation for a scalar quasi-distribution function. In contrast to the proper Wigner transformation technique, for which we expect the corresponding quasi-distribution function to be a complex matrix, we introduce a spin projection operator for the density matrix in order to obtain the aforementioned scalar quasi-distribution function. There is a close correspondence between this projection operator and the Husimi (or Q) function used extensively in quantum optics. Such a function is based on a Gaussian smearing of a Wigner function, giving a positive definite distribution function. Thus, our approach gives a Wigner-Husimi quasi-distribution function in extended phase space, for which the reduced distribution function on the Bloch sphere is strictly positive. We also discuss the gauge issue and the fluid moment hierarchy based on such a quantum kinetic theory.

id: 1002.0436
title: Protection of quantum information and optimal singlet conversion through higher dimensional quantum systems and environment monitoring
authors: E. Mascarenhas, B. Marques, D. Cavalcanti, M. Terra Cunha, M. Fran\cca Santos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032310 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0436
abstract: We study how to protect quantum information in quantum systems subjected to local dissipation. We show that combining the use of three-level systems, environment monitoring, and local feedback can fully and deterministically protect any available quantum information, including entanglement initially shared by different parties. These results can represent a gain in resources and/or distances in quantum communication protocols such as quantum repeaters and teleportation as well as time for quantum memories. Finally, we show that monitoring local environments physically implements the optimum singlet conversion protocol, essential for classical entanglement percolation.

id: 1002.0439
title: Single-cycle gap soliton in a subwavelength structure
authors: Xiao-Tao Xie, Mihai A. Macovei
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 073902 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0439
abstract: We demonstrate that a single sub-cycle optical pulse can be generated when a pulse with a few optical cycles penetrates through resonant two-level dense media with a subwavelength structure. The single-cycle gap soliton phenomenon in the full Maxwell-Bloch equations without the frame of slowly varying envelope and rotating wave approximations is observed. Our study shows that the subwavelength structure can be used to suppress the frequency shift caused by intrapulse four-wave mixing in continuous media and supports the formation of single-cycle gap solitons even in the case when the structure period breaks the Bragg condition. This suggests a way toward shortening high-intensity laser fields to few- and even single-cycle pulse durations.

id: 1002.0465
title: Separability Criteria and Entanglement Measures for Pure States of N Identical Fermions
authors: A.R. Plastino, D. Manzano, J.S. Dehesa
comments: 6 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0465
abstract: The study of the entanglement properties of systems of N fermions has attracted considerable interest during the last few years. Various separability criteria for pure states of N identical fermions have been recently discussed but, excepting the case of two-fermions systems, these criteria are difficult to implement and of limited value from the practical point of view. Here we advance simple necessary and sufficient separability criteria for pure states of N identical fermions. We found that to be identified as separable a state has to comply with one single identity involving either the purity or the von Neumann entropy of the single-particle reduced density matrix. These criteria, based on the verification of only one identity, are drastically simpler than the criteria discussed in the recent literature. We also derive two inequalities verified respectively by the purity and the entropy of the single particle, reduced density matrix, that lead to natural entanglement measures for N-fermion pure states. Our present considerations are related to some classical results from the Hartree-Fock theory, which are here discussed from a different point of view in order to clarify some important points concerning the separability of fermionic pure states.

id: 1002.0474
title: The relativistic massless harmonic oscillator
authors: K. Kowalski, J. Rembielinski
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:012118,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0474
abstract: A detailed study of the relativistic classical and quantum mechanics of the massless harmonic oscillator is presented.

id: 1002.0499
title: Optimizing local protocols implementing nonlocal quantum gates
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure. This is a companion paper to arXiv:1001.5465
journal: Physical Review A 81, 062316 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0499
abstract: We present a method of optimizing recently designed protocols for implementing an arbitrary nonlocal unitary gate acting on a bipartite system. These protocols use only local operations and classical communication with the assistance of entanglement, and are deterministic while also being "one-shot", in that they use only one copy of an entangled resource state. The optimization is in the sense of minimizing the amount of entanglement used, and it is often the case that less entanglement is needed than with an alternative protocol using two-way teleportation.

id: 1002.0537
title: Resources Required for Topological Quantum Factoring
authors: M. Baraban, N. E. Bonesteel, S. H. Simon
comments: 4+epsilon pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0537
abstract: We consider a hypothetical topological quantum computer where the qubits are comprised of either Ising or Fibonacci anyons. For each case, we calculate the time and number of qubits (space) necessary to execute the most computationally expensive step of Shor's algorithm, modular exponentiation. For Ising anyons, we apply Bravyi's distillation method [S. Bravyi, Phys. Rev. A 73, 042313 (2006)] which combines topological and non-topological operations to allow for universal quantum computation. With reasonable restrictions on the physical parameters we find that factoring a 128 bit number requires approximately 10^3 Fibonacci anyons versus at least 3 x 10^9 Ising anyons. Other distillation algorithms could reduce the resources for Ising anyons substantially.

id: 1002.0547
title: Can the Aharonov-Bohm effect be used to detect or refute superseparability?
authors: R N Sen
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0547
abstract: The existence of inequivalent irreducible unitary representations of the CCR suggests that two identical charged bosons may, under suitable conditions, be unable to interact with each other even though their wave functions overlap considerably in space at a fixed time. An experiment is proposed to test this possibility.

id: 1002.0557
title: Phase Transition, Entanglement and Squeezing in a Triple-Well Condensate
authors: T. F. Viscondi, K. Furuya, M. C. de Oliveira
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: EPL, 90 (2010) 10014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0557
abstract: We provide an in-depth characterization of a three modes Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in a symmetric circular triple well potential. We analyze how a subsystem independent measure of entanglement, the purity related to the su(3) algebra, scales for increasing number of atoms and signals correctly the quantum phase transition between two dynamical regimes in a specific arrangement. Moreover, this measure, which is intrinsically related to particle entanglement, also depicts if some squeezing is occurring when we consider the system's ground state.

id: 1002.0589
title: Hilbert Spaces from Path Integrals
authors: Fay Dowker, Steven Johnston, Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: 22 pages. Minor updates to match published version
journal: J.Phys.A43:275302,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0589
abstract: It is shown that a Hilbert space can be constructed for a quantum system starting from a framework in which histories are fundamental. The Decoherence Functional provides the inner product on this "History Hilbert space". It is also shown that the History Hilbert space is the standard Hilbert space in the case of non-relativistic quantum mechanics.

id: 1002.0601
title: Quasi-Fibonacci oscillators
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, I.I. Kachurik, A.P. Rebesh
comments: 19 pages; v2: few comments and references added; v3: small corrections, to appear in J.Phys.A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 245204 (16pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0601
abstract: We study the properties of sequences of the energy eigenvalues for some generalizations of q-deformed oscillators including the p,q-oscillator, the 3-, 4- and 5-parameter deformed oscillators given in the literature. It is shown that most of the considered models belong to the class of so-called Fibonacci oscillators for which any three consequtive energy levels satisfy the relation E_{n+1}=\lambda E_n+\rho E_{n-1} with real constants \lambda, \rho. On the other hand, for certain \mu-oscillator known from 1993 we prove the fact of its non-Fibonacci nature. Possible generalizations of the three-term Fibonacci relation are discussed among which we choose, as most adequate for the \mu$-oscillator, the so-called quasi-Fibonacci (or local Fibonacci) property of the energy levels. The property is encoded in the three-term quasi-Fibonacci (QF) relation with non-constant, n-dependent coefficients \lambda and \rho. Various aspects of the QF relation are elaborated for the \mu-oscillator and some of its extensions.

id: 1002.0638
title: Implementation of one-dimensional quantum walks on spin-orbital angular momentum space of photons
authors: Pei Zhang, Bi-Heng Liu, Rui-Feng Liu, Hong-Rong Li, Fu-Li Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev A 81, 052322 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0638
abstract: Photons can carry spin angular momentum (SAM) and orbital angular momentum (OAM), which can be used to realize a qubit system and a high-dimension system respectively. This spin-orbital system is very suitable for implementing one-dimensional discrete-time quantum random walks. We propose a simple scheme of quantum walks on the spin-orbital angular momentum space of photons, where photons walk on the infinity OAM space controlled by their SAM. By employing the recent invention of an optical device, the so-called 'q-plate', our scheme is more simple and efficient than others because there is no Mach-Zehnder interferometer in the scheme.

id: 1002.0684
title: Classical Bound for Mach-Zehnder Super-Resolution
authors: Itai Afek, Oron Ambar, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figure, Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 123602 (2010) [4 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0684
abstract: The employment of path entangled multiphoton states enables measurement of phase with enhanced precision. It is common practice to demonstrate the unique properties of such quantum states by measuring super-resolving oscillations in the coincidence rate of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. Similar oscillations, however, have also been demonstrated in various configurations using classical light only; making it unclear what, if any, are the classical limits of this phenomenon. Here we derive a classical bound for the visibility of super-resolving oscillations in a Mach-Zehnder. This provides an easy to apply, fundamental test of non-classicality. We apply this test to experimental multiphoton coincidence measurements obtained using photon number resolving detectors. Mach-Zehnder super-resolution is found to be a highly distinctive quantum effect.

id: 1002.0715
title: Locality of quantum mechanics and the interpretation of the EPR criterion of reality
authors: Giuseppe Nistic¨°, Angela Sestito
comments: Corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0715
abstract: We prove that by adopting a strict interpretation of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen criterion of reality, the proofs of the known non-locality theorems fail in showing that quantum mechanics violates the principle of locality and reality.

id: 1002.0733
title: Heat Transfer Operators Associated with Quantum Operations
authors: ?. Aksak, S. Turgut
comments: A significant revision is made; 33 pages with 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 275304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0733
abstract: Any quantum operation applied on a physical system is performed as a unitary transformation on a larger extended system. If the extension used is a heat bath in thermal equilibrium, the concomitant change in the state of the bath necessarily implies a heat exchange with it. The dependence of the average heat transferred to the bath on the initial state of the system can then be found from the expectation value of a hermitian operator, which is named as the heat transfer operator (HTO). The purpose of this article is the investigation of the relation between the HTOs and the associated quantum operations. Since, any given quantum operation on a system can be realized by different baths and unitaries, many different HTOs are possible for each quantum operation. On the other hand, there are also strong restrictions on the HTOs which arise from the unitarity of the transformations. The most important of these is the Landauer erasure principle. This article is concerned with the question of finding a complete set of restrictions on the HTOs that are associated with a given quantum operation. An answer to this question has been found only for a subset of quantum operations. For erasure operations, these characterizations are equivalent to the generalized Landauer erasure principle. For the case of generic quantum operations however, it appears that the HTOs obey further restrictions which cannot be obtained from the entropic restrictions of the generalized Landauer erasure principle.

id: 1002.0846
title: On fixed-gap adiabatic quantum computation
authors: Ari Mizel
comments: Hastings has pointed out that Commun. Math. Phys. 265, 781 (2006) basically guarantees that the GSQC gap cannot be fixed. Another method is needed to achieve fault-tolerant adiabatic quantum computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0846
abstract: Quantum computation has revolutionary potential for speeding algorithms and for simulating quantum systems such as molecules. We report here a quantum computer design that performs universal quantum computation within a single non-degenerate ground state protected from decohering noise by an energy gap that we argue is system-size-independent. Closely analogous to a traditional electric circuit, it substantially changes the requirements for quantum computer construction, easing measurement, timing, and heating problems. Using the standard adiabatic condition, we present evidence that this design permits "quantum concurrent processing" distributing a quantum computation among extra qubits to perform a quantum algorithm of N gates in an amount of time that scales with the square root of N. One consequence of our work is a fixed gap version of adiabatic quantum computation, which several arguments hinted could be impossible.

id: 1002.0906
title: Does Time-Symmetry Imply Retrocausality? How the Quantum World Says "Maybe"
authors: Huw Price
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures; significant revisions
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics, 43(2012), 75-83
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0906
abstract: It has often been suggested that retrocausality offers a solution to some of the puzzles of quantum mechanics: e.g., that it allows a Lorentz-invariant explanation of Bell correlations, and other manifestations of quantum nonlocality, without action-at-a-distance. Some writers have argued that time-symmetry counts in favour of such a view, in the sense that retrocausality would be a natural consequence of a truly time-symmetric theory of the quantum world. Critics object that there is complete time-symmetry in classical physics, and yet no apparent retrocausality. Why should the quantum world be any different? This note throws some new light on these matters. I call attention to a respect in which quantum mechanics is different, under some assumptions about quantum ontology. Under these assumptions, the combination of time-symmetry without retrocausality is unavailable in quantum mechanics, for reasons intimately connected with the differences between classical and quantum physics (especially the role of discreteness in the latter). Not all interpretations of quantum mechanics share these assumptions, however, and in those that do not, time-symmetry does not entail retrocausality.

id: 1002.0913
title: Entanglement of fields in coupled-cavities: effects of pumping and fluctuations
authors: S Sivakumar
comments: 20 pages; 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0913
abstract: A system of two coupled cavities is studied in the context of bipartite, continuous variable entanglement. One of the cavities is pumped by an external classical source that is coupled quadratically, to the cavity field. Dynamics of entanglement, quantified by covariance measure [Dodonov {\it et al}, Phys. Lett A {\bf 296}, (2002) 73], in the presence of cavity-cavity coupling and external pumping is investigated. The importance of tailoring the coupling between the cavities is brought out by studying the effects of pump fluctuations on the entanglement.

id: 1002.0920
title: Near-infrared single-photons from aligned molecules in ultrathin crystalline films at room temperature
authors: C. Toninelli, K. Early, J. Bremi, A. Renn, S. Goetzinger, V. Sandoghdar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0920
abstract: We investigate the optical properties of Dibenzoterrylene (DBT) molecules in a spin-coated crystalline film of anthracence. By performing single molecule studies, we show that the dipole moments of the DBT molecules are oriented parallel to the plane of the film. Despite a film thickness of only 20 nm, we observe an exceptional photostability at room temperature and photon count rates around one million per second from a single molecule. These properties together with an emission wavelength around 800 nm make this system attractive for applications in nanophotonics and quantum optics.

id: 1002.0953
title: Security and entanglement in differential-phase-shift quantum key distribution
authors: Adriana Marais, Thomas Konrad, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0953
abstract: The differential-phase-shift quantum key distribution protocol is formalised as a prepare-and-measure scheme and translated into an equivalent entanglement-based protocol. A necessary condition for security is that Bob's measurement can detect the entanglement of the distributed state in the entanglement-based translation, which implies that his measurement is described by non-commuting POVM elements. This condition is shown to be met.

id: 1002.0955
title: Phase operators, temporally stable phase states, mutually unbiased bases and exactly solvable quantum systems
authors: Mohammed Daoud, Maurice Robert Kibler
comments: Accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical as a paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0955
abstract: We introduce a one-parameter generalized oscillator algebra A(k) (that covers the case of the harmonic oscillator algebra) and discuss its finite- and infinite-dimensional representations according to the sign of the parameter k. We define an (Hamiltonian) operator associated with A(k) and examine the degeneracies of its spectrum. For the finite (when k < 0) and the infinite (when k > 0 or = 0) representations of A(k), we construct the associated phase operators and build temporally stable phase states as eigenstates of the phase operators. To overcome the difficulties related to the phase operator in the infinite-dimensional case and to avoid the degeneracy problem for the finite-dimensional case, we introduce a truncation procedure which generalizes the one used by Pegg and Barnett for the harmonic oscillator. This yields a truncated generalized oscillator algebra A(k,s), where s denotes the truncation order. We construct two types of temporally stable states for A(k,s) (as eigenstates of a phase operator and as eigenstates of a polynomial in the generators of A(k,s)). Two applications are considered in this article. The first concerns physical realizations of A(k) and A(k,s) in the context of one-dimensional quantum systems with finite (Morse system) or infinite (Poeschl-Teller system) discrete spectra. The second deals with mutually unbiased bases used in quantum information.

id: 1002.0959
title: The origin of quantum nonlocality
authors: Fang-Yu Hong
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0959
abstract: Quantum entanglement is the quintessential characteristic of quantum mechanics and the basis for quantum information processing. When one of two maximally entangled particles is measured, without measurement the state of another one is determined simultaneously no matter how far the two particles is from each other. How can these phenomena take place since no object can move faster than light speed in a vacuum? The key problem is due to the ignorance of the interaction between a particle and a quantum vacuum. Just like the case where a gun suffers recoil from its firing of a bullet, when a particle is created from the quantum vacuum, the vacuum will be somewhat "broken" correspondingly, which can be described by a shadow state in the vacuum. Through their shadows in the vacuum two quantum entangled particles can have a distance-independent instantaneous interaction with each other. Quantum teleportation, quantum swap, and wave function collapse are explained in a similar way. Quantum object can be interpreted as a composite made up of a particle and the shadowed quantum vacuum which is responsible for the wave characteristic of the particle wave duality. The quantum vacuum is not only the origin of all possible kinds of particles, but also the origin and the core of Eastern mystics.

id: 1002.0973
title: Entanglement dynamics for two harmonic oscillators coupled to independent environments
authors: R. Vasile
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0973
abstract: We study the entanglement evolution between two harmonic oscillators having different free frequencies each leaking into an independent bath. We use an exact solution valid in the weak coupling limit and in the short time non-Markovian regime. The reservoirs are identical and characterized by an Ohmic spectral distribution with Lorents-Drude cut-off. This work is an extension of the case reported in [Phys. Rev. A 80, 062324 (2009)] where the oscillators have the same free frequency.

id: 1002.0990
title: Interpretations of Quantum Mechanics and the measurement problem
authors: M. Genovese
comments: 
journal: Adv. Sci. Lett. 3, 249 - 258 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0990
abstract: We present a panoramic view on various attempts to "solve" the problems of quantum measurement and macro-objectivation, i.e. of the transition from a probabilistic quantum mechanic microscopic world to a deterministic classical macroscopic world.

id: 1002.1000
title: Sudden violation of the CHSH inequality in a two qubits system
authors: Laura Mazzola
comments: Accepted by Physica Scripta as part of the Proceedings of CEWQO09
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1000
abstract: I study the dynamics of the violation of the CHSH inequality for two qubits interacting with a common zero-temperature non-Markovian environment. I demonstrate sudden violation of the inequality for two qubits initially prepared in a factorized state. Due to the strong coupling between the qubits and the reservoir, the dynamics is characterized by numerous sharp revivals. Furthermore I focus on a more realistic physical system in which the spontaneous emission for the qubits is taken into account. When including spontaneous emission even for small decay parameters, revivals in the violation are heavily damped out. If the decay rates exceed a certain threshold, the inequality turns out to be always satisfied.

id: 1002.1015
title: A Simple n-Dimensional Intrinsically Universal Quantum Cellular Automaton
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Jonathan Grattage
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures. In Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Language and Automata Theory and Applications (LATA 2010), Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS). Journal version: arXiv:0907.3827
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science 6031 (2010) 70-81
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1015
abstract: We describe a simple n-dimensional quantum cellular automaton (QCA) capable of simulating all others, in that the initial configuration and the forward evolution of any n-dimensional QCA can be encoded within the initial configuration of the intrinsically universal QCA. Several steps of the intrinsically universal QCA then correspond to one step of the simulated QCA. The simulation preserves the topology in the sense that each cell of the simulated QCA is encoded as a group of adjacent cells in the universal QCA.

id: 1002.1051
title: Quantum theory of surface plasmon polariton scattering
authors: D. Ballester, M. S. Tame, M. S. Kim
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012325 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1051
abstract: We introduce the quantum mechanical formalism for treating surface plasmon polariton scattering at an interface. Our developed theory - which is fundamentally different from the analogous photonic scenario - is used to investigate the possibility of plasmonic beamsplitters at the quantum level. Remarkably, we find that a wide-range of splitting ratios can be reached. As an application, we characterize a 50:50 plasmonic beamsplitter and investigate first-order quantum interference of surface plasmon polaritons. The results of this theoretical study show that surface plasmon beamsplitters are able to reliably and efficiently operate in the quantum domain.

id: 1002.1116
title: Damping Effect of Electromagnetic Radiation and Time-Dependent Schrodinger Equation
authors: Ji Luo
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1116
abstract: The inexactness of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation of a charged particle in an external electromagnetic field is discussed in terms of the damping effect of the radiation. A possible improvement is to add a nonlinear term representing this effect to the linear Schr\"odinger equation. Conditions for the nonlinear term are investigated and it is demonstrated that the obtained nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation may present state evolutions similar to the wave-function reduction and transitions between stationary states.

id: 1002.1135
title: Preservation of atomic coherence in double-well optical lattice in presence of decoherence
authors: Shubhrangshu Dasgupta
comments: 9 figures, preprint, resubmitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1135
abstract: We present a quantum interference approach to preserve coherence in the external states of an atom trapped in an optical lattice. We show that this is possible by suitably choosing the initial state of the atom. We demonstrate this in context of decoherence due to spontaneous emission in an one-dimensional optical double-well lattice.

id: 1002.1218
title: Fabrication method for micro vapor cells for alkali atoms
authors: T. Baluktsian, C. Urban, T. Bublat, H. Giessen, R. L?w, T. Pfau
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1218
abstract: A quantum network which consists of several components should ideally work on a single physical platform. Neutral alkali atoms have the potential to be very well suited for this purpose due to their electronic structure which involves long lived nuclear spins and very sensitive highly excited Rydberg states. In this paper we describe a fabrication method based on quartz glass to structure arbitrary shapes of microscopic vapor cells. We show that the usual spectroscopic properties known from macroscopic vapor cells are almost unaffected by the strong confinement.

id: 1002.1221
title: Application of Pseudo-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics to a Complex Scattering Potential with Point Interactions
authors: Hossein Mehri-Dehnavi, Ali Mostafazadeh, Ahmet Batal
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 43, 145301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1221
abstract: We present a generalization of the perturbative construction of the metric operator for non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with more than one perturbation parameter. We use this method to study the non-Hermitian scattering Hamiltonian: H=p^2/2m+\zeta_-\delta(x+a)+\zeta_+\delta(x-a), where \zeta_\pm and a are respectively complex and real parameters and \delta(x) is the Dirac delta function. For regions in the space of coupling constants \zeta_\pm where H is quasi-Hermitian and there are no complex bound states or spectral singularities, we construct a (positive-definite) metric operator \eta and the corresponding equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian h. \eta turns out to be a (perturbatively) bounded operator for the cases that the imaginary part of the coupling constants have opposite sign, \Im(\zeta_+) = -\Im(\zeta_-). This in particular contains the PT-symmetric case: \zeta_+ = \zeta_-^*. We also calculate the energy expectation values for certain Gaussian wave packets to study the nonlocal nature of $\rh$ or equivalently the non-Hermitian nature of $\rH$. We show that these physical quantities are not directly sensitive to the presence of PT-symmetry.

id: 1002.1237
title: A brief introduction of quantum cryptography for engineers
authors: Bing Qi, Li Qian, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: This is an extended version of the book chapter "Quantum Encryption" to be published by WILEY-VCH
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1237
abstract: We present the fundamental principles behind quantum key distribution and discuss a few well-known QKD protocols. Bearing in mind that the majority of our readers are from engineering and experimental optics, we focus more on the experimental implementation of various QKD protocols rather than security analysis. Another important topic that is covered here is the study of the security of practical QKD systems.

id: 1002.1244
title: Optical Superradiance from Nuclear Spin Environment of Single Photon Emitters
authors: E. M. Kessler, S. Yelin, M. D. Lukin, J. I. Cirac, G. Giedke
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures, considerably rewritten, conclusions unchanged, accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 143601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1244
abstract: We show that superradiant optical emission can be observed from the polarized nuclear spin ensemble surrounding a single photon emitter such as a single quantum dot (QD) or Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) center. The superradiant light is emitted under optical pumping conditions and would be observable with realistic experimental parameters.

id: 1002.1250
title: The Aharonov-Bohm effect in conical space
authors: Yu.A. Sitenko, N.D. Vlasii
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures, minor changes
journal: J.Phys.A43:354014,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1250
abstract: Conical space emerges inevitably as an outer space of any topological defect of the vortex type. Quantum-mechanical scattering of a nonrelativistic particle by a vortex centred in conical space is considered, and effects of the transverse size of the vortex are taken into account. Paradoxical peculiarities of scattering in the short-wavelength limit are discussed.

id: 1002.1253
title: Bound Genuine Multisite Entanglement: Detector of Gapless-Gapped Quantum Transitions in Frustrated Systems
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1253
abstract: We define a multiparty entanglement measure, called generalized geometric measure, that can detect and quantify genuine multiparty entanglement for any number of parties. The quantum phase transitions in exactly solvable models like the anisotropic XY model can be detected by this measure. We find that the multisite measure can be a useful tool to detect quantum phenomena in more complex systems like quasi 2D and 2D frustrated Heisenberg antiferromagnets. We propose an order parameter, called bound generalized geometric measure, in the spirit of bound quantum states, that can recognize the gapless and gapped phases of the frustrated models by its sign. The vanishing of the order parameter therefore signals the transition between such phases.

id: 1002.1274
title: Quantum walk approach to search on fractal structures
authors: Elena Agliari, Alexander Blumen, Oliver Muelken
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1274
abstract: We study continuous-time quantum walks mimicking the quantum search based on Grover's procedure. This allows us to consider structures, that is, databases, with arbitrary topological arrangements of their entries. We show that the topological structure of the database plays a crucial role by analyzing, both analytically and numerically, the transition from the ground to the first excited state of the Hamiltonian associated with different (fractal) structures. Additionally, we use the probability of successfully finding a specific target as another indicator of the importance of the topological structure.

id: 1002.1318
title: Photoionization with Orbital Angular Momentum Beams
authors: A. Pic¨®n, J. Mompart, J. R. V¨¢zquez de Aldana, L. Plaja, G. F. Calvo, L. Roso
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 18, 3660-3671 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1318
abstract: Intense laser ionization expands Einstein's photoelectric effect rules giving a wealth of phenomena widely studied over the last decades. In all cases, so far, photons were assumed to carry one unit of angular momentum. However it is now clear that photons can possess extra angular momentum, the orbital angular momentum (OAM), related to their spatial profile. We show a complete description of photoionization by OAM photons, including new selection rules involving more than one unit of angular momentum. We explore theoretically the interaction of a single electron atom located at the center of an intense ultraviolet beam bearing OAM, envisaging new scenarios for quantum optics.

id: 1002.1322
title: A simpel and versatile cold-atom simulator of non-Abelian gauge potentials
authors: Daniel Braun
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1322
abstract: We show how a single, harmonically trapped atom in a tailored magnetic field can be used for simulating the effects of a broad class of non-abelian gauge potentials. We demonstrate how to implement Rashba or Linear-Dresselhaus couplings, or observe {\em Zitterbewegung} of a Dirac particle.

id: 1002.1323
title: Parameter estimation with mixed quantum states
authors: Daniel Braun
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1323
abstract: We consider quantum enhanced measurements with initially mixed states. We show very generally that for any linear propagation of the initial state that depends smoothly on the parameter to be estimated, the sensitivity is bound by the maximal sensitivity that can be achieved for any of the pure states from which the initial density matrix is mixed. This provides a very general proof that purely classical correlations cannot improve the sensitivity of parameter estimation schemes in quantum enhanced measurement schemes.

id: 1002.1330
title: Efficient estimation of nearly sparse many-body quantum Hamiltonians
authors: A. Shabani, M. Mohseni, S. Lloyd, R. L. Kosut, H. Rabitz
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Title is changed. Detailed error analysis is added. Figures are updated with additional clarifying discussions
journal: PRA 84, 012107 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1330
abstract: We develop an efficient and robust approach to Hamiltonian identification for multipartite quantum systems based on the method of compressed sensing. This work demonstrates that with only O(s log(d)) experimental configurations, consisting of random local preparations and measurements, one can estimate the Hamiltonian of a d-dimensional system, provided that the Hamiltonian is nearly s-sparse in a known basis. We numerically simulate the performance of this algorithm for three- and four-body interactions in spin-coupled quantum dots and atoms in optical lattices. Furthermore, we apply the algorithm to characterize Hamiltonian fine structure and unknown system-bath interactions.

id: 1002.1342
title: Quantum logical gates with four-level SQUIDs coupled to a superconducting resonator
authors: Xiao-Ling He, Chui-Ping Yang, Sheng Li, Jun-Yan Luo, Siyuan Han
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 024301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1342
abstract: We propose a way for realizing a two-qubit controlled phase gate with superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) coupled to a superconducting resonator. In this proposal, the two lowest levels of each SQUID serve as the logical states and two intermediate levels of each SQUID are used for the gate realization. We show that neither adjustment of SQUID level spacings during the gate operation nor uniformity in SQUID parameters is required by this proposal. In addition, this proposal does not require the adiabatic passage or a second-order detuning and thus the gate is much faster.

id: 1002.1354
title: Particle Entanglement in Rotating Gases
authors: Zhao Liu, Heng Fan
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures
journal: PRA, 81, 062302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1354
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the particle entanglement in 2D weakly-interacting rotating Bose and Fermi gases. We find that both particle localization and vortex localization can be indicated by particle entanglement. We also use particle entanglement to show the occurrence of edge reconstruction of rotating fermions. The different properties of condensate phase and vortex liquid phase of bosons can be reflected by particle entanglement and in vortex liquid phase we construct a trial wave function in the viewpoint of entanglement to relate the ground state with quantum Hall state. Finally, the relation between particle entanglement and interaction strength is studied.

id: 1002.1366
title: Analyzing quantum jumps of one and two atoms strongly coupled to an optical cavity
authors: Sebastian Reick, Klaus M?lmer, Wolfgang Alt, Martin Eckstein, Tobias Kampschulte, Lingbo Kong, Ren¨¦ Reimann, Alexander Thobe, Artur Widera, Dieter Meschede
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, A 152 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1366
abstract: We induce quantum jumps between the hyperfine ground states of one and two Cesium atoms, strongly coupled to the mode of a high-finesse optical resonator, and analyze the resulting random telegraph signals. We identify experimental parameters to deduce the atomic spin state nondestructively from the stream of photons transmitted through the cavity, achieving a compromise between a good signal-to-noise ratio and minimal measurement-induced perturbations. In order to extract optimum information about the spin dynamics from the photon count signal, a Bayesian update formalism is employed, which yields time-dependent probabilities for the atoms to be in either hyperfine state. We discuss the effect of super-Poissonian photon number distributions caused by atomic motion.

id: 1002.1390
title: On the Impossibility of Covariant Nonlocal "hidden" Variables in Quantum Physics
authors: Nicolas Gisin
comments: 2 pages
journal: Physical Review A, 83, 020102-1/2, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1390
abstract: Local variables can't describe the quantum correlations observed in tests of Bell inequalities. Likewise, we show that nonlocal variables can't describe quantum correlations in a relativistic time-order invariant way.

id: 1002.1392
title: The Free Will Theorem, Stochastic Quantum Dynamics and True Becoming in Relativistic Quantum Physics
authors: Nicolas Gisin
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1392
abstract: In Bell inequality tests, the evolution of the wavefunction is not covariant, i.e. not invariant under velocity boost that change the time ordering of events, but the laws that govern the probability distribution of possible results are. In this note I investigate what this could mean and whether there could be some covariant "real quantum stuff". This clarifies the implication of the Free Will Theorem and of relativistic spontaneous localization models based on the flash ontology (rGRWf). Some implications for the concept of time(s) are spelled out.

id: 1002.1395
title: Factorization Properties of Finite Spaces
authors: B Simkhovich, A Mann, J Zak
comments: 17 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 045301 (12pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1395
abstract: In 1960 Schwinger [J. Schwinger, Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci. 46 (1960) 570- 579] proposed the algorithm for factorization of unitary operators in the finite M dimensional Hilbert space according to a coprime decomposition of M. Using a special permutation operator A we generalize the Schwinger factorization to every decomposition of M. We obtain the factorized pairs of unitary operators and show that they obey the same commutation relations as Schwinger's. We apply the new factorization to two problems. First, we show how to generate two kq-like mutually unbiased bases for any composite dimension. Then, using a Harper-like Hamiltonian model in the finite dimension M = M1M2, we show how to design a physical system with M1 energy levels, each having degeneracy M2.

id: 1002.1410
title: Quantum Mechanics: From Realism to Intuitionism
authors: Ronnie Hermens
comments: Master thesis written under the supervision of Prof. Dr. N. P. Landsman. 128 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1410
abstract: The interpretation of quantum mechanics has been a problem since its founding days. A large contribution to the discussion of possible interpretations of quantum mechanics is given by the so-called impossibility proofs for hidden variable models; models that allow a realist interpretation. In this thesis some of these proofs are discussed, like von Neumann's Theorem, the Kochen-Specker Theorem and the Bell-inequalities. Some more recent developments are also investigated, like Meyer's nullification of the Kochen-Specker Theorem, the MKC-models and Conway and Kochen's Free Will Theorem. This last one is taken to suggest that the problems that arise for certain interpretations of quantum mechanics are not limited to realist interpretations only, but also affect certain instrumentalist interpretations. It is argued that one may arrive at a more satisfying interpretation of quantum mechanics if one adopts a logic that seems more compatible with the instrumentalist viewpoint namely, intuitionistic logic. The motivations for adopting this form of logic rather than classical logic or quantum logic are linked to some of the philosophical ideas of Bohr. In particular a new interpretation of Bohr's notion of complementarity is proposed. Finally some possibilities are explored for linking the intuitionistic interpretation of quantum mechanics to the mathematical formalism of the theory.

id: 1002.1419
title: Quantum emitters coupled to surface plasmons of a nano-wire: A Green function approach
authors: D. Dzsotjan, A. S. Sorensen, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 12 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1419
abstract: We investigate a system consisting of a single, as well as two emitters strongly coupled to surface plasmon modes of a nano-wire using a Green function approach. Explicit expressions are derived for the spontaneous decay rate into the plasmon modes and for the atom-plasmon coupling as well as a plasmon-mediated atom-atom coupling. Phenomena due to the presence of losses in the metal are discussed. In case of two atoms, we observe Dicke sub- and superradiance resulting from their plasmon-mediated interaction. Based on this phenomenon, we propose a scheme for a deterministic two-qubit quantum gate. We also discuss a possible realization of interesting many-body Hamiltonians, such as the spin-boson model, using strong emitter-plasmon coupling.

id: 1002.1438
title: Indistinguishability and Interference in the Coherent Control of Atomic and Molecular Processes
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Paul Brumer
comments: 26 pages, based on one Chapter from first author's Ph.D thesis in 2001
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 132, 054306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1438
abstract: The subtle and fundamental issue of indistinguishability and interference between independent pathways to the same target state is examined in the context of coherent control of atomic and molecular processes, with emphasis placed on possible "which-way" information due to quantum entanglement established in the quantum dynamics. Because quantum interference between independent pathways to the same target state occurs only when the independent pathways are indistinguishable, it is first shown that creating useful coherence (as defined in the paper) between nondegenerate states of a molecule for subsequent quantum interference manipulation cannot be achieved by collisions between atoms or molecules that are prepared in momentum and energy eigenstates. Coherence can, however, be transferred from light fields to atoms or molecules. Using a particular coherent control scenario, it is shown that this coherence transfer and the subsequent coherent phase control can be readily realized by the most classical states of light, i.e., coherent states of light. It is further demonstrated that quantum states of light may suppress the extent of phase-sensitive coherent control by leaking out some which-way information while "incoherent interference control" scenarios proposed in the literature have automatically ensured the indistinguishability of multiple excitation pathways. The possibility of quantum coherence in photodissociation product states is also understood in terms of the disentanglement between photodissociation fragments. Results offer deeper insights into quantum coherence generation in atomic and molecular processes.

id: 1002.1484
title: Rigorous Bounds for Optimal Dynamical Decoupling
authors: G?tz S. Uhrig, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys Rev A
journal: Phys Rev A 82, 012301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1484
abstract: We present rigorous performance bounds for the optimal dynamical decoupling pulse sequence protecting a quantum bit (qubit) against pure dephasing. Our bounds apply under the assumption of instantaneous pulses and of bounded perturbing environment and qubit-environment Hamiltonians. We show that if the total sequence time is fixed the optimal sequence can be used to make the distance between the protected and unperturbed qubit states arbitrarily small in the number of applied pulses. If, on the other hand, the minimum pulse interval is fixed and the total sequence time is allowed to scale with the number of pulses, then longer sequences need not always be advantageous. The rigorous bound may serve as testbed for approximate treatments of optimal decoupling in bounded models of decoherence.

id: 1002.1495
title: Simple Protocols for Oblivious Transfer and Secure Identification in the Noisy-Quantum-Storage Model
authors: Christian Schaffner
comments: 27 pages, 4 figures; v2: corrected minor mistakes, added security proof of robust protocol
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032308 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1495
abstract: We present simple protocols for oblivious transfer and password-based identification which are secure against general attacks in the noisy-quantum-storage model as defined in [KWW09]. We argue that a technical tool from [KWW09] suffices to prove security of the known protocols. Whereas the more involved protocol for oblivious transfer from [KWW09] requires less noise in storage to achieve security, our "canonical" protocols have the advantage of being simpler to implement and the security error is easier control. Therefore, our protocols yield higher OT-rates for many realistic noise parameters. Furthermore, the first proof of security of a direct protocol for password-based identification against general noisy-quantum-storage attacks is given.

id: 1002.1515
title: Control-Induced Decoherence-Free Manifolds
authors: E. Jonckheere, A. Shabani, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: Invited paper for quantum control session at ISCCSP 2010 Cyprus. 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1515
abstract: Quantum coherence of open quantum systems is usually compromised because of the interaction with the ambient environment. A "decoherence-free subspace" (DFS) of the system Hilbert space is defined where the evolution remains unitary. In the absence of a priori existence of such subspaces, it seems natural that utilizing quantum control may help generate and/or retain a DFS. Here, we introduce a time-varying DFS wherein the system's density matrix has a unitarily evolving sub-density corresponding to some given set of its eigenvalues (which we aim to preserve). This subspace is characterized from both topological and algebraic perspectives. In particular, we show that this DFS admits a complex vector bundle structure over a real-analytic manifold (the decoherence-free manifold).

id: 1002.1517
title: Single-photon optomechanics in the strong coupling regime
authors: U. Akram, N. Kiesel, M. Aspelmeyer, G. J. Milburn
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1517
abstract: We give a theoretical description of a coherently driven opto-mechanical system with a single added photon. The photon source is modeled as a cavity which initially contains one photon and which is irreversibly coupled to the opto-mechanical system. We show that the probability for the additional photon to be emitted by the opto-mechanical cavity will exhibit oscillations under a Lorentzian envelope, when the driven interaction with the mechanical resonator is strong enough. Our scheme provides a feasible route towards quantum state transfer between optical photons and micromechanical resonators.

id: 1002.1534
title: Comment on "Clock Shift in High Field Magnetic Resonance of Atomic Hydrogen"
authors: A.I. Safonov, I.I. Safonova, I.S. Yasnikov
comments: 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 099301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1534
abstract: In this Comment, we reanalyze the experiments on the collision frequency shift of the b-c and a-d hyperfine transitions in three-dimensional atomic hydrogen in the presence of, respectively, a and b-state atoms. Accurate consideration of the symmetry of the spatial and spin part of the diatomic wavefunction yields the difference a_T-a_S=0.30(5) \AA between the triplet and singlet s-wave scattering lengths of hydrogen atoms. This corrects the factor-of two error of the commented work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 263003 (2008)].

id: 1002.1536
title: On fault-tolerance with noisy and slow measurements
authors: Gerardo A. Paz-Silva, Gavin K. Brennen, Jason Twamley
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures. v3 has an extended exposition and several simplifications that provide for an improved threshold value and resource overhead
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 100501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1536
abstract: It is not so well-known that measurement-free quantum error correction protocols can be designed to achieve fault-tolerant quantum computing. Despite the potential advantages of using such protocols in terms of the relaxation of accuracy, speed and addressing requirements on the measurement process, they have usually been overlooked because they are expected to yield a very bad threshold as compared to error correction protocols which use measurements. Here we show that this is not the case. We design fault-tolerant circuits for the 9 qubit Bacon-Shor code and find a threshold for gates and preparation of $p_{(p,g) thresh}=3.76 \times 10^{-5}$ (30% of the best known result for the same code using measurement based error correction) while admitting up to 1/3 error rates for measurements and allocating no constraints on measurement speed. We further show that demanding gate error rates sufficiently below the threshold one can improve the preparation threshold to $p_{(p)thresh} = 1/3$. We also show how these techniques can be adapted to other Calderbank-Shor-Steane codes.

id: 1002.1539
title: A smoothing monotonic convergent optimal control algorithm for NMR pulse sequence design
authors: Ivan I. Maximov, Niels Chr. Nielsen, Julien Salomon, Gabriel Turinici
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1539
abstract: The past decade has demonstrated increasing interests in using optimal control based methods within coherent quantum controllable systems. The versatility of such methods has been demonstrated with particular elegance within nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) where natural separation between coherent and dissipative spin dynamics processes has enabled coherent quantum control over long periods of time to shape the experiment to almost ideal adoption to the spin system and external manipulations. This has led to new design principles as well as powerful new experimental methods within magnetic resonance imaging, liquid-state and solid-state NMR spectroscopy. For this development to continue and expand, it is crucially important to constantly improve the underlying numerical algorithms to provide numerical solutions which are optimally compatible with implementation on current instrumentation and at same time are numerically stable and offer fast monotonic convergence towards the target. Addressing such aims, we here present a smoothing monotonically convergent algorithm for pulse sequence design in magnetic resonance which with improved optimization stability lead to smooth pulse sequence easier to implement experimentally and potentially understand within the analytical framework of modern NMR spectroscopy.

id: 1002.1547
title: The Nonlocal Pancharatnam Phase in Two-Photon Interferometry
authors: Poonam Mehta, Joseph Samuel, Supurna Sinha
comments: v3: final version to appear in Phys. Rev. A (Brief Reports)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 034102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1547
abstract: We propose a polarised intensity interferometry experiment, which measures the nonlocal Pancharatnam phase acquired by a pair of Hanbury Brown-Twiss photons. The setup involves two polarised thermal sources illuminating two polarised detectors. Varying the relative polarisation angle of the detectors introduces a two photon geometric phase. Local measurements at either detector do not reveal the effects of the phase, which is an optical analog of the multiparticle Aharonov-Bohm effect. The geometric phase sheds light on the three slit experiment and suggests ways of tuning entanglement.

id: 1002.1567
title: Quantum state reduction for universal measurement based computation
authors: Xie Chen, Runyao Duan, Zhengfeng Ji, Bei Zeng
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105(2):020502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1567
abstract: Measurement based quantum computation (MBQC), which requires only single particle measurements on a universal resource state to achieve the full power of quantum computing, has been recognized as one of the most promising models for the physical realization of quantum computers. Despite considerable progress in the last decade, it remains a great challenge to search for new universal resource states with naturally occurring Hamiltonians, and to better understand the entanglement structure of these kinds of states. Here we show that most of the resource states currently known can be reduced to the cluster state, the first known universal resource state, via adaptive local measurements at a constant cost. This new quantum state reduction scheme provides simpler proofs of universality of resource states and opens up plenty of space to the search of new resource states, including an example based on the one-parameter deformation of the AKLT state studied in [Commun. Math. Phys. 144, 443 (1992)] by M. Fannes et al. about twenty years ago.

id: 1002.1568
title: Bhomian Mechanics vs. Standard Quantum Mechanics: a Difference in Experimental Predictions
authors: Artur Szczepanski
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1568
abstract: Standard Quantum Mechanics (QM) predicts an anti-intuitive fenomenon here referred to as "quantum autoscattering", which is excluded by Bhomian Mechanics. The scheme of a gedanken experiment testing the QM prediction is briefly discussed.

id: 1002.1613
title: Direct experimental verification of quantum commutation relations for Pauli operators
authors: Xing-Can Yao, Jaromir Fiurasek, He Lu, Wei-Bo Gao, Yu-Ao Chen, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 120402 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1613
abstract: We propose and demonstrate scheme for direct experimental testing of quantum commutation relations for Pauli operators. The implemented device is an advanced quantum processor that involves two programmable quantum gates. Depending on a state of two-qubit program register, we can test either commutation or anti-commutation relations. Very good agreement between theory and experiment is observed, indicating high-quality performance of the implemented quantum processor and reliable verification of commutation relations for Pauli operators.

id: 1002.1621
title: Nonlocal fluctuations and control of dimer entanglement dynamics
authors: Cristian E. Susa, John H. Reina
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1621
abstract: We report on the dissipative dynamics of an entangled, bipartite interacting system. We show how to induce and control the so-called early stage disentanglement (and the delayed entanglement generation) dynamics by means of a driving laser field. We demonstrate that some of the features currently associated with pure non-Markovian effects in such entanglement behavior can actually take place in Markovian environments if background noise QED fluctuations are considered. We illustrate this for the case of a dimer interacting molecular system for which emission rates, interaction strength, and radiative corrections have been previously measured. We also show that even in the absence of collective decay mechanisms and qubit-qubit interactions, the entanglement still exhibits collapse-revival behavior. Our results indicate that zero point energy fluctuations should be taken into account when formulating precise entanglement dynamics statements.

id: 1002.1628
title: All-optical reconstruction of atomic ground-state population
authors: P. London, O. Firstenberg, M. Shuker, A. Ron
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1628
abstract: The population distribution within the ground-state of an atomic ensemble is of large significance in a variety of quantum optics processes. We present a method to reconstruct the detailed population distribution from a set of absorption measurements with various frequencies and polarizations, by utilizing the differences between the dipole matrix elements of the probed transitions. The technique is experimentally implemented on a thermal rubidium vapor, demonstrating a population-based analysis in two optical pumping examples. The results are used to verify and calibrate an elaborated numerical model, and the limitations of the reconstruction scheme which result from the symmetry properties of the dipole matrix elements are discussed.

id: 1002.1673
title: On causality, apparent 'superluminality' and reshaping in barrier penetration
authors: D.Sokolovski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1673
abstract: We consider tunnelling of a non-relativistic particle across a potential barrier. It is shown that the barrier acts as an effective beam splitter which builds up the transmitted pulse from the copies of the initial envelope shifted in the coordinate space backwards relative to the free propagation. Although along each pathway causality is explicitly obeyed, in special cases reshaping can result an overall reduction of the initial envelope, accompanied by an arbitrary coordinate shift. In the case of a high barrier the delay amplitude distribution (DAD) mimics a Dirac $\delta$-function, the transmission amplitude is superoscillatory for finite momenta and tunnelling leads to an accurate advancement of the (reduced) initial envelope by the barrier width. In the case of a wide barrier, initial envelope is accurately translated into the complex coordinate plane. The complex shift, given by the first moment of the DAD, accounts for both the displacement of the maximum of the transmitted probability density and the increase in its velocity. It is argued that analysing apparent 'superluminality' in terms of spacial displacements helps avoid contradiction associated with time parameters such as the phase time.

id: 1002.1702
title: Application of Optimal Control to CPMG Refocusing Pulse Design
authors: Troy W. Borneman, Martin D. Hurlimann, David G. Cory
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures; Revised and reformatted version with new title and significant changes to Introduction and Conclusions sections
journal: J. Magn. Reson. 207, 220-233 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1702
abstract: We apply optimal control theory (OCT) to the design of refocusing pulses suitable for the CPMG sequence that are robust over a wide range of B0 and B1 offsets. We also introduce a model, based on recent progress in the analysis of unitary dynamics in the field of quantum information processing (QIP), that describes the multiple refocusing dynamics of the CPMG sequence as a dephasing Pauli channel. This model provides a compact characterization of the consequences and severity of residual pulse errors. We illustrate the methods by considering a specific example of designing and analyzing broadband OCT refocusing pulses of length 10 t180 that are constrained by the maximum instantaneous pulse power. We show that with this refocusing pulse, the CPMG sequence can refocus over 98% of magnetization for resonance offsets up to 3.2 times the maximum RF amplitude, even in the presence of +/- 10% RF inhomogeneity.

id: 1002.1707
title: How to derive quantum formalism from first principles?
authors: Shmuel Marcovitch, Benni Reznik
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1707
abstract: Suggested a framework to derive the formalism of quantum theory based on the work of Navascues, Pironio and Acin [NJP 10, 073013] (NPA). Specifically, the entries in the Gamma matrices in NPA corrspond to sequential weak values, first analyzed by Mitchison, Popescu and Jozsa [PRA 76, 062105]. However, to obtain the sequential weak values post-selection to the initial state is required, for which we could not find sufficiently strong reason.

id: 1002.1726
title: Narratability and Cluster Decomposition
authors: Simon Judes
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1726
abstract: Recently David Albert presented an argument that relativistic quantum theories are non-narratable. That is, specifying the state on every space-like hypersurface in a given foliation of space-time is not in general sufficient to determine the states on other hypersurfaces, so the history of the universe cannot be told as a narration of states at successive times. We show that the system Albert examined to arrive at this conclusion violates cluster decomposition of the S-matrix, a locality requirement satisfied by relativistic quantum field theories. We formulate the general requirements for a system to display non-narratability, and argue that a large class of systems satisfying them violate the cluster decomposition principle.

id: 1002.1747
title: Exactly solvable three-level quantum dissipative systems via bosonisation of fermion gas-impurity models
authors: Sol H. Jacobsen, P.D. Jarvis
comments: 12 pages, accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical. (Extended discussion section, some references added and some typos corrected)
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, Vol.43 , 255305, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1747
abstract: We study the relationship between one-dimensional fermion gas-impurity models and quantum dissipative systems, via the method of constructive bosonisation and unitary transformation. Starting from an anisotropic Coqblin-Schrieffer model, a new, exactly solvable, three-level quantum dissipative system is derived as a generalisation of the standard spin-half spin-boson model. The new system has two environmental oscillator baths with ohmic coupling, and admits arbitrary detuning between the three levels. All tunnelling matrix elements are equal, up to one complex phase which is itself a function of the longitudinal and transverse couplings in the integrable limit. Our work underlines the importance of re-examining the detailed structure of fermion-gas impurity models and spin chains, in the light of connections to models for quantum dissipative systems.

id: 1002.1798
title: Tripartite entanglement in parametric down-conversion with spatially-structured pump
authors: D. Daems, F. Bernard, N. J. Cerf, M. I. Kolobov
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, 447 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1798
abstract: Most investigations of multipartite entanglement have been concerned with temporal modes of the electromagnetic field, and have neglected its spatial structure. We present a simple model which allows to generate tripartite entanglement between spatial modes by parametric down-conversion with two symmetrically-tilted plane waves serving as a pump. The characteristics of this entanglement are investigated. We also discuss the generalization of our scheme to 2N+1-partite entanglement using 2N symmetrically-tilted plane pump waves. Another interesting feature is the possibility of entanglement localization in just two spatial modes.

id: 1002.1861
title: Asymptotical photon distributions in the dissipative Dynamical Casimir Effect
authors: V. V. Dodonov
comments: 11 pages, accepted contribution to CEWQO 2009 proceedings (to appear in Physica Scripta)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1861
abstract: Asymptotical formulas for the photon distribution function of a quantum oscillator with time-dependent frequency and damping coefficients, interacting with a thermal reservoir, are derived in the case of a large mean number of quanta. Different regimes of excitation of an initial thermal state with an arbitrary temperature are considered. New formulas are used to predict the statistical properties of the electromagnetic field created in the experiments on the Dynamical Casimir Effect which are now under preparation.

id: 1002.1871
title: Natural and artificial atoms for quantum computation
authors: Iulia Buluta, Sahel Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: Review article; 9 pages main text + 4 figures + 11 tables
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 74, 104401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1871
abstract: Remarkable progress towards realizing quantum computation has been achieved using natural and artificial atoms as qubits. This article presents a brief overview of the current status of different types of qubits. On the one hand, natural atoms (such as neutral atoms and ions) have long coherence times, and could be stored in large arrays, providing ideal "quantum memories". On the other hand, artificial atoms (such as superconducting circuits or semiconductor quantum dots) have the advantage of custom-designed features and could be used as "quantum processing units". Natural and artificial atoms can be coupled with each other and can also be interfaced with photons for long-distance communications. Hybrid devices made of natural/artificial atoms and photons may provide the next-generation design for quantum computers.

id: 1002.1893
title: Bell inequalities from multilinear contractions
authors: Alejo Salles, Daniel Cavalcanti, Antonio Ac¨ªn, David P¨¦rez-Garc¨ªa, Michael M. Wolf
comments: Published version
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 10, 0703-0719 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1893
abstract: We provide a framework for Bell inequalities which is based on multilinear contractions. The derivation of the inequalities allows for an intuitive geometric depiction and their violation within quantum mechanics can be seen as a direct consequence of non-vanishing commutators. The approach is motivated by generalizing recent work on non-linear inequalities which was based on the moduli of complex numbers, quaternions and octonions. We extend results on Peres conjecture about the validity of Bell inequalities for quantum states with positive partial transposes. Moreover, we show the possibility of obtaining unbounded quantum violations albeit we also prove that quantum mechanics can only violate the derived inequalities if three or more parties are involved.

id: 1002.1920
title: Quantum memory for entangled two-mode squeezed states
authors: K. Jensen, W. Wasilewski, H. Krauter, T. Fernholz, B. M. Nielsen, A. Serafini, M. Owari, M. B. Plenio, M. M. Wolf, E. S. Polzik
comments: main text 5 pages, supplementary information 3 pages
journal: Nature Physics. Volume: 7, Pages:13-16 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1920
abstract: A quantum memory for light is a key element for the realization of future quantum information networks. Requirements for a good quantum memory are (i) versatility (allowing a wide range of inputs) and (ii) true quantum coherence (preserving quantum information). Here we demonstrate such a quantum memory for states possessing Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement. These multi-photon states are two-mode squeezed by 6.0 dB with a variable orientation of squeezing and displaced by a few vacuum units. This range encompasses typical input alphabets for a continuous variable quantum information protocol. The memory consists of two cells, one for each mode, filled with cesium atoms at room temperature with a memory time of about 1msec. The preservation of quantum coherence is rigorously proven by showing that the experimental memory fidelity 0.52(2) significantly exceeds the benchmark of 0.45 for the best possible classical memory for a range of displacements.

id: 1002.1923
title: Bringing entanglement to the high temperature limit
authors: Fernando Galve, Leonardo A. Pachon, David Zueco
comments: accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 180501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1923
abstract: We show the existence of an entangled nonequilibrium state at very high temperatures when two linearly coupled harmonic oscillators are parametrically driven and dissipate into two independent heat baths. This result has a twofold meaning: first, it fundamentally shifts the classical-quantum border to temperatures as high as our experimental ability allows us, and second, it can help increase by at least one order of magnitude the temperature at which current experimental setups are operated.

id: 1002.1927
title: Entanglement dynamics in presence of diversity under decohering environments
authors: Fernando Galve, Gian Luca Giorgi, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1927
abstract: We study the evolution of entanglement of a pair of coupled, non-resonant harmonic oscillators in contact with an environment. For both the cases of a common bath and of two separate baths for each of the oscillators, a full master equation is provided without rotating wave approximation. This allows us to characterize the entanglement dynamics as a function of the diversity between the oscillators frequencies and their mutual coupling. Also the correlation between the occupation numbers is considered to explore the degree of quantumness of the system. The singular effect of the resonance condition (identical oscillators) and its relationship with the possibility of preserving asymptotic entanglement are discussed. The importance of the bath's memory properties is investigated by comparing Markovian and non-Markovian evolutions.

id: 1002.1949
title: Numerical studies of entangled PPT states in composite quantum systems
authors: Jon Magne Leinaas, Jan Myrheim, Per Oyvind Sollid
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062329 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1949
abstract: We report here on the results of numerical searches for PPT states with specified ranks for density matrices and their partial transpose. The study includes several bipartite quantum systems of low dimensions. For a series of ranks extremal PPT states are found. The results are listed in tables and charted in diagrams. Comparison of the results for systems of different dimensions reveal several regularities. We discuss lower and upper bounds on the ranks of extremal PPT states.

id: 1002.1977
title: Probabilistic Teleportation of Two-Particle State of General Formation in Ion Trap
authors: Lian Shi-Man, Yan Feng-Li
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, 27 (4) (2010) 040308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1977
abstract: We propose a scheme for probabilistic teleportation of an unknown two-particle state of general formation in ion trap. It is shown that one can realize experimentally this teleportation protocol of two-particle state with presently available techniques.

id: 1002.1978
title: Quantum Key Distribution by Utilizing Four-Level Particles
authors: Tao Yan, Fengli Yan
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: Chinese Science Bulletin, 56 (2011)24-28
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1978
abstract: We present a quantum key distribution protocol based on four-level particles entanglement. Furthermore, a controlled quantum key distribution protocol is proposed by utilizing three four-level particles. We show that the two protocols are secure.

id: 1002.1981
title: Generation of Six-Qubit Cluster State in Ion-Trap System
authors: Li Shu-Yue, Yan Feng-Li
comments: 3 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1981
abstract: Based on resonant sideband excitation, we present a scheme for the generation of six-qubit cluster state in ion-trap system. One can realize experimentally this scheme with presently available techniques.

id: 1002.2019
title: Quadripartite continuous-variable entanglement via quadruply concurrent downconversion
authors: S. L. W. Midgley, A. S. Bradley, O. Pfister, M. K. Olsen
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 81, 063834 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2019
abstract: We investigate an intra-cavity coupled down-conversion scheme to generate quadripartite entanglement using concurrently resonant nonlinearities. We verify that quadripartite entanglement is present in this system by calculating the output fluctuation spectra and then considering violations of optimized inequalities of the van Loock-Furusawa type. The entanglement characteristics both above and below the oscillation threshold are considered. We also present analytic solutions for the quadrature operators and the van Loock-Furusawa correlations in the undepleted pump approximation.

id: 1002.2039
title: Overlap with the Separable State and Phase Transition in the Dicke Model: Zero and Finite Temperature
authors: H.T. Cui
comments: 11+ pages. Enlarged version including a formal proof for the method to find the maximal overlap. accepted by PRA.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2039
abstract: Overlap with the separable state is introduced in this paper for the purpose of characterizing the overall correlation in many-body systems. This definition has clear geometric and physical meaning, and moreover can be considered as the generalization of the concept-Anderson Orthogonality Catastrophe. As an exemplification, it is used to mark the phase transition in the Dicke model for zero and finite temperature. And our discussion shows that it can faithfully reflect the phase transition properties of this model whether for zero or finite temperature. Furthermore the overlap for ground state also indicates the appearance of multipartite entanglement in Dicke model.

id: 1002.2040
title: Coherent scattering of a Multiphoton Quantum Superposition by a Mirror-BEC
authors: Francesco De Martini, Fabio Sciarrino, Chiara Vitelli, Francesco S. Cataliotti
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 050403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2040
abstract: We present the proposition of an experiment in which the multiphoton quantum superposition consisting of N= 10^5 particles generated by a quantum-injected optical parametric amplifier (QI-OPA), seeded by a single-photon belonging to an EPR entangled pair, is made to interact with a Mirror-BEC shaped as a Bragg interference structure. The overall process will realize a Macroscopic Quantum Superposition (MQS) involving a microscopic single-photon state of polarization entangled with the coherent macroscopic transfer of momentum to the BEC structure, acting in space-like separated distant places.

id: 1002.2043
title: Quantum to classical transition via fuzzy measurements on high gain spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: C. Vitelli, N. Spagnolo, L. Toffoli, F. Sciarrino, F. De Martini
comments: 15 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032123 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2043
abstract: We consider the high gain spontaneous parametric down-conversion in a non collinear geometry as a paradigmatic scenario to investigate the quantum-to-classical transition by increasing the pump power, that is, the average number of generated photons. The possibility of observing quantum correlations in such macroscopic quantum system through dichotomic measurement will be analyzed by addressing two different measurement schemes, based on different dichotomization processes. More specifically, we will investigate the persistence of non-locality in an increasing size n/2-spin singlet state by studying the change in the correlations form as $n$ increases, both in the ideal case and in presence of losses. We observe a fast decrease in the amount of Bell's inequality violation for increasing system size. This theoretical analysis is supported by the experimental observation of macro-macro correlations with an average number of photons of about 10^3. Our results enlighten the practical extreme difficulty of observing non-locality by performing such a dichotomic fuzzy measurement.

id: 1002.2047
title: Quantum teleportation using non-orthogonal entangled channels
authors: S. Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar, D. Home, A. K. Pan, P. Joshi
comments: 7 pages, latex, 5 eps figs
journal: Phys. Scr. 85, 045001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2047
abstract: We study quantum teleportation with the resource of non-orthogonal qubit states. We first extend the standard teleportation protocol to the case of such states. We investigate how the loss of teleportation fidelity resulting for the use of non-orthogonal states compares to a similar loss of fidelity when noisy or non-maximally entangled states as used as teleportation resource. Our analysis leads to certain interesting results on the teleportation efficiency of both pure and mixed non-orthgonal states compared to that of non-maximally entangled and mixed states.

id: 1002.2108
title: Probabilistic chain teleportation of a qutrit-state
authors: Meiyu Wang, Fengli Yan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Communications in Theoretical Physics, 54 (2010) 263-268
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2108
abstract: We investigate chain teleportation of a qutrit-state via the non-maximally two-qutrit entangled channels. For the case of four parties, the efficiencies of two chain teleportation protocols, the separate chain teleportation protocol (SCTP) and the global chain teleportation protocol (GCTP), are calculated. In SCTP the errors are corrected between every step while in GCTP the errors are corrected only at the end. Furthermore, we present a piecewise global chain teleportation protocol (PGCTP) for keeping away from the inconvenience of error-correction of GCTP. We show that PGCTP is more efficient than SCTP.

id: 1002.2139
title: On Robin boundary conditions and the Morse potential in quantum mechanics
authors: B. Belchev, M.A. Walton
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 085301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2139
abstract: The physical origin is investigated of Robin boundary conditions for wave functions at an infinite reflecting wall. We consider both Schr\"odinger and phase-space quantum mechanics (a.k.a. deformation quantization), for this simple example of a contact interaction. A non-relativistic particle moving freely on the half-line is treated as moving on the full line in the presence of an infinite potential wall, realized as a limit of a Morse potential. We show that the wave functions for the Morse states can become those for a free particle on the half-line with Robin boundary conditions. However, Dirichlet boundary conditions (standard walls) are obtained unless a mass-dependent fine tuning (to a reflection resonance) is imposed. This phenomenon was already observed for piece-wise flat potentials, so it is not removed by smoothing. We argue that it explains why standard quantum walls are standard. Next we consider the Wigner functions (the symbols of both diagonal and off-diagonal density operator elements) of phase-space quantum mechanics. Taking the (fine-tuned) limit, we show that our Wigner functions do reduce to the expected ones on the half-line. This confirms that the Wigner transform should indeed be unmodified for this contact interaction.

id: 1002.2148
title: EIT and AT: Two Similar but Distinct Phenomena in Two Categories of Three-Level Atomic Systems
authors: Tony Y. Abi-Salloum
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2148
abstract: Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) and Autler-Townes (AT) are two phenomena that could be featured by a variety of three-level atomic systems. The considered phenomena, EIT and AT, are similar "looking" in the sense that they both are characterized by a reduction in absorption of a weak field in the presence of a stronger field. In this paper, we explicitly set the threshold of separation between EIT and AT in a unified study of four different three-level atomic systems. Two resonances are studied and compared in each case. A comparison of the magnitudes of the resonances reveals two coupling field regimes and two categories of three-level systems.

id: 1002.2158
title: Quantifying Quantumness and the Quest for Queens of Quantum
authors: Olivier Giraud, Petr A. Braun, Daniel Braun
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 063005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2158
abstract: We introduce a measure of ''quantumness'' for any quantum state in a finite dimensional Hilbert space, based on the distance between the state and the convex set of classical states. The latter are defined as states that can be written as a convex sum of projectors onto coherent states. We derive general properties of this measure of non-classicality, and use it to identify for a given dimension of Hilbert space what are the "Queen of Quantum" states, i.e. the most non-classical quantum states. In three dimensions we obtain the Queen of Quantum state analytically and show that it is unique up to rotations. In up to 11-dimensional Hilbert spaces, we find the Queen of Quantum states numerically, and show that in terms of their Majorana representation they are highly symmetric bodies, which for dimensions 5 and 7 correspond to Platonic bodies.

id: 1002.2172
title: Exact master equations for the non-Markovian decay of a qubit
authors: Bassano Vacchini, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2172
abstract: Exact master equations describing the decay of a two-state system into a structured reservoir are constructed. Employing the exact solution for the model we determine analytical expressions for the memory kernel of the Nakajima-Zwanzig master equation and for the generator of the corresponding time-convolutionless master equation. This approach allows a detailed investigation and comparison of the convergence behavior of the corresponding perturbation expansions. Moreover, we find that the structure of widely used phenomenological master equations with memory kernel may be incompatible with a non-perturbative treatment of the underlying microscopic model. We discuss several physical implications of our results on the microscopic analysis and the phenomenological modelling of non-Markovian quantum dynamics of open systems.

id: 1002.2219
title: Adiabatic Markovian Dynamics
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, John Calsamiglia
comments: 4+3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 050503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2219
abstract: We propose a theory of adiabaticity in quantum Markovian dynamics based on a decomposition of the Hilbert space induced by the asymptotic behavior of the Lindblad semigroup. A central idea of our approach is that the natural generalization of the concept of eigenspace of the Hamiltonian in the case of Markovian dynamics is a noiseless subsystem with a minimal noisy cofactor. Unlike previous attempts to define adiabaticity for open systems, our approach deals exclusively with physical entities and provides a simple, intuitive picture at the underlying Hilbert-space level, linking the notion of adiabaticity to the theory of noiseless subsystems. As an application of our theory, we propose a framework for decoherence-assisted computation in noiseless codes under general Markovian noise. We also formulate a dissipation-driven approach to holonomic computation based on adiabatic dragging of subsystems that is generally not achievable by non-dissipative means.

id: 1002.2248
title: Phase Space Structure of Generalized Gaussian Cat States
authors: Fernando Nicacio, Raphael N. P. Maia, Fabricio Toscano, Raul O. Vallejos
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2248
abstract: We analyze generalized Gaussian cat states obtained by superposing arbitrary Gaussian states, e.g., a coherent state and a squeezed state. The Wigner functions of such states exhibit the typical pair of Gaussian hills plus an interference term which presents a novel structure, as compared with the standard superposition of coherent states (degenerate case). We prove that, in any dimensions, the structure of the interference term is characterized by a particular quadratic form; in one degree of freedom the phase is hyperbolic. This phase-space structure survives the action of a thermal reservoir. We also discuss certain superpositions of {\em mixed} Gaussian states generated by conditional Gaussian operations or Kerr-type dynamics on thermal states.

id: 1002.2256
title: Coherent states of non-relativistic electron in magnetic-solenoid field
authors: V.G. Bagrov, S.P. Gavrilov, D.M. Gitman, D.P. Meira Filho
comments: 11 pages, version accepted for publication in J. Phys. A, 3 figures added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 354016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2256
abstract: We construct coherent states of a nonrelativistic electron in the magnetic-solenoid field, which is a superposition of the Aharonov-Bohm field and a collinear uniform magnetic field. In the problem under consideration there are two kind of coherent states, the first kind corresponds to classical trajectories which embrace the solenoid and the second one to trajectories which do not. Mean coordinates in the constructed coherent states are moving along classical trajectories, the coherent states maintain their form under the time evolution, and represent a complete set of functions, which can be useful in semi classical calculations. In the absence of the Aharonov-Bohm filed these states are reduced to the well-known in the case of uniform magnetic field Malkin-Man'ko coherent states.

id: 1002.2285
title: Effects of depolarizing quantum channels on BB84 and SARG04 quantum cryptography protocols
authors: Youn-Chang Jeong, Yong-Su Kim, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2285
abstract: We report experimental studies on the effect of the depolarizing quantum channel on weak-pulse BB84 and SARG04 quantum cryptography. The experimental results show that, in real world conditions in which channel depolarization cannot be ignored, BB84 should perform better than SARG04.

id: 1002.2324
title: Experimental Demonstration of Squeezed State Quantum Averaging
authors: Mikael Lassen, Lars Skovgaard Madsen, Metin Sabuncu, Radim Filip, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2324
abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate a universal quantum averaging process implementing the harmonic mean of quadrature variances. The harmonic mean protocol can be used to efficiently stabilize a set of fragile squeezed light sources with statistically fluctuating noise levels. The averaged variances are prepared probabilistically by means of linear optical interference and measurement induced conditioning. We verify that the implemented harmonic mean outperforms the standard arithmetic mean strategy. The effect of quantum averaging is experimentally tested both for uncorrelated and partially correlated noise sources with sub-Poissonian shot noise or super-Poissonian shot noise characteristics.

id: 1002.2333
title: Transfer information remotely via noise entangled coherent channels
authors: A. El Allati, N. Metwally, Y. Hassouni
comments: 
journal: Optics Communications, 284, 519-526 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2333
abstract: In this contribution, a generalized protocol of quantum teleportation is suggested to investigate the possibility of remotely transfer unknown multiparities entangled coherent state. A theoretical technique is introduced to generate maximum entangled coherent states which are used as quantum channels. We show that the mean photon number plays a central role on the fidelity of the transferred information. The noise parameter can be considered as a control parameter only for small values of the mean photon number.

id: 1002.2337
title: Hidden Quantum Markov Models and non-adaptive read-out of many-body states
authors: Alex Monras, Almut Beige, Karoline Wiesner
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures
journal: Applied Mathematical and Computational Sciences 3, 93 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2337
abstract: Stochastic finite-state generators are compressed descriptions of infinite time series. Alternatively, compressed descriptions are given by quantum finite- state generators [K. Wiesner and J. P. Crutchfield, Physica D 237, 1173 (2008)]. These are based on repeated von Neumann measurements on a quantum dynamical system. Here we generalise the quantum finite-state generators by replacing the von Neumann pro jections by stochastic quantum operations. In this way we assure that any time series with a stochastic compressed description has a compressed quantum description. Moreover, we establish a link between our stochastic generators and the sequential readout of many-body states with translationally-invariant matrix product state representations. As an example, we consider the non-adaptive read-out of 1D cluster states. This is shown to be equivalent to a Hidden Quantum Model with two internal states, providing insight on the inherent complexity of the process. Finally, it is proven by example that the quantum description can have a higher degree of compression than the classical stochastic one.

id: 1002.2377
title: Spin-selective reactions of radical pairs act as quantum measurements
authors: Jonathan A. Jones, Peter J. Hore
comments: Chemical Physics Letters, in press. 17 pages including 2 figues; pdf only
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 488, 90-93 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2377
abstract: Since the 1970s, spin-selective reactions of radical pairs have been modelled theoretically by adding phenomenological rate equations to the quantum mechanical equation of motion of the radical pair spin density matrix. Here, using a quantum measurement approach, we derive an alternative set of rate expressions which predict a faster decay of coherent superpositions of the singlet and triplet radical pair states. The difference between the two results, however, is not dramatic and would probably be difficult to distinguish experimentally from decoherence arising from other sources.

id: 1002.2410
title: Contextuality offers security
authors: Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki, Marcin Pawlowski, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to crucial error in the proof. A significantly revised version has appeared as arXiv:1006.0468
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2410
abstract: The discovery of quantum key distribution by Bennett and Brassard (BB84) bases on the fundamental quantum feature: incompatibility of measurements of quantum non-commuting observables. In 1991 Ekert showed that cryptographic key can be generated at a distance with help of entangled (correlated) quantum particles. Recently Barrett, Hardy and Kent showed that the non-locality used by Ekert is itself a good resource of cryptographic key even beyond quantum mechanics. Their result paved the way to new generation of quantum cryptographic protocols - secure even if the devices are built by the very eavesdropper. However, there is a question, which is fundamental from both practical and philosophical point of view: does Nature offer security on operational level based on the original concept behind quantum cryptography - that information gain about one bservables must cause disturbance to another, incompatible one? Here we resolve this problem by using in place of non-locality another striking feature of quantum world - contextuality. It is a strong version of incompatibility manifested in the famous Kochen-Specker paradox. The crucial concept is the use of a new class of families of bipartite probability distributions which locally exhibit the Kochen-Specker paradox conditions and, in addition, exhibit perfect correlations. We show that if two persons share systems described by such a family then they can extract secure key. This is the first operational protocol that directly implements the fundamental feature of Nature: the information gain vs. disturbance trade-off. At the same time it provides natural device-independent cryptographic scheme within quantum mechanics suitable for current technology.

id: 1002.2419
title: Quantum walks can find a marked element on any graph
authors: Hari Krovi, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Magniez, Maris Ozols, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland
comments: 50 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2419
abstract: We solve an open problem by constructing quantum walks that not only detect but also find marked vertices in a graph. In the case when the marked set $M$ consists of a single vertex, the number of steps of the quantum walk is quadratically smaller than the classical hitting time $HT(P,M)$ of any reversible random walk $P$ on the graph. In the case of multiple marked elements, the number of steps is given in terms of a related quantity $HT^+(\mathit{P,M})$ which we call extended hitting time. Our approach is new, simpler and more general than previous ones. We introduce a notion of interpolation between the random walk $P$ and the absorbing walk $P'$, whose marked states are absorbing. Then our quantum walk is simply the quantum analogue of this interpolation. Contrary to previous approaches, our results remain valid when the random walk $P$ is not state-transitive. We also provide algorithms in the cases when only approximations or bounds on parameters $p_M$ (the probability of picking a marked vertex from the stationary distribution) and $HT^+(\mathit{P,M})$ are known.

id: 1002.2436
title: Leftover Hashing Against Quantum Side Information
authors: Marco Tomamichel, Christian Schaffner, Adam Smith, Renato Renner
comments: 
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, 57 (8), 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2436
abstract: The Leftover Hash Lemma states that the output of a two-universal hash function applied to an input with sufficiently high entropy is almost uniformly random. In its standard formulation, the lemma refers to a notion of randomness that is (usually implicitly) defined with respect to classical side information. Here, we prove a (strictly) more general version of the Leftover Hash Lemma that is valid even if side information is represented by the state of a quantum system. Furthermore, our result applies to arbitrary delta-almost two-universal families of hash functions. The generalized Leftover Hash Lemma has applications in cryptography, e.g., for key agreement in the presence of an adversary who is not restricted to classical information processing.

id: 1002.2451
title: Information complementarity in quantum physics
authors: Alessandro Fedrizzi, Bojan ?kerlak, Tomasz Paterek, Marcelo P. de Almeida, Andrew G. White
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures (including supplementary material)
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 053038 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2451
abstract: We demonstrate that the concept of information offers a more complete description of complementarity than the traditional approach based on observables. We present the first experimental test of information complementarity for two-qubit pure states, achieving close agreement with theory; We also explore the distribution of information in a comprehensive range of mixed states. Our results highlight the strange and subtle properties of even the simplest quantum systems: for example, entanglement can be increased by reducing correlations between two subsystems.

id: 1002.2465
title: Room-temperature implementation of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm with a single electronic spin in diamond
authors: Fazhan Shi, Xing Rong, Nanyang Xu, Ya Wang, Jie Wu, Bo Chong, Xinhua Peng, Juliane Kniepert, Rolf-Simon Schoenfeld, Wolfgang Harneit, Mang Feng, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 105, 040504 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2465
abstract: The nitrogen-vacancy defect center (NV center) is a promising candidate for quantum information processing due to the possibility of coherent manipulation of individual spins in the absence of the cryogenic requirement. We report a room-temperature implementation of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm by encoding both a qubit and an auxiliary state in the electron spin of a single NV center. By thus exploiting the specific S=1 character of the spin system, we demonstrate how even scarce quantum resources can be used for test-bed experiments on the way towards a large-scale quantum computing architecture.

id: 1002.2483
title: Coherent Excitation of a Two-Level Atom driven by a far off-resonant Classical Field: Analytical Solutions
authors: Pankaj K. Jha, Yuri V. Rostovtsev
comments: 9 Pages, 8 Figures. Accepted for Physical Review A as a regular article
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 033827 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2483
abstract: We present an analytical treatment of coherent excitation of a Two-Level Atom driven by a far-off resonant classical field. A class of pulse envelope is obtained for which this problem is exactly solvable. The solutions are given in terms of Heun function which is a generalization of the Hypergeometric function. The degeneracy of Heun to Hypergeometric equation can give all the exactly solvable pulse shapes of Gauss Hypergeometric form, from the generalized pulse shape obtained here. We discuss the application of the results obtained to the generation of XUV.

id: 1002.2488
title: Entanglement-assisted zero-error capacity is upper bounded by the Lovasz theta function
authors: Salman Beigi
comments: 4 pages, matches published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 010303(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2488
abstract: The zero-error capacity of a classical channel is expressed in terms of the independence number of some graph and its tensor powers. This quantity is hard to compute even for small graphs such as the cycle of length seven, so upper bounds such as the Lovasz theta function play an important role in zero-error communication. In this paper, we show that the Lovasz theta function is an upper bound on the zero-error capacity even in the presence of entanglement between the sender and receiver.

id: 1002.2511
title: Additivity and non-additivity of multipartite entanglement measures
authors: Huangjun Zhu, Lin Chen, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 45 pages, 4 figures. Proposition 23 and Theorem 24 are revised by correcting a minor error from Eq. (A.2), (A.3) and (A.4) in the published version. The abstract, introduction, and summary are also revised. All other conclusions are unchanged
journal: New J. Phys. 12 083002 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2511
abstract: We study the additivity property of three multipartite entanglement measures, i.e. the geometric measure of entanglement (GM), the relative entropy of entanglement and the logarithmic global robustness. First, we show the additivity of GM of multipartite states with real and non-negative entries in the computational basis. Many states of experimental and theoretical interests have this property, e.g. Bell diagonal states, maximally correlated generalized Bell diagonal states, generalized Dicke states, the Smolin state, and the generalization of D\"{u}r's multipartite bound entangled states. We also prove the additivity of other two measures for some of these examples. Second, we show the non-additivity of GM of all antisymmetric states of three or more parties, and provide a unified explanation of the non-additivity of the three measures of the antisymmetric projector states. In particular, we derive analytical formulae of the three measures of one copy and two copies of the antisymmetric projector states respectively. Third, we show, with a statistical approach, that almost all multipartite pure states with sufficiently large number of parties are nearly maximally entangled with respect to GM and relative entropy of entanglement. However, their GM is not strong additive; what's more surprising, for generic pure states with real entries in the computational basis, GM of one copy and two copies, respectively, are almost equal. Hence, more states may be suitable for universal quantum computation, if measurements can be performed on two copies of the resource states. We also show that almost all multipartite pure states cannot be produced reversibly with the combination multipartite GHZ states under asymptotic LOCC, unless relative entropy of entanglement is non-additive for generic multipartite pure states.

id: 1002.2514
title: Zero-error communication via quantum channels, non-commutative graphs and a quantum Lovasz theta function
authors: Runyao Duan, Simone Severini, Andreas Winter
comments: 24 pages: v2 has added discussion and more details in section 7.
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 59(2):1164-1174, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2514
abstract: We study the quantum channel version of Shannon's zero-error capacity problem. Motivated by recent progress on this question, we propose to consider a certain operator space as the quantum generalisation of the adjacency matrix, in terms of which the plain, quantum and entanglement-assisted capacity can be formulated, and for which we show some new basic properties. Most importantly, we define a quantum version of Lovasz' famous theta function, as the norm-completion (or stabilisation) of a "naive" generalisation of theta. We go on to show that this function upper bounds the number of entanglement-assisted zero-error messages, that it is given by a semidefinite programme, whose dual we write down explicitly, and that it is multiplicative with respect to the natural (strong) graph product. We explore various other properties of the new quantity, which reduces to Lovasz' original theta in the classical case, give several applications, and propose to study the operator spaces associated to channels as "non-commutative graphs", using the language of Hilbert modules.

id: 1002.2515
title: Statistical measure of complexity of hard-sphere gas: applications to nuclear matter
authors: Ch.C. Moustakidis, K.Ch. Chatzisavvas, N.S. Nikolaidis, C.P. Panos
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2515
abstract: We apply the statistical measure of complexity, introduced by L\'{o}pez-Ruiz, Mancini and Calbet to a hard-sphere dilute Fermi gas whose particles interact via a repulsive hard-core potential. We employ the momentum distribution of this system to calculate the information entropy, the disequilibrium and the statistical complexity. We examine possible connections between the particle correlations and energy of the system with those information and complexity measures. The hard-sphere model serves as a test bed for concepts about complexity.

id: 1002.2516
title: Molecular Feshbach dissociation as a source for motionally entangled atoms
authors: Clemens Gneiting, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures; corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 013423 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2516
abstract: We describe the dissociation of a diatomic Feshbach molecule due to a time-varying external magnetic field in a realistic trap and guide setting. An analytic expression for the asymptotic state of the two ultracold atoms is derived, which can serve as a basis for the analysis of dissociation protocols to generate motionally entangled states. For instance, the gradual dissociation by sequences of magnetic field pulses may delocalize the atoms into macroscopically distinct wave packets, whose motional entanglement can be addressed interferometrically. The established relation between the applied magnetic field pulse and the generated dissociation state reveals that square-shaped magnetic field pulses minimize the momentum spread of the atoms. This is required to control the detrimental influence of dispersion in a recently proposed experiment to perform a Bell test in the motion of the two atoms [C. Gneiting and K. Hornberger, Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 260503 (2008)].

id: 1002.2524
title: Structural defects in ion crystals by quenching the external potential: the inhomogeneous Kibble-Zurek mechanism
authors: A. del Campo, G. De Chiara, G. Morigi, M. B. Plenio, A. Retzker
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 075701 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2524
abstract: The non-equilibrium dynamics of an ion chain in a highly anisotropic trap is studied when the transverse trap frequency is quenched across the value at which the chain undergoes a continuous phase transition from a linear to a zigzag structure. Within Landau theory, an equation for the order parameter, corresponding to the transverse size of the zigzag structure, is determined when the vibrational motion is damped via laser cooling. The number of structural defects produced during a linear quench of the transverse trapping frequency is predicted and verified numerically. It is shown to obey the scaling predicted by the Kibble-Zurek mechanism, when extended to take into account the spatial inhomogeneities of the ion chain in a linear Paul trap.

id: 1002.2540
title: The compositional structure of multipartite quantum entanglement
authors: Bob Coecke, Aleks Kissinger
comments: 31 pages, heavily revised from previous version. Notably, added a section on Frobenius states and removed the section on the Z/X-calculus. Full treatment of complementarity is relegated to future work
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2540
abstract: While multipartite quantum states constitute a (if not the) key resource for quantum computations and protocols, obtaining a high-level, structural understanding of entanglement involving arbitrarily many qubits is a long-standing open problem in quantum computer science. In this paper we expose the algebraic and graphical structure of the GHZ-state and the W-state, as well as a purely graphical distinction that characterises the behaviours of these states. In turn, this structure yields a compositional graphical model for expressing general multipartite states. We identify those states, named Frobenius states, which canonically induce an algebraic structure, namely the structure of a commutative Frobenius algebra (CFA). We show that all SLOCC-maximal tripartite qubit states are locally equivalent to Frobenius states. Those that are SLOCC-equivalent to the GHZ-state induce special commutative Frobenius algebras, while those that are SLOCC-equivalent to the W-state induce what we call anti-special commutative Frobenius algebras. From the SLOCC-classification of tripartite qubit states follows a representation theorem for two dimensional CFAs. Together, a GHZ and a W Frobenius state form the primitives of a graphical calculus. This calculus is expressive enough to generate and reason about arbitrary multipartite states, which are obtained by "composing" the GHZ- and W-states, giving rise to a rich graphical paradigm for general multipartite entanglement.

id: 1002.2544
title: How Classical Particles Emerge From the Quantum World
authors: Dennis Dieks, Andrea Lubberdink
comments: 
journal: Found.Phys.41:1051-1064,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2544
abstract: The symmetrization postulates of quantum mechanics (symmetry for bosons, antisymmetry for fermions) are usually taken to entail that \emph{quantum particles} of the same kind (e.g., electrons) are all in exactly the same state and therefore indistinguishable in the strongest possible sense. These symmetrization postulates possess a general validity that survives the classical limit, and the conclusion seems therefore unavoidable that even classical particles of the same kind must all be in the same state--in clear conflict with what we know about classical particles. In this article we analyze the origin of this paradox. We shall argue that in the classical limit classical particles \emph{emerge}, as new entities that do not correspond to the "particle indices" defined in quantum mechanics. Put differently, we show that the quantum mechanical symmetrization postulates do not pertain to \emph{particles}, as we know them from classical physics, but rather to indices that have a merely formal significance. This conclusion raises the question of whether the discussions about the status of identical quantum particles have not been misguided from the very start.

id: 1002.2545
title: Ermakov equations in quantum mechanics
authors: R. Tsekov
comments: 
journal: Ann. Univ. Sofia, Fac. Chem. 102/103 (2011) 185-188
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2545
abstract: The Ermakov equation, appearing in quantum mechanics of a harmonic oscillator, is extended via dissipative and thermal terms to take into account the effect of an environment.

id: 1002.2574
title: Noise enhanced performance of adiabatic quantum computing by lifting degeneracies
authors: R.D. Wilson, A.M. Zagoskin, S. Savel'ev
comments: 12 pages and 4 figures in preprint format. References in article corrected and journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052328 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2574
abstract: We investigate the symmetry breaking role of noise in adiabatic quantum computing using the example of the CNOT gate. In particular, we analyse situations where the choice of initial configuration leads to symmetries in the Hamiltonian and degeneracies in the spectrum. We show that, in these situations, there exists an optimal level of noise that maximises the success probability and the fidelity of the final state. The effects of an artificial noise source with a time-dependent amplitude are also explored and it is found that such a scheme would offer a considerable performance enhancement.

id: 1002.2583
title: Measure for the Non-Markovianity of Quantum Processes
authors: Elsi-Mari Laine, Jyrki Piilo, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. V2: minor changes according to referees' suggestions. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062115 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2583
abstract: Recently, a measure for the non-Markovian behavior of quantum processes in open systems has been developed which is based on the quantification of the flow of information between the open system and its environment [Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 210401 (2009)]. The information flow is connected to the rate of change of the trace distance between quantum states which can be interpreted in terms of the distinguishability of these states. Here, we elaborate the mathematical details of this theory, present applications to specific physical models, and discuss further theoretical and experimental implications, as well as relations to alternative approaches proposed recently.

id: 1002.2592
title: Classical Statistical Mechanics Approach to Multipartite Entanglement
authors: P. Facchi, G. Florio, U. Marzolino, G. Parisi, S. Pascazio
comments: 38 pages, 10 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 225303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2592
abstract: We characterize the multipartite entanglement of a system of n qubits in terms of the distribution function of the bipartite purity over balanced bipartitions. We search for maximally multipartite entangled states, whose average purity is minimal, and recast this optimization problem into a problem of statistical mechanics, by introducing a cost function, a fictitious temperature and a partition function. By investigating the high-temperature expansion, we obtain the first three moments of the distribution. We find that the problem exhibits frustration.

id: 1002.2675
title: Better than "flashes": Transactions
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: In response to apparent confusion by some readers, this revision clarifies the fact that confirmation waves (CW) are generated for all components of the offer wave absorbed, resulting in a set of incipient transactions corresponding to different outcomes in a particular basis. This provides a physical explanation for von Neumann's "Process 1."
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2675
abstract: I discuss Gisin's result showing that sets of quantum-correlated spacelike events cannot be described by a covariant probability distribution over hidden variables, and his conclusion that Tumulka's "rGRWf" (relativistic GRW "flash ontology" model) is an appropriate model to resolve the apparent conflict between quantum theory and relativity. The contrasts and similarities between the Transactional Interpretation's (TI) handling of a specific measurement result and that of GRW approaches are clarified. I argue that TI resolves the apparent conflict between quantum theory and relativity described by Gisin in a harmonious manner, without the necessity of modifying the theory.

id: 1002.2676
title: PT Symmetry as a Generalization of Hermiticity
authors: Qing-hai Wang, Song-zhi Chia, Jie-hong Zhang
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2676
abstract: The Hilbert space in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics is formulated as a linear vector space with a dynamic inner product. The most general PT-symmetric matrix Hamiltonians are constructed for 2*2 and 3*3 cases. In the former case, the PT-symmetric Hamiltonian represents the most general matrix Hamiltonian with a real spectrum. In both cases, Hermitian matrices are shown to be special cases of PT-symmetric matrices. This finding confirms and strengthens the early belief that the PT-symmetric quantum mechanics is a generalization of the conventional Hermitian quantum mechanics.

id: 1002.2697
title: The Free Will Theorem and the Flash Ontology implicitly assume the Before-Before Experiment and thereby imply free will. Comment on a note by Nicolas Gisin in arXiv:1002.1392v1
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2697
abstract: It is argued that both the "Free Will Theorem" (FWT) and the "relativistic GRW model with Flash Ontology" (rGRWf) hiddenly assume the result of the before-before experiment, and for this reason both FWT and rGRWf imply free will in the world outside free experimenters.

id: 1002.2728
title: Nonequilibrium Forces Between Neutral Atoms Mediated by a Quantum Field
authors: Ryan Orson Behunin, Bei-Lok Hu
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022507 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2728
abstract: We study all known and as yet unknown forces between two neutral atoms, modeled as three dimensional harmonic oscillators, arising from mutual influences mediated by an electromagnetic field but not from their direct interactions. We allow as dynamical variables the center of mass motion of the atom, its internal degrees of freedom and the quantum field treated relativistically. We adopt the method of nonequilibrium quantum field theory which can provide a first principle, systematic and unified description including the intrinsic field fluctuations and induced dipole fluctuations. The inclusion of self-consistent back-actions makes possible a fully dynamical description of these forces valid for general atom motion. In thermal equilibrium we recover the known forces -- London, van der Waals and Casimir-Polder forces -- between neutral atoms in the long-time limit but also discover the existence of two new types of interatomic forces. The first, a `nonequilibrium force', arises when the field and atoms are not in thermal equilibrium, and the second, which we call an `entanglement force', originates from the correlations of the internal degrees of freedom of entangled atoms.

id: 1002.2760
title: Zeno Dynamics and Distinguishability of Quantum States
authors: Augusto Smerzi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2760
abstract: According to the quantum Zeno effect, the frequent observations of a system can dramatically slow down its dynamical evolution. We show that the Zeno dynamics is the result of projective measurements among quantum states which are indistinguishable. The physical time scale of the problem is provided by the Cramer-Rao lower bound, which measure the distinguishability of states along a path in the Hilbert space. We finally show that the Zeno dynamics with particle entangled states might require quite smaller measurement intervals than classically correlated states, and propose a realistic interferometric experiment to test the prediction.

id: 1002.2816
title: Quantum computation with Turaev-Viro codes
authors: Robert Koenig, Greg Kuperberg, Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 53 pages, LaTeX + 199 eps figures
journal: Annals of Physics 325, 2707-2749 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2816
abstract: The Turaev-Viro invariant for a closed 3-manifold is defined as the contraction of a certain tensor network. The tensors correspond to tetrahedra in a triangulation of the manifold, with values determined by a fixed spherical category. For a manifold with boundary, the tensor network has free indices that can be associated to qudits, and its contraction gives the coefficients of a quantum error-correcting code. The code has local stabilizers determined by Levin and Wen. For example, applied to the genus-one handlebody using the Z_2 category, this construction yields the well-known toric code. For other categories, such as the Fibonacci category, the construction realizes a non-abelian anyon model over a discrete lattice. By studying braid group representations acting on equivalence classes of colored ribbon graphs embedded in a punctured sphere, we identify the anyons, and give a simple recipe for mapping fusion basis states of the doubled category to ribbon graphs. We explain how suitable initial states can be prepared efficiently, how to implement braids, by successively changing the triangulation using a fixed five-qudit local unitary gate, and how to measure the topological charge. Combined with known universality results for anyonic systems, this provides a large family of schemes for quantum computation based on local deformations of stabilizer codes. These schemes may serve as a starting point for developing fault-tolerance schemes using continuous stabilizer measurements and active error-correction.

id: 1002.2819
title: Sub-shot-noise-limit discrimination of on-off keyed coherent signals via a quantum receiver with a superconducting transition edge sensor
authors: Kenji Tsujino, Daiji Fukuda, Go Fujii, Shuichiro Inoue, Mikio Fujiwara, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Opt. Express, 18, 8107 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2819
abstract: We demonstrate a sub-shot-noise-limit discrimination of on-off keyed coherent signals by an optimal displacement quantum receiver in which a superconducting transition edge sensor is installed. Use of a transition edge sensor and a fiber beam splitter realizes high total detection efficiency and high interference visibility of the receiver and the observed average error surpasses the shot-noise-limit in a wider range of the signal power. Our technique opens up a new technology for the sub-shot-noise-limit detection of coherent signals in optical communication channels.

id: 1002.2820
title: Interconvertibility and irreducibility of permutation symmetric three qubit pure states
authors: A R Usha Devi, Sudha, A K Rajagopal
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2820
abstract: A novel use of Majorana geometric representation brings out distinct entanglement families of permutation symmetric states of qubits. The paradigmatic W and GHZ (Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger) states of three qubits respectively contain two and three independent Majorana spinors. Another unique state with three distinct Majorana spinors -- constructed through a permutation symmetric superposition of two up qubits and one down qubit (W state) and its obverse state Wbar) exhibits genuine three-party entanglement, which is robust under loss of a qubit. While the GHZ state has irreducible correlations and cannot be determined from its parts, we show here that the correlation information of the W-superposition state is imprinted uniquely in its two party reduced states. This striking example sheds light on the contrasting irreducibility features of interconvertible states.

id: 1002.2826
title: Free and bound spin-polarized fermions in the fields of Aharonov--Bohm kind
authors: V.R. Khalilov, I.V. Mamsurov, Lee Ki Eun
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2826
abstract: The scattering of electrons by an Aharonov--Bohm field is considered from the viewpoint of quantum-mechanical problem of constructing a self-adjoint Hamiltonian for the Pauli equation. The correct domain for the self-adjoint Hamiltonian, which takes into account explicitly the electron spin is found. A one-parameter self-adjoint extension of the Hamiltonian for spin-polarized electrons in the Aharonov--Bohm field is selected. The correct domain of the self-adjoint Hamiltonian can contain regular and singular (at the point ${\bf r}=0$) square-integrable functions on the half-line with measure $rdr$. We argue that the physical reason of the existence of singular functions is the additional attractive potential, which appear due to the interaction between the spin magnetic moment of fermion and Aharonov--Bohm magnetic field. The scattering amplitude and cross section are obtained for spin-polarized electrons scattered by the Aharonov--Bohm field. It is shown that in some range of the extension parameter there appears a bound state. Since the Hamiltonian of the nonrelativistic Dirac--Pauli equation for a massive neutral fermion with the anomalous magnetic moment (AMM) in the electric field of a linear charge aligned perpendicularly to the fermion motion has the form of the Hamiltonian for the Pauli equation in the Aharonov--Bohm flux tube, we also calculate the scattering amplitude and cross section for the neutral fermion.

id: 1002.2893
title: Entanglement for all quantum states
authors: A. C. de la Torre, D. Goyeneche, L. Leitao
comments: 9 pages
journal: Eur.J.Phys.31:325-332,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2893
abstract: It is shown that a state that is factorizable in the Hilbert space corresponding to some choice of degrees of freedom, becomes entangled for a different choice of degrees of freedom. Therefore, entanglement is not a special case but is ubiquitous in quantum systems. Simple examples are calculated and a general proof is provided. The physical relevance of the change of tensor product structure is mentioned.

id: 1002.2917
title: Efficient optical pumping of Zeeman spin levels in Nd3+:YVO4
authors: Mikael Afzelius, Matthias U. Staudt, Hugues de Riedmatten, Nicolas Gisin, Olivier Guillot-No?l, Philippe Goldner, Robert Marino, Pierre Porcher, Enrico Cavalli, Marco Bettinelli
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2917
abstract: We demonstrate that Zeeman ground-state spin levels in Nd3+:YVO4 provides the possibility to create an efficient lambda-system for optical pumping experiments. The branching ratio R in the lambda-system is measured experimentally via absorption spectroscopy and is compared to a theoretical model. We show that R can be tuned by changing the orientation of the magnetic field. These results are applied to optical pumping experiments, where significant improvement is obtained compared to previous experiments in this system. The tunability of the branching ratio in combination with its good coherence properties and the high oscillator strength makes Nd3+:YVO4 an interesting candidate for various quantum information protocols.

id: 1002.2918
title: Lossless State Detection of Single Neutral Atoms
authors: Joerg Bochmann, Martin M¨¹cke, Christoph Guhl, Stephan Ritter, Gerhard Rempe, David L. Moehring
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 203601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2918
abstract: We introduce lossless state detection of trapped neutral atoms based on cavity-enhanced fluorescence. In an experiment with a single 87-Rb atom, a hyperfine-state-detection fidelity of 99.4% is achieved in 85 microseconds. The quantum bit is interrogated many hundreds of times without loss of the atom while a result is obtained in every readout attempt. The fidelity proves robust against atomic frequency shifts induced by the trapping potential. Our scheme does not require strong coupling between the atom and cavity and can be generalized to other systems with an optically accessible quantum bit.

id: 1002.2931
title: Entanglement Spectrum for the XY Model in One Dimension
authors: F. Franchini, A. R. Its, V. E. Korepin, L. A. Takhtajan
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing 10: 325-341 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2931
abstract: We consider the reduced density matrix of a large block of consecutive spins in the ground states of the XY spin chain on an infinite lattice. We derive the spectrum of the density matrix using the expression of the Renyi entropy in terms of modular functions. The eigenvalues \lambda_n form an exact geometric sequence. For example, for strong magnetic field \lambda_n = C \exp{(-\pi \tau_0 n)}, here \tau_0>0 and C > 0 depend on the anisotropy and the magnetic field. Different eigenvalues are degenerated differently. The largest eigenvalue is unique, but the degeneracy g_n increases sub-exponentially as eigenvalues diminish: g_n \sim \exp{(\pi \sqrt{n/3})}. For weak magnetic field expressions are similar.

id: 1002.2938
title: The geometry and thermodynamics of dissipative quantum systems
authors: Hans Christian ?ttinger
comments: 4 pages, definitely no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2938
abstract: Dirac's method of classical analogy is employed to incorporate quantum degrees of freedom into modern nonequilibrium thermodynamics. The proposed formulation of dissipative quantum mechanics builds entirely upon the geometric structures implied by commutators and canonical correlations. A lucid formulation of a nonlinear quantum master equation follows from the thermodynamic structure. Complex classical environments with internal structure can be handled readily.

id: 1002.2953
title: Criterion for k-separability in mixed multipartite systems
authors: Andreas Gabriel, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Marcus Huber
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation (QIC) 10, No. 9 & 10, pp 829-836 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2953
abstract: Using a recently introduced framework, we derive criteria for quantum k-separability, which are very easily computed. In the case k = 2, our criteria are equally strong to the best methods known so far, while in all other cases there are currently no comparable criteria known. We also show how the criteria can be implemented experimentally.

id: 1002.2970
title: Quantum Online Memory Checking
authors: Wim van Dam, Qingqing Yuan
comments: 12 pages; Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication, and Cryptography: Fourth Workshop, TQC 2009
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science 5906 (2009), 10-19
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2970
abstract: The problem of memory checking considers storing files on an unreliable public server whose memory can be modified by a malicious party. The main task is to design an online memory checker with the capability to verify that the information on the server has not been corrupted. To store n bits of public information, the memory checker has s private reliable bits for verification purpose; while to retrieve each bit of public information the checker communicates t bits with the public memory. Earlier work showed that, for classical memory checkers, the lower bound s*t \in Omega(n) holds. In this article we study quantum memory checkers that have s private qubits and that are allowed to quantum query the public memory using t qubits. We prove an exponential improvement over the classical setting by showing the existence of a quantum checker that, using quantum fingerprints, requires only s \in O(log n) qubits of local memory and t \in O(polylog n) qubits of communication with the public memory.

id: 1002.3003
title: Two-particle quantum walks applied to the graph isomorphism problem
authors: John King Gamble, Mark Friesen, Dong Zhou, Robert Joynt, S. N. Coppersmith
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, 3 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3003
abstract: We show that the quantum dynamics of interacting and noninteracting quantum particles are fundamentally different in the context of solving a particular computational problem. Specifically, we consider the graph isomorphism problem, in which one wishes to determine whether two graphs are isomorphic (related to each other by a relabeling of the graph vertices), and focus on a class of graphs with particularly high symmetry called strongly regular graphs (SRG's). We study the Green's functions that characterize the dynamical evolution single-particle and two-particle quantum walks on pairs of non-isomorphic SRG's and show that interacting particles can distinguish non-isomorphic graphs that noninteracting particles cannot. We obtain the following specific results: (1) We prove that quantum walks of two noninteracting particles, Fermions or Bosons, cannot distinguish certain pairs of non-isomorphic SRG's. (2) We demonstrate numerically that two interacting Bosons are more powerful than single particles and two noninteracting particles, in that quantum walks of interacting bosons distinguish all non-isomorphic pairs of SRGs that we examined. By utilizing high-throughput computing to perform over 500 million direct comparisons between evolution operators, we checked all tabulated pairs of non-isomorphic SRGs, including graphs with up to 64 vertices. (3) By performing a short-time expansion of the evolution operator, we derive distinguishing operators that provide analytic insight into the power of the interacting two-particle quantum walk.

id: 1002.3005
title: Position Uncertainty in the Heisenberg Uncertainty Relation
authors: Seiji Kosugi
comments: Corrected typos. 18 pages, to be published in Prog. Theor. Phys.
journal: Prog. Theor, Phys. 123 (2010) 431-448
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3005
abstract: Position measurements are examined under the assumption that object position x_t and probe position X_t just after the measurement are expressed by a linear combination of positions x_0 and X_0 just before the measurement. The Heisenberg uncertainty relation between the position uncertainty and momentum disturbance holds when the measurement error \epsilon(x_t) for the object position x_t is adopted as the position uncertainty. However, the uncertainty in the measurement result obtained for x_0 is the standard deviation of the measurement result, and not the measurement error \epsilon(x_0). This difference is due to the reduction of a wave packet. The validity of the linearity assumption is examined in detail.

id: 1002.3033
title: Dynamical control and novel quantum phases in impurity doped linear ion crystals
authors: Peter A. Ivanov, Nikolay V. Vitanov, Kilian Singer, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3033
abstract: We explore the behavior of the phonon number distribution in an heterogeneous linear ion crystal. The presence of ion species with different masses changes dramatically the transverse energy spectrum, in such a way that two eigenfrequencies become non-analytic functions of the mass ratio in the form of a sharp cusp. This non-analyticity induces a quantum phase transition between condensed and conducting phase of the transverse local phonons. In order to continuously vary the mass ratio we adiabatically modify a locally applied laser field, exerting optical dipole forces which reduces the effective mass.

id: 1002.3049
title: Duality and the geometric measure of entanglement of general multiqubit W states
authors: Sayatnova Tamaryan, Anthony Sudbery, Levon Tamaryan
comments: final version, 5 pages, one figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052319 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3049
abstract: We find the nearest product states for arbitrary generalized W states of n qubits, and show that the nearest product state is essentially unique if the W state is highly entangled. It is specified by a unit vector in Euclidean n-dimensional space. We use this duality between unit vectors and highly entangled W states to find the geometric measure of entanglement of such states.

id: 1002.3059
title: Quantum electrodynamics of one-photon wave packets
authors: M. Stobi¨½ska, G. Alber, G. Leuchs
comments: To be published in Advances in Quantum Chemistry, volume: Unstable States in the Continuous Spectra, edited by Cleanthes A. Nicolaides (Elsevier Inc.), 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3059
abstract: In this contribution we investigate quantum electrodynamical many-mode aspects by exploring the simplest possible situation in this context, namely the interaction of a single atom, modeled by a simple two-level system, with many-mode one-photon quantum states of the electromagnetic field. In particular, we concentrate on the question how the engineering of electromagnetic field modes influences the atom-field interaction. An interesting problem in this context is the engineering of ideal one-photon multi-mode quantum states which may excite a single atom perfectly [M. Stobi\'nska, G. Alber, and G. Leuchs, EPL {\bf 86}, 14007 (2009)]. For purposes of quantum information processing such one-photon multi-mode states are particularly well suited for transmitting quantum information and for storing it in a material memory again.

id: 1002.3064
title: Entanglement dynamics of three-qubit states in noisy channels
authors: Michael Siomau, Stephan Fritzsche
comments: 2 figures, 32 references
journal: M.Siomau and S.Fritzsche, Eur. Phys. J. D 60, 397 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3064
abstract: We study entanglement dynamics of the three-qubit system which is initially prepared in pure Greenberger-Horne- Zeilinger (GHZ) or W state and transmitted through one of the Pauli channels $\sigma_z, \, \sigma_x, \, \sigma_y$ or the depolarizing channel. With the help of the lower bound for three-qubit concurrence we show that the W state preserves more entanglement than the GHZ state in transmission through the Pauli channel $\sigma_z$. For the Pauli channels $\sigma_x, \, \sigma_y$ and the depolarizing channel, however, the entanglement of the GHZ state is more resistant against decoherence than the W-type entanglement. We also briefly discuss how the accuracy of the lower bound approximation depends on the rank of the density matrix under consideration.

id: 1002.3066
title: Absolute frequency measurements of 85Rb nF7/2 Rydberg states using purely optical detection
authors: L. A. M. Johnson, H. O. Majeed, B. Sanguinetti, Th. Becker, B. T. H. Varcoe
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, submitted to New. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3066
abstract: A three-step laser excitation scheme is used to make absolute frequency measurements of highly excited nF7/2 Rydberg states in 85Rb for principal quantum numbers n=33-100. This work demonstrates the first absolute frequency measurements of rubidium Rydberg levels using a purely optical detection scheme. The Rydberg states are excited in a heated Rb vapour cell and Doppler free signals are detected via purely optical means. All of the frequency measurements are made using a wavemeter which is calibrated against a GPS disciplined self-referenced optical frequency comb. We find that the measured levels have a very high frequency stability, and are especially robust to electric fields. The apparatus has allowed measurements of the states to an accuracy of 8.0MHz. The new measurements are analysed by extracting the modified Rydberg-Ritz series parameters.

id: 1002.3067
title: Numerical Solution of the Dynamic Programming Equation for the Optimal Control of Quantum Spin Systems
authors: Srinivas Sridharan, Matthew R. James
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3067
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to describe the numerical solution of the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) for an optimal control problem for quantum spin systems. This HJB equation is a first order nonlinear partial differential equation defined on a Lie group. We employ recent extensions of the theory of viscosity solutions from Euclidean space to Riemannian manifolds to interpret possibly non-differentiable solutions to this equation. Results from differential topology on the triangulation of manifolds are then used to develop a finite difference approximation method, which is shown to converge using viscosity solution techniques. An example is provided to illustrate the method.

id: 1002.3075
title: Precision quantum metrology and nonclassicality in linear and nonlinear detection schemes
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Alfredo Luis
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 010403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3075
abstract: We examine whether metrological resolution beyond coherent states is a nonclassical effect. We show that this is true for linear detection schemes but false for nonlinear schemes, and propose a very simple experimental setup to test it. We find a nonclassicality criterion derived from quantum Fisher information.

id: 1002.3135
title: Proposed test of macroscopic quantum contextuality
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82 (2010) 032110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3135
abstract: We show that, for any system with a number of levels which can be identified with n qubits, there is an inequality for the correlations between three compatible dichotomic measurements which must be satisfied by any noncontextual theory, but is violated by any quantum state. Remarkably, the violation grows exponentially with n, and the tolerated error per correlation also increases with n, showing that state-independent quantum contextuality is experimentally observable in complex systems.

id: 1002.3139
title: Compressing the hidden variable space of a qubit
authors: Alberto Montina
comments: References updated and added some more discussions of results
journal: Physics Letters A 375, 1385 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3139
abstract: In previously exhibited hidden variable models of quantum state preparation and measurement, the number of continuous hidden variables describing the actual state of a single realization is never smaller than the quantum state manifold dimension. We introduce a simple model for a qubit whose hidden variable space is one-dimensional, i.e., smaller than the two-dimensional Bloch sphere. The hidden variable probability distributions associated with the quantum states satisfy reasonable criteria of regularity. Possible generalizations of this shrinking to a N-dimensional Hilbert space are discussed.

id: 1002.3147
title: Environmentally-induced effects on a bipartite two-level system: geometric phase and entanglement properties
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Paula I. Villar
comments: 15 pages, 11 eps figs
journal: Published in Phys. Rev. A 81, 022115 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3147
abstract: We calculate the geometric phase of a bipartite two-level system coupled to an external environment. We analyze the reduced density matrix for an arbitrary initial state of the composite system and compute the correction to the unitary geometric phase through a kinematic approach. In all cases considered, we observe a similar structure as a function of the degree of the entanglement of the initial state. Further, we compute the entanglement entropy and concurrence of the bipartite state and analyze if there is any relation among these quantities and the geometric phase acquired during the nonunitary system's evolution. Finally, we discuss the results obtained.

id: 1002.3199
title: Quantum circuit for security proof of quantum key distribution without encryption of error syndrome and noisy processing
authors: Kiyoshi Tamaki, Go Kato
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Typo corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022316 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3199
abstract: One of the simplest security proofs of quantum key distribution is based on the so-called complementarity scenario, which involves the complementarity control of an actual protocol and a virtual protocol [M. Koashi, e-print arXiv:0704.3661 (2007)]. The existing virtual protocol has a limitation in classical postprocessing, i.e., the syndrome for the error-correction step has to be encrypted. In this paper, we remove this limitation by constructing a quantum circuit for the virtual protocol. Moreover, our circuit with a shield system gives an intuitive proof of why adding noise to the sifted key increases the bit error rate threshold in the general case in which one of the parties does not possess a qubit. Thus, our circuit bridges the simple proof and the use of wider classes of classical postprocessing.

id: 1002.3211
title: Optical continuous-variable qubit
authors: Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Makoto Takeuchi, Kentaro Wakui, Hiroki Takahashi, Kazuhiro Hayasaka, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 5 pages + appendix 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 053602 (2010); Appendix expanded to full article in J. Mod. Opt. 58, 266-275 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3211
abstract: In a new branch of quantum computing, information is encoded into coherent states, the primary carriers of optical communication. To exploit it, quantum bits of these coherent states are needed, but it is notoriously hard to make superpositions of such continuous-variable states. We have realized the complete engineering and characterization of a qubit of two optical continuous-variable states. Using squeezed vacuum as a resource and a special photon subtraction technique, we could with high precision prepare an arbitrary superposition of squeezed vacuum and a squeezed single photon. This could lead the way to demonstrations of coherent state quantum computing.

id: 1002.3219
title: Experimental verification of the commutation relation for Pauli spin operators using single-photon quantum interference
authors: Yong-Su Kim, Hyang-Tag Lim, Young-Sik Ra, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 4pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3219
abstract: We report experimental verification of the commutation relation for Pauli spin operators using quantum interference of the single-photon polarization state. By superposing the quantum operations $\sigma_z \sigma_x$ and $\sigma_x \sigma_z$ on a single-photon polarization state, we have experimentally implemented the commutator, $[\sigma_{z}, \sigma_{x}]$, and the anticommutator, $\{\sigma_{z}, \sigma_{x}\}$, and have demonstrated the relative phase factor of $\pi$ between $\sigma_z \sigma_x$ and $\sigma_x \sigma_z$ operations. The experimental quantum operation corresponding to the commutator, $[\sigma_{z}, \sigma_{x}]=k\sigma_y$, showed process fidelity of 0.94 compared to the ideal $\sigma_y$ operation and $|k|$ is determined to be $2.12\pm0.18$.

id: 1002.3226
title: Making nonlocal reality compatible with relativity
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 10 pages, revised, invited talk presented at conference Quantum 2010: Advances in Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information with Atoms and Photons, Turin, Italy, May 24-28, 2010
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 9 (2011) 367-377
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3226
abstract: It is often argued that hypothetic nonlocal reality responsible for nonlocal quantum correlations between entangled particles cannot be consistent with relativity. I review the most frequent arguments of that sort, explain how they can all be circumvented, and present an explicit Bohmian model of nonlocal reality (compatible with quantum phenomena) that fully obeys the principle of relativistic covariance and does not involve a preferred Lorentz frame.

id: 1002.3240
title: 2.23 GHz gating InGaAs/InP single-photon avalanche diode for quantum key distribution
authors: Jun Zhang, Patrick Eraerds, Nino Walenta, Claudio Barreiro, Rob Thew, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Proceedings of SPIE
journal: Proc. SPIE, Vol. 7681, 76810Z (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3240
abstract: We implement an InGaAs/InP single-photon avalanche diode (SPAD) for single-photon detection with the fastest gating frequency reported so far, of 2.23 GHz, which approaches the limit given by the bandwidth of the SPAD - 2.5 GHz. We propose a useful way to characterize the afterpulsing distribution for rapid gating that allows for easy comparison with conventional gating regimes. We compare the performance of this rapid gating scheme with free-running detector and superconducting single-photon detector (SSPD) for the coherent one-way quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol. The rapid gating system is well suited for both high-rate and long-distance QKD applications, in which Mbps key rates can be achieved for distances less than 40 km with 50 ns deadtime and the maximum distance is limited to ~190km with 5 $\mu$s deadtime. These results illustrate that the afterpulsing is no longer a limiting factor for QKD.

id: 1002.3246
title: Scalable quantum search using trapped ions
authors: S. S. Ivanov, P. A. Ivanov, I. E. Linington, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3246
abstract: We propose a scalable implementation of Grover's quantum search algorithm in a trapped-ion quantum information processor. The system is initialized in an entangled Dicke state by using simple adiabatic techniques. The inversion-about-average and the oracle operators take the form of single off-resonant laser pulses, addressing, respectively, all and half of the ions in the trap. This is made possible by utilizing the physical symmetrie of the trapped-ion linear crystal. The physical realization of the algorithm represents a dramatic simplification: each logical iteration (oracle and inversion about average) requires only two physical interaction steps, in contrast to the large number of concatenated gates required by previous approaches. This does not only facilitate the implementation, but also increases the overall fidelity of the algorithm.

id: 1002.3362
title: An Invisible Quantum Tripwire
authors: Petr M. Anisimov, Daniel J. Lum, S. Blane McCracken, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: Improved based on reviewers comments; 5 figures
journal: Petr M Anisimov et al 2010 New J. Phys. 12 083012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3362
abstract: We present here a quantum tripwire, which is a quantum optical interrogation technique capable of detecting an intrusion with very low probability of the tripwire being revealed to the intruder. Our scheme combines interaction-free measurement with the quantum Zeno effect in order to interrogate the presence of the intruder without interaction. The tripwire exploits a curious nonlinear behaviour of the quantum Zeno effect we discovered, which occurs in a lossy system. We also employ a statistical hypothesis testing protocol, allowing us to calculate a confidence level of interaction-free measurement after a given number of trials. As a result, our quantum intruder alert system is robust against photon loss and dephasing under realistic atmospheric conditions and its design minimizes the probabilities of false positives and false negatives as well as the probability of becoming visible to the intruder.

id: 1002.3427
title: Discretization of quantum pure states and local random unitary channel
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Kabgyun Jeong
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3427
abstract: We show that a quantum channel $\mathcal{N}$ constructed by averaging over $\mathcal{O}(\log d/\epsilon^2)$ randomly chosen unitaries gives a local $\epsilon$-randomizing map with non-negative probability. The idea comes from a small $\epsilon$-net construction on the higher dimensional unit sphere or quantum pure states. By exploiting the net, we analyze the concentrative phenomenon of an output reduced density matrix of the channel, and this analysis imply that there exists a local random unitary channel, with relatively small unitaries, generically.

id: 1002.3429
title: Quantum discord for two-qubit X-states
authors: Mazhar Ali, A. R. P. Rau, Gernot Alber
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042105 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3429
abstract: Quantum discord, a kind of quantum correlation, is defined as the difference between quantum mutual information and classical correlation in a bipartite system. In general, this correlation is different from entanglement, and quantum discord may be nonzero even for certain separable states. Even in the simple case of bipartite quantum systems, this different kind of quantum correlation has interesting and significant applications in quantum information processing. So far, quantum discord has been calculated explicitly only for a rather limited set of two-qubit quantum states and expressions for more general quantum states are not known. In this paper, we derive explicit expressions for quantum discord for a larger class of two-qubit states, namely, a seven-parameter family of so called X-states that have been of interest in a variety of contexts in the field. We also study the relation between quantum discord, classical correlation, and entanglement for a number of two-qubit states to demonstrate that they are independent measures of correlation with no simple relative ordering between them.

id: 1002.3455
title: Depolarizing behavior of quantum channels in higher dimensions
authors: Easwar Magesan
comments: Typos corrected, references added, submitted version. 19 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 11, No. 5&6 (2011) 0466-0484
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3455
abstract: The paper analyzes the behavior of quantum channels, particularly in large dimensions, by proving various properties of the quantum gate fidelity. Many of these properties are of independent interest in the theory of distance measures on quantum operations. A non-uniqueness result for the gate fidelity is proven, a consequence of which is the existence of non-depolarizing channels that produce a constant gate fidelity on pure states. Asymptotically, the gate fidelity associated with any quantum channel is shown to converge to that of a depolarizing channel. Methods for estimating the minimum of the gate fidelity are also presented.

id: 1002.3468
title: Unconventional approach to orbital-free density functional theory derived from a model of extended electrons
authors: Werner A. Hofer
comments: The paper has been extended by a modified Landau-Lifshitz equation, describing the change of spin in external magnetic fields. A figure has been added to demonstrate the process. The article has now been accepted for publication and will appear in Foundations of Physics. 21 pages, 1 figure, 59 references
journal: Found. Phys. 41, 754-791 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3468
abstract: An equation proposed by Levy, Perdew and Sahni in 1984 [PRA 30, 2745 (1984)] is an orbital--free formulation of density functional theory. However, this equation describes a bosonic system. Here, we analyze on a very fundamental level, how this equation could be extended to yield a formulation for a general fermionic distribution of charge and spin. This analysis starts at the level of single electrons and with the question, how spin actually comes into a charge distribution in a non-relativistic model. To this end we present a space-time model of extended electrons, which is formulated in terms of geometric algebra. Wave properties of the electron are referred to mass density oscillations. We provide a comprehensive and non-statistical interpretation of wavefunctions, referring them to mass density components and internal field components. It is shown that these wavefunctions comply with the Schr\"odinger equation, for the free electron as well as for the electron in electrostatic and vector potentials. Spin-properties of the electron are referred to intrinsic field components and it is established that a measurement of spin in an external field yields exactly two possible results. The model agrees with the results of standard theory concerning the hydrogen atom. Finally, we analyze many-electron systems and derive a set of coupled equations suitable to characterize the system without any reference to single electron states. The model is expected to have the greatest impact in condensed matter theory, where it allows to describe an $N$-electron system by a many-electron wavefunction $\Psi$ of four, instead of 3N variables. The many-body aspect of a system is in this case encoded in a bivector potential.

id: 1002.3477
title: Statistical Estimation of Quantum Tomography Protocols Quality
authors: Yu.I.Bogdanov, G. Brida, M. Genovese, S.P.Kulik, E.V.Moreva, A.P.Shurupov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 010404 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3477
abstract: A novel operational method for estimating the efficiency of quantum state tomography protocols is suggested. It is based on a-priori estimation of the quality of an arbitrary protocol by means of universal asymptotic fidelity distribution and condition number, which takes minimal value for better protocol. We prove the adequacy of the method both with numerical modeling and through the experimental realization of several practically important protocols of quantum state tomography.

id: 1002.3479
title: Protecting subspaces by acting on the outside
authors: Jonathan Busch, Almut Beige
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 254, 012009 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3479
abstract: Many quantum control tasks aim at manipulating the state of a quantum mechanical system within a finite subspace of states. However, couplings to the outside are often inevitable. Here we discuss strategies which keep the system in the controlled subspace by applying strong interactions onto the outside. This is done by drawing analogies to simple toy models and to the quantum Zeno effect. Special attention is paid to the constructive use of dissipation in the protection of subspaces.

id: 1002.3507
title: Brownian motion on Lie groups and open quantum systems
authors: P. Aniello, A. Kossakowski, G. Marmo, F. Ventriglia
comments: 32 pages
journal: J.Phys.A43:265301,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3507
abstract: We study the twirling semigroups of (super)operators, namely, certain quantum dynamical semigroups that are associated, in a natural way, with the pairs formed by a projective representation of a locally compact group and a convolution semigroup of probability measures on this group. The link connecting this class of semigroups of operators with (classical) Brownian motion is clarified. It turns out that every twirling semigroup associated with a finite-dimensional representation is a random unitary semigroup, and, conversely, every random unitary semigroup arises as a twirling semigroup. Using standard tools of the theory of convolution semigroups of measures and of convex analysis, we provide a complete characterization of the infinitesimal generator of a twirling semigroup associated with a finite-dimensional unitary representation of a Lie group.

id: 1002.3621
title: Quantum to Classical Transition in a Single-Ion Laser
authors: Fran?ois Dubin, Carlos Russo, Helena G. Barros, Andreas Stute, Christoph Becher, Piet O. Schmidt, Rainer Blatt
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, 10 pages supplement, accepted by Nature Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3621
abstract: Stimulated emission of photons from a large number of atoms into the mode of a strong light field is the principle mechanism for lasing in "classical" lasers. The onset of lasing is marked by a threshold which can be characterised by a sharp increase in photon flux as a function of external pumping strength. The same is not necessarily true for the fundamental building block of a laser: a single trapped atom interacting with a single optical radiation mode. It has been shown that such a "quantum" laser can exhibit thresholdless lasing in the regime of strong coupling between atom and radiation field. However, although theoretically predicted, a threshold at the single-atom level could not be experimentally observed so far. Here, we demonstrate and characterise a single-atom laser with and without threshold behaviour by changing the strength of atom-light field coupling. We observe the establishment of a laser threshold through the accumulation of photons in the optical mode even for a mean photon number substantially lower than for the classical case. Furthermore, self-quenching occurs for very strong external pumping and constitutes an intrinsic limitation of single-atom lasers. Moreover, we find that the statistical properties of the emitted light can be adjusted for weak external pumping, from the quantum to the classical domain. Our observations mark an important step towards fundamental understanding of laser operation in the few-atom limit including systems based on semiconductor quantum dots or molecules.

id: 1002.3624
title: Quantum projection noise limited interferometry with coherent atoms in a Ramsey type setup
authors: D. D?ring, G. McDonald, J.E. Debs, C. Figl, P.A. Altin, H.-A. Bachor, N.P. Robins, J.D. Close
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043633 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3624
abstract: Every measurement of the population in an uncorrelated ensemble of two-level systems is limited by what is known as the quantum projection noise limit. Here, we present quantum projection noise limited performance of a Ramsey type interferometer using freely propagating coherent atoms. The experimental setup is based on an electro-optic modulator in an inherently stable Sagnac interferometer, optically coupling the two interfering atomic states via a two-photon Raman transition. Going beyond the quantum projection noise limit requires the use of reduced quantum uncertainty (squeezed) states. The experiment described demonstrates atom interferometry at the fundamental noise level and allows the observation of possible squeezing effects in an atom laser, potentially leading to improved sensitivity in atom interferometers.

id: 1002.3661
title: Hopf algebra description of quantum circuits
authors: Naoki Sasakura
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, some sentences and one reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3661
abstract: The controlled-NOT gate of qubit quantum circuits is shown to be described in terms of a Hopf algebra. Accordingly, any qubit quantum circuit can be expressed as the Hopf algebraic computations and unitary transformations on one qubit.

id: 1002.3686
title: Comment on "On Visibility in the Afshar Two-Slit Experiment"
authors: Tabish Qureshi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3686
abstract: Recently Kastner has analyzed the issue of visibility in a modified two-slit experiment carried out by Afshar et al, which has been a subject of much debate. Kastner describes a thought experiment which is claimed to show interference with hundred percent visibility and also an "apparent" which-slit information. We argue that this thought experiment does not show interference at all, and is thus not applicable to the Afshar experiment.

id: 1002.3687
title: Reply to the "Comment on 'Contextuality within quantum mechanics manifested in subensemble mean values[Phys. Lett. A 373(2009)3430, arXiv:0912.3570]' "
authors: Alok Kumar Pan, Dipankar Home
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, 374,2195(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3687
abstract: In this reply, we point out that the claim by De Zela[2] is unjustified because the setup he discusses is \emph{not} equivalent to the setup analysed in our paper[1]. Hence his subsequent argument claiming the reproducibility of our demonstrated quantum effect of path-spin contextuality by the Kochen-Specker realist model is \emph{not} relevant.

id: 1002.3694
title: Information transfer using a single particle path-spin hybrid entangled state
authors: T. Pramanik, S. Adhikari, A.S. Majumdar, Dipankar Home, Alok Kumar pan
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 374, 1121(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3694
abstract: The path-spin entangled state of a single spin-1/2 particle is considered which is generated by using a beam-spitter and a spin-flipper. Using this hybrid entanglement at the level of a single particle as a resource, we formulate a protocol for transferring of the state of an unknown qubit to a distant location. Our scheme is implemented by a sequence of unitary operations along with suitable spin-measurements, as well as by using classical communication between the two spatially separated parties. This protocol, thus, demonstrates the possibility of using intraparticle entanglement as a physical resource for performing information theoretic tasks.

id: 1002.3730
title: Symmetries and Paraparticles as a Motivation for Structuralism
authors: Adam Caulton, Jeremy Butterfield
comments: 45 pages, Latex, 3 Figures; forthcoming in British Journal for the Philosophy of Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3730
abstract: This paper develops an analogy proposed by Stachel between general relativity (GR) and quantum mechanics (QM) as regards permutation invariance. Our main idea is to overcome Pooley's criticism of the analogy by appeal to paraparticles. In GR the equations are (the solution space is) invariant under diffeomorphisms permuting spacetime points. Similarly, in QM the equations are invariant under particle permutations. Stachel argued that this feature--a theory's `not caring which point, or particle, is which'--supported a structuralist ontology. Pooley criticizes this analogy: in QM the (anti-)symmetrization of fermions and bosons implies that each individual state (solution) is fixed by each permutation, while in GR a diffeomorphism yields in general a distinct, albeit isomorphic, solution. We define various versions of structuralism, and go on to formulate Stachel's and Pooley's positions, admittedly in our own terms. We then reply to Pooley. Though he is right about fermions and bosons, QM equally allows more general types of symmetry, in which states (vectors, rays or density operators) are not fixed by all permutations (called `paraparticle states'). Thus Stachel's analogy is revived.

id: 1002.3748
title: Localization of phonons in ion traps with controlled quantum disorder
authors: A. Bermudez, M.A. Martin-Delgado, D. Porras
comments: RevTex4 file, color figures, revised version
journal: New J. Phys. 12 123016 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3748
abstract: We show that the vibrations of a chain of trapped ions offer an interesting route to explore the physics of disordered quantum systems. By preparing the internal state of the ions in a quantum superposition, we show how the local vibrational energy becomes a stochastic variable, being its statistical properties inherited from the underlying quantum parallelism of the internal state. We describe a minimally-perturbing measurement of the resonance fluorescence, which allows us to study effects like Anderson localization without the need of ground-state cooling or individual addressing, and thus paves the way towards high-temperature ion experiments.

id: 1002.3753
title: Controlling the dynamics of a coupled atom-cavity system by pure dephasing : basics and potential applications in nanophotonics
authors: A. Auff¨¨ves, D. Gerace, J.M. G¨¦rard, M. Franca Santos, L.C. Andreani, J.P. Poizat
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review B 81, 245419 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3753
abstract: The influence of pure dephasing on the dynamics of the coupling between a two-level atom and a cavity mode is systematically addressed. We have derived an effective atom-cavity coupling rate that is shown to be a key parameter in the physics of the problem, allowing to generalize the known expression for the Purcell factor to the case of broad emitters, and to define strategies to optimize the performances of broad emitters-based single photon sources. Moreover, pure dephasing is shown to be able to restore lasing in presence of detuning, a further demonstration that decoherence can be seen as a fundamental resource in solid-state cavity quantum electrodynamics, offering appealing perspectives in the context of advanced nano-photonic devices.

id: 1002.3780
title: Reconstructing quantum states efficiently
authors: M. Cramer, M.B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. See arxiv:1002.3839 for a closely related result
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3780
abstract: Quantum state tomography, the ability to deduce the density matrix of a quantum system from measured data, is of fundamental importance for the verification of present and future quantum devices. It has been realized in systems with few components but for larger systems it becomes rapidly infeasible because the number of quantum measurements and computational resources required to process them grow exponentially in the system size. Here we show that we can gain an exponential advantage over direct state tomography for quantum states typically realized in nature. Based on singular value thresholding and matrix product state methods we introduce a state reconstruction scheme that relies only on a linear number of measurements. The computational resources for the postprocessing required to reconstruct the state with high fidelity from these measurements is polynomial in the system size.

id: 1002.3782
title: Mapping multiple photonic qubits into and out of one solid-state atomic ensemble
authors: Imam Usmani, Mikael Afzelius, Hugues de Riedmatten, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures + Supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3782
abstract: The future challenge of quantum communication are scalable quantum networks, which require coherent and reversible mapping of photonic qubits onto stationary atomic systems (quantum memories). A crucial requirement for realistic networks is the ability to efficiently store multiple qubits in one quantum memory. Here we demonstrate coherent and reversible mapping of 64 optical modes at the single photon level in the time domain onto one solid-state ensemble of rare-earth ions. Our light-matter interface is based on a high-bandwidth (100 MHz) atomic frequency comb, with a pre-determined storage time of 1 microseconds. We can then encode many qubits in short <10 ns temporal modes (time-bin qubits). We show the good coherence of the mapping by simultaneously storing and analyzing multiple time-bin qubits.

id: 1002.3812
title: Highly sensitive frequency metrology for optical anisotropy measurements
authors: Gilles Bailly, Rapha?l Thon, C¨¦cile Robilliard
comments: Accepted for publication in Review of Scientific Instruments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3812
abstract: In this paper we present a novel apparatus aimed at measuring very small birefringences and anisotropies, based on frequency metrology and not on polarimetry as usual. In our experiment, a very high finesse resonant cavity is used to convert the phase difference into a resonance frequency difference, which can then be measured with very high accuracy. We describe the set-up and present the results of experimental tests which exhibited a sensitivity dn ~ 2 x 10?18, allowing for the measurement of long-predicted magneto-electro-optical effects in gases. Since the shotnoise limited sensitivity of our apparatus lies well below the state-of-the-art sensitivity, frequency metrology appears as a promising technique for small birefringence measurements.

id: 1002.3839
title: Heralded Polynomial-Time Quantum State Tomography
authors: Steven T. Flammia, David Gross, Stephen D. Bartlett, Rolando Somma
comments: 4 pages. (Well... actually, 5). See also closely related work: arXiv:1002.3780
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3839
abstract: We describe an algorithm for quantum state tomography that converges in polynomial time to an estimate, together with a rigorous error bound on the fidelity between the estimate and the true state. The result suggests that state tomography on large quantum systems may be much more feasible than the exponential size of state space suggests. In many situations, the correctness of the state estimate can be certified from the data alone, with no a priori assumptions on the form of the measured state.

id: 1002.3891
title: Biphoton compression in standard optical fiber: exact numerical calculation
authors: G. brida, M. V. Chekhova, I. P. Degiovanni, M. Genovese, G. Kh. Kitaeva, A. Meda, O. A. Shumilkina
comments: 10 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 053828 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3891
abstract: Generation of two-photon wavepackets, produced by spontaneous parametric down conversion in crystals with linearly chirped quasi-phase matching grating, is analyzed. Although being spectrally broad, two-photon wavepackets produced this way are not Fourier transform limited. In the paper we discuss the temporal compression of the wavepackets, exploiting the insertion of a standard optical fiber in the path of one of the two photons. The effect is analyzed by means of full numerical calculation and the exact dispersion dependencies in both the crystal and the fiber are considered. The study opens the way to the practical realization of this idea.

id: 1002.3900
title: Entropy of entangled three-level atoms interacting with entangled cavity fields: entanglement swapping
authors: Wen-Chao Qiang, W.B. Cardoso, Xin-Hui Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physica A 389, 5109 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3900
abstract: The dynamics of an entangled atomic system in a partial interaction with entangled cavity fields, characterizing an entanglement swapping, have been studied through the use of Von Neuman entropy. We consider the interaction via two-photon process given by a full microscopical Hamiltonian approach. The explicit expression of the entropy is obtained, wherewith we estimated the largest period. The numerical simulation of the entropy of the entangled atomic and cavity systems shows that its time evolution presents multi-periodicity. The effects of detuning parameter on the period and the amplitude of the entropy are also discussed.

id: 1002.3906
title: Quantum and classical thermal correlations in the XY spin-1/2 chain
authors: J. Maziero, H. C. Guzman, L. C. Celeri, M. S. Sarandy, R. M. Serra
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3906
abstract: We investigate pairwise quantum correlation as measured by the quantum discord as well as its classical counterpart in the thermodynamic limit of anisotropic XY spin-1/2 chains in a transverse magnetic field for both zero and finite temperatures. Analytical expressions for both classical and quantum correlations are obtained for spin pairs at any distance. In the case of zero temperature, it is shown that the quantum discord for spin pairs farther than second-neighbors is able to characterize a quantum phase transition, even though pairwise entanglement is absent for such distances. For finite temperatures, we show that quantum correlations can be increased with temperature in the presence of a magnetic field. Moreover, in the XX limit, the thermal quantum discord is found to be dominant over classical correlation while the opposite scenario takes place for the transverse field Ising model limit.

id: 1002.3908
title: Fractional Fourier Transform and Geometric Quantization
authors: Witold Chmielowiec, Jerzy Kijowski
comments: 32 pages, 6 figures, LaTeX; some minor corrections
journal: J.Geom.Phys. 62 (2012) 1433-1450
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3908
abstract: Generalized Fourier transformation between the position and the momentum representation of a quantum state is constructed in a coordinate independent way. The only ingredient of this construction is the symplectic (canonical) geometry of the phase-space: no linear structure is necessary. It is shown that the "fractional Fourier transform" provides a simple example of this construction. As an application of this techniques we show that for any linear Hamiltonian system, its quantum dynamics can be obtained exactly as the lift of the corresponding classical dynamics by means of the above transformation. Moreover, it can be deduced from the free quantum evolution. This way new, unknown symmetries of the Schr\"odinger equation can be constructed. It is also argued that the above construction defines in a natural way a connection in the bundle of quantum states, with the base space describing all their possible representations. The non-flatness of this connection would be responsible for the non-existence of a quantum representation of the complete algebra of classical observables.

id: 1002.3913
title: What are the systems that decohere?
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3913
abstract: The fact that the Environment Induced Decoherence approach offers no general criterion to decide where to place the "cut" between system and environment has been considered as a serious conceptual problem of the proposal. In this letter we argue that this is actually a pseudo-problem, which is dissolved by the fact that decoherence is a phenomenon relative to the relevant observables selected by the measuring arrangement. We also show that, when the spin-bath model is studied from this perspective, certain unexpected results are obtained, as that of a system decohering in interaction with a very small environment.

id: 1002.3917
title: Consistent histories of systems and measurements in spacetime
authors: Ed Seidewitz
comments: RevTeX 4; 37 pages; v2 is a revision in response to reviewer comments, connecting the discussion in the paper more closely to consistent history concepts; v3 has minor editorial corrections; accepted for publication in Foundations of Physics; v4 has a couple minor typographical corrections
journal: Found.Phys.41:1163-1192,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3917
abstract: Traditional interpretations of quantum theory in terms of wave function collapse are particularly unappealing when considering the universe as a whole, where there is no clean separation between classical observer and quantum system and where the description is inherently relativistic. As an alternative, the consistent histories approach provides an attractive "no collapse" interpretation of quantum physics. Consistent histories can also be linked to path-integral formulations that may be readily generalized to the relativistic case. A previous paper described how, in such a relativistic spacetime path formalism, the quantum history of the universe could be considered to be an eignestate of the measurements made within it. However, two important topics were not addressed in detail there: a model of measurement processes in the context of quantum histories in spacetime and a justification for why the probabilities for each possible cosmological eigenstate should follow Born's rule. The present paper addresses these topics by showing how Zurek's concepts of einselection and envariance can be applied in the context of relativistic spacetime and quantum histories. The result is a model of systems and subsystems within the universe and their interaction with each other and their environment.

id: 1002.3924
title: BCS model of Cooper Pair Box
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 8 pages, text amended, 1 figure added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3924
abstract: The standard phenomenological Hamiltonian of a small superconducting Josephson junction in the charge regime (Cooper Pair Box) produces a model of the effective charge qubit with possible applications to quantum information processing. In this note a new model based on the BCS Hamiltonian with individual tunneling yields an effective multi-level picture with a highly degenerated level placed between the ground state and the excited state. Unlike in the standard approach, the excited Cooper pairs play here an important role. For such a system coupled to a zero temperature bath the additional levels act as a probability sink. In contrast to the standard large-spin model the coupling to phonons can be an effective source of dissipation. This model provides also alternative explanations of various effects observed in experiments and sheds new light on the issue of Josephson junctions as macroscopic quantum systems.

id: 1002.3936
title: Lateral Casimir force between sinusoidally corrugated surfaces: Asymmetric profiles, deviations from the proximity force approximation and comparison with exact theory
authors: H.-C. Chiu, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. N. Marachevsky, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 56 pages, 13 figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.81, N11, p.115417-(1-20) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3936
abstract: The lateral Casimir force, which arises between aligned sinusoidally corrugated surfaces of a sphere and a plate, was measured for the case of a small corrugation period beyond the applicability region of the proximity force approximation. The increased amplitudes of the corrugations on both the sphere and the plate allowed observation of an asymmetry of the lateral Casimir force, i.e., deviation of its profile from a perfect sine function. The dependences of the lateral force on the phase shift between the corrugations on both test bodies were measured at different separations in two sets of measurements with different amplitudes of corrugations on the sphere. The maximum magnitude of the lateral force as a function of separation was also measured in two successive experiments. All measurement data were compared with the theoretical approach using the proximity force approximation and with the exact theory based on Rayleigh expansions with no fitting parameters. In both cases real material properties of the test bodies and nonzero temperature were taken into account. The data were found to be in a good agreement with the exact theory but deviate significantly from the predictions of the proximity force approximation approach. This provides the quantitative confirmation for the observation of diffraction-type effects that are disregarded within the PFA approach. Possible applications of the phenomenon of the lateral Casimir force in nanotechnology for the operation of micromachines are discussed.

id: 1002.3969
title: Dynamic Quantum Tunneling in Mesoscopic Driven Duffing Oscillators
authors: Lingzhen Guo, Zhigang Zheng, Xin-Qi Li, YiJing Yan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 011144 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3969
abstract: We investigate the dynamic quantum tunneling between two attractors of a mesoscopic driven Duffing oscillator. We find that, in addition to inducing remarkable quantum shift of the bifurcation point, the mesoscopic nature also results in a perfect linear scaling behavior for the tunneling rate with the driving distance to the shifted bifurcation point.

id: 1002.4001
title: Quantum Effects In Low Temperature Bosonic Systems
authors: Jose Reslen
comments: Ph.D. Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4001
abstract: In the first part, we investigate the effect of long range particle exchange in ideal bosonic chains. We establish that by using the Heisenberg formalism along with matrix product state representation we can study the evolution as well as the ground state of bosonic arrangements while including terms beyond next-neighbour hopping. The method is then applied to analyse the quench dynamics of condensates in a trapping potential and also to study the emergence of entanglement as a result of collision in boson chains. In the second part, we study the ground state as well as the dynamics of 1D boson arrangements with local repulsive interactions and nearest-neighbour exchange using numerical techniques based on time evolving block decimation (TEBD). We focus on the development of quantum correlations between the terminal places of these arrangements. We find that long-range entanglement in the ground state arises as a result of intense boson tunnelling taking place across the whole chain in systems with appropriate hopping coefficients. Additionally, we identify the perturbations necessary to increase the entanglement between the end sites above their ground state values. In the final part, we study the wave function of a kicked condensate using a perturbative approach and compare the results obtained in this way with numerical simulations.

id: 1002.4010
title: Vacuum entanglement governs the bosonic character of magnons
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81 060304(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4010
abstract: It is well known that magnons, elementary excitations in a magnetic material, behave as bosons when their density is low. We study how the bosonic character of magnons is governed by the amount of a multipartite entanglement in the vacuum state on which magnons are excited. We show that if the multipartite entanglement is strong, magnons cease to be bosons. We also consider some examples, such as ground states of the Heisenberg ferromagnet and the transverse Ising model, the condensation of magnons, the one-way quantum computer, and Kitaev's toric code. Our result provides insights into the quantum statistics of elementary excitations in these models, and into the reason why a non-local transformation, such as the Jordan-Wigner transformation, is necessary for some many-body systems.

id: 1002.4024
title: Electromagnetic Vacuum of Complex Media: Dipole Emission vs. Light Propagation, Vacuum Energy, and Local Field Factors
authors: M. Donaire
comments: Typos fixed, journal ref. added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4024
abstract: We offer a unified approach to several phenomena related to the electromagnetic vacuum of a complex medium made of point electric dipoles. To this aim, we apply the linear response theory to the computation of the polarization field propagator and study the spectrum of vacuum fluctuations. The physical distinction among the local density of states which enter the spectra of light propagation, total dipole emission, coherent emission, total vacuum energy and Schwinger-bulk energy is made clear. Analytical expressions for the spectrum of dipole emission and for the vacuum energy are derived. Their respective relations with the spectrum of external light and with the Schwinger-bulk energy are found. The light spectrum and the Schwinger-bulk energy are determined by the Dyson propagator. The emission spectrum and the total vacuum energy are determined by the polarization propagator. An exact relationship of proportionality between both propagators is found in terms of local field factors. A study of the nature of stimulated emission from a single dipole is carried out. Regarding coherent emission, it contains two components. A direct one which is transferred radiatively and directly from the emitter into the medium and whose spectrum is that of external light. And an indirect one which is radiated by induced dipoles. The induction is mediated by one (and only one) local field factor. Regarding the vacuum energy, we find that in addition to the Schwinger-bulk energy the vacuum energy of an effective medium contains local field contributions proportional to the resonant frequency and to the spectral line-width.

id: 1002.4053
title: Comment on "Comment on 'On Visibility in the Afshar Two-Slit Experiment' "
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: I attempt to clear up a misunderstanding concerning my "On Visibility in the Afshar Two-Slit Experiment"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4053
abstract: Tabish Qureshi (2010) has recently objected to an aspect of my discussion of a thought experiment by Srikanth (2001). I believe his objection is based on a misunderstanding about my presentation, but I accept responsibility for not being more clear. Here I attempt to clear up any confusion and to point out that one can indeed obtain interference in this experiment based on taking care to correctly characterize the detection process. I also emphasize that Qureshi and I are in full agreement concerning the assertion that when interference is present, there is no genuine 'which slit' information, and that in this case, the measurement necessary to preserve interference precludes determination of an actual slit of origin for the photon.

id: 1002.4055
title: Continuous quantum non-demolition measurement of Fock states of a nanoresonator using feedback-controlled circuit QED
authors: M. J. Woolley, A. C. Doherty, G. J. Milburn
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4055
abstract: We propose a scheme for the quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement of Fock states of a nanomechanical resonator via feedback control of a coupled circuit QED system. A Cooper pair box (CPB) is coupled to both the nanoresonator and microwave cavity. The CPB is read-out via homodyne detection on the cavity and feedback control is used to effect a non-dissipative measurement of the CPB. This realizes an indirect QND measurement of the nanoresonator via a second-order coupling of the CPB to the nanoresonator number operator. The phonon number of the Fock state may be determined by integrating the stochastic master equation derived, or by processing of the measurement signal.

id: 1002.4056
title: Grover-like search via Frenkel exciton trapping mechanism
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: 12 pages. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 81, 032309 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4056
abstract: We propose the physical implementation of a Grover-like search problem by means of Frenkel exciton trapping at a shallow isotopic impurity against a background of competing mechanisms. The search culminating at the impurity molecule, designated the "winner" site, is marked by its enhanced interaction with acoustic phonons at low temperatures. The quantum search proceeds with the assistance of an Oracle-like exciton-phonon interaction which addresses only the impurity site, via the Dyson propagator within the Green's function formalism. The optimum parameters of a graph lattice with long-range intersite interactions required to trap the exciton in the fastest time are determined, and estimates of error rates for the naphthalene doped organic system are evaluated. We extend analysis of quantum search to a fluctuating long-range interacting cycle (LRIC) graph lattice system.

id: 1002.4068
title: Multiplexed communication over a high-speed quantum channel
authors: M. Heurs, J. G. Webb, A. E. Dunlop, C. C. Harb, T. C. Ralph, E. H. Huntington
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4068
abstract: In quantum information systems it is of particular interest to consider the best way in which to use the non-classical resources consumed by that system. Quantum communication protocols are integral to quantum information systems and are amongst the most promising near-term applications of quantum information science. Here we show that a multiplexed, digital quantum communications system supported by comb of vacuum squeezing has a greater channel capacity per photon than a source of broadband squeezing with the same analogue bandwidth. We report on the time-resolved, simultaneous observation of the first dozen teeth in a 2.4 GHz comb of vacuum squeezing produced by a sub-threshold OPO, as required for such a quantum communications channel. We also demonstrate multiplexed communication on that channel.

id: 1002.4083
title: Continuous-variable Quantum Key Distribution protocols with a discrete modulation
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Philippe Grangier
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4083
abstract: In this paper, we consider continuous-variable quantum key distribution with a discrete modulation, either binary or quaternary. We establish the security of these protocols against the class of collective attacks that induce a linear quantum channel. In particular, all Gaussian attacks are taken into account, as well as linear attacks which add a non-Gaussian noise. We give lower bounds for the secret key rate using extremality properties of Gaussian states.

id: 1002.4094
title: Arbitrarily Large Continuous-Variable Cluster States from a Single Quantum Nondemolition Gate
authors: Nicolas C. Menicucci, Xian Ma, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: (v2) 5 pages, 4 color figures, added brief mention of fault tolerance, version accepted for publication (note: actual published version is edited slightly for space); (v1) 4 pages, 4 color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 250503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4094
abstract: We present a compact experimental design for producing an arbitrarily large optical continuous-variable cluster state using just one single-mode vacuum squeezer and one quantum nondemolition gate. Generating the cluster state and computing with it happen simultaneously: more entangled modes become available as previous modes are measured, thereby making finite the requirements for coherence and stability even as the computation length increases indefinitely.

id: 1002.4124
title: Quantum entanglement and disentanglement of multi-atom systems
authors: Zbigniew Ficek
comments: Review article
journal: Front. Phys. China 5, 26 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4124
abstract: We present a review of recent research on quantum entanglement, with special emphasis on entanglement between single atoms, processing of an encoded entanglement and its temporary evolution. Analysis based on the density matrix formalism are described. We give a simple description of the entangling procedure and explore the role of the environment in creation of entanglement and in disentanglement of atomic systems. A particular process we will focus on is spontaneous emission, usually recognized as an irreversible loss of information and entanglement encoded in the internal states of the system. We illustrate some certain circumstances where this irreversible process can in fact induce entanglement between separated systems. We also show how spontaneous emission reveals a competition between the Bell states of a two qubit system that leads to the recently discovered "sudden" features in the temporal evolution of entanglement. An another problem illustrated in details is a deterministic preparation of atoms and atomic ensembles in long-lived stationary squeezed states and entangled cluster states. We then determine how to trigger the evolution of the stable entanglement and also address the issue of a steered evolution of entanglement between desired pairs of qubits that can be achieved simply by varying the parameters of a given system.

id: 1002.4158
title: Strong and Tunable Nonlinear Optomechanical Coupling in a Low-Loss System
authors: Jack C. Sankey, Cheng Yang, Benjamin M. Zwickl, Andrew M. Jayich, Jack G. E. Harris
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4158
abstract: A major goal in optomechanics is to observe and control quantum behavior in a system consisting of a mechanical resonator coupled to an optical cavity. Work towards this goal has focused on increasing the strength of the coupling between the mechanical and optical degrees of freedom; however, the form of this coupling is crucial in determining which phenomena can be observed in such a system. Here we demonstrate that avoided crossings in the spectrum of an optical cavity containing a flexible dielectric membrane allow us to realize several different forms of the optomechanical coupling. These include cavity detunings that are (to lowest order) linear, quadratic, or quartic in the membrane's displacement, and a cavity finesse that is linear in (or independent of) the membrane's displacement. All these couplings are realized in a single device with extremely low optical loss and can be tuned over a wide range in situ; in particular, we find that the quadratic coupling can be increased three orders of magnitude beyond previous devices. As a result of these advances, the device presented here should be capable of demonstrating the quantization of the membrane's mechanical energy.

id: 1002.4184
title: Wave-packet analysis of interference patterns in output coupled atoms
authors: Kari Harkonen, Otto Vainio, Kalle-Antti Suominen
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, 1 table, 40 references. Submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043638 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4184
abstract: We study the output coupling of atoms from a magnetic trap into a linear potential slope of gravity using a weak radio-frequency field. We present a one-dimensional wave-packet model based on a continuous loading of a continuous spectrum of generalised eigenstates to describe the scenario. Analyzing the model, we show how the interference of the classical coupling fields maps to the interference of the resulting atomic streams.

id: 1002.4209
title: An axiomatic formulation of the Montevideo interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Luis Pedro Garcia-Pintos, Jorge Pullin
comments: 21 pages, RevTex, final version to appear in Studies in the History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: Studies In History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 42, 256-263 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4209
abstract: We make a first attempt to axiomatically formulate the Montevideo interpretation of quantum mechanics. In this interpretation environmental decoherence is supplemented with loss of coherence due to the use of realistic clocks to measure time to solve the measurement problem. The resulting formulation is framed entirely in terms of quantum objects without having to invoke the existence of measurable classical quantities like the time in ordinary quantum mechanics. The formulation eliminates any privileged role to the measurement process giving an objective definition of when an event occurs in a system.

id: 1002.4219
title: Does a measurement really collapse the wave function?
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures The explanation was strongly modified for more clarity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4219
abstract: A single-particle multi-branched wave-function is studied. Usual which-path tests show that if the detector placed on one branch clicks, the detectors on the other branches remain silent. By the collapse postulate, after this click, the state of the particle is reduced to a single branch, the branch on which the detector clicked. The present article challenges the collapse postulate, claiming that when one branch of the wave-function produces a click in a detector, the other branches don't disappear. They can't produce clicks in detectors, but they are still there. An experiment different from which-path test is proposed, which shows that detectors are responsible for strongly decohering the wave-function, but not for making parts of it disappear. Moreover, one of the branches supposed to disappear may produce an interference pattern with a wave-packet of another particle.

id: 1002.4226
title: Performance of hybrid entanglement photon pair source for quantum key distribution
authors: M. Fujiwara, M. Toyoshima, M. Sasaki, K. Yoshino, Y. Nambu, A. Tomita
comments: 11pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4226
abstract: We report on the experimental demonstration of a source of hybrid entanglement pairs between two different degrees of freedom, a 1550 nm time-bin qubit and an 810 nm polarization qubit. The polarization qubit at 810 nm is transformed by an asymmetric Mach-Zehnder interferometer consisted of a Glan laser prism and a polarization-maintaining fiber. We obtained visibilities of 95.8% and 88% along Z-Z and X-X axes on the Poincare sphere, respectively with a coincidence count rate of more than 800 c/s after entanglement format transformation. These values are well above the threshold of 70.7% needed to violate a Bell inequality and allow distilling a secure key in the quantum key distribution.

id: 1002.4227
title: Discrimination of unitary transformations in the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm
authors: David Collins
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 81, 052323 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4227
abstract: We describe a general framework for regarding oracle-assisted quantum algorithms as tools for discriminating between unitary transformations. We apply this to the Deutsch-Jozsa problem and derive all possible quantum algorithms which solve the problem with certainty using oracle unitaries in a particular form. We also use this to show that any quantum algorithm that solves the Deutsch-Jozsa problem starting with a quantum system in a particular class of initial, thermal equilibrium-based states of the type encountered in solution state NMR can only succeed with greater probability than a classical algorithm when the problem size exceeds $n \sim 10^5.$

id: 1002.4242
title: Decoherence and entanglement in tripartite systems: Cavity QED
authors: E. Agudelo, B. A. Rodriguez, K. M. Fonseca-Romero
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4242
abstract: We propose an experimental setup, feasible with present day technology, involving two highquality- factor cavities, one Ramsey zone and a two-level atom which interacts with them. The dynamics in the cavities is modeled by a dissipative dispersive Jaynes-Cummings model. Analytical expresions for the evolution superoperator in each part of the proposed setup and for the concurrence between the atom and the first cavity are given, and the pairwise entanglement of the subsystems is calculated numerically. We consider initial separable states given by the tensor product of a superposition of the two atomic relevant states and coherent states for the fields. We show that for realistic model parameters (including dissipation), when the dissipation rates are smaller than the dispersive frequencies (the ratio between the squared vacuum Rabi frequencies and the detunings), the final state of the cavity fields remains entangled.

id: 1002.4272
title: Toward demonstrating controlled-X operation based on continuous variable four-partite cluster state and quantum teleporters
authors: Yu Wang, Xiaolong Su, Heng Shen, Aihong Tan, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022311 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4272
abstract: One-way quantum computation based on measurement and multipartite cluster entanglement offers the ability to perform a variety of unitary operations only through different choices of measurement bases. Here we present an experimental study toward demonstrating the controlled-X operation, a two-mode gate, in which continuous variable (CV) four-partite cluster states of optical modes are utilized. Two quantum teleportation elements are used for achieving the gate operation of the quantum state transformation from input target and control states to output states. By means of the optical cluster state prepared off-line, the homodyne detection and electronic feeding forward, the information carried by the input control state is transformed to the output target state. The presented scheme of the controlled-X operation based on teleportation can be implemented nonlocally and deterministically. The distortion of the quantum information resulting from the imperfect cluster entanglement is estimated with the fidelity.

id: 1002.4287
title: Entangling gates in even Euclidean lattices such as the Leech lattice
authors: Michel Planat
comments: 11 pages, second updated version
journal: Physica Scripta 147 (2012) 014025
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4287
abstract: The group of automorphisms of Euclidean (embedded in $\mathbb{R}^n$) dense lattices such as the root lattices $D_4$ and $E_8$, the Barnes-Wall lattice $BW_{16}$, the unimodular lattice $D_{12}^+$ and the Leech lattice $\Lambda_{24}$ may be generated by entangled quantum gates of the corresponding dimension. These (real) gates/lattices are useful for quantum error correction: for instance, the two and four-qubit real Clifford groups are the automorphism groups of the lattices $D_4$ and $BW_{16}$, respectively, and the three-qubit real Clifford group is maximal in the Weyl group $W(E_8)$. Technically, the automorphism group $Aut(\Lambda)$ of the lattice $\Lambda$ is the set of orthogonal matrices $B$ such that, following the conjugation action by the generating matrix of the lattice, the output matrix is unimodular (of determinant $\pm 1$, with integer entries). When the degree $n$ is equal to the number of basis elements of $\Lambda$, then $Aut(\Lambda)$ also acts on basis vectors and is generated with matrices $B$ such that the sum of squared entries in a row is one, i.e. $B$ may be seen as a quantum gate. For the dense lattices listed above, maximal multipartite entanglement arises. In particular, one finds a balanced tripartite entanglement in $E_8$ (the two- and three- tangles have equal magnitude 1/4) and a GHZ type entanglement in BW$_{16}$. In this paper, we also investigate the entangled gates from $D_{12}^+$ and $\Lambda_{24}$, by seeing them as systems coupling a qutrit to two- and three-qubits, respectively. Apart from quantum computing, the work may be related to particle physics in the spirit of \cite{PLS2010}.

id: 1002.4308
title: On the wave mechanics of a particle in two different impenetrable spherical cavities
authors: Samrat Dey, Yatendra S. Jain
comments: 9 pages with 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4308
abstract: Wave mechanics of a particle in an impenetrable spherical cavity with and without a hard core scattering potential of size $\epsilon$ ($\epsilon$ $\to$ 0) at its center is critically analyzed. It makes marginal but important modifications in our present understanding of the energy eigenvalues of such particles.

id: 1002.4309
title: An update on PT-symmetric complexified Scarf II potential, spectral singularities and some remarks on the rationally-extended supersymmetric partners
authors: B. Bagchi, C. Quesne
comments: 14 pages, no figure, substantial additions on spectral singularities, title changed
journal: J.Phys.A43:305301,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4309
abstract: The $\cal PT$-symmetric complexified Scarf II potential $V(x)= - V_1 \sech^{2}x + {\rm i} V_2 \sech x \tanh x$, $V_1>0$ , $V_{2}\neq 0$ is revisited to study the interplay among its coupling parameters. The existence of an isolated real and positive energy level that has been recently identified as a spectral singularity or zero-width resonance is here demonstrated through the behaviour of the corresponding wavefunctions and some property of the associated pseudo-norms is pointed out. We also construct four different rationally-extended supersymmetric partners to $V(x)$, which are $\cal PT$-symmetric or complex non-$\cal PT$-symmetric according to the coupling parameters range. A detailed study of one of these partners reveals that SUSY preserves the $V(x)$ spectral singularity existence.

id: 1002.4360
title: Practical private database queries based on a quantum key distribution protocol
authors: Markus Jakobi, Christoph Simon, Nicolas Gisin, Cyril Branciard, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Nino Walenta, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, new and improved version, clarified claims, expanded security discussion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4360
abstract: Private queries allow a user Alice to learn an element of a database held by a provider Bob without revealing which element she was interested in, while limiting her information about the other elements. We propose to implement private queries based on a quantum key distribution protocol, with changes only in the classical post-processing of the key. This approach makes our scheme both easy to implement and loss-tolerant. While unconditionally secure private queries are known to be impossible, we argue that an interesting degree of security can be achieved, relying on fundamental physical principles instead of unverifiable security assumptions in order to protect both user and database. We think that there is scope for such practical private queries to become another remarkable application of quantum information in the footsteps of quantum key distribution.

id: 1002.4388
title: Qubit State Discrimination
authors: M.E. Deconinck, B.M. Terhal
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. v2 has small corrections and changes in references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4388
abstract: We show how one can solve the problem of discriminating between qubit states. We use the quantum state discrimination duality theorem and the Bloch sphere representation of qubits which allows for an easy geometric and analytical representation of the optimal guessing strategies.

id: 1002.4424
title: Cavity-based single atom preparation and high-fidelity hyperfine state readout
authors: Roger Gehr, J¨¹rgen Volz, Guilhem Dubois, Tilo Steinmetz, Yves Colombe, Benjamin L. Lev, Romain Long, J¨¦r?me Est¨¨ve, Jakob Reichel
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 203602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4424
abstract: We prepare and detect the hyperfine state of a single 87Rb atom coupled to a fiber-based high finesse cavity on an atom chip. The atom is extracted from a Bose-Einstein condensate and trapped at the maximum of the cavity field, resulting in a reproducibly strong atom-cavity coupling. We use the cavity reflection and transmission signal to infer the atomic hyperfine state with a fidelity exceeding 99.92% in a read-out time of 100 microseconds. The atom is still trapped after detection.

id: 1002.4436
title: Selective and efficient quantum process tomography with single photons
authors: Christian Tom¨¢s Schmiegelow, Miguel Antonio Larotonda, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4436
abstract: We present the results of the first photonic implementation of a new method for quantum process tomography. The method (originally presented by A. Bendersky et al, Phys. Rev. Lett 100, 190403 (2008)) enables the estimation of any element of the chi-matrix that characterizes a quantum process using resources that scale polynomially with the number of qubits. It is based on the idea of mapping the estimation of any chi-matrix element onto the average fidelity of a quantum channel and estimating the latter by sampling randomly over a special set of states called a 2-design. With a heralded single photon source we fully implement such algorithm and perform process tomography on a number of channels affecting the polarization qubit. The method is compared with other existing ones and its advantages are discussed.

id: 1002.4476
title: The entanglement dynamics of interacting qubits embedded in a spin environment with Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya term
authors: Wen-Long You, Yu-Li Dong
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 57, 439-445 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4476
abstract: We investigate the entanglement dynamics of two interacting qubits in a spin environment, which is described by an XY model with Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya (DM) interaction. The competing effects of environmental noise and interqubit coupling on entanglement generation for various system parameters are studied. We find that the entanglement generation is suppressed remarkably in weak-coupling region at quantum critical point (QCP). However, the suppression of the entanglement generation at QCP can be compensated both by increasing the DM interaction and by decreasing the anisotropy of the spin chain. Beyond the weak-coupling region, there exist resonance peaks of concurrence when the system-bath coupling equals to external magnetic field. We attribute the presence of resonance peaks to the flat band of the self-Hamiltonian. These peaks are highly sensitive to anisotropy parameter and DM interaction.

id: 1002.4507
title: Zero-energy states of fermions in the field of Aharonov--Bohm type in 2+1 dimensions
authors: V.R. Khalilov
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4507
abstract: The quantum-mechanical problem of constructing a self-adjoint Hamiltonian for the Dirac equation in an Aharonov--Bohm field in 2+1 dimensions is solved with taking into account the fermion spin. The one-parameter family of self-adjoint extensions is found for the above Dirac Hamiltonian with particle spin. The correct domain of the self-adjoint Hamiltonian extension selecting by means of acceptable boundary conditions can contain regular and singular (at the point ${\bf r}=0$) square-integrable functions on the half-line with measure $rdr$. We argue that the physical reason of the existence of singular solutions is the additional attractive potential, which appear due to the interaction between the spin magnetic moment of fermion and Aharonov--Bohm magnetic field. For some range of parameters there are bound fermionic states. It is shown that fermion (particle and antiparticle) states with zero energy are intersected what signals on the instability of quantum system and the possibility of a fermion-antifermion pair creation by the static external field.

id: 1002.4590
title: Classes of bidimensional isospectral position-dependent mass systems
authors: A. de Souza Dutra, J. A. de Oliveira
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4590
abstract: In this work we construct a general class of exactly solvable non-relativistic bi-dimensional quantum systems with position-dependent masses (PDM). These systems are isospectral to a given system with constant mass. The case of a charged particle with a PDM interacting with an external magnetic field is included in the present investigation. We apply the approach in order to construct the SU(2) coherent states in some examples which are isospectral to the two-dimensional anisotropic harmonic oscillator, and discuss the impact of the introduction of special non-homogeneous external magnetic fields.

id: 1002.4632
title: Efficient Direct Tomography for Matrix Product States
authors: Olivier Landon-Cardinal, Yi-Kai Liu, David Poulin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4632
abstract: In this note, we describe a method for reconstructing matrix product states from a small number of efficiently-implementable measurements. Our method is exponentially faster than standard tomography, and it can also be used to certify that the unknown state is an MPS. The basic idea is to use local unitary operations to measure in the Schmidt basis, giving direct access to the MPS representation. This compares favorably with recently and independently proposed methods that recover the MPS tensors by performing a variational minimization, which is computationally intractable in certain cases. Our method also has the advantage of recovering any MPS, while other approaches were limited to special classes of states that exclude important examples such as GHZ and W states.

id: 1002.4637
title: Paradoxes of measures of quantum entanglement and Bell's inequality violation in two-qubit systems
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Bohdan Horst, Andrzej Koper
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, to appear in the Journal of Computational Methods in Sciences and Engineering -- a special issue in memory of prof. S. Kielich
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4637
abstract: We review some counterintuitive properties of standard measures describing quantum entanglement and violation of Bell's inequality (often referred to as "nonlocality") in two-qubit systems. By comparing the nonlocality, negativity, concurrence, and relative entropy of entanglement, we show: (i) ambiguity in ordering states with the entanglement measures, (ii) ambiguity of robustness of entanglement in lossy systems and (iii) existence of two-qubit mixed states more entangled than pure states having the same negativity or nonlocality. To support our conclusions, we performed a Monte Carlo simulation of $10^6$ two-qubit states and calculated all the entanglement measures for them. Our demonstration of the relativity of entanglement measures implies also how desirable is to properly use an operationally-defined entanglement measure rather than to apply formally-defined standard measures. In fact, the problem of estimating the degree of entanglement of a bipartite system cannot be analyzed separately from the measurement process that changes the system and from the intended application of the generated entanglement.

id: 1002.4646
title: Optical Lattices with Micromechanical Mirrors
authors: K. Hammerer, K. Stannigel, C. Genes, P. Zoller, P. Treutlein, S. Camerer, D. Hunger, T.W. Haensch
comments: 
journal: PRA 82 021803 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4646
abstract: We investigate a setup where a cloud of atoms is trapped in an optical lattice potential of a standing wave laser field which is created by retro-reflection on a micro-membrane. The membrane vibrations itself realize a quantum mechanical degree of freedom. We show that the center of mass mode of atoms can be coupled to the vibrational mode of the membrane in free space, and predict a significant sympathetic cooling effect of the membrane when atoms are laser cooled. The controllability of the dissipation rate of the atomic motion gives a considerable advantage over typical optomechanical systems enclosed in optical cavities, in that it allows a segregation between the cooling and coherent dynamics regimes. The membrane can thereby be kept in a cryogenic environment, and the atoms at a distance in a vacuum chamber.

id: 1002.4659
title: Optical quantum memory
authors: A. I. Lvovsky, B. C. Sanders, W. Tittel
comments: This is the original version of the review paper published in Nature Photonics. The review reflects the state of the art in the field as of September 2009. The sections on DLCZ and off-resonant Faraday interaction, which were shortened in the Nature Photonics version due to space limitations, are presented here in their original form. v3: minor error fixed.
journal: Nature Photonics 3, 706 - 714 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4659
abstract: Quantum memory is important to quantum information processing in many ways: a synchronization device to match various processes within a quantum computer, an identity quantum gate that leaves any state unchanged, and a tool to convert heralded photons to photons-on-demand. In addition to quantum computing, quantum memory would be instrumental for the implementation of long-distance quantum communication using quantum repeaters. The importance of this basic quantum gate is exemplified by the multitude of optical quantum memory mechanisms being studied: optical delay lines, cavities, electromagnetically-induced transparency, photon-echo, and off-resonant Faraday interaction. Here we report on the state-of-the-art in the field of optical quantum memory, including criteria for successful quantum memory and current performance levels.

id: 1002.4673
title: What is tested when experiments test that quantum dynamics is linear
authors: Thomas F. Jordan
comments: 14 pages, Title changed, sentences added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4673
abstract: Experiments that look for nonlinear quantum dynamics test the fundamental premise of physics that one of two separate systems can influence the physical behavior of the other only if there is a force between them, an interaction that involves momentum and energy. The premise is tested because it is the assumption of a proof that quantum dynamics must be linear. Here variations of a familiar example are used to show how results of nonlinear dynamics in one system can depend on correlations with the other. Effects of one system on the other, influence without interaction between separate systems, not previously considered possible, would be expected with nonlinear quantum dynamics. Whether it is possible or not is subject to experimental tests together with the linearity of quantum dynamics. Concluding comments and questions consider directions our thinking might take in response to this surprising unprecedented situation.

id: 1002.4695
title: Difficulties in analytic computation for relative entropy of entanglement
authors: Hungsoo Kim, Mi-Ra Hwang, Eylee Jung, DaeKil Park
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures included, Fig.1, Fig. 3(a,b,c,d), Fig. 4(a,b,c,d), Fig. 5(a,b) and Fig. 6(a,b) are not included due to file size problem. You can get them directly from this http URL V2: will appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4695
abstract: It is known that relative entropy of entanglement for entangled state $\rho$ is defined via its closest separable (or positive partial transpose) state $\sigma$. Recently, it has been shown how to find $\rho$ provided that $\sigma$ is given in two-qubit system. In this paper we study on the inverse process, i.e. how to find $\sigma$ provided that $\rho$ is given. It is shown that if $\rho$ is one of Bell-diagonal, generalized Vedral-Plenio and generalized Horodecki states, one can always find $\sigma$ from a geometrical point of view. This is possible due to the following two facts: (i) The Bloch vectors of $\rho$ and $\sigma$ are identical with each other (ii) The qubit-interaction vector of $\sigma$ can be computed from a crossing point between minimal geometrical object, in which all separable states reside in the presence of Bloch vectors, and a straight line, which connects the point corresponding to the qubit-interaction vector of $\rho$ and the nearest vertex of the maximal tetrahedron, where all two-qubit states reside. It is shown, however, that these nice properties are not maintained for the arbitrary two-qubit states.

id: 1002.4716
title: Entanglement detection from interference fringes in atom-photon systems
authors: Jun Suzuki, Christian Miniatura, Kae Nemoto
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062307 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4716
abstract: A measurement scheme of atomic qubits pinned at given positions is studied by analyzing the interference pattern obtained when they emit photons spontaneously. In the case of two qubits, a well-known relation is revisited, in which the interference visibility is equal to the concurrence of the state in the infinite spatial separation limit of the qubits. By taking into account the super-radiant and sub-radiant effects, it is shown that a state tomography is possible when the qubit spatial separation is comparable to the wavelength of the atomic transition. In the case of three qubits, the relations between various entanglement measures and the interference visibility are studied, where the visibility is defined from the two-qubit case. A qualitative correspondence among these entanglement relations is discussed. In particular, it is shown that the interference visibility is directly related to the maximal bipartite negativity.

id: 1002.4746
title: Quantum information processing architecture with endohedral fullerenes in a carbon nanotube
authors: Wan Li Yang, Zhen Yu Xu, Hua Wei, Mang Feng, Dieter Suter
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4746
abstract: A potential quantum information processor is proposed using a fullerene peapod, i.e., an array of the endohedral fullerenes 15N@C60 or 31P@C60 contained in a single walled carbon nanotube (SWCNT). The qubits are encoded in the nuclear spins of the doped atoms, while the electronic spins are used for initialization and readout, as well as for two-qubit operations.

id: 1002.4788
title: Optical hybrid approaches to quantum information
authors: Peter van Loock
comments: review article submitted to LasersPhotonics Reviews, 35 pages, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4788
abstract: This article reviews recent hybrid approaches to optical quantum information processing, in which both discrete and continuous degrees of freedom are exploited. There are well-known limitations to optical single-photon-based qubit and multi-photon-based qumode implementations of quantum communication and quantum computation, when the toolbox is restricted to the most practical set of linear operations and resources such as linear optics and Gaussian operations and states. The recent hybrid approaches aim at pushing the feasibility, the efficiencies, and the fidelities of the linear schemes to the limits, potentially adding weak or measurement-induced nonlinearities to the toolbox.

id: 1002.4812
title: Coupling between internal spin dynamics and external degrees of freedom in the presence of colored noise
authors: S. Machluf, J. Coslovsky, P. G. Petrov, Y. Japha, R. Folman
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; accepted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 203002 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4812
abstract: We observe asymmetric transition rates between Zeeman levels (spin-flips) of magnetically trapped atoms. The asymmetry strongly depends on the spectral shape of an applied noise. This effect follows from the interplay between the internal states of the atoms and their external degrees of freedom, where different trapped levels experience different potentials. Such insight may prove useful for controlling atomic states by the introduction of noise, as well as provide a better understanding of the effect of noise on the coherent operation of quantum systems.

id: 1002.4814
title: Cavity QED implementation of the multi-qubit refined Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm
authors: Wan Li Yang, Chang Yong Chen, Zhen Yu Xu, Mang Feng
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 055501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4814
abstract: We theoretically study the realization of a multi-qubit refined Deutsch-Jozsa (DJ) algorithm using resonant interaction of many Rydberg atoms with a single-mode microwave cavity, in which the multi-qubit controlled phase gates could be accomplished efficiently. We show how to achieve a multi-qubit refined DJ algorithm in high fidelity, even in the case of a weak cavity decay and some imperfection. We argue that the required operations in our scheme are almost within the present experimental possibilities.

id: 1002.4816
title: Entanglement Switch for Dipole Arrays
authors: Qi Wei, Sabre Kais, Yong P. Chen
comments: 6 pages and 4 figures. To be published on Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4816
abstract: We propose a new entanglement switch of qubits consisting of electric dipoles, oriented along or against an external electric field and coupled by the electric dipole-dipole interaction. The pairwise entanglement can be tuned and controlled by the ratio of the Rabi frequency and the dipole-dipole coupling strength. Tuning the entanglement can be achieved for one, two and three-dimensional arrangements of the qubits. The feasibility of building such an entanglement switch is also discussed.

id: 1002.4913
title: Quantum discord and local demons
authors: Aharon Brodutch, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 7 pages, RevTeX. Some minor changes after comments from colleagues, some references added. Similar to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4913
abstract: Quantum discord was proposed as a measure of the "quantumness" of correlations. There are at least three different discord-like quantities, two of which determine the difference between the efficiencies of a Szilard's engine under different sets of restrictions. The three discord measures vanish simulataneosly. We introduce an easy way to test for zero discord, relate it to the Cerf-Adami conditional entropy and show that there is no relation between the discord and the local disitnguishability.

id: 1002.4923
title: Discrete single-photon quantum walks with tunable decoherence
authors: M. A. Broome, A. Fedrizzi, B. P. Lanyon, I. Kassal, A. Aspuru-Guzik, A. G. White
comments: Published version, 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 104, 153602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4923
abstract: Quantum walks have a host of applications, ranging from quantum computing to the simulation of biological systems. We present an intrinsically stable, deterministic implementation of discrete quantum walks with single photons in space. The number of optical elements required scales linearly with the number of steps. We measure walks with up to 6 steps and explore the quantum-to-classical transition by introducing tunable decoherence. Finally, we also investigate the effect of absorbing boundaries and show that decoherence significantly affects the probability of absorption.

id: 1002.4930
title: Indistinguishable Chargeon-Fluxion Pairs in the Quantum Double of Finite Groups
authors: Salman Beigi, Peter W. Shor, Daniel Whalen
comments: 15 pages, arXiv:1006.5479 includes all results of this paper, v3: fixed a typo in eq (11)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4930
abstract: We consider the category of finite dimensional representations of the quantum double of a finite group as a modular tensor category. We study auto-equivalences of this category whose induced permutations on the set of simple objects (particles) are of the special form of PJ, where J sends every particle to its charge conjugation and P is a transposition of a chargeon-fluxion pair. We prove that if the underlying group is the semidirect product of the additive and multiplicative groups of a finite field, then such an auto-equivalence exists. In particular, we show that for S_3 (the permutation group over three letters) there is a chargeon and a fluxion which are not distinguishable. Conversely, by considering such permutations as modular invariants, we show that a transposition of a chargeon-fluxion pair forms a modular invariant if and only if the corresponding group is isomorphic to the semidirect product of the additive and multiplicative groups of a finite near-field.

id: 1002.4953
title: Controlled generation of field squeezing with cold atomic clouds coupled to a superconducting transmission line resonator
authors: Peng-Bo Li, Fu-Li Li
comments: accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: PRA-81-035802-2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4953
abstract: We propose an efficient method for controlled generation of field squeezing with cold atomic clouds trapped close to a superconducting transmission line resonator. It is shown that, based on the coherent strong magnetic coupling between the collective atomic spins and microwave fields in the transmission line resonator, two-mode or single mode field squeezed states can be generated through coherent control on the dynamics of the system. The degree of squeezing and preparing time can be directly controlled through tuning the external classical fields. This protocol may offer a promising platform for implementing scalable on-chip quantum information processing with continuous variables.

id: 1002.5022
title: On the impossibility of faithfully storing single-photons with the three-pulse photon echo
authors: Nicolas Sangouard, Christoph Simon, Jiri Minar, Mikael Afzelius, Thierry Chaneliere, Nicolas Gisin, Jean-Louis Le Gouet, Hugues de Riedmatten, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062333 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.5022
abstract: The three-pulse photon echo is a well-known technique to store intense light pulses in an inhomogeneously broadened atomic ensemble. This protocol is attractive because it is relatively simple and it is well suited for the storage of multiple temporal modes. Furthermore, it offers very long storage times, greater than the phase relaxation time. Here, we consider the three-pulse photon echo in both two- and three-level systems as a potential technique for the storage of light at the single-photon level. By explicit calculations, we show that the ratio between the echo signal corresponding to a single-photon input and the noise is smaller than one. This severely limits the achievable fidelity of the quantum state storage, making the three-pulse photon echo unsuitable for single-photon quantum memory.

id: 1002.5023
title: The nonlinear thermodynamic quantum master equation
authors: Hans Christian ?ttinger
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.5023
abstract: The quantum master equation obtained by generalizing the geometric formulation of nonequilibrium thermodynamics to dissipative quantum systems is seriously nonlinear. We argue that nonlinearity occurs naturally in the step from reversible to irreversible equations and we analyze the nature of the nonlinear contribution. The thermodynamic nonlinearity leads to proper equilibrium solutions and improves the dynamic behavior of dissipative quantum systems. We also discuss the Markovian character of the thermodynamic quantum master equation. The general ideas are illustrated for two-level systems.

id: 1002.5025
title: Quantum computational logic with mixed states
authors: Hector Freytes, Graciela Domenech
comments: submitted to the Mathematical Logic Quarterly
journal: Mathematical Logic Quarterly 59 (2013) 27-50
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.5025
abstract: Using an algebraic framework we solve a problem posed in [5] and [7] about the axiomatizability of a quantum computational type logic related to fuzzy logic. A Hilbert-style calculus is developed obtaining an algebraic strong completeness theorem.

id: 1002.5038
title: Zero-Transmission Law for Multiport Beam Splitters
authors: Malte Christopher Tichy, Markus Tiersch, Fernando de Melo, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: Version accepted by PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 220405 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.5038
abstract: The Hong-Ou-Mandel effect is generalized to a configuration of n bosons prepared in the n input ports of a Bell multiport beam splitter. We derive a strict suppression law for most possible output events, consistent with a generic bosonic behavior after suitable coarse graining.

id: 1002.0069
title: Anharmonic oscillation effect on the Davydov-Scott monomer in thermal bath
authors: A. Sulaiman, F.P. Zen, H. Alatas, L.T. Handoko
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.E81:061907,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0069
abstract: The dynamics of Davydov-Scott monomer in a thermal bath with higher order amide-site's displacement leads to anharmonic oscillation effect is investigated using full-quantum approach and the Lindblad formulation of master equation. The specific heat is calculated based on the thermodynamic partition function using the path integral method. The temperature dependence of the specific heat is studied. In the model the specific heat anomaly as pointed out in recent works by Ingold et.al is also observed. However it is found that the anomaly occurs at high temperature region, and the anharmonic oscillation restores the positivity of specific heat.

id: 1002.0171
title: Continuous quantum phase transition between two topologically distinct valence bond solid states associated with the same spin value
authors: Dong Zheng, Guang-Ming Zhang, Tao Xiang, Dung-Hai Lee
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures. Numerical calculations have been carefully performed and examined
journal: Physical Review B 83, 014409 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0171
abstract: We propose a simple one-dimensional spin-2 Hamiltonian, which exhibits two topologically distinct valence bond solid states in different exactly solvable limits. We then construct the phase diagram and study the quantum phase transition between these states using the infinite time evolving block decimation algorithms. From the scaling relation between the entanglement entropy and correlation length, we find that the central charge for the underlying critical conformal field theory is $c=2$.

id: 1002.0219
title: Engineering Time-Reversal Invariant Topological Insulators With Ultra-Cold Atoms
authors: N. Goldman, I. Satija, P. Nikolic, A. Bermudez, M.A. Martin-Delgado, M. Lewenstein, I. B. Spielman
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:255302,2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0219
abstract: Topological insulators are a broad class of unconventional materials that are insulating in the interior but conduct along the edges. This edge transport is topologically protected and dissipationless. Until recently, all existing topological insulators, known as quantum Hall states, violated time-reversal symmetry. However, the discovery of the quantum spin Hall effect demonstrated the existence of novel topological states not rooted in time-reversal violations. Here, we lay out an experiment to realize time-reversal topological insulators in ultra-cold atomic gases subjected to synthetic gauge fields in the near-field of an atom-chip. In particular, we introduce a feasible scheme to engineer sharp boundaries where the "edge states" are localized. Besides, this multi-band system has a large parameter space exhibiting a variety of quantum phase transitions between topological and normal insulating phases. Due to their unprecedented controllability, cold-atom systems are ideally suited to realize topological states of matter and drive the development of topological quantum computing.

id: 1002.0222
title: Control of dipolar relaxation in external fields
authors: B. Pasquiou, G. Bismut, Q. Beaufils, A. Crubellier, E. Mar¨¦chal, P. Pedri, L. Vernac, O. Gorceix, B. Laburthe-Tolra
comments: 25 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0222
abstract: We study dipolar relaxation in both ultra-cold thermal and Bose-condensed chromium atom gases. We show three different ways to control dipolar relaxation, making use of either a static magnetic field, an oscillatory magnetic field, or an optical lattice to reduce the dimensionality of the gas from 3D to 2D. Although dipolar relaxation generally increases as a function of a static magnetic field intensity, we find a range of non-zero magnetic field intensities where dipolar relaxation is strongly reduced. We use this resonant reduction to accurately determine the S=6 scattering length of chromium atoms: $a_6 = 103 \pm 4 a_0$. We compare this new measurement to another new determination of $a_6$, which we perform by analysing the precise spectroscopy of a Feshbach resonance in d-wave collisions, yielding $a_6 = 102.5 \pm 0.4 a_0$. These two measurements provide by far the most precise determination of $a_6$ to date. We then show that, although dipolar interactions are long-range interactions, dipolar relaxation only involves the incoming partial wave $l=0$ for large enough magnetic field intensities, which has interesting consequences on the stability of dipolar Fermi gases. We then study ultra-cold chromium gases in a 1D optical lattice resulting in a collection of independent 2D gases. We show that dipolar relaxation is modified when the atoms collide in reduced dimensionality at low magnetic field intensities, and that the corresponding dipolar relaxation rate parameter is reduced by a factor up to 7 compared to the 3D case. Finally, we study dipolar relaxation in presence of radio-frequency (rf) oscillating magnetic fields, and we show that both the output channel energy and the transition amplitude can be controlled by means of rf frequency and Rabi frequency.

id: 1002.0233
title: Laser cooling of a magnetically guided ultra cold atom beam
authors: Anoush Aghajani-Talesh, Markus Falkenau, Valentin V. Volchkov, Leah E. Trafford, Tilman Pfau, Axel Griesmaier
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0233
abstract: We report on the transverse laser cooling of a magnetically guided beam of ultra cold chromium atoms. Radial compression by a tapering of the guide is employed to adiabatically heat the beam. Inside the tapered section heat is extracted from the atom beam by a two-dimensional optical molasses perpendicular to it, resulting in a significant increase of atomic phase space density. A magnetic offset field is applied to prevent optical pumping to untrapped states. Our results demonstrate that by a suitable choice of the magnetic offset field, the cooling beam intensity and detuning, atom losses and longitudinal heating can be avoided. Final temperatures below 65 microkelvin have been achieved, corresponding to an increase of phase space density in the guided beam by more than a factor of 30.

id: 1002.0261
title: The scalar complex potential and the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Y. Friedman, V. Ostapenko
comments: 10 pages 2 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A:Mathematical and Theoretical 43 (2010) 405305
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0261
abstract: The Aharonov-Bohm effect is traditionally attributed to the effect of the electromagnetic 4-potential $A$, even in regions where both the electric field $\mathbf{E}$ and the magnetic field $\mathbf{B}$ are zero. The AB effect reveals that multiple-valued functions play a crucial role in the description of an electromagnetic field. We argue that the quantity measured by AB experiments is a difference in values of a multiple-valued complex function, which we call a complex potential or {pre-potential. We show that any electromagnetic field can be described by this pre-potential, and give an explicit expression for the electromagnetic field tensor through this potential. The pre-potential is a modification of the two scalar potential functions.

id: 1002.0455
title: On the Convergence of the Many-Body Pauli Projector
authors: E.M. Tursunov
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0455
abstract: The convergence problem of the many-body Pauli projector is studied. It is proved that the kern of the complete many-body projector is identical with the kern of the sum of two-body projectors. Since the kern of the many-body projector defines an allowed subspace, it is argued that the truncation of the many-body model space following the only two-body projectors is a good approximation. These relations clarifies the role of the many-body Pauli forces in a multicluster system.

id: 1002.0496
title: Dimerization-assisted energy transport in light-harvesting complexes
authors: S. Yang, D. Z. Xu, Z. Song, C. P. Sun
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 132, 234501 (2010)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0496
abstract: We study the role of the dimer structure of light-harvesting complex II (LH2) in excitation transfer from the LH2 (without a reaction center (RC)) to the LH1 (surrounding the RC), or from the LH2 to another LH2. The excited and un-excited states of a bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) are modeled by a quasi-spin. In the framework of quantum open system theory, we represent the excitation transfer as the total leakage of the LH2 system and then calculate the transfer efficiency and average transfer time. For different initial states with various quantum superposition properties, we study how the dimerization of the B850 BChl ring can enhance the transfer efficiency and shorten the average transfer time.

id: 1002.0578
title: Generalized Rashba spin-orbit coupling for cold atoms
authors: Gediminas Juzeliunas, Julius Ruseckas, Jean Dalibard
comments: 8 figures; corrected typos and figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 053403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0578
abstract: We study the possibility to generate a new type of spin-orbit coupling for the center of mass motion of cold atoms, using laser beams that resonantly couple N atomic internal ground states to an extra state. After a general analysis of the scheme, we concentrate on the tetrapod setup (N=4) where the atomic state can be described by a three-component spinor, evolving under the action of a Rashba-type spin-orbit coupling for a spin 1 particle. We illustrate a consequence of this coupling by studying the negative refraction of atoms at a potential step, and show that the amplitude of the refracted beam is significantly increased in comparison to the known case of spin 1/2 Rashba coupling. Finally we explore a possible implementation of this tetrapod setup, using stimulated Raman couplings between Zeeman sublevels of the ground state of alkali atoms.

id: 1002.0666
title: A Representation of Quantum Measurement in Nonassociative Algebras
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 14 pages, the original publication is available at this http URL
journal: 2009 Found. Phys. 39, 120 - 136
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0666
abstract: Starting from an abstract setting for the Lueders - von Neumann quantum measurement process and its interpretation as a probability conditionalization rule in a non-Boolean event structure, the author derived a certain generalization of operator algebras in a preceding paper. This is an order-unit space with some specific properties. It becomes a Jordan operator algebra under a certain set of additional conditions, but does not own a multiplication operation in the most general case. A major objective of the present paper is the search for such examples of the structure mentioned above that do not stem from Jordan operator algebras; first natural candidates are matrix algebras over the octonions and other nonassociative rings. Therefore, the case when a nonassociative commutative multiplication exists is studied without assuming that it satisfies the Jordan condition. The characteristics of the resulting algebra are analyzed. This includes the uniqueness of the spectral resolution as well as a criterion for its existence, subalgebras that are Jordan algebras, associative subalgebras, and more different levels of compatibility than occurring in standard quantum mechanics. However, the paper cannot provide the desired example, but contribute to the search by the identification of some typical differences between the potential examples and the Jordan operator algebras and by negative results concerning some first natural candidates. The possibility that no such example exists cannot be ruled out. However, this would result in an unexpected new characterization of Jordan operator algebras, which would have a significant impact on quantum axiomatics since some customary axioms (e.g., powerassociativity or the sum postulate for observables) might turn out to be redundant then.

id: 1002.0677
title: Polynomial algebras and exact solutions of general quantum non-linear optical models I: Two-mode boson systems
authors: Yuan-Harng Lee, Wen-Li Yang, Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: 20 pages, final version to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor.
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 185204 (17pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0677
abstract: We introduce higher order polynomial deformations of $A_1$ Lie algebra. We construct their unitary representations and the corresponding single-variable differential operator realizations. We then use the results to obtain exact (Bethe ansatz) solutions to a class of 2-mode boson systems, including the Boson-Einstein Condensate models as special cases. Up to an overall factor, the eigenfunctions of the 2-mode boson systems are given by polynomials whose roots are solutions of the associated Bethe ansatz equations. The corresponding eigenvalues are expressed in terms of these roots. We also establish the spectral equivalence between the BEC models and certain quasi-exactly solvable Sch\"ordinger potentials.

id: 1002.0742
title: Spectral singularities for Non-Hermitian one-dimensional Hamiltonians: puzzles with resolution of identity
authors: A.A. Andrianov, F. Cannata, A.V. Sokolov
comments: 25 pages, more refs added
journal: J.Math.Phys.51:052104,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0742
abstract: We examine the completeness of bi-orthogonal sets of eigenfunctions for non-Hermitian Hamiltonians possessing a spectral singularity. The correct resolutions of identity are constructed for delta like and smooth potentials. Their form and the contribution of a spectral singularity depend on the class of functions employed for physical states. With this specification there is no obstruction to completeness originating from a spectral singularity.

id: 1002.0749
title: Entropy and Correlators in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Jurjen F. Koksma, Tomislav Prokopec, Michael G. Schmidt
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0749
abstract: It is well known that loss of information about a system, for some observer, leads to an increase in entropy as perceived by this observer. We use this to propose an alternative approach to decoherence in quantum field theory in which the machinery of renormalisation can systematically be implemented: neglecting observationally inaccessible correlators will give rise to an increase in entropy of the system. As an example we calculate the entropy of a general Gaussian state and, assuming the observer's ability to probe this information experimentally, we also calculate the correction to the Gaussian entropy for two specific non-Gaussian states.

id: 1002.0798
title: Anharmonic Oscillators with Infinitely Many Real Eigenvalues and PT-Symmetry
authors: Kwang C. Shin
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 6 (2010), 015, 9 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0798
abstract: We study the eigenvalue problem $-u"+V(z)u=\lambda u$ in the complex plane with the boundary condition that $u(z)$ decays to zero as $z$ tends to infinity along the two rays $\arg z=-\frac{\pi}{2} \pm \frac{2\pi}{m+2}$, where $V(z)=-(iz)^m-P(iz)$ for complex-valued polynomials $P$ of degree at most $m-1\geq 2$. We provide an asymptotic formula for eigenvalues and a necessary and sufficient condition for the anharmonic oscillator to have infinitely many real eigenvalues.

id: 1002.0825
title: General Relation between Entanglement and Fluctuations in One Dimension
authors: H. Francis Song, Stephan Rachel, Karyn Le Hur
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Minor changes, references added.
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 012405 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0825
abstract: In one dimension very general results from conformal field theory and exact calculations for certain quantum spin systems have established universal scaling properties of the entanglement entropy between two parts of a critical system. Using both analytical and numerical methods, we show that if particle number or spin is conserved, fluctuations in a subsystem obey identical scaling as a function of subsystem size, suggesting that fluctuations are a useful quantity for determining the scaling of entanglement, especially in higher dimensions. We investigate the effects of boundaries and subleading corrections for critical spin and bosonic chains.

id: 1002.0957
title: Non-Abelian geometric phases in ground state Josephson devices
authors: J.-M. Pirkkalainen, P. Solinas, J. P. Pekola, M. M?tt?nen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; added references and clarified discussion about earlier research on the field
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 174506 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0957
abstract: We present a superconducting circuit in which non-Abelian geometric transformations can be realized using an adiabatic parameter cycle. In contrast to previous proposals, we employ quantum evolution in the ground state. We propose an experiment in which the transition from non-Abelian to Abelian cycles can be observed by measuring the pumped charge as a function of the period of the cycle. Alternatively, the non-Abelian phase can be detected using a single-electron transistor working as a charge sensor.

id: 1002.1234
title: One analytic form for four branches of the ABCD matrix
authors: S. Baskal, Y. S. Kim
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures, published in Special Issue: Festschrift in Memory of Lorenzo M. Narducci
journal: J. Mod. Opt. [57], 1251-1269 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1234
abstract: It is not always possible to diagonalize the optical $ABCD$ matrix, but it can be brought into one of the four Wigner matrices by a similarity transformation. It is shown that the four Wigner matrices can be combined into one matrix with four branches. This result is illustrated in terms of optical activities, laser cavities, and multilayer optics.

id: 1002.1278
title: Unexpected Delta-Function Term in the Radial Schrodinger Equation
authors: Anzor A.Khelashvili, Teimuraz P. Nadareishvili
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1278
abstract: Careful exploration of the idea that equation for radial wave function must be compatible with the full Schrodinger equation shows appearance of the delta-function while reduction of full Schrodinger equation in spherical coordinates. Elimination of this extra term produces a boundary condition for the radial wave function, which is the same both for regular and singular potentials.

id: 1002.1282
title: Electron spin coherence in metallofullerenes: Y, Sc and La@C82
authors: Richard M. Brown, Yasuhiro Ito, Jamie Warner, Arzhang Ardavan, Hisanori Shinohara, G. Andrew. D. Briggs, John J. L. Morton
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1282
abstract: Endohedral fullerenes encapsulating a spin-active atom or ion within a carbon cage offer a route to self-assembled arrays such as spin chains. In the case of metallofullerenes the charge transfer between the atom and the fullerene cage has been thought to limit the electron spin phase coherence time (T2) to the order of a few microseconds. We study electron spin relaxation in several species of metallofullerene as a function of temperature and solvent environment, yielding a maximum T2 in deuterated o-terphenyl greater than 200 microseconds for Y, Sc and La@C82. The mechanisms governing relaxation (T1, T2) arise from metal-cage vibrational modes, spin-orbit coupling and the nuclear spin environment. The T2 times are over 2 orders of magnitude longer than previously reported and consequently make metallofullerenes of interest in areas such as spin-labelling, spintronics and quantum computing.

id: 1002.1319
title: Photonic Crystal Nanobeam Cavity Strongly Coupled to the Feeding Waveguide
authors: Qimin Quan, Parag B Deotare, Marko Loncar
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 96, 203102 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1319
abstract: A deterministic design of an ultrahigh Q, wavelength scale mode volume photonic crystal nanobeam cavity is proposed and experimentally demonstrated. Using this approach, cavities with Q>10^6 and on-resonance transmission T>90% are designed. The devices fabricated in Si and capped with low-index polymer, have Q=80,000 and T=73%. This is, to the best of our knowledge, the highest transmission measured in deterministically designed, wavelength scale high Q cavities.

id: 1002.1391
title: Induced fermionic current in toroidally compactified spacetimes with applications to cylindrical and toroidal nanotubes
authors: S. Bellucci, A. A. Saharian, V. M. Bardeghyan
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, explicit regularization procedure added
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:065011,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1391
abstract: The vacuum expectation value of the fermionic current is evaluated for a massive spinor field in spacetimes with an arbitrary number of toroidally compactified spatial dimensions in presence of a constant gauge field. By using the Abel-Plana type summation formula and the zeta function technique we present the fermionic current in two different forms. Non-trivial topology of the background spacetime leads to the Aharonov-Bohm effect on the fermionic current induced by the gauge field. The current is a periodic function of the magnetic flux with the period equal to the flux quantum. In the absence of the gauge field it vanishes for special cases of untwisted and twisted fields. Applications of the general formulae to Kaluz-Klein type models and to cylindrical and toroidal carbon nanotubes are given. In the absence of magnetic flux the total fermionic current in carbon nanotubes vanishes, due to the cancellation of contributions from two different sublattices of the graphene hexagonal lattice.

id: 1002.1394
title: Superconducting resonators as beam splitters for linear-optics quantum computation
authors: Luca Chirolli, Guido Burkard, Shwetank Kumar, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 230502 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1394
abstract: A functioning quantum computer will be a machine that builds up, in a programmable way, nonclassical correlations in a multipartite quantum system. Linear optics quantum computation (LOQC) is an approach for achieving this function that requires only simple, reliable linear optical elements, namely beam splitters and phase shifters. Nonlinear optics is only required in the form of single-photon sources for state initialization, and detectors. However, the latter remain difficult to achieve with high fidelity. A new setting for quantum optics has arisen in circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) using superconducting (SC) quantum devices, and opening up the way to LOQC using microwave, rather than visible photons. Much progress is being made in SC qubits and cQED: high-fidelity Fock state generation and qubit measurements provide single photon sources and detection. Here we show that the LOQC toolkit in cQED can be completed with high-fidelity (>99.92%) linear optical elements.

id: 1002.1405
title: Renormalization of tensor-network states
authors: H.H. Zhao, Z.Y. Xie, Q.N. Chen, Z.C. Wei, J.W. Cai, T. Xiang
comments: 18 pages 23 figures, minor changes, references added
journal: Physical Review B 81, 174411 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1405
abstract: We have discussed the tensor-network representation of classical statistical or interacting quantum lattice models, and given a comprehensive introduction to the numerical methods we recently proposed for studying the tensor-network states/models in two dimensions. A second renormalization scheme is introduced to take into account the environment contribution in the calculation of the partition function of classical tensor network models or the expectation values of quantum tensor network states. It improves significantly the accuracy of the coarse grained tensor renormalization group method. In the study of the quantum tensor-network states, we point out that the renormalization effect of the environment can be efficiently and accurately described by the bond vector. This, combined with the imaginary time evolution of the wavefunction, provides an accurate projection method to determine the tensor-network wavfunction. It reduces significantly the truncation error and enable a tensor-network state with a large bond dimension, which is difficult to be accessed by other methods, to be accurately determined.

id: 1002.1565
title: Generalized duality, Hamiltonian formalism and new brackets
authors: Steven Duplij
comments: 23 pages, article, changed: the introduced new brackets are now antisymmetric and transform to the Dirac bracket after treating degenerate momenta as "physical" ones, in Appendix the origin of constraints is clearly explained in our framework, added: some improvements
journal: J. Math. Physics, Analysis, Geometry, 2014, vol. 10, issue 2, pp. 189-220
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1565
abstract: It is shown that any singular Lagrangian theory: 1) can be formulated without the use of constraints by introducing a Clairaut-type version of the Hamiltonian formalism; 2) leads to a special kind of nonabelian gauge theory which is similar to the Poisson gauge theory; 3) can be treated as the many-time classical dynamics. A generalization of the Legendre transform to the zero Hessian case is done by using the mixed (envelope/general) solution of the multidimensional Clairaut equation. The corresponding system of motion equations is equivalent to the Lagrange equations and has a linear algebraic subsystem for "unresolved" velocities. Then the equations of motion are written in the Hamilton-like form by introducing new antisymmetric brackets. This is a "shortened" formalism, since it does not contain the "nondynamical" (degenerate) momenta at all, and therefore there is no notion of constraint. It is outlined that any classical degenerate Lagrangian theory (in its Clairaut-type Hamiltonian form) is equivalent to the many-time classical dynamics. Finally, the relation between the presented formalism and the Dirac approach to constrained systems is given.

id: 1002.1741
title: An Adiabatic Theorem for Resonances
authors: Alexander Elgart, George Hagedorn
comments: 31 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1741
abstract: We prove a robust extension of the quantum adiabatic theorem. The theorem applies to systems that have resonances instead of bound states, and to systems for which just an approximation to a bound state is known. To demonstrate the theorem's usefulness in a concrete situation, we apply it to shape resonances.

id: 1002.1762
title: Casimir effect due to a single boundary as a manifestation of the Weyl problem
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, Joseph P. Straley, Luke S. Langsjoen, Hussain Zaidi
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, minor changes to the text, extra references added, version to be published in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A43:385402,2010
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1762
abstract: The Casimir self-energy of a boundary is ultraviolet-divergent. In many cases the divergences can be eliminated by methods such as zeta-function regularization or through physical arguments (ultraviolet transparency of the boundary would provide a cutoff). Using the example of a massless scalar field theory with a single Dirichlet boundary we explore the relationship between such approaches, with the goal of better understanding the origin of the divergences. We are guided by the insight due to Dowker and Kennedy (1978) and Deutsch and Candelas (1979), that the divergences represent measurable effects that can be interpreted with the aid of the theory of the asymptotic distribution of eigenvalues of the Laplacian discussed by Weyl. In many cases the Casimir self-energy is the sum of cutoff-dependent (Weyl) terms having geometrical origin, and an "intrinsic" term that is independent of the cutoff. The Weyl terms make a measurable contribution to the physical situation even when regularization methods succeed in isolating the intrinsic part. Regularization methods fail when the Weyl terms and intrinsic parts of the Casimir effect cannot be clearly separated. Specifically, we demonstrate that the Casimir self-energy of a smooth boundary in two dimensions is a sum of two Weyl terms (exhibiting quadratic and logarithmic cutoff dependence), a geometrical term that is independent of cutoff, and a non-geometrical intrinsic term. As by-products we resolve the puzzle of the divergent Casimir force on a ring and correct the sign of the coefficient of linear tension of the Dirichlet line predicted in earlier treatments.

id: 1002.1766
title: Existence of Different Intermediate Hamiltonians in Type A N-fold Supersymmetry II. The N=3 Case
authors: Bijan Bagchi, Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 32 pages, no figures
journal: Annals Phys. 325 (2010) 1679-1707
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1766
abstract: We continue the previous study on the existence of different intermediate Hamiltonians in type A N-fold supersymmetric systems and carry out an exhaustive investigation on the N=3 case. In contrast with the N=2 case, we find various patterns in the existence of intermediate Hamiltonians due to the presence of two different intermediate positions in a factorized type A 3-fold supercharge. In addition, all the N=3 models are strictly restricted to at most elliptic type, which enables us to make the complete classification of the systems which admit intermediate Hamiltonians. Finally, we show realizations of third-order parasupersymmetry and variant generalized 3-fold superalgebras by such systems.

id: 1002.1814
title: Detecting the tunneling rates for strongly interacting fermions on optical lattices
authors: Alberto Anfossi, Luca Barbiero, Arianna Montorsi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043630 (2010)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1814
abstract: Strongly interacting fermionic atoms on optical lattices are studied through a Hubbard-like model Hamiltonian, in which tunneling rates of atoms and molecules between neighboring sites are assumed to be different. In the limit of large onsite repulsion U, the model is shown to reproduce the t-J Hamiltonian, in which the J coefficient of the Heisenberg term depends on the particle-assisted tunneling rate g: explicitly, $J=4 g^2/U$. At half-filling, g drives a crossover from a Brinkman-Rice paramagnetic insulator of fully localized atoms (g=0) to the antiferromagnetic Mott insulator of the standard Hubbard case (g=t). This is observed already at the intermediate coupling regime in the number of doubly occupied sites, thus providing a criterion to extract from measurements the effective value of g.

id: 1002.1824
title: Continuous Matrix Product States for Quantum Fields
authors: F. Verstraete, J.I. Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:190405,2010
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1824
abstract: We define matrix product states in the continuum limit, without any reference to an underlying lattice parameter. This allows to extend the density matrix renormalization group and variational matrix product state formalism to quantum field theories and continuum models in 1 spatial dimension. We illustrate our procedure with the Lieb-Liniger model.

id: 1002.1931
title: Energy and Effective Mass Dependence of Electron Tunnelling Through Multiple Quantum barriers in Different Heterostructures
authors: Jatindranath Gain, Madhumita Das Sarkar, Sudakshina Kundu
comments: 8 pages,9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1931
abstract: Tunneling of electrons through the barriers in heterostructures has been studied, within unified transfer matrix approach. The effect of barrier width on the transmission coefficient of the electrons has been investigated for different pairs of semi conducting materials that are gaining much importance recently. These pairs include CdS/CdSe, AlGaAs/GaAs and InAs/AlSb. Barrier dimensions have been reduced from 20nm to 5nm to observe the effect of scaling on tunneling properties. Material depended is highlighted for electrons with energy varying from below the barrier height to above it. The electron effective mass inside the barrier and the well are often different. The results show that the coupling effect leads to significant changes on the transmission effect. . The effective-mass dependant transmission coefficient has been plotted with respect to electron energy. The computation is based on the transfer matrix method by using MATLAB.

id: 1002.1989
title: Third order superintegrable systems separating in polar coordinates
authors: Frederick Tremblay, Pavel Winternitz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1989
abstract: A complete classification is presented of quantum and classical superintegrable systems in $E_2$ that allow the separation of variables in polar coordinates and admit an additional integral of motion of order three in the momentum. New quantum superintegrable systems are discovered for which the potential is expressed in terms of the sixth Painlev\'e transcendent or in terms of the Weierstrass elliptic function.

id: 1002.2025
title: Bright solitons and self-trapping with a BEC of cold atoms in driven tilted optical lattices
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A {\bf 82}, 011601(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2025
abstract: We suggest a method for creating bright matter solitons by loading a BEC of atoms in a driven tilted optical lattice. It is shown that one can realize the self-focussing regime for the wave-packet dynamics by properly adjusting the phase of the driving field with respect to the phase of Bloch oscillations. If atom-atom interactions are larger than some critical value $g_{min}$, this self-focussing regime is followed by the formation of bright solitons. Increasing the interactions above another critical value $g_{max}$ makes this process unstable. Instead of soliton formation one now meets the phenomenon of incoherent self-trapping. In this regime a fraction of atoms is trapped in incoherent localized wave-packets, while the remaining atoms spread ballistically.

id: 1002.2066
title: Equivalence between XY and dimerized models
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Marco Roncaglia
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 060101(R) (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2066
abstract: The spin-1/2 chain with XY anisotropic coupling in the plane and the XX isotropic dimerized chain are shown to be equivalent in the bulk. For finite systems we prove that the equivalence is exact in given parity sectors, after taking care of the precise boundary conditions. The proof is given constructively by finding unitary transformations that map the models onto each other. Moreover, we considerably generalized our mapping and showed that even in case of fully site dependent couplings the XY chain can be mapped onto an XX model. This result has potential application in the study of disordered systems.

id: 1002.2141
title: Advance and prospects in constraining the Yukawa-type corrections to Newtonian gravity from the Casimir effect
authors: V.B. Bezerra, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko, C. Romero
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:055003,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2141
abstract: We report stronger constraints on the parameters of Yukawa-type corrections to Newtonian gravity from measurements of the lateral Casimir force between sinusoidally corrugated surfaces of a sphere and a plate. In the interaction range from 1.6 to 14 nm the strengthening of previously known high confidence constraints up to a factor of $2.4\times 10^7$ is achieved using these measurements. It is shown that the replacement of a plane plate with a corrugated one in the measurements of the normal Casimir force by means of an atomic force microscope would result in the strengthening of respective high confidence constraints on the Yukawa-type interaction by a factor of $1.1\times 10^{12}$. The use of a corrugated plate instead of a plane plate in the experiment by means of a micromachined oscillator also leads to strengthening of the obtained constraints. We further obtain constraints on the parameters of Yukawa-type interaction from the data of experiments measuring the gradient of the Casimir pressure between two parallel plates and the gradient of the Casimir-Polder force between an atom and a plate. The obtained results are compared with the previously known constraints. The possibilities of how to further strengthen the constraints on non-Newtonian gravity are discussed.

id: 1002.2454
title: Entropic Law of Force, Emergent Gravity and the Uncertainty Principle
authors: M. A. Santos, I. V. Vancea
comments: 10 pages. Important discussion of the special relativistic case and the newtonian limit of the general relativistic case added. The paper has been reformatted. The authorship listing corrected. (It has been published by mistake out of order in the first version. We have been adhering to the Hardy-Littlewood Rule over the years.) Typos corrected. Four references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2454
abstract: The entropic formulation of the inertia and the gravity relies on quantum, geometrical and informational arguments. The fact that the results are completly classical is missleading. In this paper we argue that the entropic formulation provides new insights into the quantum nature of the inertia and the gravity. We use the entropic postulate to determine the quantum uncertainty in the law of inertia and in the law of gravity in the Newtonian Mechanics, the Special Relativity and in the General Relativity. These results are obtained by considering the most general quantum property of the matter represented by the Uncertainty Principle and by postulating an expression for the uncertainty of the entropy such that: i) it is the simplest quantum generalization of the postulate of the variation of the entropy and ii) it reduces to the variation of the entropy in the absence of the uncertainty.

id: 1002.2593
title: Probabilistic time
authors: C. Wetterich
comments: new references, 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2593
abstract: The concept of time emerges as an ordering structure in a classical statistical ensemble. Probability distributions $p_\tau(t)$ at a given time $t$ obtain by integrating out the past and future. We discuss all-time probability distributions that realize a unitary time evolution as described by rotations of the real wave function $q_\tau(t)=\pm \sqrt{p_\tau(t)}$. We establish a map to quantum physics and the Schr\"odinger equation. Suitable classical observables are mapped to quantum operators. The non-commutativity of the operator product is traced back to the incomplete statistics of the local-time subsystem. Our investigation of classical statistics is based on two-level observables that take the values one or zero. Then the wave functions can be mapped to elements of a Grassmann algebra. Quantum field theories for fermions arise naturally from our formulation of probabilistic time.

id: 1002.2603
title: A generalized Kramers-Kronig transform for Casimir effect computations
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 10 pages, 6 encapsulated figures. A few typos corrected, some references added. The new version matches the one accepted for publication on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:062501,2010
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2603
abstract: Recent advances in experimental techniques now permit to measure the Casimir force with unprecedented precision. In order to achieve a comparable precision in the theoretical prediction of the force, it is necessary to accurately determine the electric permittivity of the materials constituting the plates along the imaginary frequency axis. The latter quantity is not directly accessible to experiments, but it can be determined via dispersion relations from experimental optical data. In the experimentally important case of conductors, however, a serious drawback of the standard dispersion relations commonly used for this purpose, is their strong dependence on the chosen low-frequency extrapolation of the experimental optical data, which introduces a significant and not easily controllable uncertainty in the result. In this paper we show that a simple modification of the standard dispersion relations, involving suitable analytic window functions, resolves this difficulty, making it possible to reliably determine the electric permittivity at imaginary frequencies solely using experimental optical data in the frequency interval where they are available, without any need of uncontrolled data extrapolations.

id: 1002.2616
title: Fast Non-destructive temperature measurement of two-electrons atoms in a magneto-optical trap
authors: Matteo Cristiani, Tristan Valenzuela, Hannes Gothe, J¨¹rgen Eschner
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2616
abstract: We extend the technique originally proposed by Honda et al.to measure the temperature of Ytterbium and alkine-earth atoms confined in a Magneto-Optical Trap (MOT). The method is based on the analysis of excitation spectra obtained by probing the 1S0->3P1 inter-combination line. Thanks to a careful analysis and modeling of the effects caused by the MOT light on the probe transition we overcome the resolution and precision limits encountered in previous works. Ground state light shift and Rabi broadening are measured and successfully compared with calculated values. This knowledge allows us to properly extract the Doppler contribution to the linewidth, thus obtaining a reliable measurement of the cloud temperature. We finally show how spectroscopy on free-falling atoms provides an alternative method to determine the sample temperature which resembles the standard time-of-flight technique.

id: 1002.2732
title: Supersymmetry Across Nanoscale Heterojunction
authors: B. Bagchi, A. Ganguly, A. Sinha
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010) 2397-2400
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2732
abstract: We argue that supersymmetric transformation could be applied across the heterojunction formed by joining of two mixed semiconductors. A general framework is described by specifying the structure of ladder operators at the junction for making quantitative estimation of physical quantities. For a particular heterojunction device, we show that an exponential grading inside a nanoscale doped layer is amenable to exact analytical treatment for a class of potentials distorted by the junctions through the solutions of transformed Morse-Type potentials.

id: 1002.2737
title: Nonlinear Bogolyubov-Valatin transformations: 2 modes
authors: K. Scharnhorst, J.-W. van Holten
comments: 116 pages LaTeX, 2 figures (v2: small changes concerning spin indices to sec. 5.1, minor stylistic changes, references [7], [9], [21], [22], [190] added. v3: minor corrections.)
journal: Annals Phys.326:2868-2933,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2737
abstract: Extending our earlier study of nonlinear Bogolyubov-Valatin transformations (canonical transformations for fermions) for one fermionic mode, in the present paper we perform a thorough study of general (nonlinear) canonical transformations for two fermionic modes. We find that the Bogolyubov-Valatin group for n=2 fermionic modes which can be implemented by means of unitary SU(2^n = 4) transformations is isomorphic to SO(6;R)/Z_2. The investigation touches on a number of subjects. As a novelty from a mathematical point of view, we study the structure of nonlinear basis transformations in a Clifford algebra [specifically, in the Clifford algebra C(0,4)] entailing (supersymmetric) transformations among multivectors of different grades. A prominent algebraic role in this context is being played by biparavectors (linear combinations of products of Dirac matrices, quadriquaternions, sedenions) and spin bivectors (antisymmetric complex matrices). The studied biparavectors are equivalent to Eddington's E-numbers and can be understood in terms of the tensor product of two commuting copies of the division algebra of quaternions H. From a physical point of view, we present a method to diagonalize any arbitrary two-fermion Hamiltonian. Relying on Jordan-Wigner transformations for two-spin-1/2 and single-spin-3/2 systems, we also study nonlinear spin transformations and the related problem of diagonalizing arbitrary two-spin-1/2 and single-spin-3/2 Hamiltonians. Finally, from a calculational point of view, we pay due attention to explicit parametrizations of SU(4) and SO(6;R) matrices (of respective sizes 4x4 and 6x6) and their mutual relation.

id: 1002.2772
title: Field-induced dynamics in the quantum Brownian oscillator: An exact treatment
authors: Ilki Kim
comments: Accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010) pp. 3828-3837
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2772
abstract: We consider a quantum linear oscillator coupled to a bath in equilibrium at an arbitrary temperature and then exposed to an external field arbitrary in form and strength. We then derive the reduced density operator in closed form of the coupled oscillator in a non-equilibrium state at an arbitrary time.

id: 1002.2773
title: Sub-classical fields and polarization in electrodynamics
authors: Mathieu Planat, Janos Polonyi
comments: final version, to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:045021,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2773
abstract: Expectation values of the electromagnetic field and the electric current are introduced at space-time resolution which belongs to the quantum domain. These allow us to approach some key features of classical electrodynamics from the underlying QED. One is the emergence of the radiation field in the retarded solution of the Maxwell equation, derived from an action principle. Another question discussed is the systematic derivation of the polarizability of a charge system. Furthermore, the decoherence and the consistency of the photon field is established by a perturbative calculation of the reduced density matrix for the electromagnetic field within the Closed Time Path formalism.

id: 1002.2842
title: Long time dynamics following a quench in an integrable quantum spin chain: local versus non-local operators and effective thermal behavior
authors: Davide Rossini, Sei Suzuki, Giuseppe Mussardo, Giuseppe E. Santoro, Alessandro Silva
comments: 18 pages, 11 figures, published version. Extensive changes, one author added
journal: Phys.Rev.B82:144302,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2842
abstract: We study the dynamics of the quantum Ising chain following a zero-temperature quench of the transverse field strength. Focusing on the behavior of two-point spin correlation functions, we show that the correlators of the order parameter display an effective asymptotic thermal behavior, i.e., they decay exponentially to zero, with a phase coherence rate and a correlation length dictated by the equilibrium law with an effective temperature set by the energy of the initial state. On the contrary, the two-point correlation functions of the transverse magnetization or the density-of-kinks operator decay as a power-law and do not exhibit thermal behavior. We argue that the different behavior is linked to the locality of the corresponding operator with respect to the quasi-particles of the model: non-local operators, such as the order parameter, behave thermally, while local ones do not. We study which features of the two-point correlators are a consequence of the integrability of the model by analizing their robustness with respect to a sufficiently strong integrability-breaking term.

id: 1002.2846
title: Casimir effect for parallel plates in de Sitter spacetime
authors: E. Elizalde, A. A. Saharian, T. A. Vardanyan
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures, added figures for a massless field, added reference, added discussions and comments on thermal effects
journal: Phys.Rev.D 81 (2010) 124003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2846
abstract: The Wightman function and the vacuum expectation values of the field squared and of the energy-momentum tensor are obtained, for a massive scalar field with an arbitrary curvature coupling parameter, in the region between two infinite parallel plates, on the background of de Sitter spacetime. The field is prepared in the Bunch-Davies vacuum state and is constrained to satisfy Robin boundary conditions on the plates. For the calculation, a mode-summation method is used, supplemented with a variant of the generalized Abel-Plana formula. This allows to explicitly extract the contributions to the expectation values which come from each single boundary, and to expand the second-plate-induced part in terms of exponentially convergent integrals. Several limiting cases of interest are then studied. Moreover, the Casimir forces acting on the plates are evaluated, and it is shown that the curvature of the background spacetime decisively influences the behavior of these forces at separations larger than the curvature scale of de Sitter spacetime. In terms of the curvature coupling parameter and the mass of the field, two very different regimes are realized, which exhibit monotonic and oscillatory behavior of the vacuum expectation values, respectively. The decay of the Casimir force at large plate separation is shown to be power-law (monotonic or oscillating), with independence of the value of the field mass.

id: 1002.2962
title: Probing spacetime fluctuations using cold atom traps
authors: Charles H.-T. Wang, Robert Bingham, J. Tito Mendonca
comments: 8 pages; published version
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 1421, 203-211 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2962
abstract: We investigate the position oscillation of a particle that models the center of mass quantum state of a trapped Bose-Einstein condensate coupled to the zero-point fluctuations of the gravitational field. A semiclassical analysis is performed that allows to calculate the mean square amplitude of the oscillation. In analogy with the Lamb shift in quantum electrodynamics, this gives rise to an upshift of the energy of the trapped condensates. We show that for an elongated trap, the energy shift scales quadratically with the length as well as cubically with the total number of atoms.

id: 1002.3196
title: The Correlation Confocal Microscope
authors: D.S. Simon, A.V. Sergienko
comments: 9 figures. Submitted to Optics Express
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3196
abstract: A new type of confocal microscope is described which makes use of intensity correlations between spatially correlated beams of light. It is shown that this apparatus leads to significantly improved transverse resolution.

id: 1002.3284
title: Robust states in semiconductor quantum dot molecules
authors: H.S. Borges, L. Sanz, J.M. Villas-Boas, A.M. Alcalde
comments: To appear in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 075322 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3284
abstract: Semiconductor quantum dots coherently driven by pulsed laser are fundamental physical systems which allow studying the dynamical properties of confined quantum states. These systems are attractive candidates for a solid-state qubit, which open the possibility for several investigations in quantum information processing. In this work we study the effects of a specific decoherence process, the spontaneous emission of excitonic states, in a quantum dot molecule. We model our system considering a three-level Hamiltonian and solve the corresponding master equation in the Lindblad form. Our results show that the spontaneous emission associated with the direct exciton helps to build up a robust indirect exciton state. This robustness against decoherence allows potential applications in quantum memories and quantum gate architectures. We further investigate several regimes of physical parameters, showing that this process is easily controlled by tuning of external fields.

id: 1002.3304
title: A trapped single ion inside a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Christoph Zipkes, Stefan Palzer, Carlo Sias, Michael K?hl
comments: 
journal: Nature 464, 388 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3304
abstract: Improved control of the motional and internal quantum states of ultracold neutral atoms and ions has opened intriguing possibilities for quantum simulation and quantum computation. Many-body effects have been explored with hundreds of thousands of quantum-degenerate neutral atoms and coherent light-matter interfaces have been built. Systems of single or a few trapped ions have been used to demonstrate universal quantum computing algorithms and to detect variations of fundamental constants in precision atomic clocks. Until now, atomic quantum gases and single trapped ions have been treated separately in experiments. Here we investigate whether they can be advantageously combined into one hybrid system, by exploring the immersion of a single trapped ion into a Bose-Einstein condensate of neutral atoms. We demonstrate independent control over the two components within the hybrid system, study the fundamental interaction processes and observe sympathetic cooling of the single ion by the condensate. Our experiment calls for further research into the possibility of using this technique for the continuous cooling of quantum computers. We also anticipate that it will lead to explorations of entanglement in hybrid quantum systems and to fundamental studies of the decoherence of a single, locally controlled impurity particle coupled to a quantum environment.

id: 1002.3647
title: The Quantum Effective Mass Hamilton-Jacobi Problem
authors: Ozlem Yesiltas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3647
abstract: In this article, the quantum Hamilton- Jacobi theory based on the position dependent mass model is studied. Two effective mass functions having different singularity structures are used to examine the Morse and Poschl- Teller potentials. The residue method is used to obtain the solutions of the quantum effective mass- Hamilton Jacobi equation. Further, it is shown that the eigenstates of the generalized non-Hermitian Swanson Hamiltonian for Morse and Poschl-Teller potentials can be obtained by using the Riccati equation without solving a differential equation.

id: 1002.3723
title: New exact solution of the one dimensional Dirac Equation for the Woods-Saxon potential within the effective mass case
authors: O. Panella, S. Biondini, A. Arda
comments: Version to match the one which has been accepted for publication by J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. Added one figure, several comments and few references. (24 pages and 7 figures)
journal: J.Phys.A43:325302,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3723
abstract: We study the one-dimensional Dirac equation in the framework of a position dependent mass under the action of a Woods-Saxon external potential. We find that constraining appropriately the mass function it is possible to obtain a solution of the problem in terms of the hypergeometric function. The mass function for which this turns out to be possible is continuous. In particular we study the scattering problem and derive exact expressions for the reflection and transmission coefficients which are compared to those of the constant mass case. For the very same mass function the bound state problem is also solved, providing a transcendental equation for the energy eigenvalues which is solved numerically.

id: 1002.3738
title: Measurements of the Correlation Function of a Microwave Frequency Single Photon Source
authors: D. Bozyigit, C. Lang, L. Steffen, J. M. Fink, M. Baur, R. Bianchetti, P. J. Leek, S. Filipp, M. P. da Silva, A. Blais, A. Wallraff
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 7, 154-158 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3738
abstract: At optical frequencies the radiation produced by a source, such as a laser, a black body or a single photon source, is frequently characterized by analyzing the temporal correlations of emitted photons using single photon counters. At microwave frequencies, however, there are no efficient single photon counters yet. Instead, well developed linear amplifiers allow for efficient measurement of the amplitude of an electromagnetic field. Here, we demonstrate how the properties of a microwave single photon source can be characterized using correlation measurements of the emitted radiation with such detectors. We also demonstrate the cooling of a thermal field stored in a cavity, an effect which we detect using a cross-correlation measurement of the radiation emitted at the two ends of the cavity.

id: 1002.4225
title: Quantum Reality Filters
authors: Stanley P. Gudder
comments: 25 pages
journal: J.Phys.A43:485301,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4225
abstract: An anhomomorphic logic $\ascript ^*$ is the set of all possible realities for a quantum system. Our main goal is to find the "actual reality" $\phi_a\in\ascript ^*$ for the system. Reality filters are employed to eliminate unwanted potential realities until only $\phi_a$ remains. In this paper, we consider three reality filters that are constructed by means of quantum integrals. A quantum measure $\mu$ can generate or actualize a $\phi\in\ascript ^*$ if $\mu (A)$ is a quantum integral with respect to $\phi$ for a density function $f$ over events $A$. In this sense, $\mu$ is an "average" of the truth values of $\phi$ with weights given by $f$. We mainly discuss relations between these filters and their existence and uniqueness properties. For example, we show that a quadratic reality generated by a quantum measure is unique. In this case we obtain the unique actual quadratic reality.

id: 1002.4294
title: Quantum mechanism helps agents combat "bad" social choice rules
authors: Haoyang Wu
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 9, No. 1 (2011) 615-623
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4294
abstract: Quantum strategies have been successfully applied to game theory for years. However, as a reverse problem of game theory, the theory of mechanism design is ignored by physicists. In this paper, the theory of mechanism design is generalized to a quantum domain. The main result is that by virtue of a quantum mechanism, agents who satisfy a certain condition can combat "bad" social choice rules instead of being restricted by the traditional mechanism design theory.

id: 1002.4353
title: Unusual Corrections to Scaling in Entanglement Entropy
authors: John Cardy, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.1004:P04023,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4353
abstract: We present a general theory of the corrections to the asymptotic behaviour of the Renyi entropies which measure the entanglement of an interval A of length L with the rest of an infinite one-dimensional system, in the case when this is described by a conformal field theory of central charge c. These can be due to bulk irrelevant operators of scaling dimension x>2, in which case the leading corrections are of the expected form L^{-2(x-2)} for values of n close to 1. However for n>x/(x-2) corrections of the form L^{2-x-x/n} and L^{-2x/n} arise and dominate the conventional terms. We also point out that the last type of corrections can also occur with x less than 2. They arise from relevant operators induced by the conical space-time singularities necessary to describe the reduced density matrix. These agree with recent analytic and numerical results for quantum spin chains. We also compute the effect of marginally irrelevant bulk operators, which give a correction (log L)^{-2}, with a universal amplitude. We present analogous results for the case when the interval lies at the end of a semi-infinite system.

id: 1002.4380
title: k^-3 superfluid spectrum of highly curved interacting quantum vortices
authors: Jeffrey Yepez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4380
abstract: Presented is a prediction, based on the Frenet-Serret differential geometry of space curves, that the wave number dependence of the average kinetic energy per unit length of two mutually interacting highly curved quantum vortex scales as k^-3. The interacting quantum vortices are helical in shape, supporting circularly polarized counter-propagating waves, with arbitrary curvature and torsion. This power-law spectrum agrees with the high-k spectrum found in precise quantum simulations of turbulent superfluidity with tangle of highly curved and excited quantum vortices.

id: 1002.4437
title: Classical dynamics of the optomechanical modes of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a ring cavity
authors: W. Chen, D. S. Goldbaum, M. Bhattacharya, P. Meystre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4437
abstract: We consider a cavity optomechanical system consisting of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) interacting with two counterpropagating traveling-wave modes in an optical ring cavity. In contrast to the more familiar case where the condensate is driven by the standing-wave field of a high-$Q$ Fabry-P{\'e}rot cavity we find that both symmetric and antisymmetric collective density side modes of the BEC are mechanically excited by the light field. In the semiclassical, mean-field limit where the light field and the zero-momentum mode of the condensate are treated classically the system is found to exhibit a rich multistable behavior, including the appearance of isolated branches of solutions (isolas). We also present examples of the dynamics of the system as input parameters such as the frequency of the driving lasers are varied.

id: 1002.4567
title: Measurement of Positronium hyperfine splitting with quantum oscillation
authors: Y.Sasaki, A.Miyazaki, A.Ishida, T.Namba, S.Asai, T.Kobayashi, H.Saito, K.Tanaka, A.Yamamoto
comments: 4 figures accepted by Phys. Lett. B
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.225:012045,2010; Phys.Lett.B697:121-126,2011
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4567
abstract: Interference between different energy eigenstates in a quantum system results in an oscillation with a frequency which is proportional to the difference in energy between the states. Such an oscillation is observable in polarized positronium when it is placed in a magnetic field. In order to measure the hyperfine splitting of positronium, we perform the precise measurement of this oscillation using a high quality superconducting magnet and fast photon-detectors. A result of $203.324 \pm 0.039\rm{~(stat.)} \pm 0.015\rm{(~sys.)}$~GHz is obtained which is consistent with both theoretical calculations and previous precise measurements.

id: 1002.4568
title: Gravity as Quantum Entanglement Force
authors: Jae-Weon Lee, Hyeong-Chan Kim, Jungjai Lee
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, revtex4-1
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4568
abstract: We conjecture that quantum entanglement of matter and vacuum in the universe tend to increase with time, like entropy, and there is an effective force called quantum entanglement force associated with this tendency. It is also suggested that gravity and dark energy are types of the quantum entanglement force, similar to Verlinde's entropic force. If the entanglement entropy of the universe saturates the Bekenstein bound, this gives holographic dark energy with the equation of state consistent with current observational data. This connection between quantum information and gravity gives some new insights on the origin of gravity, dark energy, the holographic principle and arrow of time.

id: 1002.4603
title: Causality and the effective range expansion
authors: H.-W. Hammer, Dean Lee
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures, explicit examples added, typos corrected, final version
journal: Annals Phys. 325: 2212-2233 (2010)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4603
abstract: We derive the generalization of Wigner's causality bounds and Bethe's integral formula for the effective range parameter to arbitrary dimension and arbitrary angular momentum. We also discuss the impact of these constraints on the separation of low- and high-momentum scales and universality in low-energy scattering. Some of our results were summarized earlier in a letter publication. In this work, we present full derivations and several detailed examples.

id: 1002.4630
title: Harnessing the GaAs quantum dot nuclear spin bath for quantum control
authors: Hugo Ribeiro, J. R. Petta, Guido Burkard
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review B 82, 115445 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4630
abstract: We theoretically demonstrate that nuclear spins can be harnessed to coherently control two-electron spin states in a double quantum dot. Hyperfine interactions lead to an avoided crossing between the spin singlet state and the ms = +1 triplet state, T_+ . We show that a coherent superposition of singlet and triplet states can be achieved using finite-time Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg interferometry. In this system the coherent rotation rate is set by the Zeeman energy, resulting in ~1 nanosecond single spin rotations. We analyze the coherence of this spin qubit by considering the coupling to the nuclear spin bath and show that T_2^* ~ 16 ns, in good agreement with experimental data. Our analysis further demonstrates that efficient single qubit and two qubit control can be achieved using Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg interferometry.

id: 1002.4944
title: Resonance Fluorescence of a Single Artificial Atom
authors: O. Astafiev, A. M. Zagoskin, A. A. Abdumalikov Jr., Yu. A. Pashkin, T. Yamamoto, K. Inomata, Y. Nakamura, J. S. Tsai
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Science 327, 840-843 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4944
abstract: An atom in open space can be detected by means of resonant absorption and reemission of electromagnetic waves, known as resonance fluorescence, which is a fundamental phenomenon of quantum optics. We report on the observation of scattering of propagating waves by a single artificial atom. The behavior of the artificial atom, a superconducting macroscopic two-level system, is in a quantitative agreement with the predictions of quantum optics for a pointlike scatterer interacting with the electromagnetic field in one-dimensional open space. The strong atom-field interaction as revealed in a high degree of extinction of propagating waves will allow applications of controllable artificial atoms in quantum optics and photonics.

id: 1002.4880
title: Interferometers as Probes of Planckian Quantum Geometry
authors: Craig J. Hogan
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures, Latex. To appear in Physical Review D
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4880
abstract: A theory of position of massive bodies is proposed that results in an observable quantum behavior of geometry at the Planck scale, $t_P$. Departures from classical world lines in flat spacetime are described by Planckian noncommuting operators for position in different directions, as defined by interactions with null waves. The resulting evolution of position wavefunctions in two dimensions displays a new kind of directionally-coherent quantum noise of transverse position. The amplitude of the effect in physical units is predicted with no parameters, by equating the number of degrees of freedom of position wavefunctions on a 2D spacelike surface with the entropy density of a black hole event horizon of the same area. In a region of size $L$, the effect resembles spatially and directionally coherent random transverse shear deformations on timescale $\approx L/c$ with typical amplitude $\approx \sqrt{ct_PL}$. This quantum-geometrical "holographic noise" in position is not describable as fluctuations of a quantized metric, or as any kind of fluctuation, dispersion or propagation effect in quantum fields. In a Michelson interferometer the effect appears as noise that resembles a random Planckian walk of the beamsplitter for durations up to the light crossing time. Signal spectra and correlation functions in interferometers are derived, and predicted to be comparable with the sensitivities of current and planned experiments. It is proposed that nearly co-located Michelson interferometers of laboratory scale, cross-correlated at high frequency, can test the Planckian noise prediction with current technology.

id: 1002.4941
title: Universal efficiency at optimal work with Bayesian statistics
authors: Ramandeep S. Johal
comments: revtex4, 5 pages, abstract changed and presentation improved; results unchanged. New result with Bayes Theorem added
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, (2010) 061113
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4941
abstract: If the work per cycle of a quantum heat engine is averaged over an appropriate prior distribution for an external parameter $a$, the work becomes optimal at Curzon-Ahlborn efficiency. More general priors of the form $\Pi(a) \propto 1/a^{\gamma}$ yield optimal work at an efficiency which stays close to CA value, in particular near equilibrium the efficiency scales as one-half of the Carnot value. This feature is analogous to the one recently observed in literature for certain models of finite-time thermodynamics. Further, the use of Bayes' theorem implies that the work estimated with posterior probabilities also bears close analogy with the classical formula. These findings suggest that the notion of prior information can be used to reveal thermodynamic features in quantum systems, thus pointing to a new connection between thermodynamic behavior and the concept of information.

id: 1002.4984
title: Quasiprobabilistic Interpretation of Weak measurements in Mesoscopic Junctions
authors: Adam Bednorz, Wolfgang Belzig
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 106803 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4984
abstract: The impossibility of measuring noncommuting quantum mechanical observables is one of the most fascinating consequences of the quantum mechanical postulates. Hence, to date the investigation of quantum measurement and projection is a fundamentally interesting topic. We propose to test the concept of weak measurement of noncommuting observables in mesoscopic transport experiments, using a quasiprobablistic description. We derive an inequality for current correlators, which is satisfied by every classical probability but violated by high-frequency fourth-order cumulants in the quantum regime for experimentally feasible parameters.

id: 1002.3876
title: Comments on "On the Origin of Gravity and the Laws of Newton", by Erik Verlinde
authors: Hristu Culetu
comments: 6 pages, no figures, refs added, minor changes
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3876
abstract: We argue that the relativistic Unruh temperature cannot be associated with the bits on the screen, in the form considered by Verlinde. The acceleration $a$ is a scalar quantity (the modulus of the acceleration four vecor) and not a vector. When the mass $m$ approaches the holographic screen, viewed as a stretched horizon, the shift $\Delta x$ from Verlinde's Eq. (3.15) becomes $c^{2}/a$ and the entropy variation equals $(1/2) k_{B} \Delta N$, in accordance with Gao's calculations. Using the Heisenberg Principle we show that the energy on the causal horizon (viewed as a holographic screen) of an inertial observer is proportional to its radius, as for a black hole.

id: 1002.4920
title: Product systems, subproduct systems and dilation theory of completely positive semigroups
authors: Orr Shalit
comments: PhD. thesis (Technion, Haifa). 195 pages. Supervisor: Baruch Solel. Defended on June 2009
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4920
abstract: This thesis is dedicated to developing a dilation theory for semigroups of completely positive maps. The first part treats two-parameter semigroups, and contains also contributions to dilation theory of product system representations. The second part deals with completely positive semigroups parameterized by quite general semigroups, where the major technical tool introduced is subproduct systems and their representations. In the third part subproduct systems are studied, together with the multivariable operator theory and operator algebras they give rise to.

id: 1002.4635
title: Conformal Field Theory on the Fermi Surface
authors: Brian Swingle
comments: 4 pages + references, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 86, 035116 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4635
abstract: The Fermi surface may be usefully viewed as a collection of 1+1 dimensional chiral conformal field theories. This approach permits straightforward calculation of many anomalous ground state properties of the Fermi gas including entanglement entropy and number fluctuations. The 1+1 dimensional picture also generalizes to finite temperature and the presence of interactions. Finally, I argue that the low energy entanglement structure of Fermi liquid theory is universal, depending only on the geometry of the interacting Fermi surface.

id: 1002.1129
title: Entanglement and corrections to Bekenstein-Hawking entropy
authors: Saurya Das, S. Shankaranarayanan, Sourav Sur
comments: 3 Pages, 1 Figure, Talk given by SSh at the 12th Marcel Grossmann meeting
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1129
abstract: In this talk, we focus on the corrections to Bekenstein-Hawking entropy by associating it with the entanglement between degrees of freedom inside and outside the horizon. Using numerical techniques, we show that the corrections proportional to fractional power of area result when the field is in a superposition of ground and excited states. We explain this result by identifying that the degrees of freedom contributing to such corrections are different from those contributing to Bekenstein-Hawking entropy.

id: 1002.4409
title: Phase transition and annealing in quantum random energy models
authors: Carlo Presilla, Massimo Ostilli
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4409
abstract: By using a previously established exact characterization of the ground state of random potential systems in the thermodynamic limit, we determine the ground and first excited energy levels of quantum random energy models, discrete and continuous, and rigorously establish the existence of a first order quantum phase transition. Our analysis, corroborated by Monte Carlo simulations, suggests that the presence of an exponentially vanishing minimal gap at the transition does not prevent the success of a quantum annealing algorithm.

id: 1002.4190
title: Lieb-Robinson bounds with dependence on interaction strengths
authors: Isabeau Pr¨¦mont-Schwarz, Jeff Hnybida
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure, minor modifications
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:062107,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4190
abstract: We propose new Lieb-Robinson bounds (bounds on the speed of propagation of information in quantum systems) with an explicit dependence on the interaction strengths of the Hamiltonian. For systems with more than two interactions it is found that the Lieb-Robinson speed is not always algebraic in the interaction strengths. We consider Hamiltonians with any finite number of bounded operators and also a certain class of unbounded operators. We obtain bounds and propagation speeds for quantum systems on lattices and also general graphs possessing a kind of homogeneity and isotropy. One area for which this formalism could be useful is the study of quantum phase transitions which occur when interactions strengths are varied.

id: 1002.3020
title: Distinguishing quantum and classical transport through nanostructures
authors: Neill Lambert, Clive Emary, Yueh-Nan Chen, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Simplified proof following Equation (2)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 176801 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3020
abstract: We consider the question of how to distinguish quantum from classical transport through nanostructures. To address this issue we have derived two inequalities for temporal correlations in nonequilibrium transport in nanostructures weakly coupled to leads. The first inequality concerns local charge measurements and is of general validity; the second concerns the current flow through the device and is relevant for double quantum dots. Violation of either of these inequalities indicates that physics beyond that of a classical Markovian model is occurring in the nanostructure.

id: 1002.3186
title: Observation of Spatial Fluctuations of the Local Density of States in Random Media
authors: M. D. Birowosuto, S. E. Skipetrov, W. L. Vos, A. P. Mosk
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, we added a description about the depth of the single fluorescent spheres and a text about LDOS distribution because of dipole orientations as pointed out by a referee.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 013904 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3186
abstract: We experimentally study spatial fluctuations of the local density of states (LDOS) inside three-dimensional random photonic media. The LDOS is probed at many positions inside the random photonic media by measuring emission rates of a large number of individual fluorescent nanospheres. The emission rates are observed to fluctuate spatially. We analyze the variance of these fluctuations for samples with different scattering strengths. The measured variance of the emission rates agrees well with a model that takes into account the effect of the nearest scatterer only.

id: 1002.2061
title: A Stepwise Planned Approach to the Solution of Hilbert's Sixth Problem. II : Supmech and Quantum Systems
authors: Tulsi Dass
comments: 55 pages; some modifications in text; improved treatment of topological aspects and of Noether invariants; results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2061
abstract: Supmech, which is noncommutative Hamiltonian mechanics \linebreak (NHM) (developed in paper I) with two extra ingredients : positive observable valued measures (PObVMs) [which serve to connect state-induced expectation values and classical probabilities] and the `CC condition' [which stipulates that the sets of observables and pure states be mutually separating] is proposed as a universal mechanics potentially covering all physical phenomena. It facilitates development of an autonomous formalism for quantum mechanics. Quantum systems, defined algebraically as supmech Hamiltonian systems with non-supercommutative system algebras, are shown to inevitably have Hilbert space based realizations (so as to accommodate rigged Hilbert space based Dirac bra-ket formalism), generally admitting commutative superselection rules. Traditional features of quantum mechanics of finite particle systems appear naturally. A treatment of localizability much simpler and more general than the traditional one is given. Treating massive particles as localizable elementary quantum systems, the Schr$\ddot{o}$dinger wave functions with traditional Born interpretation appear as natural objects for the description of their pure states and the Schr$\ddot{o}$dinger equation for them is obtained without ever using a classical Hamiltonian or Lagrangian. A provisional set of axioms for the supmech program is given.

id: 1002.3575
title: Edges and Diffractive Effects in Casimir Energies
authors: Daniel Kabat, Dimitra Karabali, V.P. Nair
comments: 32 pages, LaTeX, 9 figures. v2: additional discussion of renormalization procedure, version to appear in PRD. v3: corrected a sign error in (70)
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:125013,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3575
abstract: The prototypical Casimir effect arises when a scalar field is confined between parallel Dirichlet boundaries. We study corrections to this when the boundaries themselves have apertures and edges. We consider several geometries: a single plate with a slit in it, perpendicular plates separated by a gap, and two parallel plates, one of which has a long slit of large width, related to the case of one plate being semi-infinite. We develop a general formalism for studying such problems, based on the wavefunctional for the field in the gap between the plates. This formalism leads to a lower dimensional theory defined on the open regions of the plates or boundaries. The Casimir energy is then given in terms of the determinant of the nonlocal differential operator which defines the lower dimensional theory. We develop perturbative methods for computing these determinants. Our results are in good agreement with known results based on Monte Carlo simulations. The method is well suited to isolating the diffractive contributions to the Casimir energy.

id: 1002.3253
title: Families of particles with different masses in PT-symmetric quantum field theory
authors: C. M. Bender, S. P. Klevansky
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:031601,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3253
abstract: An elementary field-theoretic mechanism is proposed that allows one Lagrangian to describe a family of particles having different masses but otherwise similar physical properties. The mechanism relies on the observation that the Dyson-Schwinger equations derived from a Lagrangian can have many different but equally valid solutions. Nonunique solutions to the Dyson-Schwinger equations arise when the functional integral for the Green's functions of the quantum field theory converges in different pairs of Stokes' wedges in complex field space, and the solutions are physically viable if the pairs of Stokes' wedges are PT symmetric.

id: 1002.3140
title: Quantum Measurement of Phonon Shot Noise
authors: Aashish Clerk, Florian Marquardt, Jack Harris
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 213603 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3140
abstract: We provide a full quantum mechanical analysis of a weak energy measurement of a driven mechanical resonator. We demonstrate that measurements too weak to resolve individual mechanical Fock states can nonetheless be used to unambiguously detect the non-classical energy fluctuations of the driven mechanical resonator, i.e. "phonon shot noise". We also show that the third moment of the oscillator's energy fluctuations provides a far more sensitive probe of quantum effects than the second moment, and that measuring the third moment via the phase shift of light in an optomechanical setup directly yields the type of operator ordering postulated in the theory of full-counting statistics.

id: 1002.1667
title: The Black-Scholes Equation and Certain Quantum Hamiltonians
authors: Juan M. Romero, O. Gonzalez-Gaxiola, J. Ruiz de Chavez, R. Bernal-Jaquez
comments: 10 pages, no figures, some important changes were maked. An author was added. To appear in International Journal of Pure and Applied Mathematics-IJPAM
journal: International Journal of Pure and Applied Mathematics (IJPAM): Volume 67, No. 2 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1667
abstract: In this paper a quantum mechanics is built by means of a non-Hermitian momentum operator. We have shown that it is possible to construct two Hermitian and two non-Hermitian type of Hamiltonians using this momentum operator. We can construct a generalized supersymmetric quantum mechanics that has a dual based on these Hamiltonians. In addition, it is shown that the non-Hermitian Hamiltonians of this theory can be related to Hamiltonians that naturally arise in the so-called quantum finance.

