id: 1003.0038
title: Quantum Strategies and Local Operations
authors: Gus Gutoski
comments: PhD thesis, 150 pages. Chapter 5 is new. Part I (except Chapter 5) is an expanded and revised version of arXiv:quant-ph/0611234. Chapter 5 (with corrections) was later published as arXiv:1008.4636. Part II is nearly identical to arXiv:0805.2209. v2: added errata for Chapter 5
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0038
abstract: This thesis is divided into two parts. In Part I we introduce a new formalism for quantum strategies, which specify the actions of one party in any multi-party interaction involving the exchange of multiple quantum messages among the parties. This formalism associates with each strategy a single positive semidefinite operator acting only upon the tensor product of the input and output message spaces for the strategy. We establish three fundamental properties of this new representation for quantum strategies and we list several applications, including a quantum version of von Neumann's celebrated 1928 Min-Max Theorem for zero-sum games and an efficient algorithm for computing the value of such a game. In Part II we establish several properties of a class of quantum operations that can be implemented locally with shared quantum entanglement or classical randomness. In particular, we establish the existence of a ball of local operations with shared randomness lying within the space spanned by the no-signaling operations and centred at the completely noisy channel. The existence of this ball is employed to prove that the weak membership problem for local operations with shared entanglement is strongly NP-hard. We also provide characterizations of local operations in terms of linear functionals that are positive and "completely" positive on a certain cone of Hermitian operators, under a natural notion of complete positivity appropriate to that cone. We end the thesis with a discussion of the properties of no-signaling quantum operations.

id: 1003.0055
title: Continuous-time quantum walks on the threshold network model
authors: Yusuke Ide, Norio Konno
comments: 12 pages
journal: Mathematical Structures in Computer Science, Vol.20, pp.1079-1090 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0055
abstract: It is well known that many real world networks have the power-law degree distribution (scale-free property). However there are no rigorous results for continuous-time quantum walks on such realistic graphs. In this paper, we analyze space-time behaviors of continuous-time quantum walks and random walks on the threshold network model which is a reasonable candidate model having scale-free property. We show that the quantum walker exhibits localization at the starting point, although the random walker tends to spread uniformly.

id: 1003.0065
title: Search on a Hypercubic Lattice using a Quantum Random Walk: I. d>2
authors: Apoorva Patel, Md. Aminoor Rahaman
comments: 11 pages, Revtex (v2) Introduction and references expanded. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A82 (2010) 032330
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0065
abstract: Random walks describe diffusion processes, where movement at every time step is restricted to only the neighbouring locations. We construct a quantum random walk algorithm, based on discretisation of the Dirac evolution operator inspired by staggered lattice fermions. We use it to investigate the spatial search problem, i.e. finding a marked vertex on a $d$-dimensional hypercubic lattice. The restriction on movement hardly matters for $d>2$, and scaling behaviour close to Grover's optimal algorithm (which has no restriction on movement) can be achieved. Using numerical simulations, we optimise the proportionality constants of the scaling behaviour, and demonstrate the approach to that for Grover's algorithm (equivalent to the mean field theory or the $d\to\infty$ limit). In particular, the scaling behaviour for $d=3$ is only about 25% higher than the optimal $d\to\infty$ value.

id: 1003.0094
title: Debunking the black hole information paradox
authors: Andrzej Dragan
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0094
abstract: The vivid debate concerning the paradox of information being lost when objects are swallowed by a black hole is shown to be void. We argue that no information is ever missing for any observer neither located above, nor falling beneath the event horizon. The information is preserved in a classical scenario of eternal black holes and semi-classical one allowing Hawking radiation.

id: 1003.0103
title: Twopartite, combinatorial approach to partial k-separability problem for general multipartite states
authors: Roman Gielerak Marek Sawerwain
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0103
abstract: We describe a general methods to localize any sort of k-separability and therefore also the corresponding partial entanglement in genuinely multipartite mixed quantum states. Our methods are based exclusively on the known twopartite methods and some systematic procedures of combinatorial nature. Our methods are formalized in an algorithmic-like fashion and therefore they are easily implementable in a computer environments and might be effectively used for studying numerically these questions for sufficiently small systems

id: 1003.0116
title: Cavity quantum electro-optics
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures; v2: updated and submitted, v3: extended, accepted by Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 81, 063837 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0116
abstract: The quantum dynamics of the coupling between a cavity optical field and a resonator microwave field via the electro-optic effect is studied. This coupling has the same form as the opto-mechanical coupling via radiation pressure, so all previously considered opto-mechanical effects can in principle be observed in electro-optic systems as well. In particular, I point out the possibilities of laser cooling of the microwave mode, entanglement between the optical mode and the microwave mode via electro-optic parametric amplification, and back-action-evading optical measurements of a microwave quadrature.

id: 1003.0157
title: Spin-squeezing and Dicke state preparation by heterodyne measurement
authors: Thomas Vanderbruggen, Simon Bernon, Andr¨¦a Bertoldi, Arnaud Landragin, Philippe Bouyer
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 83 (2011) 013821
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0157
abstract: We investigate the quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement of an atomic population based on a heterodyne detection and show that the induced back-action allows to prepare both spin-squeezed and Dicke states. We use a wavevector formalism to describe the stochastic process of the measurement and the associated atomic evolution. Analytical formulas of the atomic distribution momenta are derived in the weak coupling regime both for short and long time behavior, and they are in good agreement with those obtained by a Monte-Carlo simulation. The experimental implementation of the proposed heterodyne detection scheme is discussed. The role played in the squeezing process by the spontaneous emission is considered.

id: 1003.0170
title: The qubit states decoherence in antiferromagnet-based nuclear spin model of quantum register
authors: A. A. Kokin, V. A. Kokin
comments: LaTex 18 pages, 4 figures. Submitted to Quantum Computers and Computing (Russia) v.9 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0170
abstract: This study deals with the further development of nuclear spin model of scalable quantum register, which presents the one-dimensional chain of the magnetic atoms with nuclear spins 1/2, substituting the basic atoms in the plate of nuclear spin-free easy-axis 3D antiferromagnet. The decoherence rates of one qubit state and entanglement state of two removed qubits and longitudinal relaxation rates are caused by the interaction of nuclear spins-qubits with virtual spin waves in antiferromagnet ground state were calculated. It was considered also one qubit adiabatic decoherence, is caused by the interaction of nuclear spin of quantum register with nuclear spins of randomly distributed isotopes, substituting the basic nuclear spin-free isotopes of antiferromagnet. We have considered finally encoded DFS (Decoherence-Free Subspaces) logical qubits are constructed on clusters of the four-physical qubits, given by the two states with zero total angular momentum.

id: 1003.0179
title: The Gibbs Paradox Revisited
authors: Dennis Dieks
comments: to appear in Proceedings of "The Philosophy of Science in a European Perspective 2009"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0179
abstract: The Gibbs paradox has frequently been interpreted as a sign that particles of the same kind are fundamentally indistinguishable; and that quantum mechanics, with its identical fermions and bosons, is indispensable for making sense of this. In this article we shall argue, on the contrary, that analysis of the paradox supports the idea that classical particles are always distinguishable. Perhaps surprisingly, this analysis extends to quantum mechanics: even according to quantum mechanics there can be distinguishable particles of the same kind. Our most important general conclusion will accordingly be that the universally accepted notion that quantum particles of the same kind are necessarily indistinguishable rests on a confusion about how particles are represented in quantum theory.

id: 1003.0180
title: Spatial multipartite entanglement and localization of entanglement
authors: D. Daems, N. J. Cerf
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0180
abstract: We present a simple model together with its physical implementation which allows one to generate multipartite entanglement between several spatial modes of the electromagnetic field. It is based on parametric down-conversion with N pairs of symmetrically-tilted plane waves serving as a pump. The characteristics of this spatial entanglement are investigated in the cases of zero as well as nonzero phase mismatch. Furthermore, the phenomenon of entanglement localization in just two spatial modes is studied in detail and results in an enhancement of the entanglement by a factor square root of N.

id: 1003.0181
title: Quantum repeaters and computation by a single module
authors: Koji Azuma, Hitoshi Takeda, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0181
abstract: We present a protocol of remote nondestructive parity measurement (RNPM) on a pair of quantum memories. The protocol works as a single module for key operations such as entanglement generation, Bell measurement, parity check measurement, and an elementary gate for extending one-dimensional cluster states. The RNPM protocol is achieved by a simple combination of devices such as lasers, optical fibers, beam splitters, and photon detectors. Despite its simplicity, a quantum repeater composed of RNPM protocols is shown to have a communication time that scales sub-exponentially with the channel length, and it can be further equipped with entanglement distillation. With a reduction in the internal losses, the RNPM protocol can also be used for generating cluster states toward measurement-based quantum communication.

id: 1003.0184
title: Marching toward the eigenvalues: The Canonical Function Method and the Schr?dinger equation
authors: C. Tannous, J. Langlois
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures. To submit to American Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0184
abstract: The Canonical Function Method (CFM) is a powerful accurate and fast method that solves the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the eigenvalues directly without having to evaluate the eigenfunctions. Its versatility allows to solve several types of problems and in this work it is applied to the solution of several 1D potential problems, the 3D Hydrogen atom and the Morse potential.

id: 1003.0210
title: Universal nonlinear entanglement witnesses
authors: Marcin Kotowski, Michal Kotowski, Marek Kus
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0210
abstract: We give a universal recipe for constructing nonlinear entanglement witnesses able to detect non-classical correlations in arbitrary systems of distinguishable and/or identical particles for an arbitrary number of constituents. The constructed witnesses are expressed in terms of expectation values of observables. As such they are, at least in principle, measurable in experiments

id: 1003.0226
title: Compactly packaged superconducting nanowire single-photon detector with an optical cavity for multichannel system
authors: Shigehito Miki, Masanori Takeda, Mikio Fujiwara, Masahide Sasaki, Zhen Wang
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0226
abstract: We developed superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors with an optical cavity (OC-SNSPDs) for multichannel systems. For efficient coupling, the devices were installed in compact fiber-coupled packages after their substrate thickness was reduced from 400 to 45 $\mu$m. The measured detection efficiency (DE) measurement at different substrate thicknesses and the estimation of optical coupling efficiency indicated that ~98% of the input light beam could be radiated on a 15x15 $\mu m^2$ nanowire area from behind the substrate. The DEs of a NbN OC-SNSPD system were observed to be 9.5% and 25% at 1550 nm and 1310 nm, respectively (dark-count rate: 100 c/s).

id: 1003.0227
title: Superconducting nanowire single photon detectors for quantum information and communications
authors: Zhen Wang, Shigehito Miki, Mikio Fujiwara
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures
journal: IEEE JOURNAL OF SELECTED TOPICS IN QUANTUM ELECTRONICS, 15, No.6, 1741-1747 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0227
abstract: Superconducting nanowire single photon detectors (SNSPD or SSPD) are highly promising devices in the growing field of quantum information and communications technology. We have developed a practical SSPD system with our superconducting thin films and devices fabrication, optical coupling packaging, and cryogenic technology. The SSPD system consists of six-channel SSPD devices and a compact Gifford-McMahon (GM) cryocooler, and can operate continuously on 100 V ac power without the need for any cryogens. The SSPD devices were fabricated from high-quality niobium nitride (NbN) ultra-thin films that were epitaxially grown on single-crystal MgO substrates. The packaged SSPD devices were temperature stabilized to 2.96 K +/- 10 mK. The system detection efficiency for an SSPD device with an area of 20x20 $\mu m^2$ was found to be 2.6% and 4.5% at wavelengths of 1550 and 1310 nm, respectively, at a dark count rate of 100 c/s, and a jitter of 100 ps full width at half maximum (FWHM). We also performed ultra-fast BB84 quantum key distribution (QKD) field testing and entanglement-based QKD experiments using these SSPD devices.

id: 1003.0233
title: Exhaustive Generation of Orthomodular Lattices with Exactly One Non-Quantum State
authors: Mladen Pavicic
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Reports on Mathematical Physics, 64, 417-428 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0233
abstract: We propose a kind of reverse Kochen-Specker theorem that amounts to generating orthomodular lattices (OMLs) with exactly one state that do not admit properties of the Hilbert space. We apply MMP algorithms to obtain smallest OMLs with 35 atoms and 35 blocks (35-35) and all other ones up to 38-38. We find out that all but one of them admit exactly one state and discover several other properties of theirs. Previously known such OMLs have 44 atoms and 44 blocks or more. We present some of them in our notation.

id: 1003.0247
title: Nonlinear Quantum Wave Equation of Radiation Electron and Dissipative Systems
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Xiao-Jing Liu, Bai-Jun Zhang, Yi-Heng Wu
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0247
abstract: As well known, an electron will produce radiative reaction force when the electron emits electromagnetism radiation. The electron radiative effect had not been considered in Schr\"{o}dinger wave equation. In this paper, we give the nonlinear quantum wave equations for the radiative electron and some dissipative systems.

id: 1003.0269
title: Effective Mass Dirac-Morse Problem with any kappa-value
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever, Cevdet Tezcan, Huseyin Akcay
comments: 12 pages
journal: Chines Phys. Lett. 27, 040306(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0269
abstract: The Dirac-Morse problem are investigated within the framework of an approximation to the term proportional to $1/r^2$ in the view of the position-dependent mass formalism. The energy eigenvalues and corresponding wave functions are obtained by using the parametric generalization of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method for any $\kappa$-value. It is also studied the approximate energy eigenvalues, and corresponding wave functions in the case of the constant-mass for pseudospin, and spin cases, respectively.

id: 1003.0288
title: Singular extremals for the time-optimal control of dissipative spin 1/2 particles
authors: M. Lapert, Y. Zhang, M. Braun, S. J. Glaser, D. Sugny
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 083001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0288
abstract: We consider the time-optimal control by magnetic fields of a spin 1/2 particle in a dissipative environment. This system is used as an illustrative example to show the role of singular extremals in the control of quantum systems. We analyze a simple case where the control law is explicitly determined. We experimentally implement the optimal control using techniques of nuclear magnetic resonance. To our knowledge, this is the first experimental demonstration of singular extremals in quantum systems with bounded control amplitudes.

id: 1003.0293
title: Strong entanglement causes low gate fidelity in inaccurate one-way quantum computation
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 060307(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0293
abstract: We study how entanglement among the register qubits affects the gate fidelity in the one-way quantum computation if a measurement is inaccurate. We derive an inequality which shows that the mean gate fidelity is upper bounded by a decreasing function of the magnitude of the error of the measurement and the amount of the entanglement between the measured qubit and other register qubits. The consequence of this inequality is that, for a given amount of entanglement, which is theoretically calculated once the algorithm is fixed, we can estimate from this inequality how small the magnitude of the error should be in order not to make the gate fidelity below a threshold, which is specified by a technical requirement in a particular experimental setup or by the threshold theorem of the fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: 1003.0304
title: Nonlinear friction in quantum mechanics
authors: Roumen Tsekov
comments: 
journal: Ann. Univ. Sofia, Fac. Phys. 105 (2012) 14-21
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0304
abstract: The effect of nonlinear friction forces in quantum mechanics is studied via dissipative Madelung hydrodynamics. A new thermo-quantum diffusion equation is derived, which is solved for the particular case of quantum Brownian motion with a cubic friction. It is extended also by a chemical reaction term to describe quantum reaction-diffusion systems with nonlinear friction as well.

id: 1003.0353
title: Collapse and revival in inter-band oscillations of a two-band Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Patrick Pl?tz, Javier Madronero, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 081001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0353
abstract: We study the effect of a many-body interaction on inter-band oscillations in a two-band Bose-Hubbard model with external Stark force. Weak and strong inter-band oscillations are observed, where the latter arise from a resonant coupling of the bands. These oscillations collapse and revive due to a weak two-body interaction between the atoms. Effective models for oscillations in and out of resonance are introduced that provide predictions for the system's behaviour, particularly for the time-scales for the collapse and revival of the resonant inter-band oscillations.

id: 1003.0423
title: Signal Enhancement and Background Suppression Using Interference and Entanglement
authors: Keith Kastella, Ralph S. Conti
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0423
abstract: We describe two-photon absorption processes excited by entangled pairs, but not by non-entangled pairs of the same energy and polarization. Photon states are selected for destructive interference in the non-entangled process between different sequences of absorption via multiple intermediate states. A non-zero entangled absorption cross section is obtained by varying the entanglement time and pair delay parameters. Detailed energy and polarization requirements are derived for Rb 5S1/2 --> 5D3/2 transitions. Applications to Quantum Steganography and Quantum Key Distribution are discussed.

id: 1003.0424
title: Cold-Atom-Induced Control of an Optomechanical Device
authors: M. Paternostro, G. De Chiara, G. M. Palma
comments: 4 pages, 9 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 243602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0424
abstract: We consider a cavity with a vibrating end mirror and coupled to a Bose-Einstein condensate. The cavity field mediates the interplay between mirror and collective oscillations of the atomic density. We study the implications of this dynamics and the possibility of an indirect diagnostic. Our predictions can be observed in a realistic setup that is central to the current quest for mesoscopic quantumness.

id: 1003.0432
title: Testing nonlocality over 12.4 km of underground fiber with universal time-bin qubit analyzers
authors: Felix Bussieres, Joshua A. Slater, Jeongwan Jin, Nicolas Godbout, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0432
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate that the nonlocal nature of time-bin entangled photonic qubits persists when one or two qubits of the pair are converted to polarization qubits. This is possible by implementing a novel Universal Time-Bin Qubit Analyzer (UTBA), which, for the first time, allows analyzing time-bin qubits in any basis. We reveal the nonlocal nature of the emitted light by violating the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality with measurement bases exploring all the dimensions of the Bloch sphere. Moreover, we conducted experiments where one qubit is transmitted over a 12.4 km underground fiber link and demonstrate the suitability of our scheme for use in a real-world setting. The resulting entanglement can also be interpreted as hybrid entanglement between different types of degrees of freedom of two physical systems, which could prove useful in large scale, heterogeneous quantum networks. This work opens new possibilities for testing nonlocality and for implementing new quantum communication protocols with time-bin entanglement.

id: 1003.0468
title: Entropy, fidelity, and double orthogonality for resonance states in two-electron quantum dots
authors: Federico M. Pont, Omar Osenda, Pablo Serra, Julio H. Toloza
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042518 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0468
abstract: Resonance states of a two-electron quantum dot are studied using a variational expansion with both real basis-set functions and complex scaling methods. The two-electron entanglement (linear entropy) is calculated as a function of the electron repulsion at both sides of the critical value, where the ground (bound) state becomes a resonance (unbound) state. The linear entropy and fidelity and double orthogonality functions are compared as methods for the determination of the real part of the energy of a resonance. The complex linear entropy of a resonance state is introduced using complex scaling formalism.

id: 1003.0484
title: Quantum dense coding without entanglement
authors: W. T. Buttler, S. K. Lamoreaux, J. R. Torgerson
comments: New title, 6 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to PRL: 12/23/09. Includes PRL response. Possible it will not be published in PRL; PRA next likely. Nominally related to arXiv:0808.0686, but uniquely different. Tell us (buttler@lanl.gov) if you find an error.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0484
abstract: We describe a quantum cryptography protocol with up to twenty four-dimensional ($\mathcal{D} =4$) states generated by a polarization-, phase- and time-encoding transmitter. This protocol can be experimentally realized with existing technology, drawing from time-encoded and polarization-encoded systems. The protocol is error tolerant and has a quantum bit-rate of 2 per transmission/detection, which when combined with state detection efficiency yields a qubit efficiency of up to 1 or double that of BB84-{\it like} protocols.

id: 1003.0593
title: Multiqubit symmetric states with high geometric entanglement
authors: J. Martin, O. Giraud, P. A. Braun, D. Braun, T. Bastin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062347 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0593
abstract: We propose a detailed study of the geometric entanglement properties of pure symmetric N-qubit states, focusing more particularly on the identification of symmetric states with a high geometric entanglement and how their entanglement behaves asymptotically for large N. We show that much higher geometric entanglement with improved asymptotical behavior can be obtained in comparison with the highly entangled balanced Dicke states studied previously. We also derive an upper bound for the geometric measure of entanglement of symmetric states. The connection with the quantumness of a state is discussed.

id: 1003.0607
title: Optomechanics with molecules in a strongly pumped ring cavity
authors: R. J. Schulze, C. Genes, H. Ritsch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 063820 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0607
abstract: Cavity cooling of an atom works best on a cyclic optical transition in the strong coupling regime near resonance, where small cavity photon numbers suffice for trapping and cooling. Due to the absence of closed transitions a straightforward application to molecules fails: optical pumping can lead the particle into uncoupled states. An alternative operation in the far off-resonant regime generates only very slow cooling due to the reduced field-molecule coupling. We predict to overcome this by using a strongly driven ring-cavity operated in the sideband cooling regime. As in the optomechanical setups one takes advantage of a collectively enhanced field-molecule coupling strength using a large photon number. A linearized analytical treatment confirmed by full numerical quantum simulations predicts fast cooling despite the off-resonant small single molecule - single photon coupling. Even ground state cooling can be obtained by tuning the cavity field close to the Anti-stokes sideband for sufficiently high trapping frequency. Numerical simulations show quantum jumps of the molecules between the lowest two trapping levels, which can be be directly and continuously monitored via scattered light intensity detection.

id: 1003.0616
title: A tight Tsirelson inequality for infinitely many outcomes
authors: S. Zohren, P. Reska, R. D. Gill, W. Westra
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; improved presentation, change in title, as published.
journal: Europhysics Letters 90 (2010) 10002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0616
abstract: We present a novel tight bound on the quantum violations of the CGLMP inequality in the case of infinitely many outcomes. Like in the case of Tsirelson's inequality the proof of our new inequality does not require any assumptions on the dimension of the Hilbert space or kinds of operators involved. However, it is seen that the maximal violation is obtained by the conjectured best measurements and a pure, but not maximally entangled, state. We give an approximate state which, in the limit where the number of outcomes tends to infinity, goes to the optimal state for this setting. This state might be potentially relevant for experimental verifications of Bell inequalities through multi-dimenisonal entangled photon pairs.

id: 1003.0635
title: Proposal for Implementing Device-Independent Quantum Key Distribution based on a Heralded Qubit Amplification
authors: Nicolas Gisin, Stefano Pironio, Nicolas Sangouard
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 6 page appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 070501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0635
abstract: In device-independent quantum key distribution (DIQKD), the violation of a Bell inequality is exploited to establish a shared key that is secure independently of the internal workings of the QKD devices. An experimental implementation of DIQKD, however, is still awaited, since hitherto all optical Bell tests are subject to the detection loophole, making the protocol unsecured. In particular, photon losses in the quantum channel represent a fundamental limitation for DIQKD. Here, we introduce a heralded qubit amplifier based on single-photon sources and linear optics that provides a realistic solution to overcome the problem of channel losses in Bell tests.

id: 1003.0649
title: Entanglement and sensitivity in precision measurements with states of a fluctuating number of particles
authors: P. Hyllus, L. Pezz¨¦, A. Smerzi
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 120501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0649
abstract: The concepts of separability, entanglement, spin-squeezing and Heisenberg limit are central in the theory of quantum enhanced metrology. In the current literature, these are well established only in the case of linear interferometers operating with input quantum states of a known fixed number of particles. This manuscript generalizes these concepts and extends the quantum phase estimation theory by taking into account classical and quantum fluctuations of the particle number. Our analysis concerns most of the current experiments on precision measurements where the number of particles is known only in average.

id: 1003.0703
title: Duality of privacy amplification against quantum adversaries and data compression with quantum side information
authors: Joseph M. Renes
comments: v2: Includes a derivation of an entropic uncertainty principle for smooth min- and max-entropies. Discussion of the Holevo-Schumacher-Westmoreland theorem removed
journal: Proc. Roy. Soc. A vol. 467 no. 2130, pp. 1604-1623, 8 June 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0703
abstract: We show that the tasks of privacy amplification against quantum adversaries and data compression with quantum side information are dual in the sense that the ability to perform one implies the ability to perform the other. These are two of the most important primitives in classical information theory, and are shown to be connected by complementarity and the uncertainty principle in the quantum setting. Applications include a new uncertainty principle formulated in terms of smooth min- and max-entropies, as well as new conditions for approximate quantum error correction.

id: 1003.0716
title: Using post-measurement information in state discrimination
authors: Deepthi Gopal, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, revtex, v2: published version, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022326 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0716
abstract: We consider a special form of state discrimination in which after the measurement we are given additional information that may help us identify the state. This task plays a central role in the analysis of quantum cryptographic protocols in the noisy-storage model, where the identity of the state corresponds to a certain bit string, and the additional information is typically a choice of encoding that is initially unknown to the cheating party. We first provide simple optimality conditions for measurements for any such problem, and show upper and lower bounds on the success probability. For a certain class of problems, we furthermore provide tight bounds on how useful post-measurement information can be. In particular, we show that for this class finding the optimal measurement for the task of state discrimination with post-measurement information does in fact reduce to solving a different problem of state discrimination without such information. However, we show that for the corresponding classical state discrimination problems with post-measurement information such a reduction is impossible, by relating the success probability to the violation of Bell inequalities. This suggests the usefulness of post-measurement information as another feature that distinguishes the classical from a quantum world.

id: 1003.0717
title: Conformal Transformation of the Schr?dinger Equation for the Harmonic Oscillator into a Simpler Form
authors: Robert J. Ducharme
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0717
abstract: The Schr\"{o}dinger equation and ladder operators for the harmonic oscillator are shown to simplify through the use of an isometric conformal transformation. These results are discussed in relation to the Bargmann representation. It is further demonstrated that harmonic interactions can be introduced into quantum mechanics as an imaginary component of time equivalent to adding the oscillator potential into the hamiltonian for the confined particle.

id: 1003.0720
title: Entanglement between the future and past in the quantum vacuum
authors: S. Jay Olson, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:110404,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0720
abstract: We note that massless fields within the future and past light cone may be quantized as independent systems. We show that the vacuum is an entangled state of these systems, exactly mirroring the known entanglement between the spacelike separated Rindler wedges. We describe a detector which exhibits a thermal response to the vacuum when switched on at t=0. The feasibility of experimentally detecting this effect is discussed.

id: 1003.0726
title: Tight Upper Bound Of The Maximum Speed Of Evolution Of A Quantum State
authors: H. F. Chau
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, minor changes with an additional reference added, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0726
abstract: I report a tight upper bound of the maximum speed of evolution from one quantum state $\rho$ to another $\rho'$ with fidelity $F(\rho,\rho')$ less than or equal to an arbitrary but fixed value under the action of a time-independent Hamiltonian. Since the bound is directly proportional to the average absolute deviation from the median of the energy of the state ${\mathscr D}E$, one may interpret ${\mathscr D}E$ as a meaningful measure of the maximum information processing capability of a system.

id: 1003.0727
title: On the comparison of volumes of quantum states
authors: Deping Ye
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 315301 (17pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0727
abstract: This paper aims to study the $\a$-volume of $\cK$, an arbitrary subset of the set of $N\times N$ density matrices. The $\a$-volume is a generalization of the Hilbert-Schmidt volume and the volume induced by partial trace. We obtain two-side estimates for the $\a$-volume of $\cK$ in terms of its Hilbert-Schmidt volume. The analogous estimates between the Bures volume and the $\a$-volume are also established. We employ our results to obtain bounds for the $\a$-volume of the sets of separable quantum states and of states with positive partial transpose (PPT). Hence, our asymptotic results provide answers for questions listed on page 9 in \cite{K. Zyczkowski1998} for large $N$ in the sense of $\a$-volume. \vskip 3mm PACS numbers: 02.40.Ft, 03.65.Db, 03.65.Ud, 03.67.Mn

id: 1003.0736
title: Efficient excitation of a symmetric collective atomic state with a single-photon through dipole blockade
authors: Fang-Yu Hong, Shi-Jie Xiong, W.H. Tang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0736
abstract: In the famous quantum communication scheme developed by Duan {\it et al.}[L.M. Duan, M.D. Lukin, J.I. Cirac, and P. Zoller, Nature (London) {\bf 414} 413 (2001)], the probability of successful generating a symmetric collective atomic state with a single-photon emitted have to be far smaller than 1 to obtain an acceptable entangled state. Because of strong dipole-dipole interaction between two Rydberg atoms, more than one simultaneous excitations in an atomic ensembles are greatly suppressed, which makes it possible to excite a mesoscopic cold atomic ensemble into a singly-excited symmetric collective state accompanied by a signal photon with near unity success probability, at the same higher-order excitations can be significantly inhibited.

id: 1003.0743
title: A Generalized Analytical Mechanics in which Quantum Phenomena Appear
authors: Masao Yasuda
comments: 44 pages, 7 figures, completely revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0743
abstract: Classical analytical mechanics is generalized to that in which quantum phenomena appear. The generalization is accomplished with two keys. The first is the extended action of the diffeomorphism group on covariant tensor fields of order two, with which the classical Hamilton-Jacobi eq. of a particle is modified. The other is the second-order Lagrangian, with which the classical Lagrangian is modified to the form consistent with the modified Hamilton-Jacobi eq. In the generalized mechanics, i) the particle picture is held at all times unlike quantum mechanics (QM), ii) discrete energy levels of a particle in a confining potential are the same as those of QM, and iii) particle distribution in an ensemble disagrees with that of QM but agrees with observed data up to date within experimental uncertainty.

id: 1003.0756
title: X-probability and Irreversibility Paradox
authors: V.A. Skrebnev
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0756
abstract: Based on the general thought that mechanics cannot be absolutely exact, supported by pulsed nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiments on the reversal of time in spin systems, we postulate existence of a probability which do not follow from the Schroudinger equation, or X-probability. It is shown that the X-probability allows explain irreversibility of evolution of macrosystems, and also creates a basis for using probabilistic methods in statistical mechanics and for deliverance from the mechanical determinism.

id: 1003.0763
title: An ion ring in a linear multipole trap for optical frequency metrology
authors: Caroline Champenois, Mathieu Marciante, Jofre Pedregosa-Guttierez, Marie Houssin, Martina Knoop, Masatoshi Kajita
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 81 (2010) 043410
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0763
abstract: A ring crystal of ions trapped in a linear multipole trap is studied as a basis for an optical frequency standard. The equilibrium conditions and cooling possibilities are discussed through an analytical model and molecular dynamics simulations. A configuration which reduces the frequency sensitivity to the fluctuations of the number of trapped ions is proposed. The systematic shifts for the electric quadrupole transition of calcium ions are evaluated for this ring configuration. This study shows that a ring of 10 or 20 ions allows to reach a short term stability better than for a single ion without introducing limiting long term fluctuations.

id: 1003.0772
title: Quantum particles from classical probabilities in phase space
authors: C. Wetterich
comments: Extended discussion of possible physical realizations of zwitters by droplets of a liquid, Bose-Einstein condensate or macromolecules, 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0772
abstract: Quantum particles in a potential are described by classical statistical probabilities. We formulate a basic time evolution law for the probability distribution of classical position and momentum such that all known quantum phenomena follow, including interference or tunneling. The appropriate quantum observables for position and momentum contain a statistical part which reflects the roughness of the probability distribution. "Zwitters" realize a continuous interpolation between quantum and classical particles. Such objects may provide for an effective one-particle description of classical or quantum collective states as droplets of a liquid, macromolecules or a Bose-Einstein condensate. They may also be used for quantitative fundamental tests of quantum mechanics. We show that the ground state for zwitters has no longer a sharp energy. This feature permits to put quantitative experimental bounds on a small parameter for possible deviations from quantum mechanics.

id: 1003.0831
title: Anomalous resilient to decoherence macroscopic quantum superpositions generated by universally covariant optimal quantum cloning
authors: N. Spagnolo, F. Sciarrino, F. De Martini
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0831
abstract: We show that the quantum states generated by universal optimal quantum cloning of a single photon represent an universal set of quantum superpositions resilient to decoherence. We adopt Bures distance as a tool to investigate the persistence ofquantum coherence of these quantum states. According to this analysis, the process of universal cloning realizes a class of quantum superpositions that exhibits a covariance property in lossy configuration over the complete set of polarization states in the Bloch sphere.

id: 1003.0869
title: Remote quantum gates mediated by spin chains
authors: R.Ronke, I.D'Amico, T.P.Spiller
comments: The paper has been withdrawn by the author.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0869
abstract: There has been much recent study on the application of spin chains to quantum state transfer and communication. Here we demonstrate that spin chains set up for perfect quantum state transfer can be utilised to generate remote quantum gates, between spin qubits injected at the ends of the chain. The natural evolution of the system across different excitation number sectors generates a maximally-entangling and universal gate between the injected qubits, independent of the length of the chain.

id: 1003.0909
title: Spin Filtering and Entanglement Swapping through Coherent Evolution of a Single Quantum Dot
authors: Jose Garcia Coello, Abolfazl Bayat, Sougato Bose, John H. Jefferson, Charles E. Creffield
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 080502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0909
abstract: We exploit the non-dissipative dynamics of a pair of electrons in a large square quantum dot to perform singlet-triplet spin measurement through a single charge detection and show how this may be used for entanglement swapping and teleportation. The method is also used to generate the AKLT ground state, a further resource for quantum computation. We justify, and derive analytic results for, an effective charge-spin Hamiltonian which is valid over a wide range of parameters and agrees well with exact numerical results of a realistic effective-mass model. Our analysis also indicates that the method is robust to choice of dot-size and initialization errors, as well as decoherence introduced by the hyperfine interaction.

id: 1003.0919
title: Evolution of locally excited avalanches in semiconductors
authors: Z. L. Yuan, J. F. Dynes, A. W. Sharpe, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 96, 191107 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0919
abstract: We show that semiconductor avalanche photodiodes can exhibit diminutive amplification noise during the early evolution of avalanches. The noise is so low that the number of locally excited charges that seed each avalanche can be resolved. These findings constitute an important first step towards realization of a solid-state noiseless amplifier. Moreover, we believe that the experimental setup used, \textit{i.e.}, time-resolving locally excited avalanches, will become a useful tool for optimizing the number resolution.

id: 1003.0923
title: Approximating Turaev-Viro 3-manifold invariants is universal for quantum computation
authors: Gorjan Alagic, Stephen P. Jordan, Robert Koenig, Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 040302(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0923
abstract: The Turaev-Viro invariants are scalar topological invariants of compact, orientable 3-manifolds. We give a quantum algorithm for additively approximating Turaev-Viro invariants of a manifold presented by a Heegaard splitting. The algorithm is motivated by the relationship between topological quantum computers and (2+1)-D topological quantum field theories. Its accuracy is shown to be nontrivial, as the same algorithm, after efficient classical preprocessing, can solve any problem efficiently decidable by a quantum computer. Thus approximating certain Turaev-Viro invariants of manifolds presented by Heegaard splittings is a universal problem for quantum computation. This establishes a novel relation between the task of distinguishing non-homeomorphic 3-manifolds and the power of a general quantum computer.

id: 1003.0949
title: Location-Dependent Communications using Quantum Entanglement
authors: Robert A. Malaney
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042319 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0949
abstract: The ability to unconditionally verify the location of a communication receiver would lead to a wide range of new security paradigms. However, it is known that unconditional location verification in classical communication systems is impossible. In this work we show how unconditional location verification can be achieved with the use of quantum communication channels. Our verification remains unconditional irrespective of the number of receivers, computational capacity, or any other physical resource held by an adversary. Quantum location verification represents a new application of quantum entanglement that delivers a feat not possible in the classical-only channel. For the first time, we possess the ability to deliver real-time communications viable only at specified geographical coordinates.

id: 1003.0989
title: Transverse angular momentum of photons
authors: Andrea Aiello, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0989
abstract: We develop the quantum theory of transverse angular momentum of light beams. The theory applies to paraxial and quasi-paraxial photon beams in vacuum, and reproduces the known results for classical beams when applied to coherent states of the field. Both the Poynting vector, alias the linear momentum, and the angular momentum quantum operators of a light beam are calculated including contributions from first-order transverse derivatives. This permits a correct description of the energy flow in the beam and the natural emergence of both the spin and the angular momentum of the photons. We show that for collimated beams of light, orbital angular momentum operators do not satisfy the standard commutation rules. Finally, we discuss the application of our theory to some concrete cases.

id: 1003.0998
title: Quantum master equation for collisional dynamics of massive particles with internal degrees of freedom
authors: Andrea Smirne, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures; v2: corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042111 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0998
abstract: We address the microscopic derivation of a quantum master equation in Lindblad form for the dynamics of a massive test particle with internal degrees of freedom interacting through collisions with a background ideal gas. When either internal or centre of mass degrees of freedom can be treated classically, previously established equations are obtained as special cases. If in an interferometric setup the internal degrees of freedom are not detected at the output, the equation can be recast in the form of a generalized Lindblad structure, which describes non-Markovian effects. The effect of internal degrees of freedom on centre of mass decoherence is considered in this framework.

id: 1003.1044
title: AB effect and Aharonov-Susskind charge non-superselection
authors: Noam Erez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1044
abstract: We consider a particle in a coherent superposition of states with different electric charge moving in the vicinity of a magnetic flux. Formally, it should acquire a (gauge-dependent) AB relative phase between the charge states, even for an incomplete loop. If measureable, such a geometric, rather than topological, AB-phase would seem to break gauge invariance. Wick, Wightman and Wigner argued that since (global) charge-dependent phase transformations are physically unobservable, charge state superpositions are unphysical (`charge superselection rule'). This would resolve the apparent paradox in a trivial way. However, Aharonov and Susskind disputed this superselection rule: they distinguished between such global charge-dependent transformations, and transformations of the relative inter-charge phases of two particles, and showed that the latter \emph{could} in principle be observable! Finally, the paradox again disappears once we considers the `calibration' of the phase measured by the Aharonov-Susskind phase detectors, as well as the phase of the particle at its initial point. It turns out that such a detector can only distinguish between the relative phases of two paths if their (oriented) difference forms a loop around the flux.

id: 1003.1047
title: Tensor operators: constructions and applications for long-range interaction systems
authors: F. Fr?wis, V. Nebendahl, W. D¨¹r
comments: 19 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062337 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1047
abstract: We consider the representation of operators in terms of tensor networks and their application to ground-state approximation and time evolution of systems with long-range interactions. We provide an explicit construction to represent an arbitrary many-body Hamilton operator in terms of a one-dimensional tensor network, i.e. as a matrix product operator. For pairwise interactions, we show that such a representation is always efficient and requires a tensor dimension growing only linearly with the number of particles. For systems obeying certain symmetries or restrictions we find optimal representations with minimal tensor dimension. We discuss the analytic and numerical approximation of operators in terms of low-dimensional tensor operators. We demonstrate applications for time evolution and ground-state approximation, in particular for long-range interaction with inhomogeneous couplings. The operator representations are also generalized to other geometries such as trees and 2D lattices, where we show how to obtain and use efficient tensor network representations respecting a given geometry.

id: 1003.1050
title: Reference frame independent quantum key distribution
authors: Anthony Laing, Valerio Scarani, John G. Rarity, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1050
abstract: We describe a quantum key distribution protocol based on pairs of entangled qubits that generates a secure key between two partners in an environment of unknown and slowly varying reference frame. A direction of particle delivery is required, but the phases between the computational basis states need not be known or fixed. The protocol can simplify the operation of existing setups and has immediate applications to emerging scenarios such as earth-to-satellite links and the use of integrated photonic waveguides. We compute the asymptotic secret key rate for a two-qubit source, which coincides with the rate of the six-state protocol for white noise. We give the generalization of the protocol to higher-dimensional systems and detail a scheme for physical implementation in the three dimensional qutrit case.

id: 1003.1056
title: Experimental study on discretely modulated continuous-variable quantum key distribution
authors: Yong Shen, Hongxin Zou, Liang Tian, Pingxing Chen, Jianmin Yuan
comments: 7 pages,6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022317 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1056
abstract: We present a discretely modulated continuous-variable quantum key distribution system in free space by using strong coherent states. The amplitude noise in the laser source is suppressed to the shot-noise limit by using a mode cleaner combined with a frequency shift technique. Also, it is proven that the phase noise in the source has no impact on the final secret key rate. In order to increase the encoding rate, we use broadband homodyne detectors and the no-switching protocol. In a realistic model, we establish a secret key rate of 46.8 kbits/s against collective attacks at an encoding rate of 10 MHz for a 90% channel loss when the modulation variance is optimal.

id: 1003.1074
title: Diverse classical walking of a single atom in an amplitude-modulated standing wave lattice
authors: Lin Zhang, H.Y.Kong, S.X.Qu
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, accepted by CJP
journal: Chin. J. Phys., 49(3) 759-776, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1074
abstract: The classical walking behaviors of a single atom in an amplitude-modulated standing wave lattice beyond the internal dynamics are investigated. Based on a simple effective model, we identify a diversity of dynamic regimes of atomic motion by periodically adjusting the lattice depth. Harmonic oscillation or pendulum rotation with classical step-jumping, random scattering walking, chaotic transportation, quasi-periodic trapped motion and roughly ballistic free flying are found in this simple model within different parametric regions by approximate analyses. Our study demonstrates a complex motion of single atom in modulating optical lattice beyond the quantum description.

id: 1003.1090
title: Quantum Evolution and Anticipation
authors: Hans-Rudolf Thomann
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1090
abstract: In a previous paper we have investigated quantum states evolving into mutually orthogonal states at equidistant times, and the quantum anticipation effect exhibited by measurements at one half step. Here we extend our analyzes of quantum anticipation to general type quantum evolutions and spectral measures and prove that quantum evolutions possessing an embedded orthogonal evolution are characterized by positive joint spectral measure. Furthermore, we categorize quantum evolution, assess anticipation strength and provide a framework of analytic tools and results, thus preparing for further investigation and experimental verification of anticipation in concrete physical situations such as the H-atom, which we have found to exhibit anticipation.

id: 1003.1107
title: Quantum Memories. A Review based on the European Integrated Project "Qubit Applications (QAP)"
authors: C. Simon, M. Afzelius, J. Appel, A. Boyer de la Giroday, S.J. Dewhurst, N. Gisin, C.Y. Hu, F. Jelezko, S. Kroll, J.H. Muller, J. Nunn, E. Polzik, J. Rarity, H. de Riedmatten, W. Rosenfeld, A.J. Shields, N. Skold, R.M. Stevenson, R. Thew, I. Walmsley, M. Weber, H. Weinfurter, J. Wrachtrup, R.J. Young
comments: 22 pages, 12 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 58, 1 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1107
abstract: We perform a review of various approaches to the implementation of quantum memories, with an emphasis on activities within the quantum memory sub-project of the EU Integrated Project "Qubit Applications". We begin with a brief overview over different applications for quantum memories and different types of quantum memories. We discuss the most important criteria for assessing quantum memory performance and the most important physical requirements. Then we review the different approaches represented in "Qubit Applications" in some detail. They include solid-state atomic ensembles, NV centers, quantum dots, single atoms, atomic gases and optical phonons in diamond. We compare the different approaches using the discussed criteria.

id: 1003.1126
title: Resonant coupling of a Bose-Einstein condensate to a micromechanical oscillator
authors: D. Hunger, S. Camerer, T. W. Haensch, D. Koenig, J. P. Kotthaus, J. Reichel, P. Treutlein
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1126
abstract: We report experiments in which the vibrations of a micromechanical oscillator are coupled to the motion of Bose-condensed atoms in a trap. The interaction relies on surface forces experienced by the atoms at about one micrometer distance from the mechanical structure. We observe resonant coupling to several well-resolved mechanical modes of the condensate. Coupling via surface forces does not require magnets, electrodes, or mirrors on the oscillator and could thus be employed to couple atoms to molecular-scale oscillators such as carbon nanotubes.

id: 1003.1149
title: Quantum incompressibility of a falling Rydberg atom, and a gravitationally-induced charge separation effect in superconducting systems
authors: Raymond Y. Chiao
comments: `2nd Vienna Symposium for the Foundations of Modern Physics' Festschrift MS for Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1149
abstract: Freely falling point-like objects converge towards the center of the Earth. Hence the gravitational field of the Earth is inhomogeneous, and possesses a tidal component. The free fall of an extended quantum object such as a hydrogen atom prepared in a high principal-quantum-number stretch state, i.e., a circular Rydberg atom, is predicted to fall more slowly that a classical point-like object, when both objects are dropped from the same height from above the Earth. This indicates that, apart from "quantum jumps," the atom exhibits a kind of "quantum incompressibility" during free fall in inhomogeneous, tidal gravitational fields like those of the Earth. A superconducting ring-like system with a persistent current circulating around it behaves like the circular Rydberg atom during free fall. Like the electronic wavefunction of the freely falling atom, the Cooper-pair wavefunction is "quantum incompressible." The ions of the ionic lattice of the superconductor, however, are not "quantum incompressible," since they do not possess a globally coherent quantum phase. The resulting difference during free fall in the response of the nonlocalizable Cooper pairs of electrons and the localizable ions to inhomogeneous gravitational fields is predicted to lead to a charge separation effect, which in turn leads to a large repulsive Coulomb force that opposes the convergence caused by the tidal, attractive gravitational force on the superconducting system. A "Cavendish-like" experiment is proposed for observing the charge separation effect induced by inhomogeneous gravitational fields in a superconducting circuit. This experiment would demonstrate the existence of a novel coupling between gravity and electricity via macroscopically coherent quantum matter.

id: 1003.1150
title: Approximate Quantum Error Correction via Complementary Observables
authors: Joseph M. Renes
comments: 4 pages. v2: included forgotten reference; changed confusing wording regarding state merging.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1150
abstract: The breakthrough of quantum error correction brought with it the picture of quantum information as a sort of combination of two complementary types of classical information, "amplitude" and "phase". Here I show how this intuition can be used to construct two new conditions for approximate quantum error correction. The first states that entanglement is locally recoverable from a bipartite state when one system can be used to approximately predict the outcomes of two complementary observables on the other. The second, more in the spirit of the recent decoupling approach, states that entanglement is locally recoverable when the environment cannot reliably predict either.

id: 1003.1153
title: Quantum Dating Market
authors: O.G. Zabaleta, C.M. Arizmendi
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Physica A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1153
abstract: We consider the dating market decision problem under the quantum mechanics point of view. Quantum states whose associated amplitudes are modified by men strategies are used to represent women. Grover quantum search algorithm is used as a playing strategy. Success is more frequently obtained by playing quantum than playing classic.

id: 1003.1161
title: Quantum-to-Classical Transition in Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: J. M. Fink, L. Steffen, P. Studer, Lev S. Bishop, M. Baur, R. Bianchetti, D. Bozyigit, C. Lang, S. Filipp, P. J. Leek, A. Wallraff
comments: revised version: improved analysis, 4 pages, 4 figures, hi-res version available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 163601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1161
abstract: The quantum properties of electromagnetic, mechanical or other harmonic oscillators can be revealed by investigating their strong coherent coupling to a single quantum two level system in an approach known as cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). At temperatures much lower than the characteristic energy level spacing the observation of vacuum Rabi oscillations or mode splittings with one or a few quanta asserts the quantum nature of the oscillator. Here, we study how the classical response of a cavity QED system emerges from the quantum one when its thermal occupation -- or effective temperature -- is raised gradually over 5 orders of magnitude. In this way we explore in detail the continuous quantum-to-classical crossover and demonstrate how to extract effective cavity field temperatures from both spectroscopic and time-resolved vacuum Rabi measurements.

id: 1003.1174
title: Quantum Correlations in Mixed-State Metrology
authors: Kavan Modi, Hugo Cable, Mark Williamson, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 1, 021022 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1174
abstract: We analyze the effects of quantum correlations, such as entanglement and discord, on the efficiency of phase estimation by studying four quantum circuits that can be readily implemented using NMR techniques. These circuits define a standard strategy of repeated single-qubit measurements, a classical strategy where only classical correlations are allowed, and two quantum strategies where nonclassical correlations are allowed. In addition to counting space (number of qubits) and time (number of gates) requirements, we introduce mixedness as a key constraint of the experiment. We compare the efficiency of the four strategies as a function of the mixedness parameter. We find that the quantum strategy gives square-root of N enhancement over the standard strategy for the same amount of mixedness. This result applies even for highly mixed states that have nonclassical correlations but no entanglement.

id: 1003.1177
title: Born-Oppenheimer approximation for open quantum systems within the quantum trajectory approach
authors: X. L. Huang, S. L. Wu, L. C. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. Accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 81, 052113 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1177
abstract: Based on the quantum trajectory approach, we extend the Born-Oppenheimer (BO) approximation from closed quantum system to open quantum system, where the open quantum system is described by a master equation in Lindblad form. The BO approximation is defined and the validity condition is derived. We find that the dissipation in fast variables benefits the BO approximation that is different from the dissipation in slow variables. A detailed comparison between this extension and our previous approximation (that is based on the effective Hamiltonian approach, see X. L. Huang and X. X. Yi, Phys. Rev. A 80, 032108 (2009)) is presented. Several new features and advantages are analyzed, which show that the two approximations are complementary to each other. Two examples are taken to illustrate our method.

id: 1003.1201
title: Encoding many qubits in a rotor
authors: Amir Kalev, Philippe Raynal, Jun Suzuki, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052327 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1201
abstract: We propose a scheme for encoding many qubits in a single rotor, that is, a continuous and periodic degree of freedom. A key feature of this scheme is its ability to manipulate and entangle the encoded qubits with a single operation on the system. We also show, using quantum error-correcting codes, how to protect the qubits against small errors in angular position and momentum which may affect the rotor. We then discuss the feasibility of this scheme and suggest several candidates for its implementation. The proposed scheme is immediately generalizable to qudits of any finite dimension.

id: 1003.1221
title: Low rank extremal PPT states and unextendible product bases
authors: Jon Magne Leinaas, Jan Myrheim, Per ?yvind Sollid
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1221
abstract: It is known how to construct, in a bipartite quantum system, a unique low rank entangled mixed state with positive partial transpose (a PPT state) from an unextendible product basis (a UPB), defined as an unextendible set of orthogonal product vectors. We point out that a state constructed in this way belongs to a continuous family of entangled PPT states of the same rank, all related by non-singular product transformations, unitary or non-unitary. The characteristic property of a state $\rho$ in such a family is that its kernel $\Ker\rho$ has a generalized UPB, a basis of product vectors, not necessarily orthogonal, with no product vector in $\Im\rho$, the orthogonal complement of $\Ker\rho$. The generalized UPB in $\Ker\rho$ has the special property that it can be transformed to orthogonal form by a product transformation. In the case of a system of dimension $3\times 3$, we give a complete parametrization of orthogonal UPBs. This is then a parametrization of families of rank 4 entangled (and extremal) PPT states, and we present strong numerical evidence that it is a complete classification of such states. We speculate that the lowest rank entangled and extremal PPT states also in higher dimensions are related to generalized, non-orthogonal UPBs in similar ways.

id: 1003.1234
title: Separable states and the geometric phases of an interacting two-spin system
authors: C. W. Niu, G. F. Xu, Longjiang Liu, L. Kang, D. M. Tong, L. C. Kwek
comments: 13 pages
journal: Physical Review A 81, 012116 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1234
abstract: It is known that an interacting bipartite system evolves as an entangled state in general, even if it is initially in a separable state. Due to the entanglement of the state, the geometric phase of the system is not equal to the sum of the geometric phases of its two subsystems. However, there may exist a set of states in which the nonlocal interaction does not affect the separability of the states, and the geometric phase of the bipartite system is then always equal to the sum of the geometric phases of its subsystems. In this paper, we illustrate this point by investigating a well known physical model. We give a necessary and sufficient condition in which a separable state remains separable so that the geometric phase of the system is always equal to the sum of the geometric phases of its subsystems.

id: 1003.1248
title: Entanglement dynamics under local Lindblad evolution
authors: Sandeep K. Goyal, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1248
abstract: The phenomenon of entanglement sudden death (ESD) in finite dimensional composite open systems is described here for both bi-partite as well as multipartite cases, where individual subsystems undergo Lindblad type heat bath evolution. ESD is found to be generic for non-zero temperature of the bath. At T=0, one-sided action of the heat bath on pure entangled states of two qubits does not show ESD.

id: 1003.1249
title: Transverse coherence of photon pairs generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Martin Hamar, Jan Perina Jr, Ondrej Haderka, Vaclav Michalek
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, (2010) 043827
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1249
abstract: Coherence properties of the down-converted beams generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion are investigated in detail using an iCCD camera. Experimental results are compared with those from a theoretical model developed for pulsed pumping with a Gaussian transverse profile. The results allow to tailor the shape of correlation area of the signal and idler photons using pump-field and crystal parameters. As an example, splitting of a correlation area caused by a two-peak pump-field spectrum is experimentally studied.

id: 1003.1261
title: Temperature-invariant Casimir-Polder forces despite large thermal photon numbers
authors: Simen A. Ellingsen, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 104, 223003 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1261
abstract: We demonstrate that Casimir-Polder potentials can be entirely independent of temperature even when allowing for the thermal photon numbers to become large at the relevant molecular transition frequencies. This statement holds for potentials that are due to low-energy transitions of a molecule placed near a plane metal surface. For a molecule in an energy eigenstate, the temperature-invariance is a consequence of strong cancellations between nonresonant potential components and those due to evanescent waves. For a molecule with a single dominant transition in a thermal state, upward and downward transitions combine to a temperature-independent potential. The results are contrasted with the case of an atom whose potential exhibits a regime of linear temperature-dependence. Contact to the Casimir force between a weakly dielectric and a metal plate is made.

id: 1003.1292
title: Violation of area-law scaling for the entanglement entropy in spin 1/2 chains
authors: G. Vitagliano, A. Riera, J. I. Latorre
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1292
abstract: Entanglement entropy obeys area law scaling for typical physical quantum systems. This may naively be argued to follow from locality of interactions. We show that this is not the case by constructing an explicit simple spin chain Hamiltonian with nearest neighbor interactions that presents an entanglement volume scaling law. This non-translational model is contrived to have couplings that force the accumulation of singlet bonds across the half chain. Our result is complementary to the known relation between non-translational invariant, nearest neighbor interacting Hamiltonians and QMA complete problems.

id: 1003.1300
title: Geometric phase of a central spin coupled to an antiferromagnetic environment
authors: Xiao-Zhong Yuan, Hsi-Sheng Goan, Ka-Di Zhu
comments: 5 figures; Phys. Rev. A (in press)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 034102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1300
abstract: Using the spin-wave approximation, we study the geometric phase (GP) of a central spin (signal qubit) coupled to an antiferromagnetic (AF) environment under the application of an external global magnetic field. The external magnetic field affects the GP of the qubit directly and also indirectly through its effect on the AF environment. We find that when the applied magnetic field is increased to the critical magnetic field point, the AF environment undergoes a spin-flop transition, a first-order phase transition, and at the same time the GP of the qubit changes abruptly to zero. This sensitive change of the GP of a signal qubit to the parameter change of a many-body environment near its critical point may serve as another efficient tool or witness to study the many-body phase transition. The influences of the AF environment temperature and crystal anisotropy field on the GP are also investigated.

id: 1003.1357
title: Continuous variable entanglement enhancement and manipulation by a sub-threshold type-II optical parametric amplifier
authors: Yana Shang, Xiaojun Jia, Yumei Shen, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 
journal: Opt. Lett. Vol.31 853 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1357
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate that the quantum entanglement between amplitude and phase quadratures of optical modes produced from a non-degenerate optical parametric amplifier (NOPA) can be enhanced and manipulated phase-sensitively by means of another NOPA. When both NOPAs operate at de-amplification, the entanglement degree is increased at the cavity resonance of the second NOPA. When the first NOPA operates at de-amplification and the second one at amplification, the spectral features of the correlation variances are significantly changed. The experimental results are in good agreement with the theoretical expectation.

id: 1003.1392
title: Second Comment on "Contextuality within quantum mechanics manifested in subensemble mean values" [Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 3430]
authors: F. De Zela
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1392
abstract: I examine Pan and Home's reply to my Comment on their proposal for testing noncontextual models. I show that the Kochen-Specker model for a qubit does explain all outcomes of a test based on such a proposal, so that it would be inconclusive about the untenability of realistic, noncontextual models.

id: 1003.1402
title: Quantum uniqueness
authors: Denis Sych, Gerd Leuchs
comments: Presented at 4th Feynman festival, June 22-26, 2009, in Olomouc, Czech Republic.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1402
abstract: In the classical world one can construct two identical systems which have identical behavior and give identical measurement results. We show this to be impossible in the quantum domain. We prove that after the same quantum measurement two different quantum systems cannot yield always identical results, provided the possible measurement results belong to a non orthogonal set. This is interpreted as quantum uniqueness - a quantum feature which has no classical analog. Its tight relation with objective randomness of quantum measurements is discussed.

id: 1003.1435
title: Effective Simulation of Quantum Entanglement Based on A Single-photon Field Modulated with Pseudorandom Phase Sequences
authors: Jian Fu, Yi Hu, Shuo Sun
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, a major corrected version. Added an important appendix in which we propose three theoretical predictions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1435
abstract: We demonstrate that a single-photon field modulated with n different pseudorandom phase sequences (PPSs) can constitute a 2^n-dimensional Hilbert space that contains tensor product structure. By using the single photon field modulated with PPSs, we discuss effective simulation of Bell states and GHZ state, and apply both correlation analysis and von Neumann entropy to characterize the simulation. We obtain similar results with the cases in quantum mechanics and find that the conclusions can be easily generalized to n quantum particles. The research on simulation of quantum entanglement may be important, for it not only provides useful insights into fundamental features of quantum entanglement, but also yields new insights into quantum computation.

id: 1003.1440
title: A new bound of concurrence
authors: Zhihao Ma, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: I find this result can be easily get from my previous paper.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1440
abstract: We give a new bound of concurrence.

id: 1003.1442
title: Entropy Considerations in Spin-Selective Radical-Ion-Pair Reactions
authors: Iannis K. Kominis
comments: 6 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1442
abstract: Radical-ion-pair reactions were recently shown to manifest a host of non-trivial quantum effects accounted for by quantum measurement theory. An alternative approach purporting to describe the fundamental quantum dynamics of spin-selective radical-ion pair reactions was introduced most recently, bringing to three the competing theories, including the one traditionally used in spin chemistry. We here consider entropy as a fundamental concept enabling a comparison of the predictions of these theories against what is physically acceptable on quite general grounds.

id: 1003.1443
title: Composition theorems in communication complexity
authors: Troy Lee, Shengyu Zhang
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1443
abstract: A well-studied class of functions in communication complexity are composed functions of the form $(f \comp g^n)(x,y)=f(g(x^1, y^1),..., g(x^n,y^n))$. This is a rich family of functions which encompasses many of the important examples in the literature. It is thus of great interest to understand what properties of $f$ and $g$ affect the communication complexity of $(f \comp g^n)$, and in what way. Recently, Sherstov \cite{She09b} and independently Shi-Zhu \cite{SZ09b} developed conditions on the inner function $g$ which imply that the quantum communication complexity of $f \comp g^n$ is at least the approximate polynomial degree of $f$. We generalize both of these frameworks. We show that the pattern matrix framework of Sherstov works whenever the inner function $g$ is {\em strongly balanced}---we say that $g: X \times Y \to \{-1,+1\}$ is strongly balanced if all rows and columns in the matrix $M_g=[g(x,y)]_{x,y}$ sum to zero. This result strictly generalizes the pattern matrix framework of Sherstov \cite{She09b}, which has been a very useful idea in a variety of settings \cite{She08b,RS08,Cha07,LS09,CA08,BHN09}. Shi-Zhu require that the inner function $g$ has small {\em spectral discrepancy}, a somewhat awkward condition to verify. We relax this to the usual notion of discrepancy. We also enhance the framework of composed functions studied so far by considering functions $F(x,y) = f(g(x,y))$, where the range of $g$ is a group $G$. When $G$ is Abelian, the analogue of the strongly balanced condition becomes a simple group invariance property of $g$. We are able to formulate a general lower bound on $F$ whenever $g$ satisfies this property.

id: 1003.1488
title: Single-shot discrimination of quantum unitary processes
authors: Mario Ziman, Michal Sedl¨¢k
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 1362-3044, Volume 57, Issue 3, Pages 253-259, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1488
abstract: We formulate minimum-error and unambiguous discrimination problems for quantum processes in the language of process positive operator valued measures (PPOVM). In this framework we present the known solution for minimum-error discrimination of unitary channels. We derive a "fidelity-like" lower bound on the failure probability of the unambiguous discrimination of arbitrary quantum processes. This bound is saturated (in a certain range of apriori probabilities) in the case of unambiguous discrimination of unitary channels. Surprisingly, the optimal solution for both tasks is based on the optimization of the same quantity called completely bounded process fidelity.

id: 1003.1526
title: An example of a violation of the quantum inequalities for a massless scalar field in 1-1 dimensional space-time
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Added a new section. 28 pages
journal: Adv. Stud. Theor. Phys.5:227-251,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1526
abstract: It is well known that the energy density of a quantum state can be negative. It has been shown that there are limits on this negative energy density which are called the quantum inequalities. In this paper we will demonstrate an example of a quantum state which violates the quantum inequalities.

id: 1003.1540
title: Entanglement of dipolar coupling spins
authors: G.B. Furman, V. M. Meerovich, V.L. Sokolovsky
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1540
abstract: Entanglement of dipole-dipole interacting spins 1/2 is usually investigated when the energy of interaction with an external magnetic field (the Zeeman energy) is greater than the energy of dipole interactions by three orders. Under this condition only a non-equilibrium state of the spin system, realized by pulse radiofrequence irradiations, results in entanglement. The present paper deals with the opposite case: the dipolar interaction energy is the order of magnitude or even larger than the Zeeman one. It was shown that entanglement appears under the thermodynamic equilibrium conditions and the concurrence reaches the maximum when the external field is directed perpendicular to the vector connecting the nuclei. For this direction of the field and a system of two spins with the Hamiltonian accounting the realistic dipole-dipole interactions in low external magnetic field, the exact analytical expression for concurrence was also obtained. The condition of the entanglement appearance and the dependence of concurrence on the external magnetic field, temperature, and dipolar coupling constant were studied.

id: 1003.1545
title: Simple Sets of Measurements for Universal Quantum Computation and Graph State Preparation
authors: Yasuhiro Takahashi
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, accepted to the fifth Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography, 2010
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 8, No. 6 (2010) 1001-1012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1545
abstract: We consider the problem of minimizing resources required for universal quantum computation using only projective measurements. The resources we focus on are observables, which describe projective measurements, and ancillary qubits. We show that the set of observables {Z \otimes X, (cos\theta)X + (sin\theta)Y all \theta \in [0, 2\pi)} with one ancillary qubit is universal for quantum computation. The set is simpler than a previous one in the sense that one-qubit projective measurements described by the observables in the set are ones only in the (X,Y) plane of the Bloch sphere. The proof of the universality immediately implies a simple set of observables that is approximately universal for quantum computation. Moreover, the proof implies a simple set of observables for preparing graph states efficiently.

id: 1003.1547
title: Photonic analogue of Josephson effect in a dual-species optical-lattice cavity
authors: Soi-Chan Lei, Tai-Kai Ng, Ray-Kuang Lee
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1547
abstract: We extend the idea of quantum phase transitions of light in the photonic Bose-Hubbard model with interactions to two atomic species by a self-consistent mean field theory. The excitation of two-level atoms interacting with coherent photon fields is analyzed with a finite temperature dependence of the order parameters. Four ground states of the system are found, including an isolated Mott-insulator phase and three different superfluid phases. Like two weakly coupled superconductors, our proposed dual-species lattice system shows a photonic analogue of Josephson effect. The dynamics of the proposed two species model provides a promising quantum simulator for possible quantum information processes.

id: 1003.1552
title: The Multiparty Coherent Channel and its Implementation with Linear Optics
authors: Guangqiang He, Taizhi Liu, Xin Tao
comments: 13 pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1552
abstract: The continuous-variable coherent (conat) channel is a useful resource for coherent communication, producing coherent teleportation and coherent superdense coding. We extend the conat channel to multiparty conditions by proposing definitions about multiparty position-quadrature conat channel and multiparty momentum-quadrature conat channel. We additionally provide two methods to implement this channel using linear optics. One method is the multiparty version of coherent communication assisted by entanglement and classical communication (CCAECC). The other is multiparty coherent superdense coding.

id: 1003.1558
title: The Dirac Equation from a Bohmian Point of View
authors: Sergio Hern¨¢ndez-Zapata
comments: 21 pages, Work about Relativistic Bohmian Mechanics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1558
abstract: In this paper we intend to extend some ideas of a recently proposed Lorentz-invariant Bohmian model, obeying Klein-Gordon equations, but considering particles with a spin different than zero. First we build a Bohmian model for a single particle, closely related to the Bohm-Dirac model, but using Nikolic's ideas on a space-time probability density and the introduction of a synchronization parameter \sigma for the particle trajectory. We prove that, in the case of a spinor whose component phases become equal when \plank \to 0, it is possible to use the usual Bohmian Mechanics procedures to obtain the classical limit. We extend these ideas for a two-particle system, based on two non-local but covariant Dirac-like equations.

id: 1003.1577
title: A single-ion nonlinear mechanical oscillator
authors: Nitzan Akerman, Shlomi Kotler, Yinnon Glickamn, Yehonatan Dallal, Anna Keselman, Roee Ozeri
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1577
abstract: We study the steady state motion of a single trapped ion oscillator driven to the nonlinear regime. Damping is achieved via Doppler laser-cooling. The ion motion is found to be well described by the Duffing oscillator model with an additional nonlinear damping term. We demonstrate a unique ability of tuning both the linear as well as the nonlinear damping coefficients by controlling the cooling laser parameters. Our observations open a way for the investigation of nonlinear dynamics on the quantum-to-classical interface as well as mechanical noise squeezing in laser-cooling dynamics.

id: 1003.1605
title: Tuning the Mass of Chameleon Fields in Casimir Force Experiments
authors: Ph. Brax, C. van de Bruck, A. C. Davis, D. J. Shaw, D. Iannuzzi
comments: submitted for publication on March 8, 2010
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:241101,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1605
abstract: We have calculated the chameleon pressure between two parallel plates in the presence of an intervening medium that affects the mass of the chameleon field. As intuitively expected, the gas in the gap weakens the chameleon interaction mechanism with a screening effect that increases with the plate separation and with the density of the intervening medium. This phenomenon might open up new directions in the search of chameleon particles with future long range Casimir force experiments.

id: 1003.1645
title: Anomalous decay of a prepared state due to non-Ohmic coupling to the continuum
authors: Itamar Sela, James Aisenberg, Tsampikos Kottos, Alex Elgart, Doron Cohen
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 036219 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1645
abstract: We study the decay of a prepared state $E_0$ into a continuum {E_k} in the case of non-Ohmic models. This means that the coupling is $|V_{k,0}| \propto |E_k-E_0|^{s-1}$ with $s \ne 1$. We find that irrespective of model details there is a universal generalized Wigner time $t_0$ that characterizes the evolution of the survival probability $P_0(t)$. The generic decay behavior which is implied by rate equation phenomenology is a slowing down stretched exponential, reflecting the gradual resolution of the bandprofile. But depending on non-universal features of the model a power-law decay might take over: it is only for an Ohmic coupling to the continuum that we get a robust exponential decay that is insensitive to the nature of the intra-continuum couplings. The analysis highlights the co-existence of perturbative and non-perturbative features in the dynamics. It turns out that there are special circumstances in which $t_0$ is reflected in the spreading process and not only in the survival probability, contrary to the naive linear response theory expectation.

id: 1003.1651
title: Atom chip based generation of entanglement for quantum metrology
authors: Max F. Riedel, Pascal B?hi, Yun Li, Theodor W. H?nsch, Alice Sinatra, Philipp Treutlein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1651
abstract: Atom chips provide a versatile `quantum laboratory on a microchip' for experiments with ultracold atomic gases. They have been used in experiments on diverse topics such as low-dimensional quantum gases, cavity quantum electrodynamics, atom-surface interactions, and chip-based atomic clocks and interferometers. A severe limitation of atom chips, however, is that techniques to control atomic interactions and to generate entanglement have not been experimentally available so far. Such techniques enable chip-based studies of entangled many-body systems and are a key prerequisite for atom chip applications in quantum simulations, quantum information processing, and quantum metrology. Here we report experiments where we generate multi-particle entanglement on an atom chip by controlling elastic collisional interactions with a state-dependent potential. We employ this technique to generate spin-squeezed states of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate and show that they are useful for quantum metrology. The observed 3.7 dB reduction in spin noise combined with the spin coherence imply four-partite entanglement between the condensate atoms and could be used to improve an interferometric measurement by 2.5 dB over the standard quantum limit. Our data show good agreement with a dynamical multi-mode simulation and allow us to reconstruct the Wigner function of the spin-squeezed condensate. The techniques demonstrated here could be directly applied in chip-based atomic clocks which are currently being set up.

id: 1003.1664
title: Robustness of raw quantum tomography
authors: M. Asorey, P. Facchi, G. Florio, V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, S. Pascazio, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Physics Letters A 375, 861-866 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1664
abstract: We scrutinize the effects of non-ideal data acquisition on the homodyne tomograms of photon quantum states. The presence of a weight function, schematizing the effects of the finite thickness of the probing beam or equivalently noise, only affects the state reconstruction procedure by a normalization constant. The results are extended to a discrete mesh and show that quantum tomography is robust under incomplete and approximate knowledge of tomograms.

id: 1003.1671
title: Coexistence of multi-photon processes and longitudinal couplings in superconducting flux qubits
authors: Yu-xi Liu, Cheng-Xi Yang, Hui-Chen Sun, Xiang-bin Wang
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 16, 015031 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1671
abstract: In contrast to natural atoms, the potential energies for superconducting flux qubit (SFQ) circuits can be artificially controlled. When the inversion symmetry of the potential energy is broken, we find that the multi-photon processes can coexist in the multi-level SFQ circuits. Moreover, there are not only transverse but also longitudinal couplings between the external magnetic fields and the SFQs when the inversion symmetry of potential energy is broken. The longitudinal coupling would induce some new phenomena in the SFQs. Here we will show how the longitudinal coupling can result in the coexistence of multi-photon processes in a two-level system formed by a SFQ circuit. We also show that the SFQs can become transparent to the transverse coupling fields when the longitudinal coupling fields satisfy the certain conditions. We further show that the quantum Zeno effect can also be induced by the longitudinal coupling in the SFQs. Finally we clarify why the longitudinal coupling can induce coexistence and disappearance of single- and two-photon processes for a driven SFQ, which is coupled to a single-mode quantized field.

id: 1003.1681
title: Highly-efficient estimation of entanglement measures for large experimentally created graph states via simple measurements
authors: H. Wunderlich, S. Virmani, M. B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 083026 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1681
abstract: Quantifying experimentally created entanglement could in principle be accomplished by measuring the entire density matrix and calculating an entanglement measure of choice thereafter. Due to the tensor-structure of the Hilbert space, this approach becomes infeasible even for medium-size systems. In this letter we present methods to quantify the entanglement of arbitrarily large two-colorable graph states from simple measurements. The measurement data considered here is merely given by stabilizer measurements, thus leading to an exponential reduction in the number of measurements required. We provide analytical results for the robustness of entanglement and the relative entropy of entanglement.

id: 1003.1742
title: Photonic Multiqubit States from a Single Atom
authors: Ying Li, Leandro Aolita, L. C. Kwek
comments: Six pages, two figures. Two appendices (including discussion about error sources). To appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032313 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1742
abstract: We propose a protocol for the creation of photonic Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and linear cluster states emitted from a single atom---or ion---coupled to an optical cavity field. The method is based on laser pulses with different polarizations and exploits the atomic transition amplitudes to state-selectively achieve the desired transitions. The scheme lies within reach of current technology.

id: 1003.1749
title: The Rotating-Wave Approximation: Consistency and Applicability from an Open Quantum System Analysis
authors: Chris Fleming, N. I. Cummings, Charis Anastopoulos, B. L. Hu
comments: 17 pages, 0 figures.
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 405304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1749
abstract: We provide an in-depth and thorough treatment of the validity of the rotating-wave approximation (RWA) in an open quantum system. We find that when it is introduced after tracing out the environment, all timescales of the open system are correctly reproduced, but the details of the quantum state may not be. The RWA made before the trace is more problematic: it results in incorrect values for environmentally-induced shifts to system frequencies, and the resulting theory has no Markovian limit. We point out that great care must be taken when coupling two open systems together under the RWA. Though the RWA can yield a master equation of Lindblad form similar to what one might get in the Markovian limit with white noise, the master equation for the two coupled systems is not a simple combination of the master equation for each system, as is possible in the Markovian limit. Such a naive combination yields inaccurate dynamics. To obtain the correct master equation for the composite system a proper consideration of the non-Markovian dynamics is required.

id: 1003.1788
title: Quantum Control of Light through an Atom-Molecule Dark State
authors: Hui Jing, Yuangang Deng, Weiping Zhang
comments: with several detailed derivations in comparison with the published version Phys. Rev. A 80, 025601 (2009)
journal: published as Phys. Rev. A 80, 025601 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1788
abstract: We propose to use a quantized version of coherent two-color photoassociation to realize a hybrid device for quantum control of light. The dynamical features of this system are exhibited, including the slowing down or storage of light and the molecular matter-wave solitons. This may indicate a hybrid atom-molecule quantum device for storage and retrieve of optical information.

id: 1003.1793
title: Should recombinations of radical pairs be considered as accompanied by measurements?
authors: Leonid V. Il'ichov, Sergey V. Anishchik
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1793
abstract: The so-called "phenomenological" kinetic equation for one-pair density operator for spin-selective reactions is defended. We derive this equation from the kinetic equation for density operator of all pairs which are treated as singlet and triplet bosons. There presented some reasons for inconsistency of measurement-like approach to the problem.

id: 1003.1804
title: Anti-Zeno Effect for Quantum Transport in Disordered Systems
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 5pages, 3 figures; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042109 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1804
abstract: We demonstrate that repeated measurements in disordered systems can induce quantum anti-Zeno effect under certain condition to enhance quantum transport. The enhancement of energy transfer is really exhibited with a simple model under repeated measurements. The optimal measurement interval for the anti-Zeno effect and the maximal efficiency of energy transfer are specified in terms of the relevant physical parameters. Since the environment acts as frequent measurements on the system, the decoherence-induced energy transfer, which has been discussed recently for photosynthetic complexes, may be interpreted in terms of the anti-Zeno effect. We further find an interesting phenomenon, where local decoherence or repeated measurements may even promote entanglement generation between the non-local sites.

id: 1003.1812
title: Laser-catalyzed spin-exchange process in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: H. Jing, Y. Jiang, Weiping Zhang, P. Meystre
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 031603(Rapid Commun) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1812
abstract: We show theoretically that it is possible to optically control collective spin-exchange processes in spinor Bose condensates through virtual photoassociation. The interplay between optically induced spin exchange and spin-dependent collisions provides a flexible tool for the control of atomic spin dynamics, including enhanced or inhibited quantum spin oscillations, the optically-induced ferromagnetic-to-antiferromagnetic transition, and coherent matter-wave spin conversion.

id: 1003.1837
title: Investigation of nonlocal information as condition for violations of Bell inequality and information causality
authors: Yang Xiang, Shi-Jie Xiong
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, big change, version as close as possible to the published version in Eur. Phys. J. D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 61, 249-252(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1837
abstract: On the basis of local realism theory, nonlocal information is necessary for violation of Bell's inequality. From a theoretical point of view, nonlocal information is essentially the mutual information on distant outcome and measurement setting. In this work we prove that if the measurement is free and unbiased, the mutual information about the distant outcome and setting is both necessary for the violation of Bell's inequality in the case with unbiased marginal probabilities. In the case with biased marginal probabilities, we point out that the mutual information about distant outcome cease to be necessary for violation of Bell's inequality, while the mutual information about distant measurement settings is still required. We also prove that the mutual information about distant measurement settings must be contained in the transmitted messages due to the freedom of measurement choices. Finally we point out that the mutual information about both distant outcome and measurement settings are necessary for a violation of information causality.

id: 1003.1862
title: Quantum algorithm for exact Monte Carlo sampling
authors: Nicolas Destainville, Bertrand Georgeot, Olivier Giraud
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, discussion added
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:250502,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1862
abstract: We build a quantum algorithm which uses the Grover quantum search procedure in order to sample the exact equilibrium distribution of a wide range of classical statistical mechanics systems. The algorithm is based on recently developed exact Monte Carlo sampling methods, and yields a polynomial gain compared to classical procedures.

id: 1003.1874
title: Relativistic Effects in Quantum Entanglement
authors: Nicolai Friis
comments: 115 pages, 6 figures, diploma thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1874
abstract: One of the most fundamental phenomena of quantum physics is entanglement. It describes an inseparable connection between quantum systems, and properties thereof. In a quantum mechanical description even systems far apart from each other can share a common state. This entanglement of the subsystems, although arising from mathematical principles, is no mere abstract concept, but can be tested in experiment, and be utilized in modern quantum information theory procedures, such as quantum teleportation. In particular, entangled states play a crucial role in testing our understanding of reality, by violating Bell inequalities. While the role of entanglement is well studied in the realm of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics, its significance in a relativistic quantum theory is a relatively new field of interest. In this work the consequences of a relativistic description of quantum entanglement are discussed. We analyze the representations of the symmetry groups of special relativity, i.e. of the Lorentz group, and the Poincar\'e group, on the Hilbert space of states. We describe how unitary, irreducible representations of the Poincar\'e group for massive spin 1/2 particles are constructed from representations of Wigner's little group. We then proceed to investigate the role of the Wigner rotations in the transformation of quantum states under a change of inertial reference frame. Considering different partitions of the Hilbert space of 2 particles, we find that the entanglement of the quantum states appears different in different inertial frames, depending on the form of the states, the chosen inertial frames, and the particular choice of partition. It is explained, how, despite of this, the maximally possible violation of Bell inequalities is frame independent, when using appropriate spin observables, which are related to the Pauli-Ljubanski vector, a Casimir operator of the Poincar\'e group.

id: 1003.1877
title: Semiclassical theory for small displacements
authors: Eduardo Zambrano, Alfredo M. Ozorio de Almeida
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures.
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. (2010) 43 205302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1877
abstract: Characteristic functions contain complete information about all the moments of a classical distribution and the same holds for the Fourier transform of the Wigner function: a quantum characteristic function, or the chord function. However, knowledge of a finite number of moments does not allow for accurate determination of the chord function. For pure states this provides the overlap of the state with all its possible rigid translations (or displacements). We here present a semiclassical approximation of the chord function for large Bohr-quantized states, which is accurate right up to a caustic, beyond which the chord function becomes evanescent. It is verified to pick out blind spots, which are displacements for zero overlaps. These occur even for translations within a Planck area of the origin. We derive a simple approximation for the closest blind spots, depending on the Schroedinger covariance matrix, which is verified for Bohr-quantized states.

id: 1003.1899
title: Quantum anti-Zeno effect without rotating wave approximation
authors: Qing Ai, Yong Li, Hang Zheng, C. P. Sun
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042116 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1899
abstract: In this paper, we systematically study the spontaneous decay phenomenon of a two-level system under the influences of both its environment and continuous measurements. In order to clarify some well-established conclusions about the quantum Zeno effect (QZE) and the quantum anti-Zeno effect (QAZE), we do not use the rotating wave approximation (RWA) in obtaining an effective Hamiltonian. We examine various spectral distributions by making use of our present approach in comparison with other approaches. It is found that with respect to a bare excited state even without the RWA, the QAZE can still happen for some cases, e.g., the interacting spectra of hydrogen. But for a physical excited state, which is a renormalized dressed state of the atomic state, the QAZE disappears and only the QZE remains. These discoveries inevitably show a transition from the QZE to the QAZE as the measurement interval changes.

id: 1003.1911
title: Efficient quantum repeater based on deterministic Rydberg gates
authors: Bo Zhao, Markus Mueller, Klemens Hammerer, Peter Zoller
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052329 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1911
abstract: We propose an efficient quantum repeater architecture with mesoscopic atomic ensembles, where the Rydberg blockade is employed for deterministic local entanglement generation, entanglement swapping and entanglement purification. Compared with conventional atomic-ensemble-based quantum repeater, the entanglement distribution rate is improved by up to two orders of magnitude with the help of the deterministic Rydberg gate. This new quantum repeater scheme is robust and fast, and thus opens up a new way for practical long-distance quantum communication.

id: 1003.1914
title: Synthesis of the Optimal 4-bit Reversible Circuits
authors: Oleg Golubitsky, Sean M. Falconer, Dmitri Maslov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1914
abstract: Optimal synthesis of reversible functions is a non-trivial problem. One of the major limiting factors in computing such circuits is the sheer number of reversible functions. Even restricting synthesis to 4-bit reversible functions results in a huge search space (16!~2^44 functions). The output of such a search alone, counting only the space required to list Toffoli gates for every function, would require over 100 terabytes of storage. In this paper, we present an algorithm that synthesizes an optimal circuit for any 4-bit reversible specification. We employ several techniques to make the problem tractable. We report results from several experiments, including synthesis of random 4-bit permutations, optimal synthesis of all 4-bit linear reversible circuits, synthesis of existing benchmark functions, and distribution of optimal circuits. Our results have important implications for the design and optimization of quantum circuits, testing circuit synthesis heuristics, and performing experiments in the area of quantum information processing.

id: 1003.1987
title: Information Flow of quantum states interacting with closed timelike curves
authors: T.C. Ralph, C.R. Myers
comments: Now includes appendix proving Deutsch's maximum entropy conjecture
journal: Phys Rev A 82, 062330 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1987
abstract: Recently, the quantum information processing power of closed timelike curves have been discussed. Because the most widely accepted model for quantum closed timelike curve interactions contains ambiguities, different authors have been able to reach radically different conclusions as to the power of such interactions. By tracing the information flow through such systems we are able to derive equivalent circuits with unique solutions, thus allowing an objective decision between the alternatives to be made. We conclude that closed timelike curves, if they exist and are well described by these simple models, would be a powerful resource for quantum information processing.

id: 1003.2006
title: Circuit QED and sudden phase switching in a superconducting qubit array
authors: L. Tian
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted for publication.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 167001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2006
abstract: Superconducting qubits connected in an array can form quantum many-body systems such as the quantum Ising model. By coupling the qubits to a superconducting resonator, the combined system forms a circuit QED system. Here, we study the nonlinear behavior in the many-body state of the qubit array using a semiclassical approach. We show that sudden switchings as well as a bistable regime between the ferromagnetic phase and the paramagnetic phase can be observed in the qubit array. A superconducting circuit to implement this system is presented with realistic parameters .

id: 1003.2007
title: Entanglement in valence-bond-solid states on symmetric graphs
authors: Hosho Katsura, Naoki Kawashima, Anatol N. Kirillov, Vladimir E. Korepin, Shu Tanaka
comments: 32 pages, 17 figures, 4 tables
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 255303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2007
abstract: We study quantum entanglement in the ground state of the Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) model defined on two-dimensional graphs with reflection and/or inversion symmetry. The ground state of this spin model is known as the valence-bond-solid state. We investigate the properties of reduced density matrix of a subsystem which is a mirror image of the other one. Thanks to the reflection symmetry, the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix can be obtained by numerically diagonalizing a real symmetric matrix whose elements are calculated by Monte Carlo integration. We calculate the von Neumann entropy of the reduced density matrix. The obtained results indicate that there is some deviation from the naive expectation that the von Neumann entropy per valence bond on the boundary between the subsystems is $\ln 2$. This deviation is interpreted in terms of the hidden spin chain along the boundary between the subsystems. In some cases where graphs are on ladders, the numerical results are analytically or algebraically confirmed.

id: 1003.2011
title: Using boundary methods to compute the Casimir energy
authors: F.C. Lombardo, F.D. Mazzitelli, P.I. Villar
comments: To be published in the Proceedings of QFEXT09, Norman, OK.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2011
abstract: We discuss new approaches to compute numerically the Casimir interaction energy for waveguides of arbitrary section, based on the boundary methods traditionally used to compute eigenvalues of the 2D Helmholtz equation. These methods are combined with the Cauchy's theorem in order to perform the sum over modes. As an illustration, we describe a point-matching technique to compute the vacuum energy for waveguides containing media with different permittivities. We present explicit numerical evaluations for perfect conducting surfaces in the case of concentric corrugated cylinders and a circular cylinder inside an elliptic one.

id: 1003.2023
title: Population Inversion Induced by Landau-Zener Transition in a Strongly Driven rf-SQUID
authors: Guozhu Sun, Xueda Wen, Yiwen Wang, Shanhua Cong, Jian Chen, Lin Kang, Weiwei Xu, Yang Yu, Siyuan Han, Peiheng Wu
comments: 4pages, 3 figures; Selected as the cover of the March 9 issue of APL
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 94, 102502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2023
abstract: Microwave resonances between discrete macroscopically distinct quantum states with single photon and multiphoton absorption are observed in a strongly driven radio frequency superconducting quantum interference device flux qubit. The amplitude of the resonant peaks and dips are modulated by the power of the applied microwave irradiation and a population inversion is generated at low flux bias. These results, which can be addressed with Landau-Zener transition, are useful to develop an alternative means to initialize and manipulate the flux qubit, as well as to do a controllable population inversion used in a micromaser.

id: 1003.2025
title: Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg interferometry in multilevel superconducting flux qubit
authors: Xueda Wen, Yiwen Wang, Shanhua Cong, Guozhu Sun, Jian Chen, Lin Kang, Weiwei Xu, Yang Yu, Peiheng Wu, Siyuan Han
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures; Chapter of the book: New Trends in Superconductivity Research.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2025
abstract: Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg interferometry has been extensively investigated in quantum two-level systems, with particular interests on artificial system such as superconducting flux qubits. With increasing the driving field amplitude, more energy levels will be involved into the quantum evolution, which results in population inversion and many interesting interference patterns. These interference patterns can be used to obtain the parameters characterizing the system and probe dephasing mechanisms of the qubit. Most recently, experiments have been extended to the regime with higher-frequency and larger-amplitude driving field, in which the interference pattern exhibited more complicated characteristics. In this article, we give a universal description of the characteristics observed in both low-frequency and high-frequency regimes. Besides explaining the already observed experimental results, our theoretical model predicted many interesting phenomenon, which can be demonstrated by future experiments.

id: 1003.2065
title: Preparing pseudo-pure states with controlled-transfer gates
authors: Minaru Kawamura, Benjamin Rowland, Jonathan A. Jones
comments: Significantly revised and extended: now 7 pages including 3 figures; Phys. Rev. A (in press)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82 032315 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2065
abstract: The preparation of pseudo-pure states plays a central role in the implementation of quantum information processing in high temperature ensemble systems, such as nuclear magnetic resonance. Here we describe a simple approach based on controlled-transfer gates which permits pseudo-pure states to be prepared efficiently using spatial averaging techniques.

id: 1003.2087
title: The role of chaos in quantum communication through a dynamical dephasing channel
authors: Gabriela Barreto Lemos, Giuliano Benenti
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures.
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062331 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2087
abstract: In this article we treat the subject of chaotic environments with few degrees of freedom in quantum communication by investigating a conservative dynamical map as a model of a dephasing quantum channel. When the channel's dynamics is chaotic, we investigate the model's semi-classical limit and show that the entropy exchange grows at a constant rate which depends on a single parameter (the interaction strength), analogous to stochastic models of dephasing channels. We analyze memory effects in the channel and present strong physical arguments to support that the present model is forgetful in the chaotic regime while memory effects in general cannot be ignored when channel dynamics is regular. In order to render the non-chaotic channel forgetful, it becomes necessary to apply a reset to the channel and this reset can efficiently be modeled by application of a chaotic map. We may then refer to encoding theorems (valid in the case of forgetful channels) to present evidence of a transition from noiseless to noisy channel due to the environment's transition from regular to chaotic dynamics.

id: 1003.2118
title: Transformations of $W$-Type Entangled States
authors: S. K?nta?, S. Turgut
comments: 7 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 092202 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2118
abstract: The transformations of $W$-type entangled states by using local operations assisted with classical communication are investigated. For this purpose, a parametrization of the $W$-type states which remains invariant under local unitary transformations is proposed and a complete characterization of the local operations carried out by a single party is given. These are used for deriving the necessary and sufficient conditions for deterministic transformations. A convenient upper bound for the maximum probability of distillation of arbitrary target states is also found.

id: 1003.2125
title: Experimental quantum tomography of photonic qudits via mutually unbiased basis
authors: G. Lima, L. Neves, R. Guzm¨¢n, E. S. G¨®mez, W. A. T. Nogueira, A. Delgado, A. Vargas, C. Saavedra
comments: Published version
journal: Opt. Express, Vol. 19, Pag. 3542 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2125
abstract: We present the experimental quantum tomography of 7- and 8-dimensional quantum systems based on projective measurements in the mutually unbiased basis (MUB-QT). One of the advantages of MUB-QT is that it requires projections from a minimal number of bases to be performed. In our scheme, the higher dimensional quantum systems are encoded using the propagation modes of single photons, and we take advantage of the capabilities of amplitude- and phase-modulation of programmable spatial light modulators to implement the MUB-QT.

id: 1003.2129
title: Long-Time Behavior of Macroscopic Quantum Systems: Commentary Accompanying the English Translation of John von Neumann's 1929 Article on the Quantum Ergodic Theorem
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Joel L. Lebowitz, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 34 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2: minor improvements and additions. The English translation of von Neumann's article is available as arXiv:1003.2133
journal: European Phys. J. H 35: 173-200 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2129
abstract: The renewed interest in the foundations of quantum statistical mechanics in recent years has led us to study John von Neumann's 1929 article on the quantum ergodic theorem. We have found this almost forgotten article, which until now has been available only in German, to be a treasure chest, and to be much misunderstood. In it, von Neumann studied the long-time behavior of macroscopic quantum systems. While one of the two theorems announced in his title, the one he calls the "quantum H-theorem", is actually a much weaker statement than Boltzmann's classical H-theorem, the other theorem, which he calls the "quantum ergodic theorem", is a beautiful and very non-trivial result. It expresses a fact we call "normal typicality" and can be summarized as follows: For a "typical" finite family of commuting macroscopic observables, every initial wave function $\psi_0$ from a micro-canonical energy shell so evolves that for most times $t$ in the long run, the joint probability distribution of these observables obtained from $\psi_t$ is close to their micro-canonical distribution.

id: 1003.2171
title: Physical model for the generation of ideal resources in multipartite quantum networking
authors: F. Ciccarello, M. Paternostro, S. Bose, D. E. Browne, G. M. Palma, M. Zarcone
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Format revised
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 030302(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2171
abstract: We propose a physical model for generating multipartite entangled states of spin-$s$ particles that have important applications in distributed quantum information processing. Our protocol is based on a process where mobile spins induce the interaction among remote scattering centers. As such, a major advantage lies on the management of stationary and well separated spins. Among the generable states, there is a class of $N$-qubit singlets allowing for optimal quantum telecloning in a scalable and controllable way. We also show how to prepare Aharonov, W and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states.

id: 1003.2172
title: Optimal parametrizations of adiabatic paths
authors: J.E. Avron, M. Fraas, G.M. Graf, P. Grech
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; To prevent from misunderstanding, we clarified the discussion of an apparent speedup in the Grover algorithm; figures improved + minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2172
abstract: The parametrization of adiabatic paths is optimal when tunneling is minimized. Hamiltonian evolutions do not have unique optimizers. However, dephasing Lindblad evolutions do. The optimizers are simply characterized by an Euler-Lagrange equation and have a constant tunneling rate along the path irrespective of the gap. Application to quantum search algorithms recovers the Grover result for appropriate scaling of the dephasing. Dephasing rates that beat Grover imply hidden resources in Lindblad operators.

id: 1003.2201
title: Entanglement of two qubits in a relativistic orbit
authors: Jason Doukas, Benedict Carson
comments: v2: Some typo's fixed, figures compressed to smaller filesize and added some references.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2201
abstract: The creation and destruction of entanglement between a pair of interacting two-level detectors accelerating about diametrically opposite points of a circular path is investigated. It is found that any non-zero acceleration has the effect of suppressing the vacuum entanglement and enhancing the acceleration radiation thereby reducing the entangling capacity of the detectors. Given that for large accelerations the acceleration radiation is the dominant effect, we investigate the evolution of a two detector system initially prepared in a Bell state using a perturbative mater equation and treating the vacuum fluctuations as an unobserved environment. A general function for the concurrence is obtained for stationary and symmetric worldlines in flatspace. The entanglement sudden death time is computed.

id: 1003.2212
title: Rigorous criterion for characterizing correlated multiphoton emissions
authors: Hyun-Gue Hong, Hyunchul Nha, Jai-Hyung Lee, Kyungwon An
comments: published version with minor changes
journal: Optics Express, vol.18, pp. 7092-7100 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2212
abstract: Strong correlation of photons, particularly in the single-photon regime, has recently been exploited for various applications in quantum information processing. Existing correlation measurements, however, do not fully characterize multi-photon correlation in a relevant context and may pose limitations in practical situations. We propose a conceptually rigorous, but easy-to-implement, criterion for detecting correlated multi-photon emission out of a quantum optical system, drawn from the context of wavefunction collapse. We illustrate the robustness of our approach against experimental limitations by considering an anharmonic optical system.

id: 1003.2247
title: Bit Transmission Probability Maximizing the Key Rate of the BB84 Protocol
authors: Sonny Lumbantoruan, Ryutaroh Matsumoto, Tomohiko Uyematsu
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 figure.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2247
abstract: In all papers on the BB84 protocol, the transmission probability of each bit value is usually set to be equal. In this paper, we show that by assigning different transmission probability to each transmitted qubit within a single polarization basis, we can generally improve the key generation rate of the BB84 protocol and achieve a higher key rate.

id: 1003.2258
title: Distributed quantum computation with arbitrarily poor photon detection
authors: Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Simon C. Benjamin, Joseph Fitzsimons
comments: 5 pages, 4 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2258
abstract: In a distributed quantum computer scalability is accomplished by networking together many elementary nodes. Typically the network is optical and inter-node entanglement involves photon detection. In complex networks the entanglement fidelity may be degraded by the twin problems of photon loss and dark counts. Here we describe an entanglement protocol which can achieve high fidelity even when these issues are arbitrarily severe; indeed the method succeeds with finite probability even if the detectors are entirely removed from the network. An experimental demonstration should be possible with existing technologies.

id: 1003.2264
title: Coherent States for PT-/Non-PT-Symmetric and Non-Hermitian Morse Potential via Path Integral Method
authors: Nalan Kandirmaz, Ramazan Sever
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Scr. 81, 035302(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2264
abstract: We discuss the coherent states for PT-/non-PT-Symmetric and non-Hermitian generalized Morse Potential obtained by using path integral formalism over the holomorphic coordinates. We transform the action of generalized Morse potential into two harmonic oscillators with a new parametric time to establish the parametric time coherent states. We calculate the energy eigenvalues and the corresponding wave functions in parabolic coordinates.

id: 1003.2319
title: Real-space renormalization yields finite correlations
authors: Thomas Barthel, Martin Kliesch, Jens Eisert
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures; final version, featuring an addendum to the published article
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 010502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2319
abstract: Real-space renormalization approaches for quantum lattice systems generate certain hierarchical classes of states that are subsumed by the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA). It is shown that, with the exception of one spatial dimension, MERA states are actually finitely correlated states, i.e., projected entangled pair states (PEPS) with a bond dimension independent of the system size. Hence, real-space renormalization generates states which can be encoded with local effective degrees of freedom, and MERA states form an efficiently contractible class of PEPS that obey the area law for the entanglement entropy. It is shown further that there exist other efficiently contractible schemes violating the area law.

id: 1003.2337
title: Arbitrated quantum signature schemes without using entangled states
authors: Xiangfu Zou, Daowen Qiu
comments: 6 pages, comments are welcome.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2337
abstract: A digital signature is a mathematical scheme for demonstrating the authenticity of a digital message or document. For signing quantum messages, some arbitrated quantum signature schemes have being proposed. However, in the existing literature, arbitrated quantum signature schemes depend on entanglement. In this paper, we present two arbitrated quantum signature schemes without utilizing entangled states in the signing phase and the verifying phase. The first proposed scheme can preserve the merits in the existing schemes. Then, we point out, in this scheme and the prior schemes, there exists a problem that Bob can repudiate the integrality of the signatures. To conquer this problem, we construct another arbitrated quantum signature scheme without using quantum entangled states but using a public board. The new scheme has three advantages: it does not utilize entangled states while it can preserve all merits in the existing schemes; the integrality of the signature can avoid being disavowed by the receiver; and, it provides a higher efficiency in transmission and reduces the complexity of implementation. Furthermore, we present a technique such that the quantum message can keep secret to the arbitrator in a arbitrated quantum signature scheme.

id: 1003.2344
title: Identical two-particle interferometry in diffraction gratings
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B 43 (2010) 065504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2344
abstract: We study diffraction and interference of indistinguishable particles. We consider some examples where the wavefunctions and detection probabilities can be evaluated in an analytical way. The diffraction pattern of a two-particle system shows notorious differences for the cases of bosons, fermions and distinguishable particles. In the example of near-field interferometry, the exchange effects for two-fermion systems lead to the existence of planes at which the probability of double detection is null. We also discuss the relation with the approach to systems of identical particles based on correlation functions. In particular, we shall see that these functions reflect, as in noise interferometry, the underlying periodic structure of the diffraction grating.

id: 1003.2350
title: Linewidth broadening of a quantum dot coupled to an off-resonant cavity
authors: Arka Majumdar, Andrei Faraon, Erik Kim, Dirk Englund, Hyochul Kim, Pierre Petroff, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2350
abstract: We study the coupling between a photonic crystal cavity and an off-resonant quantum dot under resonant excitation of the cavity or the quantum dot. Linewidths of the quantum dot and the cavity as a function of the excitation laser power are measured. We show that the linewidth of the quantum dot, measured by observing the cavity emission, is significantly broadened compared to the theoretical estimate. This indicates additional incoherent coupling between the quantum dot and the cavity.

id: 1003.2353
title: Quantum repeaters based on Rydberg-blockade coupled atomic ensembles
authors: Yang Han, Bing He, Khabat Heshami, Cheng-Zu Li, Christoph Simon
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052311 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2353
abstract: We propose a scheme for realizing quantum repeaters with Rydberg-blockade coupled atomic ensembles, based on a recently proposed collective encoding strategy. Rydberg-blockade mediated two-qubit gates and efficient cooperative photon emission are employed to create ensemble-photon entanglement. Thanks to deterministic entanglement swapping operations via Rydberg-based two-qubit gates, and to the suppression of multi-excitation errors by the blockade effect, the entanglement distribution rate of the present scheme is higher by orders of magnitude than the rates achieved by other ensemble-based repeaters. We also show how to realize temporal multiplexing with this system, which offers an additional speedup in entanglement distribution.

id: 1003.2379
title: Physical Reality and Information - Three Hypotheses
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2379
abstract: Since its emergence, quantum mechanics has been a challenge for an understanding of reality which is based on our intuition in a classical world. Nevertheless, it has often been tried to impose this understanding of reality on quantum theory - with limited success. Instead, it might be a better alternative to redefine the meaning of physical reality. This is the objective of the paper. A consideration of the quantum measurement process, conditional probabilities and some well-known typical quantum physical experiments provides the reasoning for the following three hypotheses: (1) Prior to a first measurement, a physical system is not in a quantum state. (2) Physical reality is all that and only that about which (classical) information is available in the universe. (3) Information creation is an independent process and is not covered by the Schroedinger equation. It is the first step of the quantum measurement process and does not have a classical counterpart. The first hypothesis makes sense only if the quantum measurement process can be described without presupposing an initial state for the system under consideration. This becomes possible by the objective conditional probabilities which represent the transition probabilities between the outcomes of successive quantum measurements and have been introduced by the author in some recent papers. The second hypothesis holds as well in the classical case, but a certain incompleteness of reality is typical of quantum mechanics and the origin of many quantum phenomena. Classically, the existence of a complete reality is presumed, and hypothesis 3 has no meaning then.

id: 1003.2393
title: On the transitional behavior of quantum Gaussian memory channels
authors: C. Lupo, S. Mancini
comments: Typos corrected, close to the published version. 9 pages, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052314 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2393
abstract: We address the question of optimality of entangled input states in quantum Gaussian memory channels. For a class of such channels, that can be traced back to the memoryless setting, we state a criterion which relate the optimality of entangled inputs to the symmetry properties of the channels' action. Several examples of channel models belonging to this class are discussed.

id: 1003.2394
title: Nanopolaritons: Vacuum Rabi splitting with a single quantum dot in the center of a dimer nanoantenna
authors: S. Savasta, R. Saja, A. Ridolfo, O. Di Stefano, P. Denti, F. Borghese
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2394
abstract: The demonstration of enhanced spontaneous emission of nanoscaled optical emitters near metallic nanoparticles and the recent realization of a nanolaser based on surface plasmon amplification by stimulated emission of radiation (spaser) encourage the search for strong coupling regime at the nanoscale. Here we propose the concept of nanopolaritons. We demonstrate with accurate scattering calculations that the strong coupling regime of a single quantum emitter (a semiconductor quantum dot) placed in the gap between two metallic nanoparticles can be achieved. The largest dimension of the investigated system is only 36 nm. Nanopolaritons will advance our fundamental understanding of surface plasmon enhanced optical interactions and could be used as ultra-compact elements in quantum-information technology.

id: 1003.2402
title: Controllable Gaussian-qubit interface for extremal quantum state engineering
authors: G. Adesso, S. Campbell, F. Illuminati, M. Paternostro
comments: 4+3 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4. Close to published version with appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 240501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2402
abstract: We study state engineering through bilinear interactions between two remote qubits and two-mode Gaussian light fields. The attainable two-qubit states span the entire physically allowed region in the entanglement-versus-global-purity plane. Two-mode Gaussian states with maximal entanglement at fixed global and marginal entropies produce maximally entangled two-qubit states in the corresponding entropic diagram. We show that a small set of parameters characterizing extremally entangled two-mode Gaussian states is sufficient to control the engineering of extremally entangled two-qubit states, which can be realized in realistic matter-light scenarios.

id: 1003.2444
title: Progress toward scalable tomography of quantum maps using twirling-based methods and information hierarchies
authors: Cecilia C. L¨®pez, Ariel Bendersky, Juan Pablo Paz, David G. Cory
comments: Replaced with published version (only minor changes respect to the first version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062113 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2444
abstract: We present in a unified manner the existing methods for scalable partial quantum process tomography. We focus on two main approaches: the one presented in Bendersky et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 190403 (2008)], and the ones described, respectively, in Emerson et al. [Science 317, 1893 (2007)] and L\'{o}pez et al. [Phys. Rev. A 79, 042328 (2009)], which can be combined together. The methods share an essential feature: They are based on the idea that the tomography of a quantum map can be efficiently performed by studying certain properties of a twirling of such a map. From this perspective, in this paper we present extensions, improvements and comparative analyses of the scalable methods for partial quantum process tomography. We also clarify the significance of the extracted information, and we introduce interesting and useful properties of the $\chi$-matrix representation of quantum maps that can be used to establish a clearer path toward achieving full tomography of quantum processes in a scalable way.

id: 1003.2448
title: Quantum theory of unambiguous measurements
authors: Michal Sedl¨¢k
comments: 141 pages, based on PhD thesis
journal: Acta Physica Slovaca 59, No.6, 653-792 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2448
abstract: In the present paper I formulate a framework that accommodates many unambiguous discrimination problems. I show that the prior information about any type of constituent (state, channel, or observable) allows us to reformulate the discrimination among finite number of alternatives as the discrimination among finite number of average constituents. Using this framework I solve several unambiguous tasks. I present a solution to optimal unambiguous comparison of two ensembles of unknown quantum states. I consider two cases: 1) The two unknown states are arbitrary pure states of qudits. 2) Alternatively, they are coherent states of single-mode optical fields. For this case I propose simple and optimal experimental setup composed of beam-splitters and a photodetector. As a second tasks I consider an unambiguous identification (UI) of coherent states. In this task identical quantum systems are prepared in coherent states and labeled as unknown and reference states, respectively. The promise is that one reference state is the same as the unknown state and the task is to find out unambiguously which one it is. The particular choice of the reference states is unknown to us, and only the probability distribution describing this choice is known. In a general case when multiple copies of unknown and reference states are available I propose a scheme consisting of beamsplitters and photodetectors that is optimal within linear optics. UI can be considered as a search in a quantum database, whose elements are the reference states and the query is represented by the unknown state. This perspective motivated me to show that reference states can be recovered after the measurement and might be used (with reduced success rate) in subsequent UI. Moreover, I analyze the influence of noise in preparation of coherent states on the performance of the proposed setup. Another problem I address is the unambiguous comparison of a pair of unknown qudit unitary channels. I characterize all solutions and identify the optimal ones. I prove that in optimal experiments for comparison of unitary channels the entanglement is necessary. The last task I studied is the unambiguous comparison of unknown non-degenerate projective measurements. I distinguish between measurement devices with apriori labeled and unlabeled outcomes. In both cases only the difference of the measurements can be concluded unambiguously. For the labeled case I derive the optimal strategy if each unknown measurement is used only once. However, if the apparatuses are not labeled, then each measurement device must be used (at least) twice. In particular, for qubit measurement apparatuses with unlabeled outcomes I derive the optimal test state in the two-shots scenario.

id: 1003.2450
title: Determining the whole pure symmetric N-qubit state from its parts
authors: A R Usha Devi, Sudha, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2450
abstract: The Majorana representation of symmetric N-qubit states is employed here to investigate how correlation information of the whole pure symmetric state gets imprinted in its parts. It is shown that reduced states of (N - 1) qubits uniquely specify the entire class of pure N qubit states containing two distinct spinors.

id: 1003.2460
title: Experimental generation of 6 dB continuous variable entanglement from a nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier
authors: Yu Wang, Heng Shen, Xiaoli Jin, Xiaolong Su, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, 18, 6149 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2460
abstract: We experimentally demonstrated that the quantum correlations of amplitude and phase quadratures between signal and idler beams produced from a non-degenerate optical parametric amplifier (NOPA) can be significantly improved by using a mode cleaner in the pump field and reducing the phase fluctuations in phase locking systems. Based on the two technical improvements the quantum entanglement measured with a two-mode homodyne detector is enhanced from ~ 4 dB to ~ 6 dB below the quantum noise limit using the same NOPA and nonlinear crystal.

id: 1003.2472
title: A New Quantum Key Distribution Scheme based on Frequency and Time Coding
authors: Chang-hua Zhu, Chang-xing Pei, Dong-xiao Quan, Nan Chen, Yun-hui Yi
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2472
abstract: A new scheme of quantum key distribution (QKD) using frequency and time coding is proposed, in which the security is based on the frequency-time uncertainty relation. In this scheme, the binary information sequence is encoded randomly on either the central frequency or the time delay at the sender. The central frequency of the single photon pulse is set as omega1 for bit "0" and set as omega2 for bit "1" when frequency coding is selected. While, the single photon pulse is not delayed for bit "0" and is delayed in tao for "1" when time coding is selected. At the receiver, either the frequency or the time delay of the pulse is measured randomly, and the final key is obtained after basis comparison, data reconciliation and privacy amplification. With the proposed method the photon splitting attack can also be detected, and the effect of the noise in the fiber channel and environment on QKD system can be reduced effectively.

id: 1003.2486
title: Superpositions of the dual family of nonlinear coherent states and their non-classical properties
authors: O. Abbasi, M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 19 pages, 18 figures, Accpeted for Publication in Optics Communications, 2010
journal: Optics Communications 283 (2010) 2566--2574
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2486
abstract: Nonlinear coherent states (CSs) and their {\it dual families} were introduced recently. In this paper we want to obtain their superposition and investigate their non-classical properties such as antibunching effect, quadrature squeezing and amplitude squared squeezing. For this purpose two types of superposition are considered. In the first type we neglect the normalization factors of the two components of the dual pair, superpose them and then we normalize the obtained states, while in the second type we superpose the two normalized components and then again normalize the resultant states. As a physical realization, the formalism will then be applied to a special physical system with known nonlinearity function, i.e., Hydrogen-like spectrum. We continue with the (first type of) superposition of the dual pair of Gazeau-Klauder coherent states (GKCSs) as temporally stable CSs. An application of the proposal will be given by employing the P\"oschl-Teller potential system. The numerical results are presented and discussed in detail, showing the effects of this special quantum interference.

id: 1003.2515
title: Shortcut to adiabatic passage in two and three level atoms
authors: Xi Chen, I. Lizuain, A. Ruschhaupt, D. Guery-Odelin, J. G. Muga
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 123003 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2515
abstract: We propose a method to transfer the population and control the state of two-level and three-level atoms speeding-up Adiabatic Passage techniques while keeping their robustness versus parameter variations. The method is based on supplementing the standard laser beam setup of Adiabatic Passage methods with auxiliary steering laser pulses of orthogonal polarization. This provides a shortcut to adiabaticity driving the system along the adiabatic path defined by the standard setup.

id: 1003.2525
title: Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics with Anderson-localized Modes
authors: Luca Sapienza, Henri Thyrrestrup, S?ren Stobbe, Pedro David Garcia, Stephan Smolka, Peter Lodahl
comments: 
journal: Science 327, 1352 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2525
abstract: A major challenge in quantum optics and quantum information technology is to enhance the interaction between single photons and single quantum emitters. Highly engineered optical cavities are generally implemented requiring nanoscale fabrication precision. We demonstrate a fundamentally different approach in which disorder is used as a resource rather than a nuisance. We generate strongly confined Anderson-localized cavity modes by deliberately adding disorder to photonic crystal waveguides. The emission rate of a semiconductor quantum dot embedded in the waveguide is enhanced by a factor of 15 on resonance with the Anderson-localized mode and 94 % of the emitted single-photons couple to the mode. Disordered photonic media thus provide an efficient platform for quantum electrodynamics offering an approach to inherently disorder-robust quantum information devices.

id: 1003.2542
title: The de Broglie Wave as a Localized Excitation of the Action Function
authors: Gregory Sivashinsky
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2542
abstract: The Hamilton-Jacobi equation of relativistic quantum mechanics is revisited. The equation is shown to permit solutions in the form of breathers (nondispersive oscillating/spinning solitons), displaying simultaneous particle-like and wave-like behavior adaptable to the properties of the de Broglie clock. Within this formalism the de Broglie wave acquires the meaning of a localized excitation of the classical action function. The problem of quantization in terms of the breathing action function is discussed.

id: 1003.2545
title: Stochastic Matrix Product States
authors: Kristan Temme, Frank Verstraete
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 210502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2545
abstract: The concept of stochastic matrix product states is introduced and a natural form for the states is derived. This allows to define the analogue of Schmidt coefficients for steady states of non-equilibrium stochastic processes. We discuss a new measure for correlations which is analogous to the entanglement entropy, the entropy cost $S_C$, and show that this measure quantifies the bond dimension needed to represent a steady state as a matrix product state. We illustrate these concepts on the hand of the asymmetric exclusion process.

id: 1003.2581
title: Noncritical quadrature squeezing through spontaneous polarization symmetry breaking
authors: Ferran V. Garcia-Ferrer, Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel, Eugenio Rold¨¢n
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 35, 2194-2196 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2581
abstract: We discuss the possibility of generating noncritical quadrature squeezing by spontaneous polarization symmetry breaking. We consider first type-II frequency-degenerate optical parametric oscillators, but discard them for a number of reasons. Then we propose a four-wave mixing cavity in which the polarization of the output mode is always linear but has an arbitrary orientation. We show that in such a cavity complete noise suppression in a quadrature of the output field occurs, irrespective of the parameter values.

id: 1003.2593
title: Manipulation of the dynamics of many-body systems via quantum control methods
authors: Julie Dinerman, Lea F. Santos
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2593
abstract: We investigate how dynamical decoupling methods may be used to manipulate the time evolution of quantum many-body systems. These methods consist of sequences of external control operations designed to induce a desired dynamics. The systems considered for the analysis are one-dimensional spin-1/2 models, which, according to the parameters of the Hamiltonian, may be in the integrable or non-integrable limits, and in the gapped or gapless phases. We show that an appropriate control sequence may lead a chaotic chain to evolve as an integrable chain and a system in the gapless phase to behave as a system in the gapped phase. A key ingredient for the control schemes developed here is the possibility to use, in the same sequence, different time intervals between control operations.

id: 1003.2639
title: Off-center coherent-state representation and an application to semiclassics
authors: Fernando Parisio
comments: 
journal: Progress of Theoretical Physics, v. 124, p. 53-70, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2639
abstract: By using the overcompleteness of coherent states we find an alternative form of the unit operator for which the ket and the bra appearing under the integration sign do not refer to the same phase-space point. This defines a new quantum representation in terms of Bargmann functions, whose basic features are presented. A continuous family of secondary reproducing kernels for the Bargmann functions is obtained, showing that this quantity is not necessarily unique for representations based on overcomplete sets. We illustrate the applicability of the presented results by deriving a semiclassical expression for the Feynman propagator that generalizes the well-known van Vleck formula and seems to point a way to cope with long-standing problems in semiclassical propagation of localized states.

id: 1003.2653
title: Frequency Conversion: Side-band cooling, state-swapping, and coherent control of mechanical resonators
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Hendra I. Nurdin, Frederick W. Strauch, Matthew James
comments: revtex4-1, 4 pages, 1 png figure. v3: further results on coherent feedback control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2653
abstract: Sideband cooling is a technique that potentially allows mechanical resonators to be prepared in their ground states, important for future applications in quantum technologies. Tian has recently shown that side-band cooling can be implemented by modulating the coupling between a nano-resonator and a superconducting oscillator, a process of frequency conversion [L. Tian, PRB 79, 193407 (2009)]. While side-band cooling is usually treated in the steady-state regime, the effective resonant coupling will also generate near perfect state-swapping from the superconductor to the mechanical resonator. We perform numerical simulations of this system, examining the ground-state cooling achieved by the state-swapping. Further, we show that the superconducting oscillator can be used to control the amplitude and phase of the resonator, while simultaneously cooling it, and thus act as a coherent "quantum feedback controller".

id: 1003.2671
title: A new model for the double well potential
authors: Guihua Tian
comments: 3pages, 3figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2671
abstract: A new model for the double well potential is presented in the paper. In the new potential, the exchanging rate could be easily calculated by the perturbation method in supersymmetric quantum mechanics. It gives good results whether the barrier is high or sallow. The new model have many merits and may be used in the double well problem.

id: 1003.2683
title: An investigation of a nonlocal entanglement of two uncoupled atoms embedded in a coherent cavity field and the associated phase space distribution: one quantum non-linear process
authors: M. S. Ateto
comments: 21 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2683
abstract: Entanglement properties of two uncoupled atoms embedded in a coherent field distribution through one quantum transition process is studied. A case of non-linear Hamiltonian of the problem is considered through which the effect of a non-linear media is illustrated. Moreover, the effect of the frequency difference between the interatomic transition and the electromagnetic field is also analyzed. We show that, adjusting the considered parametres of the non-linear media and frequency difference leads to a strong control of the degree of entanglement where excellent periodicity of entanglement evolution can be obtained which is very important in predicting the behavior of transmitted information through the application of various information processing schemes. We present a detailed and comparative study of atom-atom entanglement for two cases corresponding to different injections of the two atoms into the cavity field. Moreover, we present an answer to the question: How does the quantum phase space structure for a composite system relate to the entanglement characteristics of the corresponding quantum system? We demonstrate how the entanglement in nonlinear tripartite systems can be associated with a delocalization in the phase space distribution.

id: 1003.2684
title: On the construction of coherent states of position dependent mass Schr?dinger equation endowed with effective potential
authors: V Chithiika Ruby, M Senthilvelan
comments: 19 pages, Accepted for Publication in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2684
abstract: In this paper, we propose an algorithm to construct coherent states for an exactly solvable position dependent mass Schr\"odinger equation. We use point canonical transformation method and obtain ground state eigenfunction of the position dependent mass Schr\"odinger equation. We fix the ladder operators in the deformed form and obtain explicit expression of the deformed superpotential in terms of mass distribution and its derivative. We also prove that these deformed operators lead to minimum uncertainty relations. Further, we illustrate our algorithm with two examples in which the coherent states given for the second example is new.

id: 1003.2693
title: Relativistic quantum Brownian motion
authors: Roumen Tsekov
comments: The paper is dedicated to the 125th anniversary of G. Manev
journal: Ann. Univ. Sofia, Fac. Phys. 105 (2012) 22-29
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2693
abstract: A Wigner-Klein-Kramers equation is proposed, which merges relativistic, quantum and thermo dynamics. The relativistic effect on quantum Brownian motion is studied via the Breit-Fermi Hamiltonian applied into a dissipative Madelung hydrodynamics. A new thermo-quantum Smoluchowski equation is derived, which accounts for the relativistic correction of the Bohm quantum potential.

id: 1003.2702
title: Parametrization of projector-based witnesses for bipartite systems
authors: S. J. Akhtarshenas, A. Kheirollahi
comments: 12 pages, four figures
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 49 (2010) 402-412
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2702
abstract: Entanglement witnesses are nonpositive Hermitian operators which can detect the presence of entanglement. In this paper, we provide a general parametrization for orthonormal basis of ${\mathbb C}^n$ and use it to construct projector-based witness operators for entanglement detection in the vicinity of pure bipartite states. Our method to parameterize entanglement witnesses is operationally simple and could be used for doing symbolic and numerical calculations. As an example we use the method for detecting entanglement between an atom and the single mode of quantized field, described by the Jaynes-Cummings model. We also compare the detection of witnesses with the negativity of the state, and show that in the vicinity of pure stats such constructed witnesses able to detect entanglement of the state.

id: 1003.2706
title: Entanglement dynamics and decoherence of an atom coupled to a dissipative cavity field
authors: S. J. Akhtarshenas, M. Khezrian
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2706
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the entanglement dynamics and decoherence in the interacting system of a strongly driven two-level atom and a single mode vacuum field in the presence of dissipation for the cavity field. Starting with an initial product state with the atom in a general pure state and the field in a vacuum state, we show that the final density matrix is supported on ${\mathbb C}^2\otimes{\mathbb C}^2$ space, and therefore, the concurrence can be used as a measure of entanglement between the atom and the field. The influences of the cavity decay on the quantum entanglement of the system are also discussed. We also examine the Bell-CHSH violation between the atom and the field and show that there are entangled states for which the Bell-BCSH inequality is not violated. Using the above system as a quantum channel, we also investigate the quantum teleportation of a generic qubit state and also a two-qubit entangled state, and show that in both cases the atom-field entangled state can be useful to teleport an unknown state with fidelity better than any classical channel.

id: 1003.2718
title: Controlled-NOT gate with weakly coupled qubits: Dependence of fidelity on the form of interaction
authors: Joydip Ghosh, Michael R. Geller
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052340 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2718
abstract: An approach to the construction of the CNOT quantum logic gate for a 4-dimensional coupled-qubit model with weak but otherwise arbitrary coupling has been given recently [M. R. Geller et al., Phys. Rev. A, 012320 (2010)]. How does the resulting fidelity depend on the form of qubit-qubit coupling? In this paper we calculate intrinsic fidelity curves (fidelity in the absence of decoherence versus total gate time) for a variety of qubit-qubit interactions, including the commonly occurring isotropic Heisenberg and XY models, as well as randomly generated ones. For interactions not too close to that of the Ising model, we find that the fidelity curves do not significantly depend on the form of the interaction, and we calculate the resulting interaction-averaged fidelity curve for the non-Ising-like cases and a criterion for determining its applicability.

id: 1003.2729
title: Generalized Arago-Fresnel laws: The EME-flow-line description
authors: M. Bozic, M. Davidovic, T. L. Dimitrova, S. Miret-Artes, A. S. Sanz, A. Weis
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Russ. Laser Res. 31, 117 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2729
abstract: We study experimentally and theoretically the influence of light polarization on the interference patterns behind a diffracting grating. Different states of polarization and configurations are been considered. The experiments are analyzed in terms of electromagnetic energy (EME) flow lines, which can be eventually identified with the paths followed by photons. This gives rise to a novel trajectory interpretation of the Arago-Fresnel laws for polarized light, which we compare with interpretations based on the concept of "which-way" (or "which-slit") information.

id: 1003.2758
title: Conformal Transformation of the Schr?dinger Equation for Central Potential Problems in Three-Dimensions
authors: Robert J. Ducharme
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2758
abstract: In a recent paper, it has been shown the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the three-dimensional harmonic oscillator can be simplified through the use of an isometric conformal transformation. Here, it is demonstrated that the same transformation technique is also applicable to the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the hydrogen atom. This approach has two interesting features. Firstly, it eliminates potential fields from the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. The Coulomb and harmonic binding terms are instead represented as imaginary parts of complex time. Secondly, the method leads to a general relationship between potential energy and ground state energy that encompasses both the hydrogen atom and the harmonic oscillator as special cases.

id: 1003.2761
title: Influence of Dephasing on the Entanglement Teleportation via a two-qubit Heisenberg XYZ system
authors: S. Javad Akhtarshenas, Fardin Kheirandish, Hamidreza Mohammadi
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2761
abstract: The entanglement dynamics of an anisotropic two-qubit Heisenberg XYZ system in the presence of intrinsic decoherence is studied. The usefulness of such system for performance of the quantum teleportation protocol ${\cal T}_0$ and entanglement teleportation protocol ${\cal T}_1$ is also investigated. The results depend on the initial conditions and the parameters of the system. For the product and maximally entangled initial states, increasing the size of spin-orbit interaction parameter $D$ amplifies the effects of dephasing and hence decreases the asymptotic entanglement and fidelity of teleportation. We show that the XY and XYZ Heisenberg systems provide a minimal resource entanglement, required for realizing efficient teleportation. Also, we find that for the some special cases there are some maximally entangled states which are immune to intrinsic decoherence. Therefore, it is possible to perform the quantum teleportation protocol ${\cal T}_0$ and the entanglement teleportation ${\cal T}_1$ with perfect quality by choosing a proper set of parameters and employing one of these maximally entangled robust states as initial state of the resource.

id: 1003.2762
title: Entangled graphs: A classification of four-qubit entanglement
authors: Seyed Javad Akhtarshenas, Masoud Gharahi Ghahi
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2762
abstract: In this paper we use the concept of \textit{entangled graphs} with weighted edges and present a classification of four-qubit entanglement. Entangled graphs, first introduced by Plesch et al [Phys. Rev. A 67 (2003) 012322], are structures such that each qubit of a multi-qubit system is represented as a vertex and an edge between two vertices denotes bipartite entanglement between the corresponding qubits. Our classification is based on the use of generalized Schmidt decomposition (GSD) of pure states of multi-qubit systems. We show that for every possible entangled graph one can find a pure state such that the reduced entanglement of each pair, measured by concurrence, represents the weight of the corresponding edge in the graph. We also use the concept of tripartite and fourpartite concurrences as a proper measure of global entanglement of the states. In this case a circle including the graph indicates the presence of global entanglement.

id: 1003.2764
title: Decoherent many-body dynamics of a nano- mechanical resonator coupled to charge qubits
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty, J. Larson, H. Eleuch
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2764
abstract: The dynamics of charge qubits coupled to a nanomechanical resonator under influence of both a phonon bath in contact with the resonator and irreversible decay of the qubits is considered. The focus of our analysis is devoted to multi partite entanglement and the effects arising from the coupling to the reservoir. It is shown that despite losses, entanglement formation may still persist for relatively long times and it is especially robust against temperature dependence of the reservoir. Together with control of system parameters, the system may therefore be especially suited for quantum information processing. Furthermore, our results shed light on the evolution of open quantum many-body systems. For instance, due to intrinsic qubit-qubit couplings our model is related to a driven XY spin model.

id: 1003.2766
title: Repumping ground-state population in a coherently driven atomic resonance
authors: Asif Sinay, Moshe Shuker, Ofer Firstenberg, Amnon Fisher, Amit Ben-Kish, Jeff Steinhauer
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2766
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate an optical pumping technique to pump a dilute rubidium vapor into the mF = 0 ground states. The technique utilizes selection rules that forbid the excitation of the mF = 0 state by linearly-polarized light. A substantial increase in the transparency contrast of coherent population trapping in the clock transition is demonstrated.

id: 1003.2771
title: Polarization squeezing and multipartite entanglement of triphoton states
authors: G. R. Jin, S. Luo, Y. C. Liu, H. Jing, W. M. Liu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to be published in the Quantum Optical Information Technology feature issue of JOSA B.
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, A105 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2771
abstract: Based upon standard angular momentum theory, we develop a framework to investigate polarization squeezing and multipartite entanglement of a quantum light field. Both mean polarization and variances of the Stokes parameters are obtained analytically, with which we study recent observation of triphoton states [L. K. Shalm {\it et al}, Nature \textbf{457}, 67 (2009)]. Our results show that the appearance of maximally entangled NOON states accompanies with a flip of mean polarization and can be well understood in terms of quantum Fisher information.

id: 1003.2774
title: Relativistic state reduction dynamics
authors: Daniel J. Bedingham
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures, replacement with minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2774
abstract: A mechanism describing state reduction dynamics in relativistic quantum field theory is outlined. The mechanism involves nonlinear stochastic modifications to the standard description of unitary state evolution and the introduction of a relativistic field in which a quantized degree of freedom is associated to each point in spacetime. The purpose of this field is to mediate in the interaction between classical stochastic influences and conventional quantum fields. The equations of motion are Lorentz covariant, frame independent, and do not result in divergent behavior. It is shown that the mathematical framework permits the specification of unambiguous local properties providing a connection between the model and evidence of real world phenomena. The collapse process is demonstrated for an idealized example.

id: 1003.2781
title: Crucial tests of the existence of a Time Operator
authors: Thomas Durt
comments: 34 pages; no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2781
abstract: In the present paper we show that the Temporal Wave Function approach of the decay process, which is a multicomponent version of the Time Operator approach leads to new, non-standard, predictions concerning the statistical properties of decay time distributions of single kaons and entangled pairs of mesons. These results suggest crucial experimental tests for the existence of a Time Operator for the decay process to be realized in High Energy Physics or Quantum Optics.

id: 1003.2783
title: Experimental proposal for testing the Emergence of Environment Induced (EIN) Classical Selection rules with Biological Systems
authors: Thomas Durt
comments: 16 pages, no figure, Keywords: Quantum Darwinism, Environment Induced Selection, Classicality, Entanglement, Biophotons. submitted to Studia Logica.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2783
abstract: According to the so-called Quantum Darwinist approach, the emergence of "classical islands" from a quantum background is assumed to obey a (selection) principle of maximal information. We illustrate this idea by considering the coupling of two oscillators (modes). As our approach suggests that the classical limit could have emerged throughout a long and progressive Evolution mechanism, it is likely that primitive living organisms behave in a "more quantum", "less classical" way than more evolved ones. This brings us to seriously consider the possibility to measure departures from classicality exhibited by biological systems. We describe an experimental proposal the aimed at revealing the presence of entanglement in the biophotonic radiation emitted by biological sources.

id: 1003.2797
title: Entanglement distillation from quasifree Fermions
authors: Zoltan Kadar, Michael Keyl, Dirk Schlingemann
comments: LaTeX, 32 pages, 10 figures. V2: Four footnotes and some references added V3: Completely rewritten. Many points clarified. Main result enhanced V4: Unused figure files deleted
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. Vol. 12 No. 1&2, pp0074-0104 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2797
abstract: We develop a scheme to distill entanglement from bipartite Fermionic systems in an arbitrary quasifree state. It can be applied if either one system containing infinite one-copy entanglement is available or if an arbitrary amount of equally prepared systems can be used. We show that the efficiency of the proposed scheme is in general very good and in some cases even optimal. Furthermore we apply it to Fermions hopping on an infinite lattice and demonstrate in this context that an efficient numerical analysis is possible for more then 10^6 lattice sites.

id: 1003.2830
title: Two-Time Quantum Mechanics
authors: Natalia Gorobey, Alexander Lukyanenko, Inna Lukyanenko
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2830
abstract: A two-time quantum theory of a system of two particles with the direct electromagnetic interaction based on a quantum version of the action principle is considered. An analog of Schrodinger equation for the system is obtained.

id: 1003.2856
title: A Blueprint for a Topologically Fault-tolerant Quantum Computer
authors: Parsa Bonderson, Sankar Das Sarma, Michael Freedman, Chetan Nayak
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2856
abstract: The advancement of information processing into the realm of quantum mechanics promises a transcendence in computational power that will enable problems to be solved which are completely beyond the known abilities of any "classical" computer, including any potential non-quantum technologies the future may bring. However, the fragility of quantum states poses a challenging obstacle for realization of a fault-tolerant quantum computer. The topological approach to quantum computation proposes to surmount this obstacle by using special physical systems -- non-Abelian topologically ordered phases of matter -- that would provide intrinsic fault-tolerance at the hardware level. The so-called "Ising-type" non-Abelian topological order is likely to be physically realized in a number of systems, but it can only provide a universal gate set (a requisite for quantum computation) if one has the ability to perform certain dynamical topology-changing operations on the system. Until now, practical methods of implementing these operations were unknown. Here we show how the necessary operations can be physically implemented for Ising-type systems realized in the recently proposed superconductor-semiconductor and superconductor-topological insulator heterostructures. Furthermore, we specify routines employing these methods to generate a computationally universal gate set. We are consequently able to provide a schematic blueprint for a fully topologically-protected Ising based quantum computer using currently available materials and techniques. This may serve as a starting point for attempts to construct a fault-tolerant quantum computer, which will have applications to cryptanalysis, drug design, efficient simulation of quantum many-body systems, solution of large systems of linear equations, searching large databases, engineering future quantum computers, and -- most importantly -- those applications which no one in our classical era has the prescience to foresee.

id: 1003.2902
title: Role of surface states in the Casimir force between semiconducting films
authors: Marco Govoni, Carlo Calandra, Andrea Benassi
comments: to be published on J.Phys.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2902
abstract: We present results of first principle calculations of the Casimir force between Si films of nanometric size, which show that it depends significantly upon the configuration of the surface atoms, and give evidence of the importance of surface states.

id: 1003.2915
title: A class of quantum gate entangler
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages, accepted for publication in Physica Scripta for the CEWQO2009 proceedings.
journal: Phys. Scr. 2010 014048
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2915
abstract: We construct quantum gate entanglers for different classes of multipartite states based on definition of W and GHZ concurrence classes. First, we review the basic construction of concurrence classes based on orthogonal complement of a positive operator valued measure (POVM) on quantum phase. Then, we construct quantum gates entanglers for different classes of multi-qubit states. In particular, we show that these operators can entangle multipartite state if they satisfy some conditions for W and GHZ classes of states. Finally, we explicitly give the W class and GHZ classes of quantum gate entanglers for four-qubit states.

id: 1003.2931
title: Universality of spectra for interacting quantum chaotic systems
authors: Wojciech Bruzda, Marek Smaczynski, Valerio Cappellini, Hans-Juergen Sommers, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 066209 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2931
abstract: We analyze a model quantum dynamical system subjected to periodic interaction with an environment, which can describe quantum measurements. Under the condition of strong classical chaos and strong decoherence due to large coupling with the measurement device, the spectra of the evolution operator exhibit an universal behavior. A generic spectrum consists of a single eigenvalue equal to unity, which corresponds to the invariant state of the system, while all other eigenvalues are contained in a disk in the complex plane. Its radius depends on the number of the Kraus measurement operators, and determines the speed with which an arbitrary initial state converges to the unique invariant state. These spectral properties are characteristic of an ensemble of random quantum maps, which in turn can be described by an ensemble of real random Ginibre matrices. This will be proven in the limit of large dimension.

id: 1003.2993
title: On the bound-state spectrum of a nonrelativistic particle in the background of a short-ranged linear potential
authors: L.B. Castro, A.S. de Castro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2993
abstract: The nonrelativistic problem of a particle immersed in a triangular potential well, set forth by N.A. Rao and B.A. Kagali, is revised. It is shown that these researchers misunderstood the full meaning of the potential and obtained a wrong quantization condition. By exploring the space inversion symmetry, this work presents the correct solution to this problem with potential applications in electronics in a simple and transparent way.

id: 1003.3003
title: Flatland Position-Dependent-Mass: Polar Coordinates, Separability and Exact Solvability
authors: S. Habib Mazharimousavi, Omar Mustafa
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 6 (2010), 088, 8 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3003
abstract: The kinetic energy operator with position-dependent-mass in plane polar coordinates is obtained. The separability of the corresponding Schr\"odinger equation is discussed. A hypothetical toy model is reported and two exactly solvable examples are studied.

id: 1003.3059
title: Tensor Rank and Stochastic Entanglement Catalysis for Multipartite Pure States
authors: Lin Chen, Eric Chitambar, Runyao Duan, Zhengfeng Ji, Andreas Winter
comments: PhysRevLett.105.200501
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett.105, 200501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3059
abstract: The tensor rank (also known as generalized Schmidt rank) of multipartite pure states plays an important role in the study of entanglement classifications and transformations. We employ powerful tools from the theory of homogeneous polynomials to investigate the tensor rank of symmetric states such as the tripartite state $\ket{W_3}=\tfrac{1}{\sqrt{3}}(\ket{100}+\ket{010}+\ket{001})$ and its $N$-partite generalization $\ket{W_N}$. Previous tensor rank estimates are dramatically improved and we show that (i) three copies of $\ket{W_3}$ has rank either 15 or 16, (ii) two copies of $\ket{W_N}$ has rank $3N-2$, and (iii) $n$ copies of $\ket{W_N}$ has rank O(N). A remarkable consequence of these results is that certain multipartite transformations, impossible even probabilistically, can become possible when performed in multiple copy bunches or when assisted by some catalyzing state. This effect is impossible for bipartite pure states.

id: 1003.3061
title: Justification of the symmetric damping model of the dynamical Casimir effect in a cavity with a semiconductor mirror
authors: Victor V. Dodonov
comments: 9 pages, typos corrected, corresponds to the published version, except for the reference style
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research, vol. 31, issue 2, pp. 152-161 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3061
abstract: A "microscopic" justification of the "symmetric damping" model of a quantum oscillator with time-dependent frequency and time-dependent damping is given. This model is used to predict results of experiments on simulating the dynamical Casimir effect in a cavity with a photo-excited semiconductor mirror. It is shown that the most general bilinear time-dependent coupling of a selected oscillator (field mode) to a bath of harmonic oscillators results in two equal friction coefficients for the both quadratures, provided all the coupling coefficients are proportional to a single arbitrary function of time whose duration is much shorter than the periods of all oscillators. The choice of coupling in the rotating wave approximation form leads to the "mimimum noise" model of the quantum damped oscillator, introduced earlier in a pure phenomenological way.

id: 1003.3074
title: Driven Dirac-like Equation via Mirror Oscillation: Controlled Cold-Atom Zitterbewegung
authors: Qi Zhang, Jiangbin Gong, C.H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 023608 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3074
abstract: By considering mirror oscillation in a "tripod-scheme" laser-atom system, we advocate explorative studies of driven Dirac-like equations. Both analytical and numerical studies show that mirror oscillation can be used to drive an effective spin-orbit interaction and hence control the amplitude, the frequency, and the damping of the cold-atom Zitterbewegung oscillation. Our results demonstrate an interesting coupling between the mirror mechanical motion and a fundamental quantum coherent oscillation, opening up new means of matter wave manipulation.

id: 1003.3075
title: Random graph states, maximal flow and Fuss-Catalan distributions
authors: Benoit Collins, Ion Nechita, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 37 pages, 24 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 275303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3075
abstract: For any graph consisting of $k$ vertices and $m$ edges we construct an ensemble of random pure quantum states which describe a system composed of $2m$ subsystems. Each edge of the graph represents a bi-partite, maximally entangled state. Each vertex represents a random unitary matrix generated according to the Haar measure, which describes the coupling between subsystems. Dividing all subsystems into two parts, one may study entanglement with respect to this partition. A general technique to derive an expression for the average entanglement entropy of random pure states associated to a given graph is presented. Our technique relies on Weingarten calculus and flow problems. We analyze statistical properties of spectra of such random density matrices and show for which cases they are described by the free Poissonian (Marchenko-Pastur) distribution. We derive a discrete family of generalized, Fuss-Catalan distributions and explicitly construct graphs which lead to ensembles of random states characterized by these novel distributions of eigenvalues.

id: 1003.3076
title: Geometric Phase in PT-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Qing-hai Wang
comments: 5 pages, no figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:012103,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3076
abstract: Unitary evolution in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics with a time-dependent metric is found to yield a new class of adiabatic processes. As an explicit example, a Berry-like phase associated with a PT-symmetric two-level system is derived and interpreted as the flux of a fictitious monopole with a tunable charge plus a singular string component with non-trivial phase contributions. The Hermitian analog of our results is also discussed.

id: 1003.3098
title: Initial-Phase Spectroscopy as a Control of Entangled Systems
authors: Levente Horvath, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3098
abstract: We introduce the concept of initial-phase spectroscopy as a control of the dynamics of entangled states encoded into a two-atom system interacting with a broadband squeezed vacuum field. We illustrate our considerations by examining the transient spectrum of the field emitted by two systems, the small sample (Dicke) and the spatially extended (non-Dicke) models. It is found that the shape of the spectral components depends crucially on the relative phase between the initial entangled state and the squeezed field. We follow the temporal evolution of the spectrum and show that depending on the relative phase a hole burning can occur in one of the two spectral lines. We compare the transient behavior of the spectrum with the time evolution of the initial entanglement and find that the hole burning can be interpreted as a manifestation of the phenomenon of entanglement sudden death. In addition, we find that in the case of the non-Dicke model, the collective damping rate may act like an artificial tweezer that rotates the phase of the squeezed field.

id: 1003.3105
title: Resonance scattering and singularities of the scattering function
authors: W.D. Heiss, R.G. Nazmitdinov
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.D58, 53 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3105
abstract: Recent studies of transport phenomena with complex potentials are explained by generic square root singularities of spectrum and eigenfunctions of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. Using a two channel problem we demonstrate that such singularities produce a significant effect upon the pole behaviour of the scattering matrix, and more significantly upon the associated residues. This mechanism explains why by proper choice of the system parameters the resonance cross section is increased drastically in one channel and suppressed in the other channel.

id: 1003.3117
title: Stochastic Simulation of Nonadiabatic Dynamics at Long Time
authors: Daniel A. Uken, Alessandro Sergi, Francesco Petruccione
comments: Revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3117
abstract: Using a generalized energy-conserving transition probability, it is shown how nonadiabatic calculations, within the Wigner-Heisenberg representation of quantum mechanics, can be reliably extended to far longer times than those allowed by a primitive sampling scheme. Tackling the spin-boson model as a paradigmatic example, substantial numerical evidence is provided that effective integration of the dynamics can be achieved for a wide range of temperatures and friction.

id: 1003.3142
title: Constructing quantum circuits for maximally entangled multi-qubit states using the genetic algorithm
authors: Zheyong Fan, Hugo de Garis, Ben Goertzel, Zhongzhou Ren, Huabi Zeng
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3142
abstract: Numerical optimization methods such as hillclimbing and simulated annealing have been applied to search for highly entangled multi-qubit states. Here the genetic algorithm is applied to this optimization problem -- to search not only for highly entangled states, but also for the corresponding quantum circuits creating these states. Simple quantum circuits for maximally (highly) entangled states are discovered for 3, 4, 5, and 6-qubit systems; and extension of the method to systems with more qubits is discussed. Among other results we have found explicit quantum circuits for maximally entangled 5 and 6-qubit circuits, with only 8 and 13 quantum gates respectively. One significant advantage of our method over previous ones is that it allows very simple construction of quantum circuits based on the quantum states found.

id: 1003.3153
title: Many body physics from a quantum information perspective
authors: R. Augusiak, F. M. Cucchietti, M. Lewenstein
comments: Lectures from the Les Houches School on "Modern theories of correlated electron systems". Improved version new references added
journal: Lecture Notes in Physics 843, 245-294 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3153
abstract: The quantum information approach to many body physics has been very successful in giving new insight and novel numerical methods. In these lecture notes we take a vertical view of the subject, starting from general concepts and at each step delving into applications or consequences of a particular topic. We first review some general quantum information concepts like entanglement and entanglement measures, which leads us to entanglement area laws. We then continue with one of the most famous examples of area-law abiding states: matrix product states, and tensor product states in general. Of these, we choose one example (classical superposition states) to introduce recent developments on a novel quantum many body approach: quantum kinetic Ising models. We conclude with a brief outlook of the field.

id: 1003.3167
title: Transition to sub-Planck structures through the superposition of q-oscillator stationary states
authors: E.I. Jafarov, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 5 pages, 6 eps files
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:3400-3404,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3167
abstract: We investigate the superposition of four different quantum states based on the $q$-oscillator. These quantum states are expressed by means of Rogers-Szeg\"o polynomials. We show that such a superposition has the properties of the quantum harmonic oscillator when $q\to 1$, and those of a compass state with the appearance of chessboard-type interference patterns when $q \to 0$.

id: 1003.3192
title: Non-Markovian Beables vs. Massive Parallelism
authors: Eric Dennis
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3192
abstract: A simple dynamical model over a discrete classical state space is presented. In a certain limit, it reduces to one in a class of models subsuming Bell's field-theoretic version of Bohmian mechanics. But it exhibits the massive parallelism native to quantum mechanics only as an emergent phenomenon, in contrast with Bell's and other hidden variable theories. While still non-local in its dynamics, the model thus restores our ability to regard a system as a combination of separate, localized parts, at the price of admitting non-Markovian dynamics.

id: 1003.3195
title: Zero-error channel capacity and simulation assisted by non-local correlations
authors: Toby S. Cubitt, Debbie Leung, William Matthews, Andreas Winter
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure. Small changes to text in v2. Removed an unnecessarily strong requirement in the premise of Theorem 11
journal: IEEE Trans. Info. Theory, Volume 57, Issue 8, pages 5509 - 5523 (Aug 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3195
abstract: Shannon's theory of zero-error communication is re-examined in the broader setting of using one classical channel to simulate another exactly, and in the presence of various resources that are all classes of non-signalling correlations: Shared randomness, shared entanglement and arbitrary non-signalling correlations. Specifically, when the channel being simulated is noiseless, this reduces to the zero-error capacity of the channel, assisted by the various classes of non-signalling correlations. When the resource channel is noiseless, it results in the "reverse" problem of simulating a noisy channel exactly by a noiseless one, assisted by correlations. In both cases, 'one-shot' separations between the power of the different assisting correlations are exhibited. The most striking result of this kind is that entanglement can assist in zero-error communication, in stark contrast to the standard setting of communicaton with asymptotically vanishing error in which entanglement does not help at all. In the asymptotic case, shared randomness is shown to be just as powerful as arbitrary non-signalling correlations for noisy channel simulation, which is not true for the asymptotic zero-error capacities. For assistance by arbitrary non-signalling correlations, linear programming formulas for capacity and simulation are derived, the former being equal (for channels with non-zero unassisted capacity) to the feedback-assisted zero-error capacity originally derived by Shannon to upper bound the unassisted zero-error capacity. Finally, a kind of reversibility between non-signalling-assisted capacity and simulation is observed, mirroring the famous "reverse Shannon theorem".

id: 1003.3198
title: Comment on "Quantum Friction - Fact or Fiction?"
authors: Ulf Leonhardt
comments: Comment on J.B. Pendry, New J. Phys. 12, 033028 (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3198
abstract: If quantum friction existed [J.B. Pendry, New J. Phys. 12, 033028 (2010)] an unlimited amount of useful energy could be extracted from the quantum vacuum and Lifshitz theory would fail. Both are unlikely to be true.

id: 1003.3207
title: Gaussian quantum discord
authors: Paolo Giorda, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, new version, typos fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 020503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3207
abstract: We extend the quantum discord to continuous variable systems and evaluate Gaussian quantum discord C(\rho) for bipartite Gaussian states. In particular, for squeezed thermal states (STS), we explicitly maximize the extractable information over Gaussian measurements: C(\rho) is minimized by a generalized measurement rather than a projective one. Almost all STS have nonzero Gaussian discord: they may be either separable or entangled if the discord is below the threshold C(\rho)=1, whereas they are all entangled above the threshold. We elucidate the general role of state parameters in determining the discord and discuss its evolution in noisy channels.

id: 1003.3303
title: Quantum anomalies and linear response theory
authors: Itamar Sela, James Aisenberg, Tsampikos Kottos, Doron Cohen
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, textual improvements (as in published version)
journal: J. Phys. A (FTC) 43, 332001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3303
abstract: The analysis of diffusive energy spreading in quantized chaotic driven systems, leads to a universal paradigm for the emergence of a quantum anomaly. In the classical approximation a driven chaotic system exhibits stochastic-like diffusion in energy space with a coefficient $D$ that is proportional to the intensity $\epsilon^2$ of the driving. In the corresponding quantized problem the coherent transitions are characterized by a generalized Wigner time $t_{\epsilon}$, and a self-generated (intrinsic) dephasing process leads to non-linear dependence of $D$ on $\epsilon^2$.

id: 1003.3318
title: Coherently manipulating flying qubits in a quantum wire with a magnetic impurity
authors: Lan Zhou, Jing Lu
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 74, 373 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3318
abstract: e study the effect of a magnetic impurity with spin-half on a single propagating electron in a one-dimensional model system via the tight-binding approach. Due to the spin-dependent interaction, the scattering channel for the flying qubit is split, and its transmission spectrum is obtained. It is found that, the spin orientation of the impurity plays the role as a spin state filter for a flying qubit.

id: 1003.3331
title: The role of initial entanglement and nonGaussianity in the decoherence of photon number entangled states evolving in a noisy channel
authors: Michele Allegra, Paolo Giorda, Matteo G.A. Paris
comments: revised version, title and figures changed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 100503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3331
abstract: We address the degradation of continuous variable (CV) entanglement in a noisy channel focusing on the set of photon-number entangled states. We exploit several separability criteria and compare the resulting separation times with the value of non-Gaussianity at any time, thus showing that in the low-temperature regime: i) non-Gaussianity is a bound for the relative entropy of entanglement and ii) Simon' criterion provides a reliable estimate of the separation time also for nonGaussian states. We provide several evidences supporting the conjecture that Gaussian entanglement is the most robust against noise, i.e. it survives longer than nonGaussian one, and that this may be a general feature for CV systems in Markovian channels.

id: 1003.3346
title: Extraction of the beta-factor for single quantum dots coupled to a photonic crystal waveguide
authors: Henri Thyrrestrup, Luca Sapienza, Peter Lodahl
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 96, 231106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3346
abstract: We present measurements of the beta-factor, describing the coupling efficiency of light emitted by single InAs/GaAs semiconductor quantum dots into a photonic crystal waveguide mode. The beta-factor is evaluated by means of time-resolved frequency-dependent photoluminescence spectroscopy. The emission wavelength of single quantum dots is temperature tuned across the band edge of a photonic crystal waveguide and the spontaneous emission rate is recorded. Decay rates up to 5.7 ns^(-1), corresponding to a Purcell factor of 5.2, are measured and beta-factors up to 85% are extracted. These results prove the potential of photonic crystal waveguides in the realization of on-chip single-photon sources.

id: 1003.3351
title: Quantum particles from coarse grained classical probabilities in phase space
authors: C. Wetterich
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3351
abstract: Quantum particles can be obtained from a classical probability distribution in phase space by a suitable coarse graining, whereby simultaneous classical information about position and momentum can be lost. For a suitable time evolution of the classical probabilities and choice of observables all features of a quantum particle in a potential follow from classical statistics. This includes interference, tunneling and the uncertainty relation.

id: 1003.3354
title: Entanglement between smeared field operators in the Klein-Gordon vacuum
authors: Magdalena Zych, Fabio Costa, Johannes Kofler, Caslav Brukner
comments: 21 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:125019,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3354
abstract: Quantum field theory is the application of quantum physics to fields. It provides a theoretical framework widely used in particle physics and condensed matter physics. One of the most distinct features of quantum physics with respect to classical physics is entanglement or the existence of strong correlations between subsystems that can even be spacelike separated. In quantum fields, observables restricted to a region of space define a subsystem. While there are proofs on the existence of local observables that would allow a violation of Bell's inequalities in the vacuum states of quantum fields as well as some explicit but technically demanding schemes requiring an extreme fine-tuning of the interaction between the fields and detectors, an experimentally accessible entanglement witness for quantum fields is still missing. Here we introduce smeared field operators which allow reducing the vacuum to a system of two effective bosonic modes. The introduction of such collective observables is motivated by the fact that no physical probe has access to fields in single spatial (mathematical) points but rather smeared over finite volumes. We first give explicit collective observables whose correlations reveal vacuum entanglement in the Klein-Gordon field. We then show that the critical distance between the two regions of space above which two effective bosonic modes become separable is of the order of the Compton wavelength of the particle corresponding to the massive Klein-Gordon field.

id: 1003.3355
title: Quantum Classical Correspondence for a non-Hermitian Bose-Hubbard Dimer
authors: Eva-Maria Graefe, Hans J¨¹rgen Korsch, Astrid Elisa Niederle
comments: 17 pages, 17 figures; bibliography updated, typos corrected, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013629 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3355
abstract: We investigate the many-particle and mean-field correspondence for a non-Hermitian N-particle Bose-Hubbard dimer where a complex onsite energy describes an effective decay from one of the modes. Recently a generalized mean-field approximation for this non-Hermitian many-particle system yielding an alternative complex nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation was introduced. Here we give details of this mean-field approximation and show that the resulting dynamics can be expressed in a generalized canonical form that includes a metric gradient flow. The interplay of nonlinearity and non-Hermiticity introduces a qualitatively new behavior to the mean-field dynamics: The presence of the non-Hermiticity promotes the self-trapping transition, while damping the self-trapping oscillations, and the nonlinearity introduces a strong sensitivity to the initial conditions in the decay of the normalization. Here we present a complete characterization of the mean-field dynamics and the fixed point structure. We also investigate the full many-particle dynamics, which shows a rich variety of breakdown and revival as well as tunneling phenomena on top of the mean-field structure.

id: 1003.3365
title: Correlated directional atomic clouds via four-heterowave mixing
authors: L. F. Buchmann, G. M. Nikolopoulos, O. Zobay, P. Lambropoulos
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: L.F.Buchmann, G.M.Nikolopoulos, O.Zobay and P. Lambropoulos, Phys. Rev. A 81, 031606(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3365
abstract: We investigate the coherence properties of pairs of counter-propagating atomic clouds, produced in superradiant Rayleigh scattering off atomic condensates. It is shown that these clouds exhibit long-range spatial coherence and strong nonclassical density cross-correlations, which make this scheme a promising candidate for the production of highly directional nonclassically correlated atomic pulses.

id: 1003.3388
title: Single-photon emission from Ni-related color centers in CVD diamond
authors: David Steinmetz, Elke Neu, Christian Hepp, Roland Albrecht, Wolfgang Bolse, Jan Meijer, Detlef Rogalla, Christoph Becher
comments: 8 pages, published in conference proceedings of SPIE Photonics Europe 2010
journal: Proc. SPIE, Vol. 7727, 77270P (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3388
abstract: Color centers in diamond are very promising candidates among the possible realizations for practical single-photon sources because of their long-time stable emission at room temperature. The popular nitrogen-vacancy center shows single-photon emission, but within a large, phonon-broadened spectrum (~100nm), which strongly limits its applicability for quantum communication. By contrast, Ni-related centers exhibit narrow emission lines at room temperature. We present investigations on single color centers consisting of Ni and Si created by ion implantation into single crystalline IIa diamond. We use systematic variations of ion doses between 10^8/cm^2 and 10^14/cm^2 and energies between 30keV and 1.8MeV. The Ni-related centers show emission in the near infrared spectral range (~770nm to 787nm) with a small line-width (~3nm FWHM). A measurement of the intensity correlation function proves single-photon emission. Saturation measurements yield a rather high saturation count rate of 77.9 kcounts/s. Polarization dependent measurements indicate the presence of two orthogonal dipoles.

id: 1003.3485
title: Method for characterizing single photon detectors in saturation regime by cw laser
authors: Jungmi Oh, Cristian Antonelli, Moshe Tur, Misha Brodsky
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 18, Issue 6, pp. 5906-5911 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3485
abstract: We derive an analytical expression for the count probability of a single photon detector for a wide range of input optical power that includes afterpulsing effects. We confirm the validity of the expression by fitting it to the data obtained from a saturated commercial Single Photon Detector by illuminating it with a cw laser. Detector efficiency and afterpulsing probability extracted from the fits agree with the manufacture specs for low repetition frequencies.

id: 1003.3504
title: Entanglement discontinuity
authors: Amir Kalev, Faqir C. Khanna, Michael Revzen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3504
abstract: We identify a class of two-mode squeezed states which are parametrized by an angular variable ${0\le\theta<2\pi}$ and a squeezing parameter $r$. We show that, for a large squeezing value, these states are either (almost) maximally entangled or product states depending on the value of $\theta$. This peculiar behavior of entanglement is unique for infinite dimensional Hilbert space and has consequences for the entangling power of unitary operators in such systems. Finally, we show that, at the limit ${r\to\infty}$ these states demonstrate a discontinuity attribute of entanglement.

id: 1003.3506
title: General unifying features of controlled quantum phenomena
authors: Alexander Pechen, Constantin Brif, Rebing Wu, Raj Chakrabarti, Herschel Rabitz
comments: The published version (includes the supplementary material)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 030101(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3506
abstract: Many proposals have been put forth for controlling quantum phenomena, including open-loop, adaptive feedback, and real-time feedback control. Each of these approaches has been viewed as operationally, and even physically, distinct from the others. This work shows that all such scenarios inherently share the same fundamental control features residing in the topology of the landscape relating the target physical observable to the applied controls. This unified foundation may provide a basis for development of hybrid control schemes that would combine the advantages of the existing approaches to achieve the best overall performance.

id: 1003.3545
title: A cone approach to the quantum separability problem
authors: D. Salgado, J.L. Sanchez-Gomez, M. Ferrero
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3545
abstract: Exploiting the cone structure of the set of unnormalized mixed quantum states, we offer an approach to detect separability independently of the dimensions of the subsystems. We show that any mixed quantum state can be decomposed as $\rho=(1-\lambda)C_{\rho}+\lambda E_{\rho}$, where $C_{\rho}$ is a separable matrix whose rank equals that of $\rho$ and the rank of $E_{\rho}$ is strictly lower than that of $\rho$. With the simple choice $C_{\rho}=M_{1}\otimes M_{2}$ we have a necessary condition of separability in terms of $\lambda$, which is also sufficient if the rank of $E_{\rho}$ equals 1. We give a first extension of this result to detect genuine entanglement in multipartite states and show a natural connection between the multipartite separability problem and the classification of pure states under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). We argue that this approach is not exhausted with the first simple choices included herein.

id: 1003.3550
title: Population bound effects on bosonic correlations in non-inertial frames
authors: E. Martin-Martinez, J. Leon
comments: revtex 4, 12 pages, 10 figures. Added Journal ref.
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:052305,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3550
abstract: We analyse the effect of bounding the occupation number of bosonic field modes on the correlations among all the different spatial-temporal regions in a setting in which we have a space-time with a horizon along with an inertial observer. We show that the entanglement between A (inertial observer) and R (uniformly accelerated observer) depends on the bound N, contrary to the fermionic case. Whether or not decoherence increases with N depends on the value of the acceleration a. Concerning the bipartition A-antiR (Alice with an observer in Rindler's region IV), we show that no entanglement is created whatever the value of N and a. Furthermore, AR entanglement is very quickly lost for finite N and for infinite N. We will study in detail the mutual information conservation law found for bosons and fermions. By means of the boundary effects associated to N finiteness, we will show that for bosons this law stems from classical correlations while for fermions it has a quantum origin. Finally, we will present the strong N dependence of the entanglement in R-antiR bipartition and compare the fermionic cases with their finite N bosonic analogs. We will also show the anti-intuitive dependence of this entanglement on statistics since more entanglement is created for bosons than for their fermion counterparts.

id: 1003.3577
title: Reality and locality in quantum mechanics, an experiment proposed
authors: Jan Mycielski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3577
abstract: A view of emission and absorption of photons by atoms, which was proposed by Max Planck, is recalled. A direct experiment that could corroborate or refute that view is defined.

id: 1003.3587
title: Entanglement enhanced atomic gyroscope
authors: J.J. Cooper, D.W. Hallwood, J. A. Dunningham
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3587
abstract: The advent of increasingly precise gyroscopes has played a key role in the technological development of navigation systems. Ring-laser and fibre-optic gyroscopes, for example, are widely used in modern inertial guidance systems and rely on the interference of unentangled photons to measure mechanical rotation. The sensitivity of these devices scales with the number of particles used as $1/ \sqrt{N}$. Here we demonstrate how, by using sources of entangled particles, it is possible to do better and even achieve the ultimate limit allowed by quantum mechanics where the precision scales as 1/N. We propose a gyroscope scheme that uses ultra-cold atoms trapped in an optical ring potential.

id: 1003.3591
title: SIC~POVMs and Clifford groups in prime dimensions
authors: Huangjun Zhu
comments: 30 pages, 1 figure, section 4 revised and extended, published in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 305305 (2010)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 305305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3591
abstract: We show that in prime dimensions not equal to three, each group covariant symmetric informationally complete positive operator valued measure (SIC~POVM) is covariant with respect to a unique Heisenberg--Weyl (HW) group. Moreover, the symmetry group of the SIC~POVM is a subgroup of the Clifford group. Hence, two SIC~POVMs covariant with respect to the HW group are unitarily or antiunitarily equivalent if and only if they are on the same orbit of the extended Clifford group. In dimension three, each group covariant SIC~POVM may be covariant with respect to three or nine HW groups, and the symmetry group of the SIC~POVM is a subgroup of at least one of the Clifford groups of these HW groups respectively. There may exist two or three orbits of equivalent SIC~POVMs for each group covariant SIC~POVM, depending on the order of its symmetry group. We then establish a complete equivalence relation among group covariant SIC~POVMs in dimension three, and classify inequivalent ones according to the geometric phases associated with fiducial vectors. Finally, we uncover additional SIC~POVMs by regrouping of the fiducial vectors from different SIC~POVMs which may or may not be on the same orbit of the extended Clifford group.

id: 1003.3610
title: Distribution of entanglement in light-harvesting complexes and their quantum efficiency
authors: Francesca Fassioli, Alexandra Olaya-Castro
comments: Version accepted for publication in NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 085006 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3610
abstract: Recent evidence of electronic coherence during energy transfer in photosynthetic antenna complexes has reinvigorated the discussion of whether coherence and/or entanglement has any practical functionality for these molecular systems. Here we investigate quantitative relationships between the quantum yield of a light-harvesting complex and the distribution of entanglement among its components. Our study focusses on the entanglement yield or average entanglement surviving a time scale comparable to the average excitation trapping time. As a prototype system we consider the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) protein of green sulphur bacteria and show that there is an inverse relationship between the quantum efficiency and the average entanglement between distant donor sites. Our results suggest that longlasting electronic coherence among distant donors might help modulation of the lightharvesting function.

id: 1003.3616
title: Stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in an open quantum system: Master equation approach
authors: M. Scala, B. Militello, A. Messina, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 053847 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3616
abstract: A master equation approach to the study of environmental effects in the adiabatic population transfer in three-state systems is presented. A systematic comparison with the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian approach [N. V. Vitanov and S. Stenholm, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 56}, 1463 (1997)] shows that in the weak coupling limit the two treatments lead to essentially the same results. Instead, in the strong damping limit the predictions are quite different: in particular the counterintuitive sequences in the STIRAP scheme turn out to be much more efficient than expected before. This point is explained in terms of quantum Zeno dynamics.

id: 1003.3657
title: Quantum Correlations in Two-Particle Anderson Localization
authors: Yoav Lahini, Yaron Bromberg, D. N. Christodoulides, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 163905 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3657
abstract: We predict the quantum correlations between non-interacting particles evolving simultaneously in a disordered medium. While the particle density follows the single-particle dynamics and exhibits Anderson localization, the two-particle correlation develops unique features that depend on the quantum statistics of the particles and their initial separation. On short time scales, the localization of one particle becomes dependent on whether the other particle is localized or not. On long time scales, the localized particles show oscillatory correlations within the localization length. These effects can be observed in Anderson localization of non-classical light and ultra-cold atoms.

id: 1003.3667
title: On synthesis of linear quantum stochastic systems by pure cascading
authors: Hendra I. Nurdin
comments: Revised version, incorporating reviewers' comments. Accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control (2010). 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, 55(10), pp. 2439-2444, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3667
abstract: Recently, it has been demonstrated that an arbitrary linear quantum stochastic system can be realized as a cascade connection of simpler one degree of freedom quantum harmonic oscillators together with a direct interaction Hamiltonian which is bilinear in the canonical operators of the oscillators. However, from an experimental point of view, realizations by pure cascading, without a direct interaction Hamiltonian, would be much simpler to implement and this raises the natural question of what class of linear quantum stochastic systems are realizable by cascading alone. This paper gives a precise characterization of this class of linear quantum stochastic systems and then it is proved that, in the weaker sense of transfer function realizability, all passive linear quantum stochastic systems belong to this class. A constructive example is given to show the transfer function realization of a two degrees of freedom passive linear quantum stochastic system by pure cascading.

id: 1003.3668
title: Coherent control of nuclear forward scattering
authors: Adriana P¨¢lffy, J?rg Evers
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures; revised to match the published version: added one figure, small modifications in text
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 57 (2010) 1993-2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3668
abstract: The possibility to control the coherent decay of resonant excitations in nuclear forward scattering is investigated. By changing abruptly the direction of the nuclear hyperfine magnetic field, the coherent scattering of photons can be manipulated and even completely suppressed via quantum interference effects between the nuclear transition currents. The efficiency of the coherent decay suppression and the dependence of the scattered light polarization on the specific switching parameters is analyzed in detail. Using a sophisticated magnetic switching sequence involving four rotations of the hyperfine magnetic field, two correlated coherent decay pulses with different polarizations can be generated out of one excitation, providing single-photon entanglement in the keV regime. The verification of the generated entanglement by testing a single-particle version of Bell's inequality in an x-ray optics experimental setup is put forward.

id: 1003.3675
title: Lieb-Robinson Bound and Locality for General Markovian Quantum Dynamics
authors: David Poulin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 190401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3675
abstract: The Lieb-Robinson bound shows the existence of a maximum speed of signal propagation in discrete quantum mechanical systems with local interactions. This generalizes the concept of relativistic causality beyond field theory, and provides a powerful tool in theoretical condensed matter physics and quantum information science. Here, we extend the scope of this seminal result by considering general Markovian quantum evolution, where we prove that an equivalent bound holds. In addition, we use the generalized bound to demonstrate that correlations in the stationary state of a Markov process decay on a length-scale set by the Lieb-Robinson velocity and the system's relaxation time.

id: 1003.3683
title: Simulating sparse Hamiltonians with star decompositions
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Robin Kothari
comments: 11 pages. v2: minor corrections
journal: Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication, and Cryptography (TQC 2010), Lecture Notes in Computer Science 6519, pp. 94-103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3683
abstract: We present an efficient algorithm for simulating the time evolution due to a sparse Hamiltonian. In terms of the maximum degree d and dimension N of the space on which the Hamiltonian H acts for time t, this algorithm uses (d^2(d+log* N)||Ht||)^{1+o(1)} queries. This improves the complexity of the sparse Hamiltonian simulation algorithm of Berry, Ahokas, Cleve, and Sanders, which scales like (d^4(log* N)||Ht||)^{1+o(1)}. To achieve this, we decompose a general sparse Hamiltonian into a small sum of Hamiltonians whose graphs of non-zero entries have the property that every connected component is a star, and efficiently simulate each of these pieces.

id: 1003.3686
title: Pump-probe model for the Kramers-Kronig relations in a laser
authors: Honam Yum, Selim M. Shahriar
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3686
abstract: In this paper, we study theoretically a pump-probe model for the Kramers-Kronig (KK) relations during laser operation. A laser gain medium at steady state becomes saturated and the lasing field experiences a flat gain equal to the cavity loss. A solution of the laser equations reveals that the lasing frequency experiences a dispersion that is linear over the allowed bandwidth. However, outside this band, the lasing stops, so that the dispersion is that of the unsaturated gain medium. The combined profile is therefore non-analytical, and cannot be explained in terms of the KK relations. In order to interpret this situation, it is important to consider carefully the physical basis of the KK relations and its connection to causality. We conclude that the KK relation is expected to apply only to an independent probe applied to the medium, which is under excitation by the pump producing the gain as well as the lasing mode. The absorption/gain and dispersion profiles are then analytical, and satisfy the KK-relations. Specifically, these are variants of the so-called Mollow-Ezekiel spectra of probe absorption/gain and dispersion in the presence of a pump, with the exception that in this case the medium is inverted.

id: 1003.3699
title: Ultra-sensitive Diamond Magnetometry Using Optimal Dynamic Decoupling
authors: Liam T. Hall, Charles D. Hill, Jared H. Cole, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3699
abstract: New magnetometry techniques based on Nitrogen Vacancy (NV) defects in diamond have received much attention of late as a means to probe nanoscale magnetic environments. The sensitivity of a single NV magnetometer is primarily determined by the transverse spin relaxation time, $T_2$. Current approaches to improving the sensitivity employ crystals with a high NV density at the cost of spatial resolution, or extend $T_2$ via the manufacture of novel isotopically pure diamond crystals. We adopt a complementary approach, in which optimal dynamic decoupling techniques extend coherence times out to the self-correlation time of the spin bath. This suggests single spin, room temperature magnetometer sensitivities as low as 5\,pT\,Hz$^{-1/2}$ with current technology.

id: 1003.3735
title: A trapped-ion local field probe
authors: Gerhard Huber, Frank Ziesel, Ulrich Poschinger, Kilian Singer, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3735
abstract: We introduce a measurement scheme that utilizes a single ion as a local field probe. The ion is confined in a segmented Paul trap and shuttled around to reach different probing sites. By the use of a single atom probe, it becomes possible characterizing fields with spatial resolution of a few nm within an extensive region of millimeters. We demonstrate the scheme by accurately investigating the electric fields providing the confinement for the ion. For this we present all theoretical and practical methods necessary to generate these potentials. We find sub-percent agreement between measured and calculated electric field values.

id: 1003.3737
title: Decoherence control in different environments
authors: Janika Paavola, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, new figures added, text modified for clarity
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012114 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3737
abstract: We investigate two techniques for controlling decoherence, focusing on the crucial role played by the environmental spectrum. We show how environments with different spectra lead to very different dynamical behaviours. Our study clearly proves that such differences must be taken into account when designing decoherence control schemes. The two techniques we consider are reservoir engineering and quantum-Zeno control. We focus on a quantum harmonic oscillator initially prepared in a nonclassical state and derive analytically its non-Markovian dynamics in presence of different bosonic thermal environments. On the one hand we show how, by modifying the spectrum of the environment, it is possible to prolong or reduce the life of a Schr\"odinger cat state. On the other hand we study the effect of nonselective energy measurements on the degradation of quantumness of initial Fock states. In this latter case we see that the crossover between Zeno (QZE) and anti-Zeno (AZE) effects, discussed by Maniscalco et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 130402 (2006)], is highly sensitive to the details of the spectrum. In particular, for certain types of spectra, even very small variations of the system frequency may cause a measurement-induced acceleration of decoherence rather than its inhibition.

id: 1003.3738
title: Anomalous real spectra of non-Hermitian quantum graphs in strong-coupling regime
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 17 pp., 9 figures, published version
journal: J.Phys.A43:335303,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3738
abstract: Toy quantum Hamiltonians $H\neq H^\dagger$ with real spectra are considered as living on graphs $\mathbb{G}$ which only differ from the standard real line $\mathbb{R}$ locally, on a microscopic fundamental-length scale. In terms of a nontrivial metric the "hidden Hermiticity" property $H= H^\ddagger$ is postulated. Our calculations of the energies (based on a discretization of $\mathbb{G}$) indicate that the nontriviality of the topology of the graph may be responsible for certain nonperturbative features of the energies.

id: 1003.3750
title: Optimal control technique for Many Body Quantum Systems dynamics
authors: Patrick Doria, Tommaso Calarco, Simone Montangero
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 190501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3750
abstract: We present an efficient strategy for controlling a vast range of non-integrable quantum many body one-dimensional systems that can be merged with state-of-the-art tensor network simulation methods like the density Matrix Renormalization Group. To demonstrate its potential, we employ it to solve a major issue in current optical-lattice physics with ultra-cold atoms: we show how to reduce by about two orders of magnitudes the time needed to bring a superfluid gas into a Mott insulator state, while suppressing defects by more than one order of magnitude as compared to current experiments [1]. Finally, we show that the optimal pulse is robust against atom number fluctuations.

id: 1003.3751
title: Universal scaling laws for dispersion interactions
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel, James Babington
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 104 (7), 070404 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3751
abstract: We study the scaling behaviour of dispersion potentials and forces under very general conditions. We prove that a rescaling of an arbitrary geometric arrangement by a factor a changes the atom-atom and atom-body potentials in the long-distance limit by factors 1/a^7 and 1/a^4, respectively and the Casimir force per unit area by 1/a^4. In the short-distance regime, electric and magnetic bodies lead to different scaling behaviours. As applications, we present scaling functions for two atom-body potentials and display the equipotential lines of a plate-assisted two-atom potential.

id: 1003.3752
title: Measuring nanomechanical motion with an imprecision far below the standard quantum limit
authors: G. Anetsberger, E. Gavartin, O. Arcizet, Q. P. Unterreithmeier, E. M. Weig, M. L. Gorodetsky, J. P. Kotthaus, T. J. Kippenberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3752
abstract: We demonstrate a transducer of nanomechanical motion based on cavity enhanced optical near-fields capable of achieving a shot-noise limited imprecision more than 10 dB below the standard quantum limit (SQL). Residual background due to fundamental thermodynamical frequency fluctuations allows a total imprecision 3 dB below the SQL at room temperature (corresponding to 600 am/Hz^(1/2) in absolute units) and is known to reduce to negligible values for moderate cryogenic temperatures. The transducer operates deeply in the quantum backaction dominated regime, prerequisite for exploring quantum backaction, measurement-induced squeezing and accessing sub-SQL sensitivity using backaction evading techniques.

id: 1003.3761
title: Entanglement production in quantum decision making
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: Latex file, 7 pages
journal: Phys. At. Nucl. 73 (2010) 559-562
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3761
abstract: The quantum decision theory introduced recently is formulated as a quantum theory of measurement. It describes prospect states represented by complex vectors of a Hilbert space over a prospect lattice. The prospect operators, acting in this space, form an involutive bijective algebra. A measure is defined for quantifying the entanglement produced by the action of prospect operators. This measure characterizes the level of complexity of prospects involved in decision making. An explicit expression is found for the maximal entanglement produced by the operators of multimode prospects.

id: 1003.3778
title: Quantum Entanglement and Geometry
authors: Andreas Gabriel
comments: Diploma Thesis; 74 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3778
abstract: The phenomenon of quantum entanglement is thoroughly investigated, focussing especially on geometrical aspects and on bipartite systems. After introducing the formalism and discussing general aspects, some of the most important separability criteria and entanglement measures are presented. Finally, the geometry of 2x2- and 3x3-dimensional state spaces is analysed and visualised.

id: 1003.3781
title: Geometry induced entanglement transitions in nanostructures
authors: J. P. Coe, S. Abdullah, I. D'Amico
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Journal of Applied Physics
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 107, 09E110 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3781
abstract: We model quantum dot nanostructures using a one-dimensional system of two interacting electrons. We show that strong and rapid variations may be induced in the spatial entanglement by varying the nanostructure geometry. We investigate the position-space information entropy as an indicator of the entanglement in this system. We also consider the expectation value of the Coulomb interaction and the ratio of this expectation to the expectation of the confining potential and their link to the entanglement. We look at the first derivative of the entanglement and the position-space information entropy to infer information about a possible quantum phase transition.

id: 1003.3810
title: Optimal Co-linear Gaussian Beams for Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: Ryan S. Bennink
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures. Corrected normalization coefficient in eqn. 1 and a typo in the definition of wavenumber following eqn. 7. No results were affected by these corrections
journal: Ryan S. Bennink, "Optimal collinear Gaussian beams for spontaneous parametric down-conversion". Physical Review A, vol. 81, article 053805 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3810
abstract: I investigate the properties of spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) involving co-linear Gaussian spatial modes for the pump and the photon collection optics. Approximate analytical and numerical results are obtained for the peak spectral density, photon bandwidth, pair collection probability, heralding ratio, and spectral purity, as a function of crystal length and beam focusing parameters. I address the optimization of these properties individually as well as jointly, and find focusing conditions that simultaneously bring the pair collection probability, heralding ratio, and spectral purity to near-optimal values. These properties are also found to be nearly scale invariant, that is, ultimately independent of crystal length. The results obtained here are expected to be useful for designing SPDC sources with high performance in multiple categories for the next generation of SPDC applications.

id: 1003.3817
title: Phenomenological memory-kernel master equations and time-dependent Markovian processes
authors: L. Mazzola, E.-M. Laine, H.-P. Breuer, S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062120 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3817
abstract: Do phenomenological master equations with memory kernel always describe a non-Markovian quantum dynamics characterized by reverse flow of information? Is the integration over the past states of the system an unmistakable signature of non-Markovianity? We show by a counterexample that this is not always the case. We consider two commonly used phenomenological integro-differential master equations describing the dynamics of a spin 1/2 in a thermal bath. By using a recently introduced measure to quantify non-Markovianity [H.-P. Breuer, E.-M. Laine, and J. Piilo, Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 210401 (2009)] we demonstrate that as far as the equations retain their physical sense, the key feature of non-Markovian behavior does not appear in the considered memory kernel master equations. Namely, there is no reverse flow of information from the environment to the open system. Therefore, the assumption that the integration over a memory kernel always leads to a non-Markovian dynamics turns out to be vulnerable to phenomenological approximations. Instead, the considered phenomenological equations are able to describe time-dependent and uni-directional information flow from the system to the reservoir associated to time-dependent Markovian processes.

id: 1003.3839
title: Moments of the Hilbert-Schmidt probability distributions over determinants of real two-qubit density matrices and of their partial transposes
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3839
abstract: The nonnegativity of the determinant of the partial transpose of a two-qubit (4 x 4) density matrix is both a necessary and sufficient condition for its separability. While the determinant is restricted to the interval [0,1/256], the determinant of the partial transpose can range over [-1/16,1/256], with negative values corresponding to entangled states. We report here the exact values of the first nine moments of the probability distribution of the partial transpose over this interval, with respect to the Hilbert-Schmidt (metric volume element) measure on the nine-dimensional convex set of real two-qubit density matrices. Rational functions C_{2 j}(m), yielding the coefficients of the 2j-th power of even polynomials occurring at intermediate steps in our derivation of the m-th moment, emerge. These functions possess poles at finite series of consecutive half-integers (m=-3/2,-1/2,...,(2j-1)/2), and certain (trivial) roots at finite series of consecutive natural numbers (m=0, 1,...). Additionally, the (nontrivial) dominant roots of C_{2 j}(m) approach the same half-integer values (m = (2 j-1)/2, (2 j-3)/2,...), as j increases. The first two moments (mean and variance) found--when employed in the one-sided Chebyshev inequality--give an upper bound of 30397/34749 = 0.874759 on the separability probability of real two-qubit density matrices. We are able to report general formulas for the m-th moment of the Hilbert-Schmidt probability distribution of the density matrix determinant over [0,1/256], in the real, complex and quaternionic two-qubit cases.

id: 1003.3844
title: Guess your neighbour's input: a multipartite non-local game with no quantum advantage
authors: M. L. Almeida, J.-D. Bancal, N. Brunner, A. Acin, N. Gisin, S. Pironio
comments: 4+3 pages; 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 230404 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3844
abstract: We present a multipartite nonlocal game in which each player must guess the input received by his neighbour. We show that quantum correlations do not perform better than classical ones at this game, for any prior distribution of the inputs. There exist, however, input distributions for which general no-signalling correlations can outperform classical and quantum correlations. Some of the Bell inequalities associated to our construction correspond to facets of the local polytope. Thus our multipartite game identifies parts of the boundary between quantum and post-quantum correlations of maximal dimension. These results suggest that quantum correlations might obey a generalization of the usual no-signalling conditions in a multipartite setting.

id: 1003.3850
title: Two-photon cooling of a nonlinear quantum oscillator
authors: Mihai A. Macovei, Xiao-Tao Xie
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Opt. Commun. 282, 3930 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3850
abstract: The cooling effects of a nonlinear quantum oscillator via its interaction with an artificial atom (qubit) are investigated. The quantum dissipations through the environmental reservoir of the nonlinear oscillator are included, taking into account the nonlinearity of the qubit-oscillator interaction. For appropriate bath temperatures and the resonator's quality factors, we demonstrate effective cooling below the thermal background. As the photon coherence functions behave differently for even and odd photon number states, we describe a mechanism distinguishing those states. The analytical formalism developed is general and can be applied to a wide range of systems.

id: 1003.3907
title: Uncertainty Relation on Wigner-Yanase-Dyson Skew Information, II
authors: Kenjiro Yanagi
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3907
abstract: We give a trace inequality related to the uncertainty relation of generalized Wigner-Yanase-Dyson skew information which includes our result in JMAA, vol.365, pp.12-18, 2010.

id: 1003.3928
title: Photonic quantum technologies
authors: Jeremy L. O'Brien, Akira Furusawa, Jelena Vu?kovi?
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 3, 687 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3928
abstract: The first quantum technology, which harnesses uniquely quantum mechanical effects for its core operation, has arrived in the form of commercially available quantum key distribution systems that achieve enhanced security by encoding information in photons such that information gained by an eavesdropper can be detected. Anticipated future quantum technologies include large-scale secure networks, enhanced measurement and lithography, and quantum information processors, promising exponentially greater computation power for particular tasks. Photonics is destined for a central role in such technologies owing to the need for high-speed transmission and the outstanding low-noise properties of photons. These technologies may use single photons or quantum states of bright laser beams, or both, and will undoubtably apply and drive state-of-the-art developments in photonics.

id: 1003.3944
title: Tunneling Violates Special Relativity
authors: Guenter Nimtz
comments: 
journal: Foundations of Physics, 41, 1193-1199 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3944
abstract: Experiments with evanescent modes and tunneling particles have shown that i) their signal velocity may be faster than light, ii) they are described by virtual particles, iii) they are nonlocal and act at a distance, iv) experimental tunneling data of phonons, photons, and electrons display a universal scattering time at the tunneling barrier front, and v) the properties of evanescent, i.e. tunneling modes is not compatible with the special theory of relativity.

id: 1003.3960
title: Analysis of Optical Deshelving in Photon Echo-based Quantum Memories
authors: Byoung S. Ham
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3960
abstract: Storage time extension in photon echoes using optical deshelving via a robust spin state has been investigated for absorption-dependent optical leakage, where an incomplete population transfer, even by a \pi optical pulse obviates the phase recovery condition of the deshelving. We analyze an optical depth-dependent echo leakage mechanism in the storage time extended photon echoes for the usage of optical deshelving to photon echo-based quantum memories.

id: 1003.4040
title: Abelian and Non-Abelian Quantum Geometric Tensor
authors: Yu-Quan Ma, Shu Chen, Heng Fan, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 245129 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4040
abstract: We propose a generalized quantum geometric tenor to understand topological quantum phase transitions, which can be defined on the parameter space with the adiabatic evolution of a quantum many-body system. The generalized quantum geometric tenor contains two different local measurements, the non-Abelian Riemannian metric and the non-Abelian Berry curvature, which are recognized as two natural geometric characterizations for the change of the ground-state properties when the parameter of the Hamiltonian varies. Our results show the symmetry-breaking and topological quantum phase transitions can be understood as the singular behavior of the local and topological properties of the quantum geometric tenor in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1003.4048
title: Achieving ground state and enhancing entanglement by recovering information
authors: Haixing Miao, Stefan Danilishin, Helge Mueller-Ebhardt, Yanbei Chen
comments: 9 figures, 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4048
abstract: For cavity-assisted optomechanical cooling experiments, it has been shown in the literature that the cavity bandwidth needs to be smaller than the mechanical frequency in order to achieve the quantum ground state of the mechanical oscillator, which is the so-called resolved-sideband or good-cavity limit. We provide a new but physically equivalent insight into the origin of such a limit: that is information loss due to a finite cavity bandwidth. With an optimal feedback control to recover those information, we can surpass the resolved-sideband limit and achieve the quantum ground state. Interestingly, recovering those information can also significantly enhance the optomechanical entanglement. Especially when the environmental temperature is high, the entanglement will either exist or vanish critically depending on whether information is recovered or not, which is a vivid example of a quantum eraser.

id: 1003.4055
title: Invariance of the bit error rate in the ancilla-assisted homodyne detection
authors: Yuhsuke Yoshida, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, revtex.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4055
abstract: We investigated the minimum achievable bit error rate of discriminating binary coherent states by homodyne measurements with the help of arbitrary ancilla states coupled via beam splitters. We took into account arbitrary pure ancillary states those were updated in real-time by those partial measurements and classical feedforward operations where the partial measurements were made by homodyne detections with a common fixed phase. It was shown that the minimum bit error rate of the system was invariant under these operations. We also discussed how generalize the homodyne detection beyond the scheme which made the bit error rate invariant.

id: 1003.4100
title: Gain without inversion in quantum systems with broken parities
authors: W. Z. Jia, L. F. Wei
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4100
abstract: For a quantum system with broken parity symmetry, selection rules can not hold and cyclic transition structures are generated. With these loop-transitions we discuss how to achieve inversionless gain of the probe field by properly setting the control and auxiliary fields. Possible implementations of our generic proposal with specific physical objects with broken parities, e.g., superconducting circuits and chiral molecules, are also discussed.

id: 1003.4138
title: An interleaved sampling scheme for the characterization of single qubit dynamics
authors: Jason F. Ralph, Joshua Combes, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol. 11, 1523-1531 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4138
abstract: In this paper, we demonstrate that interleaved sampling techniques can be used to characterize the Hamiltonian of a qubit and its environmental decoherence rate. The technique offers a significant advantage in terms of the number of measurements that are required to characterize a qubit. When compared to the standard Nyquist-Shannon sampling rate, the saving in the total measurement time for the interleaved method is approximately proportional to the ratio of the sample rates.

id: 1003.4150
title: Dielectric black holes induced by a refractive index perturbation and the Hawking effect
authors: F. Belgiorno, S.L. Cacciatori, G. Ortenzi, L. Rizzi, V. Gorini, D. Faccio
comments: Several improvements, also including dispersion, have been considered
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:024015,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4150
abstract: We consider a 4D model for photon production induced by a %superluminal refractive index perturbation in a dielectric medium. We show that, in this model, we can infer the presence of a Hawking type effect. This prediction shows up both in the analogue Hawking framework, which is implemented in the pulse frame and relies on the peculiar properties of the effective geometry in which quantum fields propagate, as well as in the laboratory frame, through standard quantum field theory calculations. Effects of optical dispersion are also taken into account, and are shown to provide a limited energy bandwidth for the emission of Hawking radiation.

id: 1003.4159
title: Cluster separability, indispensability of detectors and quantum measurement problem
authors: Petr Hajicek
comments: 8 Pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4159
abstract: Careful analysis of cluster separability opens a way to a completely new understanding of preparation and registration procedures for microsystems: they are changes of separation status. An important observation is that quantum mechanics does not specify what happens to systems when they change their separation status. New rules that close this gap can therefore be added without disturbing the logic of quantum mechanics. Another important observation is that registration apparatuses for microsystems must contain detectors and that their readings are signals from detectors. This leads to further restrictions on measurability of observables, especially for macroscopic quantum systems. Beltrametti-Cassinelli-Lahti model is used to show how this approach leads to solution of the measurement problem.

id: 1003.4221
title: Purification of Mixed State with Closed Timelike Curve is not Possible
authors: Arun K. Pati, Indranil Chakrabarty, Pankaj Agrawal
comments: Latex2e, No Figs, 4 + pages, An error corrected, Results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062325 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4221
abstract: In ordinary quantum theory any mixed state can be purified in an enlarged Hilbert space by bringing an ancillary system. The purified state does not depend on the state of any extraneous system with which the mixed state is going to interact and on the physical interaction. Here, we prove that it is not possible to purify a mixed state that traverses a closed time like curve (CTC) and allowed to interact in a consistent way with a causality-respecting (CR) quantum system in the same manner. Thus, in general for arbitrary interactions between CR and CTC systems there is no universal 'Church of the larger Hilbert space' for mixed states with CTC. This shows that in quantum theory with CTCs there can exist 'proper' and 'improper' mixtures.

id: 1003.4255
title: From qubits to E7
authors: Bianca L. Cerchiai, Bert van Geemen
comments: 29 pages
journal: J. Mat. Phys. 51 (2010) 122203
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4255
abstract: There is a intriguing relation between quantum information theory and super gravity, discovered by M.J. Duff and S. Ferrara. It relates entanglement measures for qubits to black hole entropy, which in a certain case involves the quartic invariant on the 56-dimensional representation of the Lie group E7. In this paper we recall the relatively straightforward manner in which three-qubits lead to E7, or at least to the Weyl group of E7. We also show how the Fano plane emerges in this context.

id: 1003.4273
title: Time-symmetric boundary conditions and quantum foundations
authors: Ken Wharton
comments: 16 pages. With 0906.5409, companion paper to pirsa.org/09060031. v2: Minor edit, updates to references
journal: Symmetry v2, 272-283; 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4273
abstract: Despite the widely-held premise that initial boundary conditions (BCs) corresponding to measurements/interactions can fully specify a physical subsystem, a literal reading of Hamilton's principle would imply that both initial and final BCs are required (or more generally, a BC on a closed hypersurface in spacetime). Such a time-symmetric perspective of BCs, as applied to classical fields, leads to interesting parallels with quantum theory. This paper will map out some of the consequences of this counter-intuitive premise, as applied to covariant classical fields. The most notable result is the contextuality of fields constrained in this manner, naturally bypassing the usual arguments against so-called "realistic" interpretations of quantum phenomena.

id: 1003.4284
title: Arbitrary Control of Entanglement between Two Superconducting Resonators
authors: Frederick W. Strauch, Kurt Jacobs, Raymond W. Simmonds
comments: 4 + epsilon pages, 3 figures, 1 table, fixed several factors of two, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 050501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4284
abstract: We present a method to synthesize an arbitrary quantum state of two superconducting resonators. This state-synthesis algorithm utilizes a coherent interaction of each resonator with a tunable artificial atom to create entangled quantum superpositions of photon number (Fock) states in the resonators. We theoretically analyze this approach, showing that it can efficiently synthesize NOON states, with large photon numbers, using existing technology.

id: 1003.4290
title: Quantum Control Theory for State Transformations: Dark States and their Enlightenment
authors: Peter J. Pemberton-Ross, Alastair Kay, S.G. Schirmer
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures v3: rewritten for increased clarity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4290
abstract: For many quantum information protocols such as state transfer, entanglement transfer and entanglement generation, standard notions of controllability for quantum systems are too strong. We introduce the weaker notion of accessible pairs, and prove an upper bound on the achievable fidelity of a transformation between a pair of states based on the symmetries of the system. A large class of spin networks is presented for which this bound can be saturated. In this context, we show how the inaccessible dark states for a given excitation-preserving evolution can be calculated, and illustrate how some of these can be accessed using extra catalytic excitations. This emphasises that it is not sufficient for analyses of state transfer in spin networks to restrict to the single excitation subspace. One class of symmetries in these spin networks is exactly characterised in terms of the underlying graph properties.

id: 1003.4291
title: A simple scheme for expanding photonic cluster states for quantum information
authors: Pruet Kalasuwan, Gabriel Mendoza, Anthony Laing, Tomohisa Nagata, Jack Coggins, Mark Callaway, Shigeki Takeuchi, Andre Stefanov, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 27, Issue 6, pp. A181-A184 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4291
abstract: We show how an entangled cluster state encoded in the polarization of single photons can be straightforwardly expanded by deterministically entangling additional qubits encoded in the path degree of freedom of the constituent photons. This can be achieved using a polarization--path controlled-phase gate. We experimentally demonstrate a practical and stable realization of this approach by using a Sagnac interferometer to entangle a path qubit and polarization qubit on a single photon. We demonstrate precise control over phase of the path qubit to change the measurement basis and experimentally demonstrate properties of measurement-based quantum computing using a 2 photon, 3 qubit cluster state.

id: 1003.4337
title: On two-distillable Werner states
authors: Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4337
abstract: We consider bipartite mixed states in a d x d quantum system with d at least 3. We say that such a state is PPT if its partial transpose is positive semidefinite, and otherwise that it is NPT. The well-known Werner states are partitioned into three types: a) the separable states (same as the PPT states), b) the 1-distillable states (necessarily NPT), and c) the NPT states which are not 1-distillable. We give several different formulations and provide further evidence for validity of the conjecture that the type c) Werner states are not 2-distillable.

id: 1003.4387
title: Classical approach in quantum physics
authors: Evgeni A. Solov'ev
comments: This review paper was rejected from J.Phys.A with referee's comment "The author has made many worthwhile contributions to semiclassical physics, but this article does not meet the standard for a topical review".
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4387
abstract: The application of a classical approach to various quantum problems - the secular perturbation approach to quantization of a hydrogen atom in external fields and a helium atom, the adiabatic switching method for calculation of a semiclassical spectrum of hydrogen atom in crossed electric and magnetic fields, a spontaneous decay of excited states of a hydrogen atom, Gutzwiller's approach to Stark problem, long-lived excited states of a helium atom recently discovered with the help of Poincar$\acute{\mathrm{e}}$ section, inelastic transitions in slow and fast electron-atom and ion-atom collisions - is reviewed. Further, a classical representation in quantum theory is discussed. In this representation the quantum states are treating as an ensemble of classical states. This approach opens the way to an accurate description of the initial and final states in classical trajectory Monte Carlo (CTMC) method and a purely classical explanation of tunneling phenomenon. The general aspects of the structure of the semiclassical series such as renormgroup symmetry, criterion of accuracy and so on are reviewed as well. In conclusion, the relation between quantum theory, classical physics and measurement is discussed.

id: 1003.4401
title: Geometry versus Entanglement in Resonating Valence Bond Liquids
authors: Himadri Shekhar Dhar, Aditi Sen De
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures, RevTeX4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 465302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4401
abstract: We investigate the behavior of bipartite as well as genuine multipartite entanglement of a resonating valence bond state on a ladder. We show that the system possesses significant amounts of bipartite entanglement in the steps of the ladder while no substantial bipartite entanglement is present in the rails. Genuine multipartite entanglement present in the system is negligible. The results are in stark contrast with the entanglement properties of the same state on isotropic lattices in two and higher dimensions, indicating that the geometry of the lattice can have important implications on the quality of quantum information and other tasks that can be performed by using multiparty states on that lattice.

id: 1003.4424
title: Equientangled Bases in Arbitrary Dimensions and Quadratic Gauss Sums
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn due to the submission of a major revised version, arXiv:1004.1633 [quant-ph]. The latter provides an additional solution and contains significantly new material.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4424
abstract: Recently [Karimipour and Memarzadeh, PhysRevA 73, 012329 (2006)] posed the problem of finding a continuous family of orthonormal bases in a bipartite space of two identical systems with the following properties: i) in each basis, all states have to be equally entangled, and ii) the family continuously interpolate between the product basis and the maximally entangled basis. The authors provided a necessary condition and simple examples for relatively small dimensions, but questioned the existence of a general solution for arbitrary dimensions. Employing the properties of quadratic Gauss sums, we prove that such a family of bases exists for all dimensions and provide an explicit simple parametrization. We illustrate the behaviour of our solution with particular examples.

id: 1003.4437
title: Transition probabilities and measurement statistics of postselected ensembles
authors: Tobias Fritz
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures, minor update
journal: J. Math. Phys 51, 082105 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4437
abstract: It is well-known that a quantum measurement can enhance the transition probability between two quantum states. Such a measurement operates after preparation of the initial state and before postselecting for the final state. Here we analyze this kind of scenario in detail and determine which probability distributions on a finite number of outcomes can occur for an intermediate measurement with postselection, for given values of the following two quantities: (i) the transition probability without measurement, (ii) the transition probability with measurement. This is done for both the cases of projective measurements and of generalized measurements. Among other constraints, this quantifies a trade-off between high randomness in a projective measurement and high measurement-modified transition probability. An intermediate projective measurement can enhance a transition probability such that the failure probability decreases by a factor of up to 2, but not by more.

id: 1003.4477
title: Sudden change in quantum and classical correlations and the Unruh effect
authors: L. C. Celeri, A. G. S. Landulfo, R. M. Serra, G. E. A. Matsas
comments: Published version
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:062130,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4477
abstract: We use the Unruh effect to analyze the dynamics of classical and quantum correlations for a two-qubit system when one of them is uniformly accelerated for a finite amount of proper time. We show that the quantum correlation is completely destroyed in the limit of infinite acceleration, while the classical one remains nonzero. In particular, we show that such correlations exhibit the so-called sudden-change behavior as a function of acceleration. Eventually, we discuss how our results can be interpreted when the system lies in the vicinity of the event horizon of a Schwarzschild black hole.

id: 1003.4555
title: Quantum Knowledge, Quantum Belief, Quantum Reality: Notes of a QBist Fellow Traveler
authors: Howard N. Barnum
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4555
abstract: I consider the "Quantum Bayesian" view of quantum theory as expounded in a 2006 paper of Caves, Fuchs, and Schack. I argue that one can accept a generally personalist, decision-theoretic view of probability, including probability as manifested in quantum physics, while nevertheless accepting that in some situations, including some in quantum physics, probabilities may in a useful sense be thought of as objectively correct. This includes situations in which the ascription of a quantum state should be thought of as objectively correct. I argue that this does not cause any prima facie objectionable sort of action at a distance, though it may involve adopting the attitude that certain dispositional properties of things are not "localized" at those things. Whether this insouciant view of nonlocality and objectivity can survive more detailed analysis is a matter for further investigation.

id: 1003.4558
title: Quantum information processing attributes of J-aggregates
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: 19 pages, 3 new figures added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4558
abstract: We examine the unique spectroscopic features which give rise to quantum information processing attributes of one-dimensional J-aggregate systems, and as revealed by entanglement measures such as the von Neumann entropy, Wootters concurrence and Wei-Goldbart geometric measure of entanglement. The effect of dispersion and resonance terms in the exciton-phonon interaction are analyzed using Green function formalism and present J-aggregate systems as robust channels for large scale energy propagation for a select range of parameters. We show that scaling of the third order optical response $\chi^{(3)}$ with exciton delocalization size provides an experimentally demonstrable measure of quantifying multipartite entanglement in J-aggregates.

id: 1003.4575
title: Comparison between the Cramer-Rao and the mini-max approaches in quantum channel estimation
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: In this revision, some unlcear parts are clarified
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, Vol. 304, No. 3, 689-709 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4575
abstract: In a unified viewpoint in quantum channel estimation, we compare the Cramer-Rao and the mini-max approaches, which gives the Bayesian bound in the group covariant model. For this purpose, we introduce the local asymptotic mini-max bound, whose maximum is shown to be equal to the asymptotic limit of the mini-max bound. It is shown that the local asymptotic mini-max bound is strictly larger than the Cramer-Rao bound in the phase estimation case while the both bounds coincide when the minimum mean square error decreases with the order O(1/n). We also derive a sufficient condition for that the minimum mean square error decreases with the order O(1/n).

id: 1003.4587
title: Quantum anti-Zeno effect in artificial quantum systems
authors: Qing Ai, Jie-Qiao Liao, C. P. Sun
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 54, 985 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4587
abstract: In this paper, we study a quantum anti-Zeno effect (QAZE) purely induced by repetitive measurements for an artificial atom interacting with a structured bath. This bath can be artificially realized with coupled resonators in one dimension and possesses photonic band structure like Bloch electron in a periodic potential. In the presence of repetitive measurements, the pure QAZE is discovered as the observable decay is not negligible even for the atomic energy level spacing outside of the energy band of the artificial bath. If there were no measurements, the decay would not happen outside of the band. In this sense, the enhanced decay is completely induced by measurements through the relaxation channels provided by the bath. Besides, we also discuss the controversial golden rule decay rates originated from the van Hove's singularities and the effects of the counter-rotating terms.

id: 1003.4590
title: Dirac four-potential tunings-based quantum transistor utilizing the Lorentz force
authors: Agung Trisetyarso
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures: Typo corrections. A new Subsection with massless Dirac-fermions in a uniform magnetic field is included
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 12, No. 11&12 (2012) 0989-1010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4590
abstract: We propose a mathematical model of \textit{quantum} transistor in which bandgap engineering corresponds to the tuning of Dirac potential in the complex four-vector form. The transistor consists of $n$-relativistic spin qubits moving in \textit{classical} external electromagnetic fields. It is shown that the tuning of the direction of the external electromagnetic fields generates perturbation on the potential temporally and spatially, determining the type of quantum logic gates. The theory underlying of this scheme is on the proposal of the intertwining operator for Darboux transfomations on one-dimensional Dirac equation amalgamating the \textit{vector-quantum gates duality} of Pauli matrices. Simultaneous transformation of qubit and energy can be accomplished by setting the $\{\textit{control, cyclic}\}$-operators attached on the coupling between one-qubit quantum gate: the chose of \textit{cyclic}-operator swaps the qubit and energy simultaneously, while \textit{control}-operator ensures the energy conservation.

id: 1003.4607
title: Experimental Realization of the Deutsch-Jozsa Algorithm with a Six-Qubit Cluster State
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Gaia Donati, Natalia Bruno, Andrea Chiuri, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 81, 050302(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4607
abstract: We describe the first experimental realization of the Deutsch-Jozsa quantum algorithm to evaluate the properties of a 2-bit boolean function in the framework of one-way quantum computation. For this purpose a novel two-photon six-qubit cluster state was engineered. Its peculiar topological structure is the basis of the original measurement pattern allowing the algorithm realization. The good agreement of the experimental results with the theoretical predictions, obtained at $\sim$1kHz success rate, demonstrate the correct implementation of the algorithm.

id: 1003.4621
title: Experimental demonstration of counterfactual quantum key distribution
authors: Min Ren, Guang Wu, E Wu, Heping Zeng
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4621
abstract: Counterfactual quantum key distribution provides natural advantage against the eavesdropping on the actual signal particles. It can prevent the photon-number-splitting attack when a weak coherent light source is used for the practical implementation. We realized the counterfactual quantum key distribution in an unbalanced Mach-Zehnder interferometer of 12.5-km-long quantum channel with a high-fringe visibility of 96:4%. As a result, we obtained secure keys against the noise-induced attack (eg. the vacuum attack) and passive photon-number-splitting attack.

id: 1003.4649
title: Existence of equilibria in quantum Bertrand-Edgeworth duopoly game
authors: Yohei Sekiguchi, Kiri Sakahara, Takashi Sato
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4649
abstract: Both classical and quantum version of two models of price competition in duopoly market, the one is realistic and the other is idealized, are investigated. The pure strategy Nash equilibria of the realistic model exists under stricter condition than that of the idealized one in the classical form game. This is the problem known as Edgeworth paradox in economics. In the quantum form game, however, the former converges to the latter as the measure of entanglement goes to infinity.

id: 1003.4654
title: Operating quantum waveguide circuits with superconducting single-photon detectors
authors: C. M. Natarajan, A. Peruzzo, S. Miki, M. Sasaki, Z. Wang, B. Baek, S. Nam, R. H. Hadfield, J. L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 96, 211101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4654
abstract: Advanced quantum information science and technology (QIST) applications place exacting de- mands on optical components. Quantum waveguide circuits offer a route to scalable QIST on a chip. Superconducting single-photon detectors (SSPDs) provide infrared single-photon sensitivity combined with low dark counts and picosecond timing resolution. In this study we bring these two technologies together. Using SSPDs we observe a two-photon interference visibility of 92.3\pm1.0% in a silica-on-silicon waveguide directional coupler at \lamda = 804 nm-higher than that measured with silicon detectors (89.9\pm0.3%). We further operated controlled-NOT gate and quantum metrology circuits with SSPDs. These demonstrations present a clear path to telecom-wavelength quantum waveguide circuits.

id: 1003.4656
title: Relationship Between Quantum Walk and Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar, Subhashish Banerjee, R. Srikanth
comments: 12 pages and 1 figure, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 81, 062340 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4656
abstract: Quantum walk models have been used as an algorithmic tool for quantum computation and to describe various physical processes. This paper revisits the relationship between relativistic quantum mechanics and the quantum walks. We show the similarities of the mathematical structure of the decoupled and coupled form of the discrete-time quantum walk to that of the Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations, respectively. In the latter case, the coin emerges as an analog of the spinor degree of freedom. Discrete-time quantum walk as a coupled form of the continuous-time quantum walk is also shown by transforming the decoupled form of the discrete-time quantum walk to the Schrodinger form. By showing the coin to be a means to make the walk reversible, and that the Dirac-like structure is a consequence of the coin use, our work suggests that the relativistic causal structure is a consequence of conservation of information. However, decoherence (modelled by projective measurements on position space) generates entropy that increases with time, making the walk irreversible and thereby producing an arrow of time. Lieb-Robinson bound is used to highlight the causal structure of the quantum walk to put in perspective the relativistic structure of quantum walk, maximum speed of the walk propagation and the earlier findings related to the finite spread of the walk probability distribution. We also present a two-dimensional quantum walk model on a two state system to which the study can be extended.

id: 1003.4659
title: Classical picture of post-exponential decay
authors: E. Torrontegui, J. G. Muga, J. Martorell, D. W. L. Sprung
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4659
abstract: Post-exponential decay of the probability density of a quantum particle leaving a trap can be reproduced accurately, except for interference oscillations at the transition to the post-exponential regime, by means of an ensemble of classical particles emitted with constant probability per unit time and the same half-life as the quantum system. The energy distribution of the ensemble is chosen to be identical to the quantum distribution, and the classical point source is located at the scattering length of the corresponding quantum system. A 1D example is provided to illustrate the general argument.

id: 1003.4662
title: Quantum computation on the edge of a symmetry-protected topological order
authors: Akimasa Miyake
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; the final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 040501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4662
abstract: We elaborate the idea of quantum computation through measuring the correlation of a gapped ground state, while the bulk Hamiltonian is utilized to stabilize the resource. A simple computational primitive, by pulling out a single spin adiabatically from the bulk followed by its measurement, is shown to make any ground state of the one-dimensional isotropic Haldane phase useful ubiquitously as a quantum logical wire. The primitive is compatible with certain discrete symmetries that protect this topological order, and the antiferromagnetic Heisenberg spin-1 finite chain is practically available. Our approach manifests a holographic principle in that the logical information of a universal quantum computer can be written and processed perfectly on the edge state (i.e., boundary) of the system, supported by the persistent entanglement from the bulk even when the ground state and its evolution cannot be exactly analyzed.

id: 1003.4678
title: Dynamics of the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Neven Simicevic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4678
abstract: The time-dependent Dirac equation is solved using the three-dimensional Finite Difference-Time Domain (FDTD) method. The dynamics of the electron wave packet in a vector potential is studied in the arrangements associated with the Aharonov-Bohm effect. The solution of the Dirac equation showed a change in the velocity of the electron wave packet even in a region where no fields of the unperturbed solenoid acted on the electron. The solution of the Dirac equation qualitatively agreed with the prediction of classical dynamics under the assumption that the dynamics was defined by the conservation of generalized or canonical momentum of the electron.

id: 1003.4755
title: Geometric measures of entanglement and the Schmidt decomposition
authors: M.E. Carrington, R. Kobes, G. Kunstatter, D. Ostapchuk, G. Passante
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4755
abstract: In the standard geometric approach, the entanglement of a pure state is $\sin^2\theta$, where $\theta$ is the angle between the entangled state and the closest separable state of products of normalised qubit states. We consider here a generalisation of this notion by considering separable states that consist of products of unnormalised states of different dimension. The distance between the target entangled state and the closest unnormalised product state can be interpreted as a measure of the entanglement of the target state. The components of the closest product state and its norm have an interpretation in terms of, respectively, the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of the reduced density matrices arising in the Schmidt decomposition of the state vector. For several cases where the target state has a large degree of symmetry, we solve the system of equations analytically, and look specifically at the limit where the number of qubits is large.

id: 1003.4774
title: Relationship between the n-tangle and the residual entanglement of even n qubits
authors: X. Li, D. Li
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 10, 1018 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4774
abstract: We show that $n$-tangle, the generalization of the 3-tangle to even $n$ qubits, is the square of the SLOCC polynomial invariant of degree 2. We find that the $n$-tangle is not the residual entanglement for any even $n\geq 4$\ qubits. We give a necessary and sufficient condition for the vanishing of the concurrence $C_{1(2...n)}$. The condition implies that the concurrence $% C_{1(2...n)}$ is always positive for any entangled states while the $n$% -tangle vanishes for some entangled states. We argue that for even $n$\ qubits, the concurrence $C_{1(2...n)}$\ is equal to or greater than the $n$% -tangle. Further,\ we reveal that the residual entanglement is a partial measure for product states of any $n$ qubits while the $n$-tangle is multiplicative for some product states.

id: 1003.4832
title: Fractional bidromy in the vibrational spectrum of HOCl
authors: E. Assemat, K. Efstathiou, M. Joyeux, D. Sugny
comments: 9 pages, 2 figues
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 113002 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4832
abstract: We introduce the notion of fractional bidromy which is the combination of fractional monodromy and bidromy, two recent generalizations of Hamiltonian monodromy. We consider the vibrational spectrum of the HOCl molecule which is used as an illustrative example to show the presence of nontrivial fractional bidromy. To our knowledge, this is the first example of a molecular system where such a generalized monodromy is exhibited.

id: 1003.4846
title: Creation and manipulation of entanglement in spin chains far from equilibrium
authors: F. Galve, D. Zueco, G. M. Reuther, S. Kohler, P. H?nggi
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Eur. J. Phys. - ST (Special Topics) v 180, 237-246 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4846
abstract: We investigate creation, manipulation, and steering of entanglement in spin chains from the viewpoint of quantum communication between distant parties. We demonstrate how global parametric driving of the spin-spin coupling and/or local time-dependent Zeeman fields produce a large amount of entanglement between the first and the last spin of the chain. This occurs whenever the driving frequency meets a resonance condition, identified as "entanglement resonance". Our approach marks a promising step towards an efficient quantum state transfer or teleportation in solid state system. Following the reasoning of Zueco et al. [1], we propose generation and routing of multipartite entangled states by use of symmetric tree-like structures of spin chains. Furthermore, we study the effect of decoherence on the resulting spin entanglement between the corresponding terminal spins.

id: 1003.4862
title: Invariant-based entanglement monotones as expectation values and their experimental detection
authors: Andreas Osterloh, Jens Siewert
comments: 6 pages, revtex4-1. An erroneous formula has been repaired. Several concepts are explained better. Updated references. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4862
abstract: Characterization and quantification of multipartite entanglement is one of the challenges in state-of-the-art experiments in quantum information processing. According to theory, this is achieved via entanglement monotones, that is, functions that do not increase under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). Typically such monotones include the wave function and its time-reversal (antilinear-operator formalism) or they are based on not completely positive maps (e.g., partial transpose). Therefore, they are not directly accessible to experimental observations. We show how entanglement monotones derived from polynomial local SL$(2,\CC)$ invariants can be re-written in terms of expectation values of observables. Consequently, the amount of entanglement---of specific SLOCC classes---in a given state can be extracted from the measurement of correlation functions of local operators.

id: 1003.4870
title: Geometric derivation of the quantum speed limit
authors: Philip J. Jones, Pieter Kok
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure.
journal: Physical Review A 82, 022107 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4870
abstract: The Mandelstam-Tamm and Margolus-Levitin inequalities play an important role in the study of quantum mechanical processes in Nature, since they provide general limits on the speed of dynamical evolution. However, to date there has been only one derivation of the Margolus-Levitin inequality. In this paper, alternative geometric derivations for both inequalities are obtained from the statistical distance between quantum states. The inequalities are shown to hold for unitary evolution of pure and mixed states, and a counterexample to the inequalities is given for evolution described by completely positive trace-preserving maps. The counterexample shows that there is no quantum speed limit for non-unitary evolution.

id: 1003.4912
title: Interference of composite bosons
authors: Thomas Brougham, Stephen M. Barnett, Igor Jex
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4912
abstract: We investigate multi-boson interference. A Hamiltonian is presented that treats pairs of bosons as a single composite boson. This Hamiltonian allows two pairs of bosons to interact as if they were two single composite bosons. We show that this leads to the composite bosons exhibiting novel interference effects such as Hong-Ou-Mandel interference. We then investigate generalizations of the formalism to the case of interference between two general composite bosons. Finally, we show how one can realize interference between composite bosons in the two atom Dicke model.

id: 1003.4925
title: Hastings' additivity counterexample via Dvoretzky's theorem
authors: Guillaume Aubrun, Stanislaw Szarek, Elisabeth Werner
comments: 12 pages; v.2: added references, Appendix A expanded to make the paper essentially self-contained
journal: Comm. Math. Physics 305, 85-97 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4925
abstract: The goal of this note is to show that Hastings' counterexample to the additivity of minimal output von Neumann entropy can be readily deduced from a sharp version of Dvoretzky's theorem on almost spherical sections of convex bodies.

id: 1003.4971
title: Closed timelike curves in measurement-based quantum computation
authors: Raphael Dias da Silva, Ernesto F. Galvao, Elham Kashefi
comments: 8 pages, 12 figures, longer version with more examples and updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012316 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4971
abstract: Many results have been recently obtained regarding the power of hypothetical closed time-like curves (CTCs) in quantum computation. Here we show that the one-way model of measurement-based quantum computation encompasses in a natural way the CTC model proposed by Bennett, Schumacher and Svetlichny. We identify a class of CTCs in this model that can be simulated deterministically and point to a fundamental limitation of Deutsch's CTC model which leads to predictions conflicting with those of the one-way model.

id: 1003.4974
title: A scalable method for demonstrating the Deutsch-Jozsa and Bernstein-Vazirani algorithms using cluster states
authors: M. S. Tame, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 030305(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4974
abstract: We show that fundamental versions of the Deutsch-Jozsa and Bernstein-Vazirani quantum algorithms can be performed using a small entangled cluster state resource of only six qubits. We then investigate the minimal resource states needed to demonstrate arbitrary n-qubit versions and a scalable method to produce them. For this purpose we propose a versatile on-chip photonic waveguide setup.

id: 1003.4979
title: Quantum versus classical correlations in Gaussian states
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Animesh Datta
comments: 4+2 pages, 1+1 figures. Close to published version including appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 030501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4979
abstract: Quantum discord, a measure of genuinely quantum correlations, is generalized to continuous variable systems. For all two-mode Gaussian states, we calculate analytically the quantum discord and a related measure of classical correlations, solving an optimization over all Gaussian measurements. Almost all two-mode Gaussian states are shown to have quantum correlations, while for separable states, the discord is smaller than unity. For a given amount of entanglement, it admits tight upper and lower bounds. Via a duality between entanglement and classical correlations, we derive a closed formula for the Gaussian entanglement of formation of all mixed three-mode Gaussian states whose normal mode decomposition includes two vacua.

id: 1003.4982
title: Concentration of measure for quantum states with a fixed expectation value
authors: Markus Mueller, David Gross, Jens Eisert
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure; v2: typos corrected, Lemmas 18 and 20 improved, added error discussion to algorithm
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 303, 785 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4982
abstract: Given some observable H of a finite-dimensional quantum system, we investigate the typical properties of random quantum state vectors that have a fixed expectation value with respect to H. Under some some conditions on the spectrum, we prove that this manifold of quantum states shows a concentration of measure phenomenon: any continuous function on this set is almost everywhere close to its mean. We also give a method to estimate the corresponding expectation values analytically, and we prove a formula for the typical reduced density matrix in the case that H is a sum of local observables. We discuss the implications of our results as new proof tools in quantum information theory and to study phenomena in quantum statistical mechanics. As a by-product, we derive a method to sample the resulting distribution numerically, which generalizes the well-known Gaussian method to draw random states from the sphere.

id: 1003.4994
title: Weak Decoupling Duality and Quantum Identification
authors: Patrick Hayden, Andreas Winter
comments: 14 pages; v2 has some remarks added and inaccuracies corrected; v3 has new title, improved presentation and additional references; v4 is the final, accepted version (to appear in IEEE IT), title changed once more and numerous improvements made - the main one being that we can now show that nontrivial amortization is necessary in erasure channels
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 58(7):4914-4929, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4994
abstract: If a quantum system is subject to noise, it is possible to perform quantum error correction reversing the action of the noise if and only if no information about the system's quantum state leaks to the environment. In this article, we develop an analogous duality in the case that the environment approximately forgets the identity of the quantum state, a weaker condition satisfied by epsilon-randomizing maps and approximate unitary designs. Specifically, we show that the environment approximately forgets quantum states if and only if the original channel approximately preserves pairwise fidelities of pure inputs, an observation we call weak decoupling duality. Using this tool, we then go on to study the task of using the output of a channel to simulate restricted classes of measurements on a space of input states. The case of simulating measurements that test whether the input state is an arbitrary pure state is known as equality testing or quantum identification. An immediate consequence of weak decoupling duality is that the ability to perform quantum identification cannot be cloned. We furthermore establish that the optimal amortized rate at which quantum states can be identified through a noisy quantum channel is equal to the entanglement-assisted classical capacity of the channel, despite the fact that the task is quantum, not classical, and entanglement-assistance is not allowed. In particular, this rate is strictly positive for every non-constant quantum channel, including classical channels.

id: 1003.5005
title: Phase groups and the origin of non-locality for qubits
authors: Bob Coecke, Bill Edwards, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 24 pages, many pictures
journal: Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science 270 (2) (2011) 15-36
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5005
abstract: We describe a general framework in which we can precisely compare the structures of quantum-like theories which may initially be formulated in quite different mathematical terms. We then use this framework to compare two theories: quantum mechanics restricted to qubit stabiliser states and operations, and Spekkens's toy theory. We discover that viewed within our framework these theories are very similar, but differ in one key aspect - a four element group we term the phase group which emerges naturally within our framework. In the case of the stabiliser theory this group is Z4 while for Spekkens's toy theory the group is Z2 x Z2. We further show that the structure of this group is intimately involved in a key physical difference between the theories: whether or not they can be modelled by a local hidden variable theory. This is done by establishing a connection between the phase group, and an abstract notion of GHZ state correlations. We go on to formulate precisely how the stabiliser theory and toy theory are `similar' by defining a notion of `mutually unbiased qubit theory', noting that all such theories have four element phase groups. Since Z4 and Z2 x Z2 are the only such groups we conclude that the GHZ correlations in this type of theory can only take two forms, exactly those appearing in the stabiliser theory and in Spekkens's toy theory. The results point at a classification of local/non-local behaviours by finite Abelian groups, extending beyond qubits to finitary theories whose observables are all mutually unbiased.

id: 1003.5008
title: Why Physics Needs Quantum Foundations
authors: Lucien Hardy, Robert Spekkens
comments: 4 pages,to appear in a special issue of Physics in Canada
journal: Physics in Canada 66 (2), 73-76 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5008
abstract: We discuss the motivation for pursuing research on the foundations of quantum theory.

id: 1003.5014
title: Simple one-dimensional quantum-mechanical model for a particle attached to a surface
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5014
abstract: We present a simple one-dimensional quantum-mechanical model for a particle attached to a surface. We solve the Schr\"odinger equation in terms of Weber functions and discuss the behavior of the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions. We derive the virial theorem and other exact relationships as well as the asymptotic behaviour of the eigenvalues. We calculate the zero-point energy for model parameters corresponding to H adsorbed on Pd(100) and also outline the application of the Rayleigh-Ritz variational method.

id: 1003.5044
title: Are quantum measurements on macroscopic bodies feasible?
authors: Roberto Onofrio
comments: 
journal: Europhysics Letters 11, 695 (1990)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5044
abstract: The possibility to test quantum measurement theories is discussed in the more phenomenological framework of the quantum nondemolition theory. A simple test of the hypothesis of the state vector collapse is proposed by looking for deviations from the Boltzmann distribution of the energy associated to only one complex amplitude of a macroscopic harmonic oscillator.

id: 1003.5046
title: Uncertainty-principle noise in vacuum-tunneling transducers
authors: Carlo Presilla, Roberto Onofrio, Mark F. Bocko
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 45, 3735 (1992)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5046
abstract: The fundamental sources of noise in a vacuum-tunneling probe used as an electromechanical transducer to monitor the location of a test mass are examined using a first-quantization formalism. We show that a tunneling transducer enforces the Heisenberg uncertainty principle for the position and momentum of a test mass monitored by the transducer through the presence of two sources of noise: the shot noise of the tunneling current and the momentum fluctuations transferred by the tunneling electrons to the test mass. We analyze a number of cases including symmetric and asymmetric rectangular potential barriers and a barrier in which there is a constant electric field. Practical configurations for reaching the quantum limit in measurements of the position of macroscopic bodies with such a class of transducers are studied.

id: 1003.5047
title: Electron barrier interaction in a vacuum tunneling probe
authors: Roberto Onofrio, Carlo Presilla
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 166, 24 (1992)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5047
abstract: A model for dealing with energy and momentum exchanges between ballistic electrons in a vacuum barrier in a tunneling probe used as an electromechanical transducer is studied and its physical significance in devices of size comparable to the mean free path of the tunneling electrons is discussed

id: 1003.5049
title: Quantum limit in resonant vacuum tunneling transducers
authors: Roberto Onofrio, Carlo Presilla
comments: 
journal: Europhysics Letters 22, 333 (1993)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5049
abstract: We propose an electromechanical transducer based on a resonant-tunneling configuration that, with respect to the standard tunneling transducers, allows larger tunneling currents while using the same bias voltage. The increased current leads to an increase of the shot noise and an increase of the momentum noise which determine the quantum limit in the system under monitoring. Experiments with micromachined masses at 4.2 K could show dominance of the momentum noise over the Brownian noise, allowing observation of the quantum-mechanical noise at the mesoscopic scale.

id: 1003.5050
title: A New Relation between Lamb Shift Energies
authors: Hiroaki Kubo, Takehisa Fujita, Naohiro Kanda, Hiroshi Kato, Yasunori Munakata, Sachiko Oshima, Kazuhiro Tsuda
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5050
abstract: We derive a new relation between the observed Lamb shift energies of hydrogen and muonium atoms. The relation is based on the non-relativistic description of the Lamb shift, and the proper treatment of the reduced mass of electron and target particles (proton and muon) leads to the new formula which is expressed as $\displaystyle{{\Delta E^{(H)}_{2s_{1/2}}\over \Delta E^{(\mu)}_{2s_{1/2}}} =({1+{m_e\over m_\mu}\over 1+{m_e\over M_p}})^3}$. This relation achieves an excellent agreement with experiment and presents an important QED test free from the cutoff momentum $\Lambda$.

id: 1003.5051
title: Equilibrium states of a test particle coupled to finite size heat baths
authors: Qun Wei, S. Taylor Smith, Roberto Onofrio
comments: Strongly related to arXiV:0810.3251 (appeared in European Physical Journal B 61, 271 (2008)
journal: Physical Review E 79, 031128 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5051
abstract: We report on numerical simulations of the dynamics of a test particle coupled to competing Boltzmann heat baths of finite size. After discussing some features of the single bath case, we show that the presence of two heat baths further constraints the conditions necessary for the test particle to thermalize with the heat baths. We find that thermalization is a spectral property in which the oscillators of the bath with frequencies in the range of the test particle characteristic frequency determine its degree of thermalization. We also find an unexpected frequency shift of the test particle response with respect to the spectra of the two heat baths. Finally, we discuss implications of our results for the study of high-frequency nanomechanical resonators through cold damping cooling techniques, and for engineering reservoirs capable of mitigating the back-action on a mechanical system.

id: 1003.5058
title: Pure State Quantum Statistical Mechanics
authors: Christian Gogolin
comments: 72 pages, 4 figures, thesis, comments highly welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5058
abstract: The capabilities of a new approach towards the foundations of Statistical Mechanics are explored. The approach is genuine quantum in the sense that statistical behavior is a consequence of objective quantum uncertainties due to entanglement and uncertainty relations. No additional randomness is added by hand and no assumptions about a priori probabilities are made, instead measure concentration results are used to justify the methods of Statistical Physics. The approach explains the applicability of the microcanonical and canonical ensemble and the tendency to equilibrate in a natural way. This work contains a pedagogical review of the existing literature and some new results. The most important of which are: i) A measure theoretic justification for the microcanonical ensemble. ii) Bounds on the subsystem equilibration time. iii) A proof that a generic weak interaction causes decoherence in the energy eigenbasis. iv) A proof of a quantum H-Theorem. v) New estimates of the average effective dimension for initial product states and states from the mean energy ensemble. vi) A proof that time and ensemble averages of observables are typically close to each other. vii) A bound on the fluctuations of the purity of a system coupled to a bath.

id: 1003.5136
title: Quantum Darwinism requires an extra-theoretical assumption of encoding redundancy
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Comments on foundational assumptions of W. Zurek (2009) Nat Phys 5 181 (arXiv 0903.5082). v2 significant revision to improve clarity
journal: Int J Theor Phys 49 (2010) 2523-2527
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5136
abstract: Observers restricted to the observation of pointer states of apparatus cannot conclusively demonstrate that the pointer of an apparatus A registers the state of a system of interest S without perturbing S. Observers cannot, therefore, conclusively demonstrate that the states of a system S are redundantly encoded by pointer states of multiple independent apparatus without destroying the redundancy of encoding. The redundancy of encoding required by quantum Darwinism must, therefore, be assumed from outside the quantum-mechanical formalism and without the possibility of experimental demonstration.

id: 1003.5145
title: Comparison of mixed quantum states
authors: Shengshi Pang, Shengjun Wu
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012336 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5145
abstract: In this article, we study the problem of comparing mixed quantum states: given $n$ unknown mixed quantum states, can one determine whether they are identical or not with an unambiguous quantum measurement? We first study universal comparison of mixed quantum states, and prove that this task is generally impossible to accomplish. Then, we focus on unambiguous comparison of $n$ mixed quantum states arbitrarily chosen from a set of $k$ mixed quantum states. The condition for the existence of an unambiguous measurement operator which can produce a conclusive result when the unknown states are actually the same and the condition for the existence of an unambiguous measurement operator when the unknown states are actually different are studied independently. We derive a necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of the first measurement operator, and a necessary condition and two sufficient conditions for the second. Furthermore, we find that the sufficiency of the necessary condition for the second measurement operator has simple and interesting dependence on $n$ and $k$. At the end, a unified condition is obtained for the simultaneous existence of these two unambiguous measurement operators.

id: 1003.5153
title: Connection among entanglement, mixedness and nonlocality in a dynamical context
authors: Laura Mazzola, Bruno Bellomo, Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052116 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5153
abstract: We investigate the dynamical relations among entanglement, mixedness and nonlocality, quantifed by concurrence C, purity P and maximum of Bell function B, respectively, in a system of two qubits in a common structured reservoir. To this aim we introduce the C-P-B parameter space and analyze the time evolution of the point representative of the system state in such a space. The dynamical interplay among entanglement, mixedness and nonlocality strongly depends on the initial state of the system. For a two-excitation Bell state the representative point draws a multi-branch curve in the C-P-B space and we show that a closed relation among these quantifers does not hold. By extending the known relation between C and B for pure states, we give an expression among the three quantifers for mixed states. In this equation we introduce a quantity, vanishing for pure states which has not in general a closed form in terms of C, P and B. Finally we demonstrate that for an initial one-excitation Bell state a closed C-P-B relation instead exists and the system evolves remaining always a maximally entangled mixed state.

id: 1003.5182
title: Quantum Bayesianism at the Perimeter
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; an abridged version of this will appear in Physics in Canada.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5182
abstract: The author summarizes the Quantum Bayesian viewpoint of quantum mechanics, developed originally by C. M. Caves, R. Schack, and himself. It is a view crucially dependent upon the tools of quantum information theory. Work at the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics continues the development and is focused on the hard technical problem of a finding a good representation of quantum mechanics purely in terms of probabilities, without amplitudes or Hilbert-space operators. The best candidate representation involves a mysterious entity called a symmetric informationally complete quantum measurement. Contemplation of it gives a way of thinking of the Born Rule as an addition to the rules of probability theory, applicable when one gambles on the consequences of interactions with physical systems. The article ends by outlining some directions for future work.

id: 1003.5184
title: Quantum Degrees of Freedom, Quantum Integrability and Entanglment Generators
authors: Nikola Buric
comments: 22 pages; 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5184
abstract: Dynamical algebra notion of quantum degrees of freedom is utilized to study the relation between quantum dynamical integrability and generalized entanglement. It is argued that a quantum dynamical system generates generalized entanglement by internal dynamics if and only if it is quantum non-integrable. Several examples are used to illustrate the relation.

id: 1003.5185
title: Strongly coupled single quantum dot in a photonic crystal waveguide cavity
authors: F.S.F. Brossard, X.L. Xu, D.A. Williams, M.Hadjipanayi, M.Hopkinson, X.Wang, R.A. Taylor
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5185
abstract: Cavities embedded in photonic crystal waveguides offer a promising route towards large scale integration of coupled resonators for quantum electrodynamics applications. In this letter, we demonstrate a strongly coupled system formed by a single quantum dot and such a photonic crystal cavity. The resonance originating from the cavity is clearly identified from the photoluminescence mapping of the out-of-plane scattered signal along the photonic crystal waveguide. The quantum dot exciton is tuned towards the cavity mode by temperature control. A vacuum Rabi splitting of ~ 140 \mueV is observed at resonance.

id: 1003.5209
title: QBism, the Perimeter of Quantum Bayesianism
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs
comments: 30 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5209
abstract: This article summarizes the Quantum Bayesian point of view of quantum mechanics, with special emphasis on the view's outer edges---dubbed QBism. QBism has its roots in personalist Bayesian probability theory, is crucially dependent upon the tools of quantum information theory, and most recently, has set out to investigate whether the physical world might be of a type sketched by some false-started philosophies of 100 years ago (pragmatism, pluralism, nonreductionism, and meliorism). Beyond conceptual issues, work at Perimeter Institute is focused on the hard technical problem of finding a good representation of quantum mechanics purely in terms of probabilities, without amplitudes or Hilbert-space operators. The best candidate representation involves a mysterious entity called a symmetric informationally complete quantum measurement. Contemplation of it gives a way of thinking of the Born Rule as an addition to the rules of probability theory, applicable when an agent considers gambling on the consequences of his interactions with a newly recognized universal capacity: dimension (formerly Hilbert-space dimension). (The word "capacity" should conjure up an image of something like gravitational mass---a body's mass measures its capacity to attract other bodies. With hindsight one can say that the founders of quantum mechanics discovered another universal capacity, "dimension.") The article ends by showing that the egocentric elements in QBism represent no impediment to pursuing quantum cosmology and outlining some directions for future work.

id: 1003.5213
title: Entanglement-enhanced measurement of a completely unknown phase
authors: G. Y. Xiang, B. L. Higgins, D. W. Berry, H. M. Wiseman, G. J. Pryde
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 5, 43 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5213
abstract: The high-precision interferometric measurement of an unknown phase is the basis for metrology in many areas of science and technology. Quantum entanglement provides an increase in sensitivity, but present techniques have only surpassed the limits of classical interferometry for the measurement of small variations about a known phase. Here we introduce a technique that combines entangled states with an adaptive algorithm to precisely estimate a completely unspecified phase, obtaining more information per photon that is possible classically. We use the technique to make the first ab initio entanglement-enhanced optical phase measurement. This approach will enable rapid, precise determination of unknown phase shifts using interferometry.

id: 1003.5253
title: Statistical properties of random matrix product states
authors: Silvano Garnerone, Thiago R. de Oliveira, Stephan Haas, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 12 pages, 17 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052312 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5253
abstract: We study the set of random matrix product states (RMPS) introduced in arXiv:0908.3877 as a tool to explore foundational aspects of quantum statistical mechanics. In the present work, we provide an accurate numerical and analytical investigation of the properties of RMPS. We calculate the average state of the ensemble in the non-homogeneous case, and numerically check the validity of this result. We also suggest using RMPS as a tool to approximate properties of general quantum random states. The numerical simulations presented here support the accuracy and efficiency of this approximation. These results suggest that any generalized canonical state can be approximated with high probability by the reduced density matrix of a random MPS, if the average MPS coincide with the associated microcanonical ensemble.

id: 1003.5256
title: A Condition for the Nullity of Quantum Discord
authors: Animesh Datta
comments: Flawed statements in Theorem 2 corrected. 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5256
abstract: The positivity of quantum discord is shown to be equivalent to the strong subadditivity of von-Neumann entropy. This leads us to a necessary and sufficient condition characterizing the set of states with zero quantum discord. This also gives us a mathematical definition of pointer states, as they are the states with zero discord. Finally, we suggest that strong subadditivity of entropy might delineate the boundaries of the set of quantum correlations.

id: 1003.5294
title: The size of macroscopic superposition states in flux qubits
authors: J.I. Korsbakken, F.K. Wilhelm, K.B. Whaley
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: EPL 89, 30003 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5294
abstract: The question as to whether or not quantum mechanics is applicable to the macroscopic scale has motivated efforts to generate superposition states of macroscopic numbers of particles and to determine their effective size. Superpositions of circulating current states in flux qubits constitute candidate states that have been argued to be at least mesoscopic. We present a microscopic analysis that reveals the number of electrons participating in these superpositions to be surprisingly but not trivially small, even though differences in macroscopic observables are large.

id: 1003.5351
title: On the Role of Quantum Events in Double-Slit Experiments
authors: R. Schuster
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5351
abstract: We formulate the Schr\"odinger equation as the equation of motion of a small external influence which serves as the initial boundary condition of a physical system in classical laboratory space. The Hilbert space of possible external influences for a given physical system is then equivalent to the Hilbert space of a quantum system without spin. We discuss the double-slit experiment in the context of this approach and show that wave-particle dualism reduces to the choice of a basis in the geometrical construction of the Hilbert space of small external influences.

id: 1003.5424
title: The approach to thermal equilibrium and "thermodynamic normality" --- An observation based on the works by Goldstein, Lebowitz, Mastrodonato, Tumulka, and Zanghi in 2009, and by von Neumann in 1929
authors: Hal Tasaki
comments: 27 pages, 2 figures. The version 3 is a major revision (even the title has been changed). A new example has been added. We now call the main notion "thermodynamic normality", and some discussions have been added. Minor changes in v.4.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5424
abstract: We treat the problem of the approach to thermal equilibrium by only resorting to quantum dynamics of an isolated macroscopic system. Inspired by the two important works in 2009 and in 1929, we have noted that a condition we call "thermodynamic normality" for a macroscopic observable guarantees the approach to equilibrium (in the sense that a measurement of the observable at time $t$ almost certainly yields a result close to the corresponding microcanonical average for a sufficiently long and typical $t$). A crucial point is that we make no assumptions on the initial state of the system, except that its energy is distributed close to a certain macroscopic value. We also present three (rather artificial) models in which the thermodynamic normality can be established, thus providing concrete examples in which the approach to equilibrium is rigorously justified. Note that this kind of results which hold for ANY initial state are never possible in classical systems. We are thus dealing with a mechanism which is peculiar to quantum systems. The present note is written in a self-contained (and hopefully readable) manner. It only requires basic knowledge in quantum physics and equilibrium statistical mechanics.

id: 1003.5464
title: Security Proof for Quantum Key Distribution Using Qudit Systems
authors: Lana Sheridan, Valerio Scarani
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, version 3 corrects equations (9) and (11), and slightly modifies the figure to reflect the change to equation (11)
journal: Physical Review A, Vol.82, No.3, 030301(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5464
abstract: We provide security bounds against coherent attacks for two families of quantum key distribution protocols that use $d$-dimensional quantum systems. In the asymptotic regime, both the secret key rate for fixed noise and the robustness to noise increase with $d$. The finite-key corrections are found to be almost insensitive to $d\lesssim 20$.

id: 1003.5486
title: On entanglement in neutrino mixing and oscillations
authors: M. Blasone, F. Dell'Anno, S. De Siena, F. Illuminati
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures. Presented at "Symmetries in Science Symposium - Bregenz 2009".
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.237:012007,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5486
abstract: We report on recent results about entanglement in the context of particle mixing and oscillations. We study in detail single-particle entanglement arising in two-flavor neutrino mixing. The analysis is performed first in the context of Quantum Mechanics, and then for the case of Quantum Field Theory.

id: 1003.5503
title: Efficient simulation of strong system-environment interactions
authors: Javier Prior, Alex. W. Chin, Susana. F. Huelga, Martin .B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 050404 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5503
abstract: Multi-component quantum systems in strong interaction with their environment are receiving increasing attention due to their importance in a variety of contexts, ranging from solid state quantum information processing to the quantum dynamics of bio-molecular aggregates. Unfortunately, these systems are difficult to simulate as the system-bath interactions cannot be treated perturbatively and standard approaches are invalid or inefficient. Here we combine the time dependent density matrix renormalization group methods with techniques from the theory of orthogonal polynomials to provide an efficient method for simulating open quantum systems, including spin-boson models and their generalisations to multi-component systems.

id: 1003.5504
title: Trembling motion of relativistic electrons in a magnetic field
authors: Tomasz. M. Rusin, Wlodek Zawadzki
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. This work is not published. Longer version of this paper (19 pages) => see arXiv:1008.1428
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5504
abstract: Zitterbewegung (ZB, the trembling motion) of free relativistic electrons in a vacuum in the presence of an external magnetic field is calculated. It is shown that the motion of an electron wave packet has intraband frequency components, corresponding to the classical cyclotron motion, and several interband frequency components corresponding to the Zitterbewegung. For a two-dimensional situation, the presence of a magnetic field makes the ZB motion stationary, i.e. not decaying in time. We show how to simulate the ZB in a magnetic field using trapped ions and laser excitations in the spirit of recently observed proof-of-principle ZB simulation by Gerritsma {\it et al.} Nature {\bf 463}, 68 (2010). It is demonstrated that, for the parameters of the Dirac equation simulated by the above experiment, the effect of a magnetic field on the Zitterbewegung is considerable.

id: 1003.5533
title: Sub-optical resolution of single spins using magnetic resonance imaging at room temperature in diamond
authors: Chang Shin, Changdong Kim, Roman Kolesov, Gopalakrishnan Balasubramanian, Fedor Jelezko, J?rg Wrachtrup, Philip R. Hemmer
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, Journal of Luminescence (Article in Press)
journal: Journal of Luminescence, 130(9), 1635-1645 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5533
abstract: There has been much recent interest in extending the technique of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) down to the level of single spins with sub-optical wavelength resolution. However, the signal to noise ratio for images of individual spins is usually low and this necessitates long acquisition times and low temperatures to achieve high resolution. An exception to this is the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color center in diamond whose spin state can be detected optically at room temperature. Here we apply MRI to magnetically equivalent NV spins in order to resolve them with resolution well below the optical wavelength of the readout light. In addition, using a microwave version of MRI we achieved a resolution that is 1/270 size of the coplanar striplines, which define the effective wavelength of the microwaves that were used to excite the transition. This technique can eventually be extended to imaging of large numbers of NVs in a confocal spot and possibly to image nearby dark spins via their mutual magnetic interaction with the NV spin.

id: 1003.5545
title: An optical example for classical Zeno effect
authors: Li-Gang Wang, Shi-Jian Gu, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5545
abstract: In this brief report, we present a proposal to observe the classical zeno effect via the frequent measurement in optics.

id: 1003.5564
title: Search on a Hypercubic Lattice through a Quantum Random Walk: II. d=2
authors: Apoorva Patel, K.S. Raghunathan, Md. Aminoor Rahaman
comments: Revtex4, 5 pages (v2) Introduction and references expanded. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev.A82:032331, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5564
abstract: We investigate the spatial search problem on the two-dimensional square lattice, using the Dirac evolution operator discretised according to the staggered lattice fermion formalism. $d=2$ is the critical dimension for the spatial search problem, where infrared divergence of the evolution operator leads to logarithmic factors in the scaling behaviour. As a result, the construction used in our accompanying article \cite{dgt2search} provides an $O(\sqrt{N}\log N)$ algorithm, which is not optimal. The scaling behaviour can be improved to $O(\sqrt{N\log N})$ by cleverly controlling the massless Dirac evolution operator by an ancilla qubit, as proposed by Tulsi \cite{tulsi}. We reinterpret the ancilla control as introduction of an effective mass at the marked vertex, and optimise the proportionality constants of the scaling behaviour of the algorithm by numerically tuning the parameters.

id: 1003.5579
title: Room temperature photon number resolving detector at telecom wavelengths
authors: Enrico Pomarico, Bruno Sanguinetti, Rob Thew, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 18, 10750-10759 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5579
abstract: Large dynamic range room temperature photon number resolving (PNR) detectors can be very useful for measuring very low light intensities and for analyzing multiphoton quantum states. In this paper we present a PNR detector based on the up-conversion (UC) of telecom signal into visible wavelength and on its detection by a thermoelectrically cooled multi-pixel silicon avalanche photodiodode (APD), also known as Silicon Photon Multiplier (SiPM). An efficiency of 4% is attained and the poissonian statistics of input coherent states is maintained up to approximately 20 simultaneous detections. The cross-talk effects on the detected signal are estimated in order to properly calibrate the detector. This scheme can be used at arbitrary wavelengths above the visible spectral window with appropriate up-conversion.

id: 1003.5606
title: Irreversibility in quantum maps with decoherence
authors: Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Bernardo Casabone, Diego A. Wisniacki
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures.
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 369, 278-290 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5606
abstract: The Bolztmann echo (BE) is a measure of irreversibility and sensitivity to perturbations for non-isolated systems. Recently, different regimes of this quantity were described for chaotic systems. There is a perturbative regime where the BE decays with a rate given by the sum of a term depending on the accuracy with which the system is time-reversed and a term depending on the coupling between the system and the environment. In addition, a parameter independent regime, characterised by the classical Lyapunov exponent, is expected. In this paper we study the behaviour of the BE in hyperbolic maps that are in contact with different environments. We analyse the emergence of the different regimes and show that the behaviour of the decay rate of the BE is strongly dependent on the type of environment.

id: 1003.5643
title: The maximally entangled symmetric state in terms of the geometric measure
authors: Martin Aulbach, Damian Markham, Mio Murao
comments: 18 pages, 15 figures, small corrections and additions to contents and references
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 073025
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5643
abstract: The geometric measure of entanglement is investigated for permutation symmetric pure states of multipartite qubit systems, in particular the question of maximum entanglement. This is done with the help of the Majorana representation, which maps an n qubit symmetric state to n points on the unit sphere. It is shown how symmetries of the point distribution can be exploited to simplify the calculation of entanglement and also help find the maximally entangled symmetric state. Using a combination of analytical and numerical results, the most entangled symmetric states for up to 12 qubits are explored and discussed. The optimization problem on the sphere presented here is then compared with two classical optimization problems on the S^2 sphere, namely Toth's problem and Thomson's problem, and it is observed that, in general, they are different problems.

id: 1003.5760
title: Quantum-state preparation with universal gate decompositions
authors: Martin Plesch, ?aslav Brukner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: PRA 83, 032302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5760
abstract: In quantum computation every unitary operation can be decomposed into quantum circuits-a series of single-qubit rotations and a single type entangling two-qubit gates, such as controlled-NOT (CNOT) gates. Two measures are important when judging the complexity of the circuit: the total number of CNOT gates needed to implement it and the depth of the circuit, measured by the minimal number of computation steps needed to perform it. Here we give an explicit and simple quantum circuit scheme for preparation of arbitrary quantum states, which can directly utilize any decomposition scheme for arbitrary full quantum gates, thus connecting the two problems. Our circuit reduces the depth of the best currently known circuit by a factor of 2. It also reduces the total number of CNOT gates from 2^n to 23/24 2^n in the leading order for even number of qubits. Specifically, the scheme allows us to decrease the upper bound from 11 CNOT gates to 9 and the depth from 11 to 5 steps for four qubits. Our results are expected to help in designing and building small-scale quantum circuits using present technologies.

id: 1003.5766
title: Secure Key Rate of the BB84 Protocol using Finite Sample Bits
authors: Yousuke Sano, Ryutaroh Matsumoto, Tomohiko Uyematsu
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures, to be published in J. Phys. A. Version 4 clarifies the assumptions of this paper. The source files of versions 3&4 include computer program files used in the numerical computation
journal: J. Phys. A 43, 495302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5766
abstract: We improve the non-asymptotic key rate shown by Scarani and Renner by proposing several methods to construct tighter conservative confidence intervals of the phase error rate than one shown by them. In addition, we show that the accurate channel estimation method non-asymptotically increases the key rate over the amplitude damping channel as well as the asymptotic case in the BB84 protocol.

id: 1003.5840
title: Reliable source of conditional non-Gaussian states from single-mode thermal fields
authors: A. Allevi, A. Andreoni, M. Bondani, M. G. Genoni, S. Olivares
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013816 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5840
abstract: We address both theoretically and experimentally the generation of pulsed non-Gaussian states from classical Gaussian ones by means of conditional measurements. The setup relies on a beam splitter and a pair of linear photodetectors able to resolve up to tens of photons in the two outputs. We show the reliability of the setup and the good agreement with the theory for a single-mode thermal field entering the beam splitter and present a thorough characterization of the photon statistics of the conditional states.

id: 1003.5863
title: Large effects of boundaries on spin amplification in spin chains
authors: Benoit Roubert, Peter Braun, Daniel Braun
comments: replaced figs. 6,10 and corrected corresponding numerical values for initial slopes, added a new fig.7 and a section on total fidelities
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5863
abstract: We investigate the effect of boundary conditions on spin amplification in spin chains. We show that the boundaries play a crucial role for the dynamics: A single additional coupling between the first and last spins can macroscopically modify the physical behavior compared to the open chain, even in the limit of infinitely long chains. We show that this effect can be understood in terms of a "bifurcation" in Hilbert space that can give access to different parts of Hilbert space with macroscopically different physical properties of the basis functions, depending on the boundary conditions. On the technical side, we introduce semiclassical methods whose precision increase with increasing chain length and allow us to analytically demonstrate the effects of the boundaries in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1003.5877
title: Noise-enhanced classical and quantum capacities in communication networks
authors: Filippo Caruso, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; See Video Abstract at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 190501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5877
abstract: The unavoidable presence of noise is thought to be one of the major problems to solve in order to pave the way for implementing quantum information technologies in realistic physical platforms. However, here we show a clear example in which noise, in terms of dephasing, may enhance the capability of transmitting not only classical but also quantum information, encoded in quantum systems, through communication networks. In particular, we find analytically and numerically the quantum and classical capacities for a large family of quantum channels and show that these information transmission rates can be strongly enhanced by introducing dephasing noise in the complex network dynamics.

id: 1003.5922
title: Cavity optomechanics with whispering-gallery-mode optical micro-resonators
authors: Albert Schliesser, Tobias J. Kippenberg
comments: Contribution chapter for Advances in Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics, Volume 58, edited by Ennio Arimondo, Paul R. Berman and C. C. Lin. 121 pages, 54 figures based on dissertation of A. Schliesser at Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5922
abstract: Parametric coupling of optical and mechanical degrees of freedom forms the basis of many ultra-sensitive measurements of both force and mechanical displacement. An optical cavity with a mechanically compliant boundary enhances the optomechanical interaction, but also gives rise to qualitatively new coupled dynamics. As early as 1967, in a pioneering work, V. Braginsky analyzed theoretically the role of radiation pressure in the interferometric measurement process, but it has remained experimentally unexplored for many decades. Here, we use whispering-gallery-mode (WGM) optical microresonators to study these radiation pressure phenomena. Optical microresonators simultaneously host optical and mechanical modes, which are systematically analyzed and optimized to feature ultra-low mechanical dissipation, photon storage times exceeding the mechanical oscillation period (i.e. the "resolved-sideband regime") and large optomechanical coupling. It is demonstrated that dynamical backaction can be employed to cool mechanical modes, i.e., to reduce their thermally excited random motion. Utilizing this novel technique together with cryogenic pre-cooling of the mechanical oscillator, the phonon occupation of mechanical radial-breathing modes could be reduced to about 60 excitation quanta. The corresponding displacement fluctuations are monitored interferometrically with a sensitivity at the level of 10^-18 m/Hz^(1/2), which is below the imprecision at the standard quantum limit (SQL). It is shown that optical measurement techniques employed here are operating in a near-ideal manner according to the principles of quantum measurement, displaying a backaction-imprecision product close to the quantum limit. An outlook on optomechanical experiments with crystalline WGM resonators and the effect of "optomechanically induced transparency" (analogous to electromagnetically induced transparency) is given.

id: 1003.5925
title: Spin self-rephasing and very long coherence times in a trapped atomic ensemble
authors: Christian Deutsch, Fernando Ramirez-Martinez, Clement Lacro?te, Friedemann Reinhard, Tobias Schneider, Jean-No?l Fuchs, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Pi¨¦chon, Franck Lalo?, Jakob Reichel, Peter Rosenbusch
comments: Revised version; improved description of the theoretical treatment
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 020401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5925
abstract: We perform Ramsey spectroscopy on the ground state of ultra-cold 87Rb atoms magnetically trapped on a chip in the Knudsen regime. Field inhomogeneities over the sample should limit the 1/e contrast decay time to about 3 s, while decay times of 58 s are actually observed. We explain this surprising result by a spin self-rephasing mechanism induced by the identical spin rotation effect originating from particle indistinguishability. We propose a theory of this synchronization mechanism and obtain good agreement with the experimental observations. The effect is general and susceptible to appear in other physical systems.

id: 1003.5957
title: Reconstruction of ionization probabilities from spatially averaged data in N-dimensions
authors: J. Strohaber, A. A. Kolomenskii, H. A. Schuessler
comments: 19 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5957
abstract: We present an analytical inversion technique which can be used to recover ionization probabilities from spatially averaged data in an N-dimensional detection scheme. The solution is given as a power series in intensity. For this reason, we call this technique a multiphoton expansion (MPE). The MPE formalism was verified with an exactly solvable inversion problem in 2D, and probabilities in the postsaturation region, where the intensity-selective scanning approach breaks down, were recovered. In 3D, ionization probabilities of Xe were successfully recovered with MPE from simulated (using the ADK tunneling theory) ion yields. Finally, we tested our approach with intensity-resolved benzene ion yields showing a resonant multiphoton ionization process. By applying MPE to this data (which was artificially averaged) the resonant structure was recovered-suggesting that the resonance in benzene may have been observable in spatially averaged data taken elsewhere.

id: 1003.5975
title: Non-Markovian master equation for a damped oscillator with time-varying parameters
authors: Kwong Wa Chang, C. K. Law
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5975
abstract: We derive an exact non-Markovian master equation that generalizes the previous work [Hu, Paz and Zhang, Phys. Rev. D {\bf 45}, 2843 (1992)] to damped harmonic oscillators with time-varying parameters. This is achieved by exploiting the linearity of the system and operator solution in Heisenberg picture. Our equation governs the non-Markovian quantum dynamics when the system is modulated by external devices. As an application, we apply our equation to parity kick decoupling problems. The time-dependent dissipative coefficients in the master equation are shown to be modified drastically when the system is driven by $\pi$ pulses. For coherence protection to be effective, our numerical results indicate that kicking period should be shorter than memory time of the bath. The effects of using soft pulses in an ohmic bath are also discussed.

id: 1003.5976
title: From Quantum Metalanguage to the Logic of Qubits
authors: Paola Zizzi
comments: 138 pages, PhD thesis in Mathematics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5976
abstract: The main aim of this thesis is to look for a logical deductive calculus (we will adopt sequent calculus, originally introduced in Gentzen, 1935), which could describe quantum information and its properties. More precisely, we intended to describe in logical terms the formation of the qubit (the unit of quantum information) which is a particular linear superposition of the two classical bits 0 and 1. To do so, we had to introduce the new connective "quantum superposition", in the logic of one qubit, Lq, as the classical conjunction cannot describe this quantum link.

id: 1003.6033
title: Efficient Simulation of Quantum States Based on Classical Fields Modulated with Pseudorandom Phase Sequences
authors: Jian Fu, Shuo Sun
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.6033
abstract: We demonstrate that a tensor product structure could be obtained by introducing pseudorandom phase sequences into classical fields with two orthogonal modes. Using classical fields modulated with pseudorandom phase sequences, we discuss efficient simulation of several typical quantum states, including product state, Bell states, GHZ state, and W state. By performing quadrature demodulation scheme, we could obtain the mode status matrix of the simulating classical fields, based on which we propose a sequence permutation mechanism to reconstruct the simulated quantum states. The research on classical simulation of quantum states is important, for it not only enables potential practical applications in quantum computation, but also provides useful insights into fundamental concepts of quantum mechanics.

id: 1003.6054
title: Universal Continuous Variable Quantum Computation in the Micromaser
authors: Rob C. Wagner, Mark S. Everitt, Viv M. Kendon, Martin L. Jones
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, accepted for a presentation at the 9th International Conference on Unconventional Computation (UC10) and LNCS proceedings.
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 2010, Volume 6079/2010, 152-163
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.6054
abstract: We present universal continuous variable quantum computation (CVQC) in the micromaser. With a brief history as motivation we present the background theory and define universal CVQC. We then show how to generate a set of operations in the micromaser which can be used to achieve universal CVQC. It then follows that the micromaser is a potential architecture for CVQC but our proof is easily adaptable to other potential physical systems.

id: 1003.6079
title: Quantum Arrival Time For Open Systems
authors: J.M. Yearsley
comments: 30 pages, 1 figure. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012116 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.6079
abstract: We extend previous work on the arrival time problem in quantum mechanics, in the framework of decoherent histories, to the case of a particle coupled to an environment. The usual arrival time probabilities are related to the probability current, so we explore the properties of the current for general open systems that can be written in terms of a master equation of Lindblad form. We specialise to the case of quantum Brownian motion, and show that after a time of order the localisation time the current becomes positive. We show that the arrival time probabilities can then be written in terms of a POVM, which we compute. We perform a decoherent histories analysis including the effects of the environment and show that time of arrival probabilities are decoherent for a generic state after a time much greater than the localisation time, but that there is a fundamental limitation on the accuracy, $\delta t$, with which they can be specified which obeys $E\delta t>>\hbar$. We confirm that the arrival time probabilities computed in this way agree with those computed via the current, provided there is decoherence. We thus find that the decoherent histories formulation of quantum mechanics provides a consistent explanation for the emergence of the probability current as the classical arrival time distribution, and a systematic rule for deciding when probabilities may be assigned.

id: 1003.6122
title: Double scattering of intense laser light by two atoms
authors: Vyacheslav Shatokhin, Tobias Geiger, Thomas Wellens, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.6122
abstract: This paper analyzes coherent backscattering of intense laser light by two randomly placed distant atoms. Starting from the general two-atom master equation, we analytically derive the elastic and inelastic background and interference components of the double scattering spectrum. By expressing the final results in terms of single-atom observables, the two-atom problem is shown to be equivalent to a description in terms of single atoms under bichromatic driving.

id: 1003.0200
title: Non-monotonic Dynamics in Frustrated Ising Model with Time-Dependent Transverse Field
authors: Shu Tanaka, Seiji Miyashita
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81 051138 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0200
abstract: We study how the degree of ordering depends on the strength of the thermal and quantum fluctuations in frustrated systems by investigating the correlation function of the order parameter. Concretely, we compare the equilibrium spin correlation function in a frustrated lattice which exhibits a non-monotonic temperature dependence (reentrant type dependence) with that in the ground state as a function of the transverse field that causes the quantum fluctuation. We find the correlation function in the ground state also shows a non-monotonic dependence on the strength of the transverse field. We also study the real-time dynamics of the spin correlation function under a time-dependent field. After sudden decrease of the temperature, we found non-monotonic changes of the correlation function reflecting the static temperature dependence, which indicates that an effective temperature of the system changes gradually. For the quantum system, we study the dependence of changes of the correlation function on the sweeping speed of the transverse field. Contrary to the classical case, the correlation function varies little in a rapid change of the field, though it shows a non-monotonic change when we sweep the field slowly.

id: 1003.0285
title: Planck Scale Effect in the Entropic Force Law
authors: Subir Ghosh
comments: References added, to appear in Mod.Phys.Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0285
abstract: In this note we generalize the quantum uncertainty relation proposed by Vancea and Santos [7] in the entropic force law, by introducing Planck scale modifications. The latter is induced by the Generalized Uncertainty Principle. We show that the proposed uncertainty relation of [7], involving the entropic force and the square of particle position, gets modified from the consideration of a minimum measurable length, (which can be the Planck length).

id: 1003.0313
title: Thermal rectification in quantum graded mass systems
authors: Emmanuel Pereira
comments: 9 pages (to appear in Physics Letters A)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0313
abstract: We show the existence of thermal rectification in the graded mass quantum chain of harmonic oscillators with self-consistent reservoirs. Our analytical study allows us to identify the ingredients leading to the effect. The presence of rectification in this effective, simple model (representing graded mass materials, systems that may be constructed in practice) indicates that rectification in graded mass quantum systems may be an ubiquitous phenomenon. Moreover, as the classical version of this model does not present rectification, our results show that, here, rectification is a direct result of the quantum statistics.

id: 1003.0342
title: Irrational Uq(sl2)-symmetries on the quantum plane
authors: Steven Duplij, Sergey Sinel'shchikov
comments: This paper was submitted to the arXiv as a concise preliminary version (without complete proofs and some additional material) of our preprint 0905.1719. Nevertheless, the removed preprint contained some material (e.g. classical limits and tables) which was absent in the full version 0905.1719. We decided to include this extra material to 0905.1719 and to withdraw the concise version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Commutative Algebra (math.AC); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0342
abstract: The main result of this work is to present the complete list of Uq(sl2)-symmetries of quantum plane. For that, the structure of quantum plane automorphisms is used. Our idea in classifying the above symmetries is in introducing some special symbolic matrices to label the series of actions in question. The matrices depict which generators of Uq(sl2) produce nonzero images by acting on the generators of quantum plane. This data determines the weights of an action unambiguously. It turns out that there are uncountably many isomorphism classes of the symmetries. Another result is in describing composition series of the corresponding representations. The classical limit of the above symmetries is given.

id: 1003.0430
title: Non-monotonic thermal Casimir force from geometry-temperature interplay
authors: Alexej Weber, Holger Gies
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:040403,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0430
abstract: The geometry dependence of Casimir forces is significantly more pronounced in the presence of thermal fluctuations due to a generic geometry-temperature interplay. We show that the thermal force for standard sphere-plate or cylinder-plate geometries develops a non-monotonic behavior already in the simple case of a fluctuating Dirichlet scalar. In particular, the attractive thermal force can increase for increasing distances below a critical temperature. This anomalous behavior is triggered by a reweighting of relevant fluctuations on the scale of the thermal wavelength. The essence of the phenomenon becomes transparent within the worldline picture of the Casimir effect.

id: 1003.0525
title: Development of SNSPD System with Gifford-McMahon Cryocooler
authors: Shigehito Miki, Mikio Fujiwara, Masahide Sasaki, Zhen Wang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON APPLIED SUPERCONDUCTIVITY 19, No.3, 332 (2009)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0525
abstract: A superconducting nanowire single photon detector (SNSPD) system for telecommunication wavelength using a GM cryocooler was developed and its performance was verified. The cryocooler based SNSPD system can operate continuously with a 100 V AC power supply without any cryogen. The packaged SNSPD device was cooled to 2.96 K within a thermal fluctuation range of 10 mK. An SNSPD with an area of 20 x 20 $\mu m^2$ showed good system detection efficiency (DE) at 100 Hz dark count rate of 2.6% and 4.5% at wavelengths of 1550 and 1310 nm, respectively. An SNSPD with an area of 10 x 10 $\mu m^2$ and kinetic inductance lower than that of the large area device showed good system DE of 2.6% at a wavelength of 1550 nm. The SNSPD system could be operated for over 10 h with constant system DE and dark count rate.

id: 1003.0596
title: Role of the relative phase in the merging of two independent Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: L. F. Buchmann, G. M. Nikolopoulos, P. Lambropoulos
comments: 19 Pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 013631 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0596
abstract: We study the merging of two independent Bose-Einstein condensates with arbitrary initial phase difference, in the framework of a one-dimensional time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii model. The role of the initial phase difference in the process is discussed, and various types of phase-sensitive excitations are identified.

id: 1003.0761
title: Particle number fluctuations in a cloven trapped Bose gas at finite temperature
authors: Alice Sinatra, Yvan Castin, Yun Li
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 81 (2010) 053623
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0761
abstract: We study fluctuations in the atom number difference between two halves of a harmonically trapped Bose gas in three dimensions. We solve the problem analytically for non interacting atoms. In the interacting case we find an analytical solution in the Thomas-Fermi and high temperature limit in good agreement with classical field simulations. In the large system size limit, fluctuations in the number difference are maximal for a temperature $T\simeq 0.7 T_c$ where $T_c$ is the critical temperature, independently of the trap anisotropy. The occurrence of this maximum is due to an interference effect between the condensate and the non-condensed field.

id: 1003.0821
title: Atomic excitation during recollision-free ultrafast multi-electron tunnel ionization
authors: W. A. Bryan, S. L. Stebbings, J. McKenna, E. M. L. English, M. Suresh, J. Wood, B Srigengan, I. C. E. Turcu, J. M. Smith, E. J. Divall, C. J. Hooker, A. J. Langley, J. L. Collier, I. D. Williams, W. R. Newell
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, original format as accepted by Nature Physics
journal: W A Bryan et al, Nature Physics 2 p379-383 (2006)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0821
abstract: Modern intense ultrafast pulsed lasers generate an electric field of sufficient strength to permit tunnel ionization of the valence electrons in atoms. This process is usually treated as a rapid succession of isolated events, in which the states of the remaining electrons are neglected. Such electronic interactions are predicted to be weak, the exception being recollision excitation and ionization caused by linearly-polarized radiation. In contrast, it has recently been suggested that intense field ionization may be accompanied by a two-stage `shake-up' reaction. Here we report a unique combination of experimental techniques that enables us to accurately measure the tunnel ionization probability for argon exposed to 50 femtosecond laser pulses. Most significantly for the current study, this measurement is independent of the optical focal geometry, equivalent to a homogenous electric field. Furthermore, circularly-polarized radiation negates recollision. The present measurements indicate that tunnel ionization results in simultaneous excitation of one or more remaining electrons through shake-up. From an atomic physics standpoint, it may be possible to induce ionization from specific states, and will influence the development of coherent attosecond XUV radiation sources. Such pulses have vital scientific and economic potential in areas such as high-resolution imaging of in-vivo cells and nanoscale XUV lithography.

id: 1003.1007
title: The dissipative quantum Duffing oscillator: a comparison of Floquet-based approaches
authors: Carmen Vierheilig, Milena Grifoni
comments: 38 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1007
abstract: We study the dissipative quantum Duffing oscillator in the deep quantum regime with two different approaches: The first is based on the exact Floquet states of the linear oscillator and the nonlinearity is treated perturbatively. It well describes the nonlinear oscillator dynamics away from resonance. The second, in contrast, is applicable at and in the vicinity of a N-photon resonance and it exploits quasi-degenerate perturbation theory for the nonlinear oscillator in Floquet space. It is perturbative both in driving and nonlinearity. A combination of both approaches yields the possibility to cover the whole range of driving frequencies. As an example we discuss the dissipative dynamics of the Duffing oscillator near and at the one-photon resonance.

id: 1003.1110
title: Entanglement entropy of two disjoint blocks in XY chains
authors: Maurizio Fagotti, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 34 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2010) P04016
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1110
abstract: We study the Renyi entanglement entropies of two disjoint intervals in XY chains. We exploit the exact solution of the model in terms of free Majorana fermions and we show how to construct the reduced density matrix in the spin variables by taking properly into account the Jordan-Wigner string between the two blocks. From this we can evaluate any Renyi entropy of finite integer order. We study in details critical XX and Ising chains and we show that the asymptotic results for large blocks agree with recent conformal field theory predictions if corrections to the scaling are included in the analysis correctly. We also report results in the gapped phase and after a quantum quench.

id: 1003.1523
title: Theory of plasmon decay in dense plasmas and warm dense matter
authors: S. Son, S. Ku, Sung Joon Moon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1523
abstract: The decay of the Langmuir waves in dense plasmas is not accurately predicted by the prevalent Landau damping theory. A dielectric function theory is introduced, predicting much higher damping than the Landau damping theory. This strong damping is in better agreement with the experimentally observed data in metals. It is shown that the strong plasmon decay leads to the existence of a parameter regime where the backward Raman scattering is unstable while the forward Raman scattering is stable. This regime may be used to create intense x-ray pulses, by means of the the backward Raman compression. The optimal pulse duration and intensity is estimated.

id: 1003.1524
title: Decay of Langmuir wave in dense plasmas and warm dense matter
authors: S. Son, S. Ku, Sung Joon Moon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1524
abstract: The decays of the Langmuir waves in dense plasmas are computed using the dielectric function theory widely used in the solid state physics. Four cases are considered: a classical plasma, a Maxwellian plasma, a degenerate quantum plasma, and a partially degenerate plasma. The result is considerably different from the conventional Landau damping theory.

id: 1003.1729
title: Exploring Topological Phases With Quantum Walks
authors: Takuya Kitagawa, Mark S. Rudner, Erez Berg, Eugene Demler
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033429 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1729
abstract: The quantum walk was originally proposed as a quantum mechanical analogue of the classical random walk, and has since become a powerful tool in quantum information science. In this paper, we show that discrete time quantum walks provide a versatile platform for studying topological phases, which are currently the subject of intense theoretical and experimental investigation. In particular, we demonstrate that recent experimental realizations of quantum walks simulate a non-trivial one dimensional topological phase. With simple modifications, the quantum walk can be engineered to realize all of the topological phases which have been classified in one and two dimensions. We further discuss the existence of robust edge modes at phase boundaries, which provide experimental signatures for the non-trivial topological character of the system.

id: 1003.1754
title: Quantum computing with defects
authors: J. R. Weber, W. F. Koehl, J. B. Varley, A. Janotti, B. B. Buckley, C. G. Van de Walle, D. D. Awschalom
comments: 31 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables
journal: Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. (2010)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1754
abstract: Identifying and designing physical systems for use as qubits, the basic units of quantum information, are critical steps in the development of a quantum computer. Among the possibilities in the solid state, a defect in diamond known as the nitrogen-vacancy (NV-1) center stands out for its robustness - its quantum state can be initialized, manipulated, and measured with high fidelity at room temperature. Here we describe how to systematically identify other deep center defects with similar quantum-mechanical properties. We present a list of physical criteria that these centers and their hosts should meet and explain how these requirements can be used in conjunction with electronic structure theory to intelligently sort through candidate defect systems. To illustrate these points in detail, we compare electronic structure calculations of the NV-1 center in diamond with those of several deep centers in 4H silicon carbide (SiC). We then discuss the proposed criteria for similar defects in other tetrahedrally-coordinated semiconductors.

id: 1003.1757
title: Creating a Quantum Degenerate Gas of Stable Molecules via Weak Photoassociation
authors: Matt Mackie, Pierre Phou
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, 1 table, 39 references; published version (essentially)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 011609(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1757
abstract: Quantum degenerate molecules represent a new paradigm for fundamental studies and practical applications. Association of already quantum degenerate atoms into molecules provides a crucial shortcut around the difficulty of cooling molecules to ultracold temperatures. Whereas association can be induced with either laser or magnetic fields, photoassociation requires impractical laser intensity to overcome poor overlap between the atom pair and molecular wavefunctions, and experiments are currently restricted to magnetoassociation. Here we model realistic production of a quantum degenerate gas of stable molecules via two-photon photoassociation of Bose-condensed atoms. An adiabatic change of the laser frequency converts the initial atomic condensate almost entirely into stable molecular condensate, even for low-intensity lasers. Results for dipolar LiNa provide an upper bound on the necessary photoassociation laser intensity for alkali-metal atoms ~30 W/cm^2, indicating a feasible path to quantum degenerate molecules beyond magnetoassociation.

id: 1003.1774
title: Tensor product representation of topological ordered phase: necessary symmetry conditions
authors: Xie Chen, Bei Zeng, Zheng-Cheng Gu, Isaac L. Chuang, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 165119 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1774
abstract: The tensor product representation of quantum states leads to a promising variational approach to study quantum phase and quantum phase transitions, especially topological ordered phases which are impossible to handle with conventional methods due to their long range entanglement. However, an important issue arises when we use tensor product states (TPS) as variational states to find the ground state of a Hamiltonian: can arbitrary variations in the tensors that represent ground state of a Hamiltonian be induced by local perturbations to the Hamiltonian? Starting from a tensor product state which is the exact ground state of a Hamiltonian with $\mathbb{Z}_2$ topological order, we show that, surprisingly, not all variations of the tensors correspond to the variation of the ground state caused by local perturbations of the Hamiltonian. Even in the absence of any symmetry requirement of the perturbed Hamiltonian, one necessary condition for the variations of the tensors to be physical is that they respect certain $\mathbb{Z}_2$ symmetry. We support this claim by calculating explicitly the change in topological entanglement entropy with different variations in the tensors. This finding will provide important guidance to numerical variational study of topological phase and phase transitions. It is also a crucial step in using TPS to study universal properties of a quantum phase and its topological order.

id: 1003.1822
title: Discrete-time quantum walks on one-dimensional lattices
authors: Xin-Ping Xu
comments: 17 pages research note
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 77, 479-488 (2010)
subjects: Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1822
abstract: In this paper, we study discrete-time quantum walks on one-dimensional lattices. We find that the coherent dynamics depends on the initial states and coin parameters. For infinite size of lattice, we derive an explicit expression for the return probability, which shows scaling behavior $P(0,t)\sim t^{-1}$ and does not depends on the initial states of the walk. In the long-time limit, the probability distribution shows various patterns, depending on the initial states, coin parameters and the lattice size. The average mixing time $M_{\epsilon}$ closes to the limiting probability in linear $N$ (size of the lattice) for large values of thresholds $\epsilon$. Finally, we introduce another kind of quantum walk on infinite or even-numbered size of lattices, and show that the walk is equivalent to the traditional quantum walk with symmetrical initial state and coin parameter.

id: 1003.1941
title: Exact time-reversal focusing of acoustic and quantum excitations in open cavities: The perfect inverse filter
authors: Hernan L. Calvo, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: EPL 89, 60002 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1941
abstract: The time-reversal mirror (TRM) prescribes the reverse playback of a signal to focalize an acoustic excitation as a Loschmidt echo. In the quantum domain, the perfect inverse filter (PIF) processes this signal to ensure an exact reversion provided that the excitation originated outside the cavity delimited by the transducers. We show that PIF takes a simple form when the initial excitation is created inside this cavity. This also applies to the acoustical case, where it corrects the TRM and improves the design of an acoustic bazooka. We solve an open chaotic cavity modeling a quantum bazooka and a simple model for a Helmholtz resonator, showing that the PIF becomes decisive to compensate the group velocities involved in a highly localized excitation and to achieve subwavelength resolution.

id: 1003.1955
title: Comment on "Wave functions for a Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau particle in a time-dependent potential"
authors: L.B. Castro, A.S. de Castro
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1955
abstract: It is shown that the paper "Wave functions for a Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau particle in a time-dependent potential", by Merad and Bensaid [J. Math. Phys. 48, 073515 (2007)] is not correct in using inadvertently a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian in a formalism that does require Hermitian Hamiltonians.

id: 1003.2056
title: Quantizable non-local gravity
authors: Marin Diego
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2056
abstract: It's widely recognized that general relativity emerges if we impose invariance under local translations and local Lorentz transformations. In the same manner supergravity arises when we impose invariance under local supersymmetry. In this paper we show how to treat general relativity as a common gauge theory, without introducing a metric or a tetrad field. The price to pay for such simplification is the acceptance of non-locality. At first glance the resulting theory seems renormalizable. Finally we derive Feynman vertices for such theory.

id: 1003.2133
title: Proof of the Ergodic Theorem and the H-Theorem in Quantum Mechanics
authors: John von Neumann
comments: English translation by Roderich Tumulka of J. von Neumann: Beweis des Ergodensatzes und des H-Theorems. 41 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2: typos corrected. See also the accompanying commentary by S. Goldstein, J. L. Lebowitz, R. Tumulka, N. Zanghi, arXiv:1003.2129
journal: European Phys. J. H 35: 201-237 (2010). German original in Zeitschrift fuer Physik 57: 30-70 (1929)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2133
abstract: It is shown how to resolve the apparent contradiction between the macroscopic approach of phase space and the validity of the uncertainty relations. The main notions of statistical mechanics are re-interpreted in a quantum-mechanical way, the ergodic theorem and the H-theorem are formulated and proven (without "assumptions of disorder"), followed by a discussion of the physical meaning of the mathematical conditions characterizing their domain of validity.

id: 1003.2176
title: Andreev Interferometers in a strong Radio-Frequency Field
authors: C. Checkley, A. Iagallo, R. Shaikhaidarov, J. T. Nicholls, V. T. Petrashov
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, 15 references
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2176
abstract: We experimentally study the influence of 1-40 GHz radiation on the resistance of normal (N) mesoscopic conductors coupled to superconducting (S) loops (Andreev interferometers). At low RF amplitudes we observe the usual h/2e superconducting-phase-periodic resistance oscillations as a function of applied magnetic flux. We find that the oscillations acquire a pi-shift with increasing RF amplitude, and consistent with this result the resistance at fixed phase is an oscillating function of the RF amplitude. The results are explained qualitatively as a consequence of two processes. The first is the modulation of the phase difference between the N/S interfaces by the RF field, with the resistance adiabatically following the phase. The second process is the change in the electron temperature caused by the RF field. From the data the response time of the Andreev interferometer is estimated to be <40ps. However there are a number of experimental features which remain unexplained; these include the drastic difference in the behaviour of the resistance at different phases as a function of RF frequency and amplitude, and the existence of a "window of transparency" where heating effects are weak enough to allow for the pi-shift. A microscopic theory describing the influence of RF radiation on Andreev interferometers is required.

id: 1003.2207
title: Background independent quantization and the uncertainty principle
authors: Golam Mortuza Hossain, Viqar Husain, Sanjeev S. Seahra
comments: 6 pages
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.27:165013,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2207
abstract: It is shown that polymer quantization leads to a modified uncertainty principle similar to that obtained from string theory and non-commutative geometry. When applied to quantum field theory on general background spacetimes, corrections to the uncertainty principle acquire a metric dependence. For Friedmann-Robertson-Walker cosmology this translates to a scale factor dependence which gives a large effect in the early universe.

id: 1003.2288
title: Mathematical aspects of intertwining operators: the role of Riesz bases
authors: Fabio Bagarello
comments: Journal of Physics A, in press
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2288
abstract: In this paper we continue our analysis of intertwining relations for both self-adjoint and not self-adjoint operators. In particular, in this last situation, we discuss the connection with pseudo-hermitian quantum mechanics and the role of Riesz bases.

id: 1003.2347
title: Nonequivalence of ensembles for long-range quantum spin systems in optical lattices
authors: Michael Kastner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 240403 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2347
abstract: Motivated by the anisotropic long-range nature of the interactions between cold dipolar atoms or molecules in an optical lattice, we study the anisotropic quantum Heisenberg model with Curie-Weiss-type long-range interactions. Absence of a heat bath in optical lattice experiments suggests a study of this model within the microcanonical ensemble. The microcanonical entropy is calculated analytically, and nonequivalence of microcanonical and canonical ensembles is found for a range of anisotropy parameters. From the shape of the entropy it follows that the Curie-Weiss Heisenberg model is indistinguishable from the Curie-Weiss Ising model in canonical thermodynamics, although their microcanonical thermodynamics differs. Qualitatively, the observed features of nonequivalent ensembles are expected to be relevant for long-range quantum spin systems realized in optical lattice experiments.

id: 1003.2356
title: Ultradistributions and The Fractionary Schr?dinger Equation
authors: A. L. De Paoli, M. C. Rocca
comments: 25 pages, no figures
journal: Physics Research and Technology Series. Focus on Quantum Mechanics. Novascience Publishers:1-13, 2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2356
abstract: In this work, we generalize the results of Naber about the Fractionary Schr\"{o}dinger Equation with the use of the theory of Tempered Ultradistributions. Several examples of the use of this theory are given. In particular we evaluate the Green's function for a free particle in the general case.

id: 1003.2376
title: Beyond the Jaynes-Cummings model: circuit QED in the ultrastrong coupling regime
authors: T. Niemczyk, F. Deppe, H. Huebl, E. P. Menzel, F. Hocke, M. J. Schwarz, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, D. Zueco, T. H¨¹mmer, E. Solano, A. Marx, R. Gross
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Physics 6, 772 - 776 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2376
abstract: In cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED), light-matter interaction is probed at its most fundamental level, where individual atoms are coupled to single photons stored in three-dimensional cavities. This unique possibility to experimentally explore the foundations of quantum physics has greatly evolved with the advent of circuit QED, where on-chip superconducting qubits and oscillators play the roles of two-level atoms and cavities, respectively. In the strong coupling limit, atom and cavity can exchange a photon frequently before coherence is lost. This important regime has been reached both in cavity and circuit QED, but the design flexibility and engineering potential of the latter allowed for increasing the ratio between the atom-cavity coupling rate and the cavity transition frequency above the percent level. While these experiments are well described by the renowned Jaynes-Cummings model, novel physics is expected in the ultrastrong coupling limit. Here, we report on the first experimental realization of a superconducting circuit QED system in the ultrastrong coupling limit and present direct evidence for the breakdown of the Jaynes-Cummings model.

id: 1003.2410
title: Optically generated 2-dimensional photonic cluster state from coupled quantum dots
authors: Sophia E. Economou, Netanel Lindner, Terry Rudolph
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 093601 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2410
abstract: We propose a method to generate a two-dimensional cluster state of polarization encoded photonic qubits from two coupled quantum dot emitters. We combine the recent proposal [N. H. Lindner and T. Rudolph, Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 113602 (2009)] for generating 1-dimensional cluster state strings from a single dot, with a new proposal for an optically induced conditional phase (CZ) gate between the two quantum dots. The entanglement between the two quantum dots translates to entanglement between the two photonic cluster state strings. Further inter-pair coupling of the quantum dots using cavities and waveguides can lead to a 2-dimensional cluster sheet. Detailed analysis of errors indicates that our proposal is feasible with current tech- nology. Crucially, the emitted photons need not have identical frequencies, and so there are no constraints on the resonance energies for the quantum dots, a standard problem for such sources.

id: 1003.2419
title: Born's Rule Is Insufficient in a Large Universe
authors: Don N. Page
comments: LaTeX, 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2419
abstract: Probabilities in quantum theory are traditionally given by Born's rule as the expectation values of projection operators. Here it is shown that Born's rule is insufficient in universes so large that they contain identical multiple copies of observers, because one does not have definite projection operators to apply. Possible replacements for Born's rule include using the expectation value of various operators that are not projection operators, or using various options for the average density matrix of a region with an observation. The question of what replacement to use is part of the measure problem in cosmology.

id: 1003.2428
title: Bistability in Feshbach Resonance
authors: Hong Y. Ling
comments: 6 pages + 3 figures; To appear in Jounal of Modern Optics, Special Issue - Festschrift in Honor of Lorenzo Narducci
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2428
abstract: A coupled atom-molecule condensate with an intraspecies Feshbach resonance is employed to explore matter wave bistability both in the presence and in the absence of a unidirectional optical ring cavity. In particular, a set of conditions are derived that allow the threshold for bistability, due both to two-body s-wave scatterings and to cavity-mediated two-body interactions, to be determined analytically. The latter bistability is found to support, not only transitions between a mixed (atom-molecule) state and a pure molecular state as in the former bistability, but also transitions between two distinct mixed states.

id: 1003.2434
title: Highly entangled quantum systems in 3+1 dimensions
authors: Brian Swingle
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2434
abstract: Many systems exhibit boundary law scaling for entanglement entropy in more than one spatial dimension. Here I describe three systems in 3+1 dimensions that violate the boundary law for entanglement entropy. The first is free Weyl fermions in a magnetic field, the second is a holographic strong coupling generalization of the Weyl fermion system, and the third is a strong topological insulator in the presence of dislocations. These systems are unified by the presence of a low energy description that includes many gapless 1+1 dimensional modes. I conclude with some comments on the search for highly entangled states of quantum matter and some potential experimental signatures.

id: 1003.2503
title: Quantum Multiple Scattering
authors: Robin Kaiser
comments: PQE 2009 Special Issue,
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 56 2082 (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2503
abstract: The quest for Anderson localization of light is at the center of many experimental and the- oretical activities. Atomic vapors play a particular role in this research field, as they show a number of specific properties which makes them quite different from other materials used to look for Anderson localization. The very narrow resonance of the atomic line, the mechanical effects of the light on the atoms and the potential for quantum features with of these scatter- ers calls for more detailed analysis of the behavior of light in large and dense samples of cold atoms.

id: 1003.2509
title: Cooperative Scattering by Cold Atoms
authors: S. Bux, E. Lucioni, H. Bender, T. Bienaime, K. Lauber, C. Stehle, C.Zimmermann, S. Slama, Ph.W. Courteille, N. Piovella, R. Kaiser
comments: submitted for special issue of PQE 2010
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Volume 57, Issue 19 November 2010, pages 1841 - 1848
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2509
abstract: We have studied the interplay between disorder and cooperative scattering for single scattering limit in the presence of a driving laser. Analytical results have been derived and we have observed cooperative scattering effects in a variety of experiments, ranging from thermal atoms in an optical dipole trap, atoms released from a dark MOT and atoms in a BEC, consistent with our theoretical predictions.

id: 1003.2510
title: Quantization of Black Holes
authors: Xiao-Gang He, Bo-Qiang Ma
comments: Latex 7 pages, no figure.
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 26 (2011) 2299-2304
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2510
abstract: We show that black holes can be quantized in an intuitive and elegant way with results in agreement with conventional knowledge of black holes by using Bohr's idea of quantizing the motion of an electron inside the atom in quantum mechanics. We find that properties of black holes can be also derived from an Ansatz of quantized entropy $\Delta S=4\pi k {\Delta R / \lambdabar}$, which was suggested in a previous work to unify the black hole entropy formula and Verlinde's conjecture to explain gravity as an entropic force. Such an Ansatz also explains gravity as an entropic force from quantum effect. This suggests a way to unify gravity with quantum theory. Several interesting and surprising results of black holes are given from which we predict the existence of primordial black holes ranging from Planck scale both in size and energy to big ones in size but with low energy behaviors.

id: 1003.2583
title: Direct absorption imaging of ultracold polar molecules
authors: D. Wang, B. Neyenhuis, M. H. G. de Miranda, K.-K. Ni, S. Ospelkaus, D. S. Jin, J. Ye
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 061404(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2583
abstract: We demonstrate a scheme for direct absorption imaging of an ultracold ground-state polar molecular gas near quantum degeneracy. A challenge in imaging molecules is the lack of closed optical cycling transitions. Our technique relies on photon shot-noise limited absorption imaging on a strong bound-bound molecular transition. We present a systematic characterization of this imaging technique. Using this technique combined with time-of-flight (TOF) expansion, we demonstrate the capability to determine momentum and spatial distributions for the molecular gas. We anticipate that this imaging technique will be a powerful tool for studying molecular quantum gases.

id: 1003.2596
title: Approximate diagonalization method for many-fermion Hamiltonians
authors: Jonathan E. Moussa
comments: Supplementary to APS March Meeting 2010 talk.
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2596
abstract: The limits of direct unitary transformation of many-fermion Hamiltonians are explored. Practical application of such transformations requires that effective many-body interactions be discarded over the course of a calculation. The truncation of the Hamiltonian leads to finite errors and in some cases divergences. A new formalism is proposed to manage errors and avoid divergences. Removing all interactions from a many-fermion Hamiltonian reduces it to fermion number operators allowing for direct calculation of eigenvalues. If the same transformations are applied to the bare fermions, eigenfermions are produced whose Slater determinants form eigenstates. This enables a hierarchy of diagonalization methods of increasing accuracy as fewer interactions are discarded from the Hamiltonian.

id: 1003.2615
title: Single-Dirac-Cone topological surface states on pseudo-IV-VI-semimetal/semiconductors: Thallium-based III-V-VI2 Ternary Chalcogenides
authors: H. Lin, R.S. Markiewicz, L.A. Wray, L. Fu, M.Z. Hasan, A. Bansil
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2615
abstract: We have investigated several classes of strong spin-orbit chalcogenides related to the (Pb,Sn)Te series studied in connection with the Dirac fermion physics in the 1980s. Our first-principle theoretical calculations suggest that ternary chalcogenides TlBiX$_2$ and TlSbX$_2$ (X=Te, Se, S) series harbor small bandgap topological insulators with single Dirac cone on some selective surfaces whereas the isostructural and isoelectronic silver-based AgBiX$_2$ and AgSbX$_2$ (X=Te, Se, S) series do not. We find that several Tl-compounds are in the vicinity of a topological critical point. We identify the precise surface termination that realizes the single Dirac cone. The single-Dirac-cone surface is shown to be correlated with a termination that minimizes dangling bonding effects favorable for ARPES experiments. Our results further suggest that this class of topological semi-metals may harbor odd-parity topological superconductors similar to the possibility proposed for CuxBi2Se3 (T_c ~ 4K).

id: 1003.2628
title: A new model for magnetoreception
authors: A. Marshall Stoneham, Erik M Gauger, Kyriakos Porfyrakis, Simon C. Benjamin, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, version of final published paper
journal: Biophysical Journal 102 961 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2628
abstract: Certain migratory birds can sense the earth's magnetic field. The nature of this process is not yet properly understood. Here we offer a simple explanation according to which birds literally `see' the local magnetic field: Our model relates the well-established radical pair hypothesis to the phenomenon of Haidinger's brush, a capacity to see the polarisation of light. This new picture explains recent surprising experimental data indicating long lifetimes for the radical pair. Moreover there is a clear evolutionary path toward this field sensing mechanism: it is an enhancement of a weak effect that may be present in many species.

id: 1003.2651
title: Intrinsic Perturbation of the Landau Levels in Metals and Semiconductors at Low Temperatures
authors: A. M. Awobode
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2651
abstract: It is shown that the frequency of the de Haas van Alphen effect in nonsuperconducting metals at very low temperatures is significantly corrected by a perturbative term which appears in the Landau equation sequel to an extension of the Pauli equation. The correction to the frequency of the de Haas van Alphen oscillations is found to depend on the Fermi energy and the measurable anomalous part of the electron gyro-magnetic factor. Furthermore, it is shown that as a consequence of the perturbing term the electronic specific heat Cv of a dilute, degenerate Fermi gas, under high magnetic field induction greater that 25 Tesla and at ultra-low temperatures of the order of one milli Kelvin shows an anomalous behavior, and at a finite temperature becomes vanishingly small, i.e Cv is approximately zero, as the temperature approaches absolute zero. Precision measurement at low temperatures and high magnetic fields of the magneto optical absorption in simple band semiconductors is suggested as an immediate way of detecting the modification of the Landau levels due to the weak perturbation term which corrects in a magnetic field, the kinetic energy of the electrons.

id: 1003.2672
title: Dispersion interactions and reactive collisions of ultracold polar molecules
authors: Svetlana Kotochigova
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics, vol 12, 073041 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2672
abstract: Progress in ultracold experiments with polar molecules requires a clear understanding of their interactions and reactivity at ultra-low collisional energies. Two important theoretical steps in this process are the characterization of interaction potentials between molecules and the modeling of reactive scattering mechanism. Here, we report on the {\it abinitio} calculation of isotropic and anisotropic van der Waals interaction potentials for polar KRb and RbCs colliding with each other or with ultracold atoms. Based on these potentials and two short-range scattering parameters we then develop a single-channel scattering model with flexible boundary conditions. Our calculations show that at low temperatures (and in absence of an external electric field) the reaction rates between molecules or molecules with atoms have a resonant character as a function of the short-range parameters. We also find that both the isotropic and anisotropic van der Waals coefficients have significant contributions from dipole coupling to excited electronic states. Their values can differ dramatically from those solely obtained from the permanent dipole moment. A comparison with recently obtained reaction rates of fermionic $^{40}$K$^{87}$Rb shows that the experimental data can not be explained by a model where the short-range scattering parameters are independent of the relative orbital angular momentum or partial wave.

id: 1003.2734
title: Quantum Non-demolition Detection of Single Microwave Photons in a Circuit
authors: B. R. Johnson, M. D. Reed, A. A. Houck, D. I. Schuster, Lev S. Bishop, E. Ginossar, J. M. Gambetta, L. DiCarlo, L. Frunzio, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, includes supplementary material
journal: Nature Physics 6, 663 - 667 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2734
abstract: Thorough control of quantum measurement is key to the development of quantum information technologies. Many measurements are destructive, removing more information from the system than they obtain. Quantum non-demolition (QND) measurements allow repeated measurements that give the same eigenvalue. They could be used for several quantum information processing tasks such as error correction, preparation by measurement, and one-way quantum computing. Achieving QND measurements of photons is especially challenging because the detector must be completely transparent to the photons while still acquiring information about them. Recent progress in manipulating microwave photons in superconducting circuits has increased demand for a QND detector which operates in the gigahertz frequency range. Here we demonstrate a QND detection scheme which measures the number of photons inside a high quality-factor microwave cavity on a chip. This scheme maps a photon number onto a qubit state in a single-shot via qubit-photon logic gates. We verify the operation of the device by analyzing the average correlations of repeated measurements, and show that it is 90% QND. It differs from previously reported detectors because its sensitivity is strongly selective to chosen photon number states. This scheme could be used to monitor the state of a photon-based memory in a quantum computer.

id: 1003.2736
title: Quantum Anomalous Hall Effect with Cold Atoms Trapped in a Square Lattice
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Xin Liu, Congjun Wu, Jairo Sinova
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 033622 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2736
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to realize and detect the quantum anomalous Hall effect in an anisotropic square optical lattice which can be generated from available experimental set-ups of double-well lattices with minor modifications. A periodic gauge potential induced by atom-light interaction is introduced to give a Peierls phase for the nearest-neighbor site hopping. The quantized anomalous Hall conductivity is investigated by calculating the Chern number as well as the chiral gapless edge states of our system. Furthermore, we show in detail the feasability for its experimental detection through light Bragg scattering of the edge and bulk states with which one can determine the topological phase transition from usual insulating phase to quantum anomalous Hall phase.

id: 1003.2743
title: Fermionic Implementation of Projected Entangled Pair States Algorithm
authors: Iztok Pizorn, Frank Verstraete
comments: As published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81 245110 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2743
abstract: We present and implement an efficient variational method to simulate two-dimensional finite size fermionic quantum systems by fermionic projected entangled pair states. The approach differs from the original one due to the fact that there is no need for an extra string-bond for contracting the tensor network. The method is tested on a bi-linear fermionic model on a square lattice for sizes up to ten by ten where good relative accuracy is achieved. Qualitatively good results are also obtained for an interacting fermionic system.

id: 1003.2785
title: Andreev Interferometers in a Strong Radio Frequency Field
authors: C. Checkley, A. Iagallo, R. Shaikhaidarov, J. T. Nicholls, V. T. Petrashov
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, 15 references
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2785
abstract: We experimentally study the influence of 1-40 GHz radiation on the resistance of normal (N) mesoscopic conductors coupled to superconducting (S) loops (Andreev interferometers). At low RF amplitudes we observe the usual h/2e superconducting-phase-periodic resistance oscillations as a function of applied magnetic flux. We find that the oscillations acquire a pi-shift with increasing RF amplitude, and consistent with this result the resistance at fixed phase is an oscillating function of the RF amplitude. The results are explained qualitatively as a consequence of two processes. The first is the modulation of the phase difference between the N/S interfaces by the RF field, with the resistance adiabatically following the phase. The second process is the change in the electron temperature caused by the RF field. From the data the response time of the Andreev interferometer is estimated to be <40ps. However there are a number of experimental features which remain unexplained; these include the drastic difference in the behaviour of the resistance at different phases as a function of RF frequency and amplitude, and the existence of a "window of transparency" where heating effects are weak enough to allow for the pi-shift. A microscopic theory describing the influence of RF radiation on Andreev interferometers is required.

id: 1003.2995
title: Statistical Approach to Quantum Chaotic Ratchets
authors: Itzhack Dana
comments: REVTEX4, 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review E 81, 036210 (2010)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2995
abstract: The quantum ratchet effect in fully chaotic systems is approached by studying, for the first time, \emph{statistical} properties of the ratchet current over well-defined sets of initial states. Natural initial states in a semiclassical regime are those that are \emph{phase-space uniform} with the \emph{maximal possible} resolution of one Planck cell. General arguments in this regime, for quantum-resonance values of a scaled Planck constant $\hbar$, predict that the distribution of the current over all such states is a zero-mean Gaussian with variance $\sim D\hbar^{2}/(2\pi^{2})$, where $D$ is the chaotic-diffusion coefficient. This prediction is well supported by extensive numerical evidence. The average strength of the effect, measured by the variance above, is \emph{significantly larger} than that for the usual momentum states and other states. Such strong effects should be experimentally observable.

id: 1003.3025
title: Strings from position-dependent noncommutativity
authors: Andreas Fring, Laure Gouba, Frederik G. Scholtz
comments: 11 pages, LateX
journal: J.Phys.A43:345401,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3025
abstract: We introduce a new set of noncommutative space-time commutation relations in two space dimensions. The space-space commutation relations are deformations of the standard flat noncommutative space-time relations taken here to have position dependent structure constants. Some of the new variables are non-Hermitian in the most natural choice. We construct their Hermitian counterparts by means of a Dyson map, which also serves to introduce a new metric operator. We propose PTlike symmetries, i.e.antilinear involutory maps, respected by these deformations. We compute minimal lengths and momenta arising in this space from generalized versions of Heisenberg's uncertainty relations and find that any object in this two dimensional space is string like, i.e.having a fundamental length in one direction beyond which a resolution is impossible. Subsequently we formulate and partly solve some simple models in these new variables, the free particle, its PT-symmetric deformations and the harmonic oscillator.

id: 1003.3048
title: Tunable disorder in a crystal of cold polar molecules
authors: Felipe Herrera, Marina Litinskaya, Roman V. Krems
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033428 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3048
abstract: In the present work, we demonstrate the possibility of controlling by an external field the dynamics of collective excitations (excitons) of molecules on an optical lattice. We show that a suitably chosen two-species mixture of ultracold polar molecules loaded on an optical lattice forms a phononless crystal, where exciton-impurity interactions can be controlled by applying an external electric field. This can be used for the controlled creation of many-body entangled states of ultracold molecules and the time-domain quantum simulation of disorder-induced localization and delocalization of quantum particles.

id: 1003.3054
title: High coherence hybrid superconducting qubit
authors: Matthias Steffen, Shwetank Kumar, David P. DiVincenzo, J.R. Rozen, George A. Keefe, Mary Beth Rothwell, Mark B. Ketchen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3054
abstract: We measure the coherence of a new superconducting qubit, the {\em low-impedance flux qubit}, finding $T_2^* \sim T_1 \sim 1.5\mu$s. It is a three-junction flux qubit, but the ratio of junction critical currents is chosen to make the qubit's potential have a single well form. The low impedance of its large shunting capacitance protects it from decoherence. This qubit has a moderate anharmonicity, whose sign is reversed compared with all other popular qubit designs. The qubit is capacitively coupled to a high-Q resonator in a $\lambda/2$ configuration, which permits the qubit's state to be read out dispersively.

id: 1003.3072
title: Intrinsic bidirectional dynamic nuclear polarization by optically pumped trions in quantum dots
authors: Wen Yang, L. J. Sham
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. This paper has been updated by the author to: arXiv:1012.0060v1 [cond-mat.mes-hall], titled "Collective Nuclear Stabilization by Optically Excited Hole in Quantum Dot"
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3072
abstract: This paper has been updated by the author to: arXiv:1012.0060v1 [cond-mat.mes-hall], titled "Collective Nuclear Stabilization by Optically Excited Hole in Quantum Dot"

id: 1003.3083
title: Josephson pi-state in a ferromagnetic insulator
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Yasuhiro Asano, Yukio Tanaka, Alexander A. Golubov, Satoshi Kashiwaya
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, Phys. Rev. Lett. (2010) in press
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 (2010) 117002
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3083
abstract: We predict anomalous atomic-scale 0-pi transitions in a Josephson junction with a ferromagnetic-insulator (FI) barrier. The ground state of such junction alternates between 0- and pi-states when thickness of FI is increasing by a single atomic layer. We find that the mechanism of the 0-pi transition can be attributed to thickness-dependent phase-shifts between the wave numbers of electrons and holes in FI. Based on these results, we show that stable pi-state can be realized in junctions based on high-Tc superconductors with La$_2$BaCuO$_5$ barrier.

id: 1003.3194
title: Planck Spectroscopy and the Quantum Noise of Microwave Beam Splitters
authors: M. Mariantoni, E. P. Menzel, F. Deppe, M. A. Araque Caballero, A. Baust, T. Niemczyk, E. Hoffmann, E. Solano, A. Marx, R. Gross
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett.105, 133601 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3194
abstract: We use a correlation function analysis of the field quadratures to characterize both the black body radiation emitted by a 50 Ohm load resistor and the quantum properties of two types of beam splitters in the microwave regime. To this end, we first study vacuum fluctuations as a function of frequency in a Planck spectroscopy experiment and then measure the covariance matrix of weak thermal states. Our results provide direct experimental evidence that vacuum fluctuations represent the fundamental minimum quantum noise added by a beam splitter to any given input signal.

id: 1003.3208
title: Reply to "Comment on 'Universality of Quantum Gravity Corrections' "
authors: Saurya Das, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: 1 page, LaTeX, to appear in Phys.Rev.Lett.
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:119002,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3208
abstract: We address the three points raised by the authors of the above Comment.

id: 1003.3290
title: Complex dynamics of photon entanglement in two-mode Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Mikhail Erementchouk, Michael N. Leuenberger
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Nanotechnology 21, 274019 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3290
abstract: We study the dynamics of the photon entanglement, $E_{\mathrm{N}}(t)$, for the two-mode Jaynes-Cummings model in the few-photon case. The atomic transitions associated with the photons with different polarizations are assumed to be independent and, hence, the evolution of the "+"- and "-"-polarized photons is formally separable. However, due to the photons indistinguishability such interaction still leads to entanglement of initially disentangled states owing to the non-linear dependence of the characteristic frequencies on the photon population numbers. The time dependence of entanglement is the result of superimposing oscillations with incommensurate frequencies. Therefore, $E_{\mathrm{N}}(t)$ is a quasi-periodic function of time with the complex profile strongly depending on the number of photons.

id: 1003.3389
title: Non-dispersive optics using storage of light
authors: Leon Karpa, Martin Weitz
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3389
abstract: We demonstrate the non-dispersive deflection of an optical beam in a Stern-Gerlach magnetic field. An optical pulse is initially stored as a spin-wave coherence in thermal rubidium vapour. An inhomogeneous magnetic field imprints a phase gradient onto the spin wave, which upon reacceleration of the optical pulse leads to an angular deflection of the retrieved beam. We show that the obtained beam deflection is non-dispersive, i.e. its magnitude is independent of the incident optical frequency. Compared to a Stern-Gerlach experiment carried out with propagating light under the conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency, the estimated suppression of the chromatic aberration reaches 10 orders of magnitude.

id: 1003.3420
title: Geothermal Casimir phenomena for the sphere-plate and cylinder-plate configurations
authors: Alexej Weber, Holger Gies
comments: 22 pages, 20 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:125019,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3420
abstract: We investigate the nontrivial interplay between geometry and temperature in the Casimir effect for the sphere-plate and cylinder-plate configurations. At low temperature, the thermal contribution to the Casimir force is dominated by this interplay, implying that standard approximation techniques such as the PFA are inapplicable even in the limit of small surface separation. Thermal fluctuations on scales of the thermal wavelength lead to a delocalization of the thermal force density at low temperatures. As a consequence, the temperature dependence strongly differs from naive expectations. Most prominently, thermal forces can develop non-monotonic behavior below a critical temperature. We perform a comprehensive study of such geothermal phenomena in these Casimir geometries, using analytical and numerical worldline techniques for Dirichlet scalar fluctuations.

id: 1003.3487
title: Casimir repulsion between metallic objects in vacuum
authors: Michael Levin, Alexander P. McCauley, Alejandro W. Rodriguez, M. T. Homer Reid, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; added references, replaced Fig. 3
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 090403 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3487
abstract: We give an example of a geometry in which two metallic objects in vacuum experience a repulsive Casimir force. The geometry consists of an elongated metal particle centered above a metal plate with a hole. We prove that this geometry has a repulsive regime using a symmetry argument and confirm it with numerical calculations for both perfect and realistic metals. The system does not support stable levitation, as the particle is unstable to displacements away from the symmetry axis.

id: 1003.3514
title: Bethe ansatz solution of an integrable, non-Abelian anyon chain with D(D_3) symmetry
authors: C.W. Campbell, K.A. Dancer, P.S. Isaac, J. Links
comments: 19 pages
journal: Nucl.Phys.B836:171-185,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3514
abstract: The exact solution for the energy spectrum of a one-dimensional Hamiltonian with local two-site interactions and periodic boundary conditions is determined. The two-site Hamiltonians commute with the symmetry algebra given by the Drinfeld double D(D_3) of the dihedral group D_3. As such the model describes local interactions between non-Abelian anyons, with fusion rules given by the tensor product decompositions of the irreducible representations of D(D_3). The Bethe ansatz equations which characterise the exact solution are found through the use of functional relations satisfied by a set of mutually commuting transfer matrices.

id: 1003.3562
title: The Hubbard model as an approximation to the entanglement in nanostructures
authors: J. P. Coe, V. V. Fran?a, I. D'Amico
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, submitted to PRA.
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052321 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3562
abstract: We investigate how well the one-dimensional Hubbard model describes the entanglement of particles trapped in a string of quantum wells. We calculate the average single-site entanglement for two particles interacting via a contact interaction and consider the effect of varying the interaction strength and the interwell distance. We compare the results with the ones obtained within the one-dimensional Hubbard model with on-site interaction. We suggest an upper bound for the average single-site entanglement for two electrons in M wells and discuss analytical limits for very large repulsive and attractive interactions. We investigate how the interplay between interaction and potential shape in the quantum well system dictates the position and size of the entanglement maxima and the agreement with the theoretical limits. Finally we calculate the spatial entanglement for the quantum well system and compare it to its average single-site entanglement.

id: 1003.3603
title: Spaser in Coupled Metamaterials: The gain effect in a magnetic plasmon waveguide
authors: S. M. Wang, Z. H. Zhu, J. X. Cao, T. Li, H. Liu, S.N. Zhu, X. Zhang
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 96, 113103 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3603
abstract: Loss is a crucial problem in plasmonic integrated optical circuits and metamaterials. The Er, Yb codoped gain material is introduced into a magnetic plasmon waveguide composed of a chain of nanosandwiches in order to solve the loss problem in such subwavelength waveguide. The magnetic plasmon mode and a higher order mode are chosen as the signal and pump light to enhance the radiation and pump efficiencies. The signal light propagating in the waveguide is investigated with different Er3+ doping concentration and signal decay time. It is shown that the gain effect can not only compensate the loss but also is able to amplify the signal, when exceeding certain threshold values of doping concentration and signal decay time.

id: 1003.3618
title: Noncommutativity as a colimit
authors: Benno van den Berg, Chris Heunen
comments: 22 pages; updated theorem 15, added propoisition 36
journal: Applied Categorical Structures 20(4):393--414, 2012
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3618
abstract: Every partial algebra is the colimit of its total subalgebras. We prove this result for partial Boolean algebras (including orthomodular lattices) and the new notion of partial C*-algebras (including noncommutative C*-algebras), and variations such as partial complete Boolean algebras and partial AW*-algebras. The first two results are related by taking projections. As corollaries we find extensions of Stone duality and Gelfand duality. Finally, we investigate the extent to which the Bohrification construction, that works on partial C*-algebras, is functorial.

id: 1003.3837
title: Asymptotic principal values and regularization methods for correlation functions with reflective boundary conditions
authors: Masafumi Seriu
comments: To appear in Correlation Optics, special issue of "Advances in Optical Technologies"
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3837
abstract: We introduce a concept of asymptotic principal values which enables us to handle rigorously singular integrals of higher-order poles encountered in the computation of various quantities based on correlation functions of a vacuum. Several theorems on asymptotic principal values are proved and they are expected to become bases for investigating and developing some class of regularization methods for singular integrals. We make use of these theorems for analyzing mutual relations between some regularization methods, including a method naturally derived from asymptotic principal values. It turns out that the concept of asymptotic principal values and the theorems for them are quite useful in this type of analysis, providing a suitable language to describe what is discarded and what is retained in each regularization method.

id: 1003.3857
title: Quantum coherent biomolecular energy transfer with spatially correlated fluctuations
authors: P. Nalbach, J. Eckel, M. Thorwart
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3857
abstract: We show that the quantum coherent transfer of excitations between biomolecular chromophores is strongly influenced by spatial correlations of the environmental fluctuations. The latter are due either to propagating environmental modes or to local fluctuations with a finite localization length. A simple toy model of a single donor-acceptor pair with spatially separated chromophore sites allows to investigate the influence of these spatial correlations on the quantum coherent excitation transfer. The sound velocity of the solvent determines the wave lengths of the environmental modes, which, in turn, has to be compared to the spatial distance of the chromophore sites. When the wave length exceeds the distance between donor and acceptor site, we find strong suppression of decoherence. In addition, we consider two spatially separated donor-acceptor pairs under the influence of propagating environmental modes. Depending on their wave lengths fixed by the sound velocity of the solvent material, the spatial range of correlations may extend over typical interpair distances, which can lead to an increase of the decohering influence of the solvent. Surprisingly, this effect is counteracted by increasing temperature.

id: 1003.3868
title: Physics with the KLOE-2 experiment at the upgraded DA$¦Õ$NE
authors: G. Amelino-Camelia, F. Archilli, D. Babusci, D. Badoni, G. Bencivenni, J. Bernabeu, R. A. Bertlmann, D. R. Boito, C. Bini, C. Bloise, V. Bocci, F. Bossi, P. Branchini, A. Budano, S. A. Bulychjev, P. Campana, G. Capon, F. Ceradini, P. Ciambrone, E. Czerwinski, H. Czyz, G. D'Ambrosio, E. Dan¨¦, E. De Lucia, G. De Robertis, A. De Santis, P. De Simone, G. De Zorzi, A. Di Domenico, C. Di Donato, B. Di Micco, D. Domenici, S. I. Eidelman, O. Erriquez, R. Escribano, R. Essig, G. V. Fedotovich, G. Felici, S. Fiore, P. Franzini, P. Gauzzi, F. Giacosa, S. Giovannella, F. Gonnella, E. Graziani, F. Happacher, B.C. Hiesmayr, B. H?istad, E. Iarocci, S. Ivashyn, M. Jacewicz, F. Jegerlehner, T. Johansson, J. Lee-Franzini, W. Kluge, V. V. Kulikov, A. Kupsc, R. Lehnert, F. Loddo, P. Lukin, M. A. Martemianov, M. Martini, M. A. Matsyuk, N. E. Mavromatos, F. Mescia, R. Messi, S. Miscetti, G. Morello, D. Moricciani, P. Moskal, S. M¨¹ller, F. Nguyen, E. Passemar, M. Passera, A. Passeri, V. Patera, M. R. Pennington, J. Prades, L. Quintieri, A. Ranieri, M. Reece, P. Santangelo, S. Sarkar, I. Sarra, M. Schioppa, P. C. Schuster, B. Sciascia, A. Sciubba, M. Silarski, C. Taccini, N. Toro, L. Tortora, G. Venanzoni, R. Versaci, L.-T. Wang, W. Wislicki, M. Wolke, J. Zdebik, et al. (37 additional authors not shown)
comments: 60 pages, 41 figures; added affiliation for one of the authors; added reference to section 6
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C68:619-681,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3868
abstract: Investigation at a $\phi$--factory can shed light on several debated issues in particle physics. We discuss: i) recent theoretical development and experimental progress in kaon physics relevant for the Standard Model tests in the flavor sector, ii) the sensitivity we can reach in probing CPT and Quantum Mechanics from time evolution of entangled kaon states, iii) the interest for improving on the present measurements of non-leptonic and radiative decays of kaons and eta/eta$^\prime$ mesons, iv) the contribution to understand the nature of light scalar mesons, and v) the opportunity to search for narrow di-lepton resonances suggested by recent models proposing a hidden dark-matter sector. We also report on the $e^+ e^-$ physics in the continuum with the measurements of (multi)hadronic cross sections and the study of gamma gamma processes.

id: 1003.3881
title: Almost zero-dimensional PT-symmetric quantum field theories
authors: Carl M. Bender
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3881
abstract: In 1992 Bender, Boettcher, and Lipatov proposed in two papers a new and unusual nonperturbative calculational tool in quantum field theory. The objective was to expand the Green's functions of the quantum field theory as Taylor series in powers of the space-time dimension D. In particular, the vacuum energy for a massless \phi^{2N} (N=1,2,3,...) quantum field theory was studied. The first two Taylor coefficients in this dimensional expansion were calculated {\it exactly} and a set of graphical rules were devised that could be used to calculate approximately the higher coefficients in the series. This approach is mathematically valid and gives accurate results, but it has not been actively pursued and investigated. Subsequently, in 1998 Bender and Boettcher discovered that PT-symmetric quantum-mechanical Hamiltonians of the form H=p^2+x^2(ix)^\epsilon, where \epsilon\geq0, have real spectra. These new kinds of complex non-Dirac-Hermitian Hamiltonians define physically acceptable quantum-mechanical theories. This result in quantum mechanics suggests that the corresponding non-Dirac-Hermitian D-dimensional \phi^2(i\phi)^\epsilon quantum field theories might also have real spectra. To examine this hypothesis, we return to the technique devised in 1992 and in this paper we calculate the first two coefficients in the dimensional expansion of the ground-state energy of this complex non-Dirac-Hermitian quantum field theory. We show that to first order in this dimensional approximation the ground-state energy is indeed real for \epsilon\geq0.

id: 1003.3905
title: Discrete changes of current statistics in periodically driven stochastic systems
authors: V. Y. Chernyak, N. A. Sinitsyn
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2010) L07001
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3905
abstract: We demonstrate that the counting statistics of currents in periodically driven ergodic stochastic systems can show sharp changes of some of its properties in response to continuous changes of the driving protocol. To describe this effect, we introduce a new topological phase factor in evolution of the moment generating function which is akin to the topological geometric phase in evolution of a periodically driven quantum mechanical system with time-reversal symmetry. This phase leads to the prediction of a sign change for the difference of the probabilities to find even and odd number particles transferred in a stochastic system in response to cyclic evolution of control parameters. The driving protocols that lead to such a sign change should enclose specific degeneracy points in the space of control parameters. The relation between topology of the paths in the control parameter space and the sign changes can be described in terms of the first Stiefel-Whitney class.

id: 1003.3912
title: Observation of a Cooperative Radiation Force in the Presence of Disorder
authors: Tom Bienaime, Simone Bux, Eleonora Lucioni, Philippe Courteille, Nicola Piovella, Robin Kaiser
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 104, 18 (2010) 183602
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3912
abstract: Cooperative scattering of light by an extended object such as an atomic ensemble or a dielectric sphere is fundamentally different from scattering from many point-like scatterers such as single atoms. Homogeneous distributions tend to scatter cooperatively, whereas fluctuations of the density distribution increase the disorder and suppress cooperativity. In an atomic cloud, the amount of disorder can be tuned via the optical thickness, and its role can be studied via the radiation force exerted by the light on the atomic cloud. Monitoring cold $^{87}\text{Rb}$ atoms released from a magneto-optical trap, we present the first experimental signatures of radiation force reduction due to cooperative scattering. The results are in agreement with an analytical expression interpolating between the disorder and the cooperativity-dominated regimes.

id: 1003.4031
title: Enhancing the Coherence of a Spin Qubit by Operating it as a Feedback Loop That Controls its Nuclear Spin Bath
authors: Hendrik Bluhm, Sandra Foletti, Diana Mahalu, Vladimir Umansky, Amir Yacoby
comments: Journal version. Improved clarity of presentation and more concise terminology. 4 pages, 3 figures. Supplementary document included as ancillary file
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 216803 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4031
abstract: In many realizations of electron spin qubits the dominant source of decoherence is the fluctuating nuclear spin bath of the host material. The slowness of this bath lends itself to a promising mitigation strategy where the nuclear spin bath is prepared in a narrowed state with suppressed fluctuations. Here, this approach is realized for a two-electron spin qubit in a GaAs double quantum dot and a nearly ten-fold increase in the inhomogeneous dephasing time $T_2^*$ is demonstrated. Between subsequent measurements, the bath is prepared by using the qubit as a feedback loop that first measures its nuclear environment by coherent precession, and then polarizes it depending on the final state. This procedure results in a stable fixed point at a nonzero polarization gradient between the two dots, which enables fast universal qubit control.

id: 1003.4059
title: Bosons in a double-well potential: Understanding the interplay between disorder and interaction in a simple model
authors: Qi Zhou, S. Das Sarma
comments: Published version, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 041601(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4059
abstract: We propose an exactly solvable model to reveal the physics of the interplay between interaction and disorder in bosonic systems. Considering interacting bosons in a double-well potential, in which disorder is mimicked by taking the energy level mismatch between the two wells to be randomly distributed, we find "two negatives make a positive" effect. While disorder or interaction by itself suppresses the phase coherence between the two wells, both together enhance the phase coherence. This model also captures several striking features of the disordered Bose-Hubbard model found in recent numerical simulations. Results at finite temperatures may help explain why a recent experiment did not find any evidence for the enhancement of phase coherence in a disordered bosonic system.

id: 1003.4129
title: Asymptotic Expansion for the Wave Function in a one-dimensional Model of Inelastic Interaction
authors: Domenico Finco, Alessandro Teta
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4129
abstract: We consider a two-body quantum system in dimension one composed by a test particle interacting with an harmonic oscillator placed at the position $a>0$. At time zero the test particle is concentrated around the position $R_0$ with average velocity $\pm v_0$ while the oscillator is in its ground state. In a suitable scaling limit, corresponding for the test particle to a semi-classical regime with small energy exchange with the oscillator, we give a complete asymptotic expansion of the wave function of the system in both cases $R_0 <a$ and $R_0 >a$.

id: 1003.4133
title: H_2-reducible Hadamard matrices of order 6
authors: Bengt R. Karlsson
comments: 11 pages
journal: Lin. Alg. Appl. 434 (1), 239-246 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4133
abstract: Complex Hadamard matrices H of order 6 are characterized in a novel manner, according to the presence/absence of order 2 Hadamard submatrices. It is shown that if there exists one such submatrix, H is equivalent to a Hadamard matrix where all the nine submatrices are Hadamard. The ensuing subset of H_2-reducible complex Hadamard matrices is more general than might be thought, and, significantly, includes all the up till now described (one- and two-parameter) families of order 6. A known, isolated matrix, and most numerically generated matrices, fall outside the subset.

id: 1003.4177
title: Threeparameter complex Hadamard matrices of order 6
authors: Bengt R. Karlsson
comments: 16 pages
journal: Lin. Alg. Appl. 434 (1), 247-258 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4177
abstract: A three-parameter family of complex Hadamard matrices of order 6 is presented. It significantly extends the set of closed form complex Hadamard matrices of this order, and in particular contains all previously described one- and two-parameter families as subfamilies.

id: 1003.4269
title: Coherent Control of Quantum Dynamics with Sequences of Unitary Phase-Kick Pulses
authors: Luis G.C. Rego, L. F. Santos, V. S. Batista
comments: 52 pages, 7 figures
journal: Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 60, 293 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4269
abstract: Coherent optical control schemes exploit the coherence of laser pulses to change the phases of interfering dynamical pathways in order to manipulate dynamical processes. These active control methods are closely related to dynamical decoupling techniques, popularized in the field of Quantum Information. Inspired by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, dynamical decoupling methods apply sequences of unitary operations to modify the interference phenomena responsible for the system dynamics thus also belonging to the general class of coherent control techniques. Here we review related developments in the fields of coherent optical control and dynamical decoupling, with emphasis on control of tunneling and decoherence in general model systems. Considering recent experimental breakthroughs in the demonstration of active control of a variety of systems, we anticipate that the reviewed coherent control scenarios and dynamical decoupling methods should raise significant experimental interest.

id: 1003.4320
title: Nuclear spin pair coherence in diamond for atomic scale magnetometry
authors: Nan Zhao, Jian-Liang Hu, Sai-Wah Ho, Tsz-Kai Wen, R. B. Liu
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, Nature Nanotechnology (2011)
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 6, 242-246 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4320
abstract: The nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centre, as a promising candidate solid state system of quantum information processing, its electron spin coherence is influenced by the magnetic field fluctuations due to the local environment. In pure diamonds, the environment consists of hundreds of C-13 nuclear spins randomly spreading in several nanometers range forming a spin bath. Controlling and prolonging the electron spin coherence under the influence of spin bath are challenging tasks for the quantum information processing. On the other hand, for a given bath distribution, many of its characters are encoded in the electron spin coherence. So it is natural to ask the question: is it possible to 'decode' the electron spin coherence, and extract the information about the bath structures? Here we show that, among hundreds of C-13 bath spins, there exist strong coupling clusters, which give rise to the millisecond oscillations of the electron spin coherence. By analyzing these oscillation features, the key properties of the coherent nuclear spin clusters, such as positions, orientations, and coupling strengths, could be uniquely identified. This addressability of the few-nuclear-spin cluster extends the feasibility of using the nuclear spins in diamond as qubits in quantum computing. Furthermore, it provides a novel prototype of single-electron spin based, high-resolution and ultra-sensitive detector for the chemical and biological applications.

id: 1003.4321
title: Protection of center-spin coherence by a dynamically polarized nuclear spin core
authors: Wenxian Zhang, Jian-Liang Hu, Jun Zhuang, J. Q. You, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 5 pages, 3 color eps figures.
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 045314 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4321
abstract: Understanding fully the dynamics of coupled electron-nuclear spin systems, which are important for the development of long-lived qubits based on solid-state systems, remains a challenge. We show that in a singly charged semiconductor quantum dot with inhomogeneous hyperfine coupling, the nuclear spins relatively strongly coupled to the electron spin form a polarized core during the dynamical polarization process. The polarized core provides a protection effect against the electron spin relaxation, reducing the decay rate by a factor of $N_1$, the number of the nuclear spins in the polarized core, at a relatively small total polarization. This protection effect may occur in quantum dots and solid-state spin systems defect centers, such as NV centers in diamonds, and could be harnessed to fabricate in a relatively simple way long-lived qubits and quantum memories.

id: 1003.4323
title: Probability Distributions attached to generalised Bergman Spaces on the Poincar¨¦ Disk
authors: Nour Eddine Askour, Zouhair Mouayn
comments: Submitted paper
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4323
abstract: A family of probability distributions attached to a class of generalized weighted Bergman spaces on the Poincar\'e disk are introduced by constructing a kind of generalized coherent states. Their main statistical parameters are obtained explicitly. As application, photon number statistics related to coherent states under consideration are discussed.

id: 1003.4367
title: Classical diffusive dynamics for the quasiperiodic kicked rotor
authors: Gabriel Lemari¨¦, Dominique Delande, Jean Claude Garreau, Pascal Szriftgiser
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Jour. Mod. Opt.
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4367
abstract: We study the classical dynamics of a quasiperiodic kicked rotor, whose quantum counterpart is known to be an equivalent of the 3D Anderson model. Using this correspondence allowed for a recent experimental observation of the Anderson transition with atomic matter waves. In such a context, it is particularly important to assert the chaotic character of the classical dynamics of this system. We show here that it is a 3D anisotropic diffusion. Our simple analytical predictions for the associated diffusion tensor are found in good agreement with the results of numerical simulations.

id: 1003.4443
title: Atom number filter in an optical lattice
authors: Georgios M. Nikolopoulos, David Petrosyan
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B 43, 131001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4443
abstract: We present an efficient procedure to filter out from an optical lattice, having inhomogeneous site occupation number, only preselected number of bosonic atoms per site and place them into another internal atomic state, creating thereby a lattice with desired site occupation number.

id: 1003.4474
title: Even Partitions in Plethysms
authors: Peter B¨¹rgisser, Matthias Christandl, Christian Ikenmeyer
comments: 9 pages
journal: Journal of Algebra 328, 322-329 (2011)
subjects: Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4474
abstract: We prove that for all natural numbers k,n,d with k <= d and every partition lambda of size kn with at most k parts there exists an irreducible GL(d, C)-representation of highest weight 2*lambda in the plethysm Sym^k(Sym^(2n) (C^d)). This gives an affirmative answer to a conjecture by Weintraub (J. Algebra, 129 (1):103-114, 1990). Our investigation is motivated by questions of geometric complexity theory and uses ideas from quantum information theory.

id: 1003.4545
title: The equilibrium state of a trapped two-dimensional Bose gas
authors: Steffen P. Rath, Tarik Yefsah, Kenneth J. Guenter, Marc Cheneau, Remi Desbuquois, Markus Holzmann, Werner Krauth, Jean Dalibard
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013609 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4545
abstract: We study experimentally and numerically the equilibrium density profiles of a trapped two-dimensional $^{87}$Rb Bose gas, and investigate the equation of state of the homogeneous system using the local density approximation. We find a clear discrepancy between in-situ measurements and Quantum Monte Carlo simulations, which we attribute to a non-linear variation of the optical density of the atomic cloud with its spatial density. However, good agreement between experiment and theory is recovered for the density profiles measured after time-of-flight, taking advantage of their self-similarity in a two-dimensional expansion.

id: 1003.4566
title: Dipole spectrum structure of non-resonant non-pertubative driven two-level atoms
authors: A. Pic¨®n, L. Roso, J. Mompart, O. Varela, V. Ahufinger, R. Corbal¨¢n, L. Plaja
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 81, 033420 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4566
abstract: We analize the dipole spectrum of a two-level atom excited by a non-resonant intense monochromatic field, under the electric dipole approximation and beyond the rotating wave approximation. We show that the apparently complex spectral structure can be completely described by two families: harmonic frequencies of the driving field and field-induced nonlinear fluorescence. Our formulation of the problem provides quantitative laws for the most relevant spectral features: harmonic ratios and phases, non-perturbative Stark shift, and frequency limits of the harmonic plateau. In particular, we demonstrate the locking of the harmonic phases at the wings of the plateau opening the possibility of ultra-short pulse generation through harmonic filtering.

id: 1003.4594
title: Cold atom dynamics in crossed laser beam waveguides
authors: E. Torrontegui, J. Echanobe, A. Ruschhaupt, D. Gu¨¦ry-Odelin, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: Phys Rev A (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4594
abstract: We study the dynamics of neutral cold atoms in an $L$-shaped crossed-beam optical waveguide formed by two perpendicular red-detuned lasers of different intensities and a blue-detuned laser at the corner. Complemented with a vibrational cooling process this setting works as a one-way device or "atom diode".

id: 1003.4620
title: Construction of pseudo-bosons systems
authors: Fabio Bagarello
comments: In press in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4620
abstract: In a recent paper we have considered an explicit model of a PT-symmetric system based on a modification of the canonical commutation relation. We have introduced the so-called {\em pseudo-bosons}, and the role of Riesz bases in this context has been analyzed in detail. In this paper we consider a general construction of pseudo-bosons based on an explicit {coordinate-representation}, extending what is usually done in ordinary supersymmetric quantum mechanics. We also discuss an example arising from a linear modification of standard creation and annihilation operators, and we analyze its connection with coherent states.

id: 1003.4680
title: Toward a Broadband Astro-comb: Effects of Nonlinear Spectral Broadening in Optical Fibers
authors: Guoqing Chang, Chih-Hao Li, David F. Phillips, Ronald L. Walsworth, Franz X. K?rtner
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4680
abstract: We propose and analyze a new approach to generate a broadband astro-comb by spectral broadening of a narrowband astro-comb inside a highly nonlinear optical fiber. Numerical modeling shows that cascaded four-wave-mixing dramatically degrades the input comb's side-mode suppression and causes side-mode amplitude asymmetry. These two detrimental effects can systematically shift the center-of-gravity of astro-comb spectral lines as measured by an astrophysical spectrograph with resolution \approx100,000; and thus lead to wavelength calibration inaccuracy and instability. Our simulations indicate that this performance penalty, as a result of nonlinear spectral broadening, can be compensated by using a filtering cavity configured for double-pass. As an explicit example, we present a design based on an Yb-fiber source comb (with 1 GHz repetition rate) that is filtered by double-passing through a low finesse cavity (finesse = 208), and subsequent spectrally broadened in a 2-cm, SF6-glass photonic crystal fiber. Spanning more than 300 nm with 16 GHz line spacing, the resulting astro-comb is predicted to provide 1 cm/s (~10 kHz) radial velocity calibration accuracy for an astrophysical spectrograph. Such extreme performance will be necessary for the search for and characterization of Earth-like extra-solar planets, and in direct measurements of the change of the rate of cosmological expansion.

id: 1003.4790
title: Hard-core Bose-Fermi mixture in one-dimensional split traps
authors: Xiaolong L¨¹, Xiangguo Yin, Yunbo Zhang
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, PRA in press
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043607 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4790
abstract: We consider a strongly interacting one-dimensional (1D) Bose-Fermi mixture confined in a hard wall trap or a harmonic oscillator trap with a tunable $\delta$-function barrier at the trap center. The mixture consists of 1D Bose gas with repulsive interactions and of 1D noninteracting spin-aligned Fermi gas, both species interacting through hard-core interactions. Using a generalized Bose-Fermi mapping, we calculated the reduced single-particle density matrix and the momentum distribution of the gas as a function of barrier strength and the parity of particle number. The secondary peaks in the momentum distribution show remarkable correlation between particles on the two sides of the split.

id: 1003.4796
title: Non-Markovian theory of vibrational energy relaxation and its applications to biomolecular systems
authors: Hiroshi Fujisaki, Yong Zhang, John E. Straub
comments: To be published in Adv. Chem. Phys. (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4796
abstract: Energy transfer (relaxation) phenomena are ubiquitous in nature. At a macroscopic level, the phenomenological theory of heat (Fourier law) successfully describes heat transfer and energy flow. However, its microscopic origin is still under debate. This is because the phenomena can contain many-body, multi-scale, nonequilibrium, and even quantum mechanical aspects, which present significant challenges to theories addressing energy transfer phenomena in physics, chemistry and biology. In this paper, we describe our recent theoretical attempts to treat vibrational energy relaxation (VER) in biomolecular systems, including peptide, porphyrin, and protein. First we construct a reduced model using (instantaneous) normal mode analysis, and further add anharmonic coupling between vibrational modes. Using such a model combined with time-dependent perturbation theory for the anharmonic coupling, we derive non-Markovian VER formulas, which are applicable to small timescales such as sub picoseconds. We apply the VER formulas with full atomistic detail to various biomolecular systems, discuss the VER timescales and mechanisms, and compare with experiment if possible. We finally mention further theoretical prospects of the energy transfer phenomena in physics, chemistry, and biology.

id: 1003.4871
title: Thermal broadening of the Coulomb blockade peaks in quantum Hall interferometers
authors: Lachezar S. Georgiev
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures; published version
journal: EPL, 91 (2010) 41001
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4871
abstract: We demonstrate that the differential magnetic susceptibility of a fractional quantum Hall disk, representing a Coulomb island in a Fabry--Perot interferometer, is exactly proportional to the island's conductance and its paramagnetic peaks are the equilibrium counterparts of the Coulomb blockade conductance peaks. Using as a thermodynamic potential the partition functions of the edge states' effective conformal field theory we find the positions of the Coulomb blockade peaks, when the area of the island is varied, the modulations of the distance between them as well as the thermal decay and broadening of the peaks when temperature is increased. The finite-temperature estimates of the peak's heights and widths could give important information about the experimental observability of the Coulomb blockade. In addition, the predicted peak asymmetry and displacement at finite temperature due to neutral multiplicities could serve to distinguish different fractional quantum Hall states with similar zero-temperature Coulomb blockade patterns.

id: 1003.4927
title: Exact solutions of Klein Gordon equation for the Makarov potential with the asymptotic iteration method
authors: M. Chabab, M. Oulne
comments: 6 pages
journal: Int.Rev.Phys.4:331-334,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4927
abstract: We derive exact analytical solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation for Makarov potential by means of the asymptotic iteration method. The energy eigenvalues are given in a closed form and the corresponding normalized eigenfunctions are obtained in terms of the generalized Laguerre polynomials and hypergeometrical functions.

id: 1003.4938
title: On the Possibility of Measuring the Abraham Force using Whispering Gallery Modes
authors: I. Brevik, S. ?. Ellingsen
comments: 6 pages, no figures. Minor typos corrected, acknowledgment added. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 81, 063830 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4938
abstract: Critical experimental tests of the time-dependent Abraham force in phenomenological electrodynamics are scarce. In this paper we analyze the possibility of making use of intensity-modulated whispering gallery modes in a microresonator for this purpose. Systems of this kind appear attractive, as the strong concentration of electromagnetic fields near the rim of the resonator serves to enhance the Abraham torque exerted by the field. We analyze mainly spherical resonators, although as an introductory step we consider also the cylinder geometry. The order of magnitude of the Abraham torques are estimated by inserting reasonable values for the various input parameters. As expected, the predicted torques turn out to be very small, although probably not beyond any reach experimentally. Our main idea is essentially a generalization of the method used by G. B. Walker et al. [Can. J. Phys. 53, 2577] for low-frequency fields, to the optical case.

id: 1003.4956
title: Many-body Landau-Zener dynamics in coupled 1D Bose liquids
authors: Yu-Ao Chen, Sebastian D. Huber, Stefan Trotzky, Immanuel Bloch, Ehud Altman
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures.
journal: Nature Phys. 7, 61-67 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4956
abstract: The Landau-Zener model of a quantum mechanical two-level system driven with a linearly time dependent detuning has served over decades as a textbook paradigm of quantum dynamics. In their seminal work [L. D. Landau, Physik. Z. Sowjet. 2, 46 (1932); C. Zener, Proc. Royal Soc. London 137, 696 (1932)], Landau and Zener derived a non-perturbative prediction for the transition probability between two states, which often serves as a reference point for the analysis of more complex systems. A particularly intriguing question is whether that framework can be extended to describe many-body quantum dynamics. Here we report an experimental and theoretical study of a system of ultracold atoms, offering a direct many-body generalization of the Landau-Zener problem. In a system of pairwise tunnel-coupled 1D Bose liquids we show how tuning the correlations of the 1D gases, the tunnel coupling between the tubes and the inter-tube interactions strongly modify the original Landau-Zener picture. The results are explained using a mean-field description of the inter-tube condensate wave-function, coupled to the low-energy phonons of the 1D Bose liquid.

id: 1003.5144
title: Electron beam driven alkali metal atom source for loading a magneto-optical trap in a cryogenic environment
authors: S. Haslinger, R. Amsuess, Ch. Koller, C. Hufnagel, N. Lippok, J. Majer, J. Verdu, S. Schneider, J. Schmiedmayer
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5144
abstract: We present a versatile and compact electron beam driven source for alkali metal atoms, which can be implemented in cryostats. With a heat load of less than 10mW, the heat dissipation normalized to the atoms loaded into the magneto-optical Trap (MOT), is about a factor 1000 smaller than for a typical alkali metal dispenser. The measured linear scaling of the MOT loading rate with electron current observed in the experiments, indicates that electron stimulated desorption is the corresponding mechanism to release the atoms.

id: 1003.5159
title: On the classical limit of Bohmian mechanics for Hagedorn wave packets
authors: Detlef D¨¹rr, Sarah R?mer
comments: some minor changes; published version
journal: Journal of Functional Analysis, volume 259, issue 9, pages 2404-2423 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5159
abstract: We consider the classical limit of quantum mechanics in terms of Bohmian trajectories. For wave packets as defined by Hagedorn we show that the Bohmian trajectories converge to Newtonian trajectories in probability.

id: 1003.5162
title: Spin contribution to the ponderomotive force in a plasma
authors: G. Brodin, A. P. Misra, M. Marklund
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, version accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5162
abstract: The concept of a ponderomotive force due to the intrinsic spin of electrons is developed. An expression containing both the classical as well as the spin-induced ponderomotive force is derived. The results are used to demonstrate that an electromagnetic pulse can induce a spin-polarized plasma. Furthermore, it is shown that for certain parameters, the nonlinear back-reaction on the electromagnetic pulse from the spin magnetization current can be larger than that from the classical free current. Suitable parameter values for a direct test of this effect are presented.

id: 1003.5195
title: Quantum-dot-spin single-photon interface
authors: S. T. Yilmaz, P. Fallahi, A. Imamoglu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5195
abstract: Using background-free detection of spin-state-dependent resonance fluorescence from a single-electron charged quantum dot with an efficiency of 0:1%, we realize a single spin-photon interface where the detection of a scattered photon with 300 picosecond time resolution projects the quantum dot spin to a definite spin eigenstate with fidelity exceeding 99%. The bunching of resonantly scattered photons reveals information about electron spin dynamics. High-fidelity fast spin-state initialization heralded by a single photon enables the realization of quantum information processing tasks such as non-deterministic distant spin entanglement. Given that we could suppress the measurement back-action to well below the natural spin-flip rate, realization of a quantum non-demolition measurement of a single spin could be achieved by increasing the fluorescence collection efficiency by a factor exceeding 20 using a photonic nanostructure.

id: 1003.5261
title: Bond-operators and triplon analysis for spin-S dimer antiferromagnets
authors: Brijesh Kumar
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 054404 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5261
abstract: The mean-field triplon analysis is developed for spin-S quantum antiferromagnets with dimerized ground states. For the spin-1/2 case, it reduces to the well known bond-operator mean-field theory. It is applied to a coupled-dimer model on square lattice, and to a model on honeycomb lattice with spontaneous dimerization in the ground state. Different phases in the ground state are investigated as a function of spin. It is found that under suitable conditions (such as strong frustration) a quantum ground state (dimerized singlet phase in the present study) can survive even in the limit $S\rightarrow \infty$. Two quick extensions of this representation are also presented. In one case, it is extended to include the quintet states. In another, a similar representation is worked out on a square plaquette. A convenient procedure for evaluating the total-spin eigenstates for a pair of quantum spins is presented in the appendix.

id: 1003.5381
title: Probing decoherence through Fano resonances
authors: Andreas B?rnthaler, Stefan Rotter, Florian Libisch, Joachim Burgd?rfer, Stefan Gehler, Ulrich Kuhl, Hans-J¨¹rgen St?ckmann
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures (including newly added discussion on quantum transport data and supplementary material section), final version as accepted at PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 056801 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5381
abstract: We investigate the effect of decoherence on Fano resonances in wave transmission through resonant scattering structures. We show that the Fano asymmetry parameter q follows, as a function of the strength of decoherence, trajectories in the complex plane that reveal detailed information on the underlying decoherence process. Dissipation and unitary dephasing give rise to manifestly different trajectories. Our predictions are successfully tested against microwave experiments using metal cavities with different absorption coefficients and against previously published data on transport through quantum dots. These results open up new possibilities for studying the effect of decoherence in a wide array of physical systems where Fano resonances are present.

id: 1003.5488
title: High fidelity feed-back assisted parity measurement in circuit QED
authors: L. Tornberg, G?ran Johansson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5488
abstract: We analyze a two qubit parity measurement based on dispersive read-out in circuit quantum electrodynamics. The back-action on the qubits has two qualitatively different contributions. One is an unavoidable dephasing in one of the parity subspaces, arising during the transient time of switching on the measurement. The other part is a stochastic rotation of the phase in the same subspace, which persists during the whole measurement. The latter can be determined from the full measurement record, using the method of state estimation. Our main result is that the outcome of this phase determination process is {\em independent} of the initial state in the state estimation procedure. The procedure can thus be used in a measurement situation, where the initial state is unknown. We discuss how this feed-back method can be used to achieve a high fidelity parity measurement for realistic values of the cavity-qubit coupling strength. Finally, we discuss the robustness of the feed-back procedure towards errors in the measurement record.

id: 1003.5582
title: Cosmogenesis and Collapse
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: For a festschrift in Foundations of Physics in honor of Daniel Greenberger and Helmut Rauch in Foundations of Physics. This updates the previous version by adding an appendix (Appendix B) which contains the exact solution of a partial differential equation of importance in the paper
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5582
abstract: Some possible benefits of dynamical collapse for a quantum theory of cosmogenesis are discussed. These are a possible long wait before creation begins, creation of energy and space, and choice of a particular universe out of a superposition.

id: 1003.5656
title: Entanglement Scaling of Fractional Quantum Hall states through Geometric Deformations
authors: Andreas Laeuchli, Emil J. Bergholtz, Masudul Haque
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures, published version
journal: New. J. Phys. 12, 075004 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5656
abstract: We present a new approach to obtaining the scaling behavior of the entanglement entropy in fractional quantum Hall states from finite-size wavefunctions. By employing the torus geometry and the fact that the torus aspect ratio can be readily varied, we can extract the entanglement entropy of a spatial block as a continuous function of the block boundary. This approach allows us to extract the topological entanglement entropy with an accuracy superior to what is possible on the spherical or disc geometry, where no natural continuously variable parameter is available. Other than the topological information, the study of entanglement scaling is also useful as an indicator of the difficulty posed by fractional quantum Hall states for various numerical techniques.

id: 1003.5735
title: To What Type of Logic Does the "Tetralemma" Belong?
authors: Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: plainTeX, 9 pages, no figures. Some confusing typos corrected, some wording changes. Most current version is available at this http URL (or wherever my home-page may be)
journal: 
subjects: Logic (math.LO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5735
abstract: Although the so called "tetralemma" might seem to be incompatible with any recognized scheme of logical inference, its four alternatives arise naturally within the "anhomomorphic" logics proposed recently in order to accommodate certain features of microscopic (i.e. quantum) physics. This suggests that non-classical logics of a similar type might have been known in ancient India.

id: 1003.5743
title: Measurement back-action on adiabatic coherent electron transport
authors: J¨¦r?me Rech, Stefan Kehrein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 136808 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5743
abstract: We study the back-action of a nearby measurement device on electrons undergoing coherent transfer via adiabatic passage (CTAP) in a triple-well system. The measurement is provided by a quantum point contact capacitively coupled to the middle well, thus acting as a detector sensitive to the charge configuration of the triple-well system. We account for this continuous measurement by treating the whole {triple-well + detector} as a closed quantum system. This leads to a set of coupled differential equations for the density matrix of the enlarged system which we solve numerically. This approach allows to study a single realization of the measurement process while keeping track of the detector output, which is especially relevant for experiments. In particular, we find the emergence of a new peak in the distribution of electrons that passed through the point contact. As one increases the coupling between the middle potential well and the detector, this feature becomes more prominent and is accompanied by a substantial drop in the fidelity of the CTAP scheme.

id: 1003.5765
title: The entropy gain of infinite-dimensional quantum channels
authors: A. S. Holevo
comments: 10 pages
journal: Doklady Mathematics, 82:2 (2010), 730-731
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5765
abstract: In the present paper we study the entropy gain $H(\Phi [\rho])-H(\rho)$ for infinite-dimensional channels $\Phi$. We show that unlike finite-dimensional case where the minimal entropy gain is always nonpositive \cite{al}, there is a plenty of channels with positive minimal entropy gain. We obtain the new lower bound and compute the minimal entropy gain for a broad class of Bosonic Gaussian channels by proving that the infimum is attained on the Gaussian states.

id: 1003.5814
title: Quantum Field Induced Orderings in Fully Frustrated Ising Spin Systems
authors: Shu Tanaka, Masaki Hirano, Seiji Miyashita
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Proceedings of Symposia "Nanoscience and Quantum Physics"
journal: Physica E, 43, 766 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5814
abstract: We study ordering mechanisms which are induced by the quantum fluctuation in fully frustrated Ising spin systems. Since there are many degenerated states in frustrated systems, "order by thermal disorder" often takes place due to a kind of entropy effect. To consider "order by quantum disorder" in fully frustrated Ising spin systems, we apply transverse field as quantum fluctuation. There exists a ferromagnetic correlation in each sublattice. The sublattice correlation at zero temperature is enlarged due to transverse field. The quantum fluctuation enhances the solid order at zero temperatures. This is an example of quantum field induced ordering in fully frustrated systems. We also study a case in which the transverse field induces a reentrant behavior as another type of order by quantum disorder, and compare correspondent cases in the classical systems.

id: 1003.5858
title: Dynamical crystal creation with polar molecules or Rydberg atoms in optical lattices
authors: J. Schachenmayer, I. Lesanovsky, A. Micheli, A. J. Daley
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 103044 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5858
abstract: We investigate the dynamical formation of crystalline states with systems of polar molecules or Rydberg atoms loaded into a deep optical lattice. External fields in these systems can be used to couple the atoms or molecules between two internal states: one that is weakly interacting and one that exhibits a strong dipole-dipole interaction. By appropriate time variation of the external fields, we show that it is possible to produce crystalline states of the strongly interacting states with high filling fractions chosen via the parameters of the coupling. We study the coherent dynamics of this process in one dimension (1D) using a modified form of the time-evolving block decimation (TEBD) algorithm, and obtain crystalline states for system sizes and parameters corresponding to realistic experimental configurations. For polar molecules these crystalline states will be long-lived, assisting in a characterization of the state via the measurement of correlation functions. We also show that as the coupling strength increases in the model, the crystalline order is broken. This is characterized in 1D by a change in density-density correlation functions, which decay to a constant in the crystalline regime, but show different regions of exponential and algebraic decay for larger coupling strengths.

id: 1003.5901
title: Disentangling phonons from spins in ion-trap-based quantum spin simulators
authors: C.-C. Joseph Wang, James Freericks
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5901
abstract: We compute how phonon creation affects the fidelity of the quantum spin dynamics in trapped ion simulators. A rigorous treatment of the quantum dynamics is made by employing an exact operator factorization of the evolution operator. Although it is often assumed that phonon creation modifies the dynamics of the spin evolution, for an Ising spin-spin interaction in an external magnetic field, phonons have \textit{no effect} on the probabilities of spin product states measured in the direction of the Ising model axis. Phonons play a much more important role in influencing the effective spin dynamics for Heisenberg or XY model spin simulators or for other observables, like witness operators in the Ising model.

id: 1003.5902
title: Quantum and pseudoclassical descriptions of nonrelativistic spinning particles in noncommutative space
authors: T. C. Adorno, M. C. Baldiotti, D. M. Gitman
comments: This paper has been substituted by the recent one arxiv:1008.4890
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5902
abstract: We construct a nonrelativistic wave equation for spinning particles in the noncommutative space (in a sense, a $\theta$-modification of the Pauli equation). To this end, we consider the nonrelativistic limit of the $\theta$-modified Dirac equation. To complete the consideration, we present a pseudoclassical model (\`a la Berezin-Marinov) for the corresponding nonrelativistic particle in the noncommutative space. To justify the latter model, we demonstrate that its quantization leads to the $\theta$-modified Pauli equation. Then, we extract $\theta$-modified interaction between a nonrelativistic spin and a magnetic field from the $\theta$-modified Pauli equation and construct a $\theta$-modification of the Heisenberg model for two coupled spins placed in an external magnetic field. In the framework of such a model, we calculate the probability transition between two orthogonal EPR (Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen) states for a pair of spins in an oscillatory magnetic field and show that some of such transitions, which are forbidden in the commutative space, are possible due to the space noncommutativity.

id: 1003.5923
title: Ground States in the Spin Boson Model
authors: David Hasler, Ira Herbst
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5923
abstract: We prove that the Hamiltonian of the model describing a spin which is linearly coupled to a field of relativistic and massless bosons, also known as the spin-boson model, admits a ground state for small values of the coupling constant lambda. We show that the ground state energy is an analytic function of lambda and that the corresponding ground state can also be chosen to be an analytic function of lambda. No infrared regularization is imposed. Our proof is based on a modified version of the BFS operator theoretic renormalization analysis. Moreover, using a positivity argument we prove that the ground state of the spin-boson model is unique. We show that the expansion coefficients of the ground state and the ground state energy can be calculated using regular analytic perturbation theory.

id: 1003.5463
title: Continuous Matrix Product Ansatz for the One-Dimensional Bose Gas with Point Interaction
authors: Isao Maruyama, Hosho Katsura
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: J.Phys.Soc.Jap.79:073002,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5463
abstract: We study a matrix product representation of the Bethe ansatz state for the Lieb-Linger model describing the one-dimensional Bose gas with delta-function interaction. We first construct eigenstates of the discretized model in the form of matrix product states using the algebraic Bethe ansatz. Continuous matrix product states are then exactly obtained in the continuum limit with a finite number of particles. The factorizing $F$-matrices in the lattice model are indispensable for the continuous matrix product states and lead to a marked reduction from the original bosonic system with infinite degrees of freedom to the five-vertex model.

id: 1003.1526
title: An example of a violation of the quantum inequalities for a massless scalar field in 1-1 dimensional space-time
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Added a new section. 28 pages
journal: Adv. Stud. Theor. Phys.5:227-251,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1526
abstract: It is well known that the energy density of a quantum state can be negative. It has been shown that there are limits on this negative energy density which are called the quantum inequalities. In this paper we will demonstrate an example of a quantum state which violates the quantum inequalities.

id: 1003.0877
title: Magneto-Optical Trap for Thulium Atoms
authors: D. Sukachev, A. Sokolov, K. Chebakov, A. Akimov, S. Kanorsky, N. Kolachevsky, V. Sorokin
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 011405(R) (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0877
abstract: Thulium atoms are trapped in a magneto-optical trap using a strong transition at 410 nm with a small branching ratio. We trap up to $7\times10^{4}$ atoms at a temperature of 0.8(2) mK after deceleration in a 40 cm long Zeeman slower. Optical leaks from the cooling cycle influence the lifetime of atoms in the MOT which varies between 0.3 -1.5 s in our experiments. The lower limit for the leaking rate from the upper cooling level is measured to be 22(6) s$^{-1}$. The repumping laser transferring the atomic population out of the F=3 hyperfine ground-state sublevel gives a 30% increase for the lifetime and the number of atoms in the trap.

id: 1003.2161
title: L¨¦vy walks and scaling in quenched disordered media
authors: R. Burioni, L. Caniparoli, A. Vezzani
comments: Phys. Rev. E 81, 060101(R) (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2161
abstract: We study L\'evy walks in quenched disordered one-dimensional media, with scatterers spaced according to a long-tailed distribution. By analyzing the scaling relations for the random-walk probability and for the resistivity in the equivalent electric problem, we obtain the asymptotic behavior of the mean square displacement as a function of the exponent characterizing the scatterers distribution. We demonstrate that in quenched media different average procedures can display different asymptotic behavior. In particular, we estimate the moments of the displacement averaged over processes starting from scattering sites, in analogy with recent experiments. Our results are compared with numerical simulations, with excellent agreement.

id: 1003.2679
title: Single-shot readout of an electron spin in silicon
authors: Andrea Morello, Jarryd J. Pla, Floris A. Zwanenburg, Kok W. Chan, Hans Huebl, Mikko Mottonen, Christopher D. Nugroho, Changyi Yang, Jessica A. van Donkelaar, Andrew D. C. Alves, David N. Jamieson, Christopher C. Escott, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg, Robert G. Clark, Andrew S. Dzurak
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 467, 687 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2679
abstract: The size of silicon transistors used in microelectronic devices is shrinking to the level where quantum effects become important. While this presents a significant challenge for the further scaling of microprocessors, it provides the potential for radical innovations in the form of spin-based quantum computers and spintronic devices. An electron spin in Si can represent a well-isolated quantum bit with long coherence times because of the weak spin-orbit coupling and the possibility to eliminate nuclear spins from the bulk crystal. However, the control of single electrons in Si has proved challenging, and has so far hindered the observation and manipulation of a single spin. Here we report the first demonstration of single-shot, time-resolved readout of an electron spin in Si. This has been performed in a device consisting of implanted phosphorus donors coupled to a metal-oxide-semiconductor single-electron transistor - compatible with current microelectronic technology. We observed a spin lifetime approaching 1 second at magnetic fields below 2 T, and achieved spin readout fidelity better than 90%. High-fidelity single-shot spin readout in Si opens the path to the development of a new generation of quantum computing and spintronic devices, built using the most important material in the semiconductor industry.

id: 1003.5873
title: Bound States and Universality in Layers of Cold Polar Molecules
authors: J. R. Armstrong, N. T. Zinner, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. Revised version to be published
journal: Europhysics Letters 91, 16001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5873
abstract: The recent experimental realization of cold polar molecules in the rotational and vibrational ground state opens the door to the study of a wealth of phenomena involving long-range interactions. By applying an optical lattice to a gas of cold polar molecules one can create a layered system of planar traps. Due to the long-range dipole-dipole interaction one expects a rich structure of bound complexes in this geometry. We study the bilayer case and determine the two-body bound state properties as a function of the interaction strength. The results clearly show that a least one bound state will always be present in the system. In addition, bound states at zero energy show universal behavior and extend to very large radii. These results suggest that non-trivial bound complexes of more than two particles are likely in the bilayer and in more complicated chain structures in multi-layer systems.

id: 1003.0897
title: Electric g Tensor Control and Spin Echo of a Hole-Spin Qubit in a Quantum Dot Molecule
authors: Robert Roloff, Thomas Eissfeller, Peter Vogl, Walter P?tz
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, revtex4
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 093012 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0897
abstract: The feasibility of high-fidelity single-qubit operations of a hole spin in a quantum dot molecule by electric g tensor control is demonstrated. Apart from a constant external magnetic field the proposed scheme allows for an exclusively electric control of the hole spin. Realistic electric gate bias profiles are identified for various qubit operations using process-tomography-based optimal control. They are shown to be remarkably robust against decoherence and dissipation arising from the interaction of the hole with host-lattice nuclear spins and phonons, with a fidelity loss of $\approx$ 1 percent for gate operation times of $\approx 10$ ns. Spin-echo experiments for the hole spin are modeled to explore dephasing mechanisms and the role of pulse-timing imperfections on the gate fidelity loss is discussed.

id: 1003.5698
title: Few-photon optical diode
authors: Dibyendu Roy
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 155117 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.5698
abstract: We propose a novel scheme of realizing an optical diode at the few-photon level. The system consists of a one-dimensional waveguide coupled asymmetrically to a two-level system. The two or multi-photon transport in this system is strongly correlated. We derive exactly the single and two-photon current and show that the two-photon current is asymmetric for the asymmetric coupling. Thus the system serves as an optical diode which allows transmission of photons in one direction much more efficiently than the opposite.

id: 1003.0854
title: Multiple scattering of matter waves: an analytic model of the refractive index for atomic and molecular gases
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko, Bretislav Friedrich
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022711 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0854
abstract: We present an analytic model of the refractive index for matter waves propagating through atomic or molecular gases. The model, which combines a WKB treatment of the long range attraction with the Fraunhofer model treatment of the short range repulsion, furnishes a refractive index in compelling agreement with recent experiments of Jacquey et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 240405 (2007)] on Li atom matter waves passing through dilute noble gases. We show that the diffractive contribution, which arises from scattering by a two dimensional "hard core" of the potential, is essential for obtaining a correct imaginary part of the refractive index.

id: 1003.3832
title: Quantum mechanical and information theoretic view on classical glass transitions
authors: Claudio Castelnovo, Claudio Chamon, David Sherrington
comments: 13 pages + appendix (9 pages), 8 figures (new version: small corrections during publication)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 184303 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.3832
abstract: Using the mapping of the Fokker-Planck description of classical stochastic dynamics onto a quantum Hamiltonian, we argue that a dynamical glass transition in the former must have a precise definition in terms of a quantum phase transition in the latter. At the dynamical level, the transition corresponds to a collapse of the excitation spectrum at a critical point. At the static level, the transition affects the ground state wavefunction: while in some cases it could be picked up by the expectation value of a local operator, in others the order may be non-local, and impossible to be determined with any local probe. Here we propose instead to use concepts from quantum information theory that are not centered around local order parameters, such as fidelity and entanglement measures. We show that for systems derived from the mapping of classical stochastic dynamics, singularities in the fidelity susceptibility translate directly into singularities in the heat capacity of the classical system. In classical glassy systems with an extensive number of metastable states, we find that the prefactor of the area law term in the entanglement entropy jumps across the transition. We also discuss how entanglement measures can be used to detect a growing correlation length that diverges at the transition. Finally, we illustrate how static order can be hidden in systems with a macroscopically large number of degenerate equilibrium states by constructing a three dimensional lattice gauge model with only short-range interactions but with a finite temperature continuous phase transition into a massively degenerate phase.

id: 1003.1156
title: Feynman-diagrammatic description of the asymptotics of the time evolution operator in quantum mechanics
authors: Theo Johnson-Freyd
comments: 21 pages. Many diagrams drawn in TikZ. To appear in Letters in Mathematical Physics
journal: Lett.Math.Phys.94:123-149,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1156
abstract: We describe the "Feynman diagram" approach to nonrelativistic quantum mechanics on R^n, with magnetic and potential terms. In particular, for each classical path \gamma connecting points q_0 and q_1 in time t, we define a formal power series V_\gamma(t,q_0,q_1) in \hbar, given combinatorially by a sum of diagrams that each represent finite-dimensional convergent integrals. We prove that exp(V_\gamma) satisfies Schr\"odinger's equation, and explain in what sense the t\to 0 limit approaches the \delta distribution. As such, our construction gives explicitly the full \hbar\to 0 asymptotics of the fundamental solution to Schr\"odinger's equation in terms of solutions to the corresponding classical system. These results justify the heuristic expansion of Feynman's path integral in diagrams.

id: 1003.1434
title: Supersymmetries of the spin-1/2 particle in the field of magnetic vortex, and anyons
authors: Francisco Correa, Horacio Falomir, Vit Jakubsky, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Annals Phys.325:2653-2667,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.1434
abstract: The quantum nonrelativistic spin-1/2 planar systems in the presence of a perpendicular magnetic field are known to possess the N=2 supersymmetry. We consider such a system in the field of a magnetic vortex, and find that there are just two self-adjoint extensions of the Hamiltonian that are compatible with the standard N=2 supersymmetry. We show that only in these two cases one of the subsystems coincides with the original spinless Aharonov-Bohm model and comes accompanied by the super-partner Hamiltonian which allows a singular behavior of the wave functions. We find a family of additional, nonlocal integrals of motion and treat them together with local supercharges in the unifying framework of the tri-supersymmetry. The inclusion of the dynamical conformal symmetries leads to an infinitely generated superalgebra, that contains several representations of the superconformal osp(2|2) symmetry. We present the application of the results in the framework of the two-body model of identical anyons. The nontrivial contact interaction and the emerging N=2 linear and nonlinear supersymmetries of the anyons are discussed.

id: 1003.2613
title: The many-body localization transition
authors: Arijeet Pal, David A. Huse
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; A longer, published version of this paper available at arXiv:1010.1992 and Phys. Rev. B 82, 174411 (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2613
abstract: We use exact diagonalization to explore the many-body localization transition in a random-field spin-1/2 chain. We examine the correlations within each many-body eigenstate, looking at all states and thus effectively working at infinite temperature. For weak random field the eigenstates are thermal, as expected in this nonlocalized, ergodic phase. For strong random field the eigenstates are localized, with only short-range entanglement. We roughly locate the localization transition and examine the probability distributions of the correlations, finding that this quantum phase transition at nonzero temperature may be showing infinite-randomness scaling.

id: 1003.4954
title: Asymptotics of quantum spin networks at a fixed root of unity
authors: Stavros Garoufalidis, Roland van der Veen
comments: 19 pages, 14 figures
journal: Mathematische Annalen (2012), Volume 352, Issue 4, pp 987-1012
subjects: Geometric Topology (math.GT); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4954
abstract: A classical spin network consists of a ribbon graph (i.e., an abstract graph with a cyclic ordering of the vertices around each edge) and an admissible coloring of its edges by natural numbers. The standard evaluation of a spin network is an integer number. In a previous paper, we proved an existence theorem for the asymptotics of the standard evaluation of an arbitrary classical spin network when the coloring of its edges are scaled by a large natural number. In the present paper, we extend the results to the case of an evaluation of quantum spin networks of arbitrary valency at a fixed root of unity. As in the classical case, our proofs use the theory of $G$-functions of Andr\'e, together with some new results concerning holonomic and $q$-holonomic sequences of Wilf-Zeilberger.

id: 1003.4464
title: On the Origin of Entropic Gravity and Inertia
authors: Jae-Weon Lee
comments: 9 pages, revtex4-1, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4464
abstract: It was recently suggested that quantum field theory is not fundamental but emerges from the loss of phase space information about matter crossing causal horizons. Possible connections between this formalism and Verlinde's entropic gravity and Jacobson's thermodynamic gravity are proposed. The holographic screen in Verlinde's formalism can be identified as local Rindler horizons and its entropy as that of the bulk fields beyond the horizons. This naturally resolves some issues on entropic gravity. The quantum fluctuation of the fields is the origin of the thermodynamic nature of entropic gravity. It is also suggested that inertia is related to dragging Rindler horizons.

