id: 1004.0010
title: Perfect Function Transfer in two- and three- dimensions without initialization
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Mark Byrd, Z. D. Wang, Bin Shao
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052339 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0010
abstract: We find analytic models that can perfectly transfer, without state initializati$ or remote collaboration, arbitrary functions in two- and three-dimensional interacting bosonic and fermionic networks. We elaborate on a possible implementation of state transfer through bosonic or fermionic atoms trapped in optical lattices. A significant finding is that the state of a spin qubit can be perfectly transferred through a fermionic system. Families of Hamiltonians, both linear and nonlinear, are described which are related to the linear Boson model and that enable the perfect transfer of arbitrary functions. This includes entangled states such as decoherence-free subsystems enabling noise protection of the transferred state.

id: 1004.0022
title: Nonclassical correlation in NMR quadrupolar systems
authors: D. O. Soares-Pinto, L. C. Celeri, R. Auccaise, F. F. Fanchini, E. R. deAzevedo, J. Maziero, T. J. Bonagamba, R. M. Serra
comments: Published version
journal: Physical Review A 81, 062118 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0022
abstract: The existence of quantum correlation (as revealed by quantum discord), other than entanglement and its role in quantum-information processing (QIP), is a current subject for discussion. In particular, it has been suggested that this nonclassical correlation may provide computational speedup for some quantum algorithms. In this regard, bulk nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) has been successfully used as a test bench for many QIP implementations, although it has also been continuously criticized for not presenting entanglement in most of the systems used so far. In this paper, we report a theoretical and experimental study on the dynamics of quantum and classical correlations in an NMR quadrupolar system. We present a method for computing the correlations from experimental NMR deviation-density matrices and show that, given the action of the nuclear-spin environment, the relaxation produces a monotonic time decay in the correlations. Although the experimental realizations were performed in a specific quadrupolar system, the main results presented here can be applied to whichever system uses a deviation-density matrix formalism.

id: 1004.0029
title: Spontaneous symmetry breaking as a resource for noncritically squeezed light
authors: G.J. de Valc¨¢rcel, F.V. Garcia-Ferrer, R.M. H?ppner, I. P¨¦rez-Arjona, C. Navarrete-Benlloch, E. Rold¨¢n
comments: Review for the proceedings of SPIE Photonics Europe. 11 pages, 5 figures.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0029
abstract: In the last years we have proposed the use of the mechanism of spontaneous symmetry breaking with the purpose of generating perfect quadrature squeezing. Here we review previous work dealing with spatial (translational and rotational) symmetries, both on optical parametric oscillators and four-wave mixing cavities, as well as present new results. We then extend the phenomenon to the polarization state of the signal field, hence introducing spontaneous polarization symmetry breaking. Finally we propose a Jaynes-Cummings model in which the phenomenon can be investigated at the single-photon-pair level in a non-dissipative case, with the purpose of understanding it from a most fundamental point of view.

id: 1004.0037
title: Multi-channel SNSPD system with high detection efficiency at telecommunication wavelength
authors: Shigehito Miki, Taro Yamashita, Mikio Fujiwara, Masahide Sasaki, Zhen Wang
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0037
abstract: We developed a four-channel superconducting nanowire single-photon detector system based on a Gifford-McMahon cryocooler. All channels showed a system detection efficiency (at a 100 Hz dark-count rate) higher than 16% at 1550 nm wavelength, and the best channel showed a system DE of 21% and 30% at 1550 nm and 1310 nm wavelength, respectively.

id: 1004.0052
title: For quantum information, two wrongs can make a right
authors: Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 
journal: Science, 321, 1783 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0052
abstract: Superactivation is the phenomenon where two quantum channels which individually have zero-capacity can have positive capacity when used together. The perspective given here provides an intuitive explanation of this discovery by Smith and Yard, and gives a protocol to activate any private channel.

id: 1004.0081
title: Limitations of quantum computing with Gaussian cluster states
authors: M. Ohliger, K. Kieling, J. Eisert
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures, details of main argument extended
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042336 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0081
abstract: We discuss the potential and limitations of Gaussian cluster states for measurement-based quantum computing. Using a framework of Gaussian projected entangled pair states (GPEPS), we show that no matter what Gaussian local measurements are performed on systems distributed on a general graph, transport and processing of quantum information is not possible beyond a certain influence region, except for exponentially suppressed corrections. We also demonstrate that even under arbitrary non-Gaussian local measurements, slabs of Gaussian cluster states of a finite width cannot carry logical quantum information, even if sophisticated encodings of qubits in continuous-variable (CV) systems are allowed for. This is proven by suitably contracting tensor networks representing infinite-dimensional quantum systems. The result can be seen as sharpening the requirements for quantum error correction and fault tolerance for Gaussian cluster states, and points towards the necessity of non-Gaussian resource states for measurement-based quantum computing. The results can equally be viewed as referring to Gaussian quantum repeater networks.

id: 1004.0083
title: A Hybrid Long-Distance Entanglement Distribution Protocol
authors: Jonatan B. Brask, Ioannes Rigas, Eugene S. Polzik, Ulrik L. Andersen, Anders S. Sorensen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 160501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0083
abstract: We propose a hybrid (continuous-discrete variable) quantum repeater protocol for distribution of entanglement over long distances. Starting from entangled states created by means of single-photon detection, we show how entangled coherent state superpositions, also known as `Schr\"odinger cat states', can be generated by means of homodyne detection of light. We show that near-deterministic entanglement swapping with such states is possible using only linear optics and homodyne detectors, and we evaluate the performance of our protocol combining these elements.

id: 1004.0102
title: On the Tomographic Picture of Quantum Mechanics
authors: A. Ibort, V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, A. Simoni, F. Ventriglia
comments: 10 pages,latex,submitted to Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:2614-2617,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0102
abstract: We formulate necessary and sufficient conditions for a symplectic tomogram of a quantum state to determine the density state. We establish a connection between the (re)construction by means of symplectic tomograms with the construction by means of Naimark positive-definite functions on the Weyl-Heisenberg group. This connection is used to formulate properties which guarantee that tomographic probabilities describe quantum states in the probability representation of quantum mechanics.

id: 1004.0148
title: Which Multiverse?
authors: M. Dugic, J. Jeknic-Dugic
comments: a draft. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0148
abstract: The complex (composite) systems such as the Universe allow the different decompositions into subsystems. The Everett's Many Times Interpretation (MWI) heavily relies on the occurrence of decohernce that should provide the classical reality for the Worlds. However, applying the occurrence of decoherence as the sufficient condition for the classical reality of the open systems, one seems obliged to consider the different decomposition equally (classically) realistic. But this leads to an inconsistency of the Everett's MWI in its very foundations: why the decomposition as we perceive it should be the only one realistic?

id: 1004.0153
title: Interference of Single Photons from Two Separate Semiconductor Quantum Dots
authors: Edward B. Flagg, Andreas Muller, Sergey V. Polyakov, Alex Ling, Alan Migdall, Glenn S. Solomon
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 137401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0153
abstract: We demonstrate and characterize interference between discrete photons emitted by two separate semiconductor quantum dot states in different samples excited by a pulsed laser. Their energies are tuned into resonance using strain. The photons have a total coalescence probability of 18.1% and the coincidence rate is below the classical limit. Post-selection of coincidences within a narrow time window increases the coalescence probability to 47%. The probabilities are reduced from unity because of dephasing and the postselection value is also reduced by the detector time response.

id: 1004.0157
title: Quantum Key Distribution and Communication using a Two-way Quantum Channel
authors: Marco Lucamarini, Stefano Mancini
comments: Submitted in March 2009 to the special issue of Quantum Key Distribution in TCS and NACO
journal: Theoretical Computer Science v. 560, pp. 46-61 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0157
abstract: We review a communication protocol recently proposed by us that makes use of a two-way quantum channel. We provide a characterization of such a protocol from a practical perspective, and consider the most relevant eavesdropping strategies against it. This allows us to compare its potentialities with those of a standard protocol which uses a one-way quantum channel.

id: 1004.0174
title: Efficient ML Decoding for Quantum Convolutional Codes
authors: Peiyu Tan, Jing Li
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures,
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0174
abstract: A novel decoding algorithm is developed for general quantum convolutional codes. Exploiting useful ideas from classical coding theory, the new decoder introduces two innovations that drastically reduce the decoding complexity compared to the existing quantum Viterbi decoder. First, the new decoder uses an efficient linear-circuits-based mechanism to map a syndrome to a candidate vector, whereas the existing algorithm relies on a non-trivial lookup table. Second, the new algorithm is cleverly engineered such that only one run of the Viterbi algorithm suffices to locate the most-likely error pattern, whereas the existing algorithm must run the Viterbi algorithm many times. The efficiency of the proposed algorithm allows us to simulate and present the first performance curve of a general quantum convolutional code.

id: 1004.0179
title: Probability distributions of smeared quantum stress tensors
authors: Christopher J. Fewster, L. H. Ford, Thomas A. Roman
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. Minor edits implemented
journal: Phys.Rev.D81:121901,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0179
abstract: We obtain in closed form the probability distribution for individual measurements of the stress-energy tensor of two-dimensional conformal field theory in the vacuum state, smeared in time against a Gaussian test function. The result is a shifted Gamma distribution with the shift given by the previously known optimal quantum inequality bound. For small values of the central charge it is overwhelmingly likely that individual measurements of the sampled energy density in the vacuum give negative results. For the case of a single massless scalar field, the probability of finding a negative value is 84%. We also report on computations for four-dimensional massless scalar fields showing that the probability distribution of the smeared square field is also a shifted Gamma distribution, but that the distribution of the energy density is not.

id: 1004.0190
title: Necessary and sufficient condition for non-zero quantum discord
authors: Borivoje Dakic, Vlatko Vedral, Caslav Brukner
comments: minor changes, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 190502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0190
abstract: Quantum discord characterizes "non-classicality" of correlations in quantum mechanics. It has been proposed as the key resource present in certain quantum communication tasks and quantum computational models without containing much entanglement. We obtain a necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of non-zero quantum discord for any dimensional bipartite states. This condition is easily experimentally implementable. Based on this, we propose a geometrical way of quantifying quantum discord. For two qubits this results in a closed form of expression for discord. We apply our results to the model of deterministic quantum computation with one qubit, showing that quantum discord is unlikely to be the reason behind its speedup.

id: 1004.0206
title: k-Boson Quantum Walks Do Not Distinguish Arbitrary Graphs
authors: Jamie Smith
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0206
abstract: In this paper, we define k-equivalence, a relation on graphs that relies on their associated cellular algebras. We show that a k-Boson quantum walk cannot distinguish pairs of graphs that are k- equivalent. The existence of pairs of k-equivalent graphs has been shown by Ponomarenko et al. [2, 6]. This gives a negative answer to a question posed by Gamble et al. [7].

id: 1004.0255
title: Surface code quantum error correction incorporating accurate error propagation
authors: Austin G. Fowler, David S. Wang, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Quant. Info. Comput. 11, 8 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0255
abstract: The surface code is a powerful quantum error correcting code that can be defined on a 2-D square lattice of qubits with only nearest neighbor interactions. Syndrome and data qubits form a checkerboard pattern. Information about errors is obtained by repeatedly measuring each syndrome qubit after appropriate interaction with its four nearest neighbor data qubits. Changes in the measurement value indicate the presence of chains of errors in space and time. The standard method of determining operations likely to return the code to its error-free state is to use the minimum weight matching algorithm to connect pairs of measurement changes with chains of corrections such that the minimum total number of corrections is used. Prior work has not taken into account the propagation of errors in space and time by the two-qubit interactions. We show that taking this into account leads to a quadratic improvement of the logical error rate.

id: 1004.0264
title: Equilibrium Value Method for the Proof of QIP=PSPACE
authors: Xiaodi Wu
comments: 21 pages; introduction rewritten, new results about computing the diamond norm added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0264
abstract: We provide an alternative proof of \class{QIP}=\class{PSPACE} to the recent breakthrough result. Unlike solving some semidefinite programs that captures the computational power of quantum interactive proofs, our method starts with one \class{QIP}-Complete problem which computes the diamond norm between two admissible quantum channels. The key observation is that we can convert the computation of the diamond norm into the computation of some equilibrium value. The later problem, different from the former semidefinite programs, is of better form, easier to solve and could be interesting for its own sake. The multiplicative weight update method is also applied to solve the equilibrium value problem, however, in a relatively simpler way than the one in the original proof. As a direct byproduct, we also provide a NC algorithm to compute the diamond norm of a class of quantum channels. Furthermore, we provide a generalized form of equilibrium value problems that can be solved in the same way as well as comparisons to semidefinite programs.

id: 1004.0326
title: High-fidelity operation of quantum photonic circuits
authors: Anthony Laing, Alberto Peruzzo, Alberto Politi, Maria Rodas Verde, Matthaeus Halder, Timothy C. Ralph, Mark G. Thompson, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 97, 211109 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0326
abstract: We demonstrate photonic quantum circuits that operate at the stringent levels that will be required for future quantum information science and technology. These circuits are fabricated from silica-on-silicon waveguides forming directional couplers and interferometers. While our focus is on the operation of quantum circuits, to test this operation required construction of a spectrally tuned photon source to produce near-identical pairs of photons. We show non-classical interference with two photons and a two-photon entangling logic gate that operate with near-unit fidelity. These results are a significant step towards large-scale operation of photonic quantum circuits.

id: 1004.0377
title: A Full Characterization of Quantum Advice
authors: Scott Aaronson, Andrew Drucker
comments: We fixed two significant issues: 1. The definition of YQP machines needed to be changed to preserve our results. The revised definition is more natural and has the same intuitive interpretation. 2. We needed properties of Local Hamiltonian reductions going beyond those proved in previous works (whose results we'd misstated). We now prove the needed properties. See p. 6 for more on both points
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0377
abstract: We prove the following surprising result: given any quantum state rho on n qubits, there exists a local Hamiltonian H on poly(n) qubits (e.g., a sum of two-qubit interactions), such that any ground state of H can be used to simulate rho on all quantum circuits of fixed polynomial size. In terms of complexity classes, this implies that BQP/qpoly is contained in QMA/poly, which supersedes the previous result of Aaronson that BQP/qpoly is contained in PP/poly. Indeed, we can exactly characterize quantum advice, as equivalent in power to untrusted quantum advice combined with trusted classical advice. Proving our main result requires combining a large number of previous tools -- including a result of Alon et al. on learning of real-valued concept classes, a result of Aaronson on the learnability of quantum states, and a result of Aharonov and Regev on "QMA+ super-verifiers" -- and also creating some new ones. The main new tool is a so-called majority-certificates lemma, which is closely related to boosting in machine learning, and which seems likely to find independent applications. In its simplest version, this lemma says the following. Given any set S of Boolean functions on n variables, any function f in S can be expressed as the pointwise majority of m=O(n) functions f1,...,fm in S, such that each fi is the unique function in S compatible with O(log|S|) input/output constraints.

id: 1004.0411
title: Quantum interactive proofs with short messages
authors: Salman Beigi, Peter W. Shor, John Watrous
comments: 15 pages, published version
journal: Theory of Computing 7, 101-117 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0411
abstract: This paper considers three variants of quantum interactive proof systems in which short (meaning logarithmic-length) messages are exchanged between the prover and verifier. The first variant is one in which the verifier sends a short message to the prover, and the prover responds with an ordinary, or polynomial-length, message; the second variant is one in which any number of messages can be exchanged, but where the combined length of all the messages is logarithmic; and the third variant is one in which the verifier sends polynomially many random bits to the prover, who responds with a short quantum message. We prove that in all of these cases the short messages can be eliminated without changing the power of the model, so the first variant has the expressive power of QMA and the second and third variants have the expressive power of BQP. These facts are proved through the use of quantum state tomography, along with the finite quantum de Finetti theorem for the first variant.

id: 1004.0425
title: Limit theorem for a time-dependent coined quantum walk on the line
authors: Takuya Machida, Norio Konno
comments: 
journal: F. Peper et al. (Eds.): IWNC 2009, Proceedings in Information and Communications Technology, Vol.2, pp.226-235, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0425
abstract: We study time-dependent discrete-time quantum walks on the one-dimensional lattice. We compute the limit distribution of a two-period quantum walk defined by two orthogonal matrices. For the symmetric case, the distribution is determined by one of two matrices. Moreover, limit theorems for two special cases are presented.

id: 1004.0434
title: Witnessing quantum discord in 2 x N systems
authors: Bogna Bylicka, Dariusz Chruscinski
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0434
abstract: Bipartite states with vanishing quantum discord are necessarily separable and hence positive partial transpose (PPT). We show that 2 x N states satisfy additional property: the positivity of their partial transposition is recognized with respect to the canonical factorization of the original density operator. We call such states SPPT (for strong PPT). Therefore, we provide a natural witness for a quantum discord: if a 2 x N state is not SPPT it must contain nonclassical correlations measured by quantum discord. It is an analog of the celebrated Peres-Horodecki criterion: if a state is not PPT it must be entangled.

id: 1004.0443
title: Limit theorems for quantum walks with memory
authors: Norio Konno, Takuya Machida
comments: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.10, No.11&12, pp.1004-1017 (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0443
abstract: Recently Mc Gettrick [1] introduced and studied a discrete-time 2-state quantum walk (QW) with a memory in one dimension. He gave an expression for the amplitude of the QW by path counting method. Moreover he showed that the return probability of the walk is more than 1/2 for any even time. In this paper, we compute the stationary distribution by considering the walk as a 4-state QW without memory. Our result is consistent with his claim. In addition, we obtain the weak limit theorem of the rescaled QW. This behavior is striking different from the corresponding classical random walk and the usual 2-state QW without memory as his numerical simulations suggested.

id: 1004.0458
title: The quantum dynamic capacity formula of a quantum channel
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures; v2 has improved structure and minor corrections; v3 has correction regarding the optimization
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 1431-1463 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0458
abstract: The dynamic capacity theorem characterizes the reliable communication rates of a quantum channel when combined with the noiseless resources of classical communication, quantum communication, and entanglement. In prior work, we proved the converse part of this theorem by making contact with many previous results in the quantum Shannon theory literature. In this work, we prove the theorem with an "ab initio" approach, using only the most basic tools in the quantum information theorist's toolkit: the Alicki-Fannes' inequality, the chain rule for quantum mutual information, elementary properties of quantum entropy, and the quantum data processing inequality. The result is a simplified proof of the theorem that should be more accessible to those unfamiliar with the quantum Shannon theory literature. We also demonstrate that the "quantum dynamic capacity formula" characterizes the Pareto optimal trade-off surface for the full dynamic capacity region. Additivity of this formula simplifies the computation of the trade-off surface, and we prove that its additivity holds for the quantum Hadamard channels and the quantum erasure channel. We then determine exact expressions for and plot the dynamic capacity region of the quantum dephasing channel, an example from the Hadamard class, and the quantum erasure channel.

id: 1004.0497
title: Quantum information reclaiming after amplitude damping
authors: Laleh Memarzadeh, Carlo Cafaro, Stefano Mancini
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 045304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0497
abstract: We investigate the quantum information reclaim from the environment after amplitude damping has occurred. In particular we address the question of optimal measurement on the environment to perform the best possible correction on two and three dimensional quantum systems. Depending on the dimension we show that the entanglement fidelity (the measure quantifying the correction performance) is or is not the same for all possible measurements and uncover the optimal measurement leading to the maximum entanglement fidelity.

id: 1004.0509
title: Intrinsic geometry of quantum adiabatic evolution and quantum phase transitions
authors: Ali T. Rezakhani, Damian F. Abasto, Daniel A. Lidar, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 12 pages + 8 pages in appendices. v2: updated and added references.
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012321 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0509
abstract: We elucidate the geometry of quantum adiabatic evolution. By minimizing the deviation from adiabaticity we find a Riemannian metric tensor underlying adiabatic evolution. Equipped with this tensor, we identify a unified geometric description of quantum adiabatic evolution and quantum phase transitions, which generalizes previous treatments to allow for degeneracy. The same structure is relevant for applications in quantum information processing, including adiabatic and holonomic quantum computing, where geodesics over the manifold of control parameters correspond to paths which minimize errors. We illustrate this geometric structure with examples, for which we explicitly find adiabatic geodesics. By solving the geodesic equations in the vicinity of a quantum critical point, we identify universal characteristics of optimal adiabatic passage through a quantum phase transition. In particular, we show that in the vicinity of a critical point describing a second order quantum phase transition, the geodesic exhibits power-law scaling with an exponent given by twice the inverse of the product of the spatial and scaling dimensions.

id: 1004.0522
title: The Trilinear Hamiltonian: A Zero Dimensional Model of Hawking Radiation from a Quantized Source
authors: P. D. Nation, M. P. Blencowe
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures, Submitted to New Journal of Physics focus issue: "Classical and Quantum Analogues for Gravitational Phenomena and Related Effects"
journal: New J. Phys. 12:095013,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0522
abstract: We investigate a quantum parametric amplifier with dynamical pump mode, viewed as a zero-dimensional model of Hawking radiation from an evaporating black hole. The conditions are derived under which the spectrum of particles generated from vacuum fluctuations deviates from the thermal spectrum predicted for the conventional parametric amplifier. We find that significant deviations arise when the pump mode (black hole) has emitted nearly half of its initial energy into the signal (Hawking radiation) and idler (in-falling particle) modes. As a model of black hole dynamics, this finding lends support to the view that late-time Hawking radiation contains information about the quantum state of the black hole and is entangled with the black hole's quantum gravitational degrees of freedom.

id: 1004.0564
title: Protecting Bi-Partite Entanglement by Quantum Interferences
authors: Sumanta Das, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0564
abstract: We show that vacuum induced coherence in three level atomic systems can lead to preservation of bi-partite entanglement, when two such atoms are prepared as two initially entangled qubits each independently interacting with their respective vacuum reservoirs. We explicitly calculate the time evolution of concurrence for two different Bell states and show that a large amount of entanglement can survive in the long time limit. The amount of entanglement left among the two qubits depends strongly on the ratio of the non- orthogonal transitions in each qubit and can be more than 50%

id: 1004.0608
title: Optimal local expansion of W states using linear optics and Fock states
authors: Rikizo Ikuta, Toshiyuki Tashima, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012314 (2011) [8 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0608
abstract: We derive the maximum success probability of the circuits with passive linear optics for expanding an N-photon W state to an (N + n)-photon W state, by accessing only one photon of the initial W state and adding n photons in a Fock state. We show that the maximum success probability is achieved by a polarization-dependent beamsplitter and n-1 polarization-independent beamsplitters.

id: 1004.0652
title: Nonlinear thermodynamic quantum master equation: Properties and examples
authors: Hans Christian ?ttinger
comments: This expanded version, which was obtained by including the example of the two-level system previously presented separately in arXiv:1002.5023, has been accepted for publication in Physical Review A (2010). 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0652
abstract: The quantum master equation obtained from two different thermodynamic arguments is seriously nonlinear. We argue that, for quantum systems, nonlinearity occurs naturally in the step from reversible to irreversible equations and we analyze the nature and consequences of the nonlinear contribution. The thermodynamic nonlinearity naturally leads to canonical equilibrium solutions and extends the range of validity to lower temperatures. We discuss the Markovian character of the thermodynamic quantum master equation and introduce a solution strategy based on coupled evolution equations for the eigenstates and eigenvalues of the density matrix. The general ideas are illustrated for the two-level system and for the damped harmonic oscillator. Several conceptual implications of the nonlinearity of the thermodynamic quantum master equation are pointed out, including the absence of a Heisenberg picture and the resulting difficulties with defining multi-time correlations.

id: 1004.0666
title: Quantum Internal Model Principle: Decoherence Control
authors: Narayan Ganesan, Tzyh-Jong Tarn
comments: Submitted to IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, Mar 15 2010. A basic introduction appeared in 46th IEEE CDC 2007. Acknowledgements: The authors would like to thank the Center for Quantum Information Science and Technology at Tsinghua University, R.-B. Wu, J. Zhang, J.-W. Wu, M. Jiang, C.-W. Li and G.-L. Long for their valuable comments and suggestions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0666
abstract: In this article, we study the problem of designing a Decoherence Control for quantum systems with the help of a scalable ancillary quantum control and techniques from geometric control theory, in order to successfully and completely decouple an open quantum system from its environment. We re-formulate the problem of decoherence control as a disturbance rejection scheme which also leads us to the idea of Internal Model Principle for quantum control systems which is first of its kind in the literature. It is shown that decoupling a quantum disturbance from an open quantum system, is possible only with the help of a quantum controller which takes into account the model of the environmental interaction. This is demonstrated for a simple 2-qubit system wherein the effects of decoherence are completely eliminated. The theory provides conditions to be imposed on the controller to ensure perfect decoupling. Hence the problem of decoherence control naturally gives rise to the quantum internal model principle which relates the disturbance rejecting control to the model of the environmental interaction. Classical internal model principle and disturbance decoupling focus on different aspects viz. perfect output tracking and complete decoupling of output from external disturbances respectively. However for quantum systems, the two problems come together and merge in order to produce an effective platform for decoherence control. In this article we introduce a seminal connection between disturbance decoupling and the corresponding analog for internal model principle for quantum systems.

id: 1004.0668
title: Efficient Fiber Optic Detection of Trapped Ion Fluorescence
authors: A. P. VanDevender, Y. Colombe, J. Amini, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 023001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0668
abstract: Integration of fiber optics may play a critical role in the development of quantum information processors based on trapped ions and atoms by enabling scalable collection and delivery of light and coupling trapped ions to optical microcavities. We trap 24Mg+ ions in a surface-electrode Paul trap that includes an integrated optical fiber for detecting 280-nm fluorescence photons. The collection numerical aperture is 0.37 and total collection efficiency is 2.1 %. The ion can be positioned between 80 \mum and 100 \mum from the tip of the fiber by use of an adjustable rf-pseudopotential.

id: 1004.0676
title: Evidence procedure for efficient quantum state tomography
authors: Jochen Rau
comments: 7 pages; v3: version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012104 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0676
abstract: I show that in tomographic experiments measurement of a small set of observables suffices to confirm or incrementally amend prior expectations with a high degree of confidence. To this end I adapt the evidence procedure, an estimation technique used in classical image reconstruction, to use in quantum state tomography.

id: 1004.0710
title: High-fidelity universal quantum gates through group-symmetrized rapid passage
authors: Ran Li, Frank Gaitan
comments: 11 pages; LaTex; no figures; version to appear in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Quantum Information and Computation vol. 10, 936 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0710
abstract: Twisted rapid passage is a type of non-adiabatic rapid passage that generates controllable quantum interference effects that were first observed experimentally in 2003. It is shown that twisted rapid passage sweeps can be used to implement a universal set of quantum gates that operate with high-fidelity. The gate set consists of the Hadamard and NOT gates, together with variants of the phase, pi/8, and controlled-phase gates. For each gate g in the universal set, sweep parameter values are provided which numerical simulations indicate will produce a unitary operation that approximates g with error probability less than 10**(-4). Note that all gates in the universal set are implemented using a single family of control-field, and the error probability for each gate falls below the rough-and-ready estimate for the accuracy threshold of 10**(-4).

id: 1004.0776
title: Graph Approach to Quantum Systems
authors: Mladen Pavicic, Brendan D. McKay, Norman D. Megill, Kresimir Fresl
comments: 20 pages, 15 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 51, 102103-1-31 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0776
abstract: Using a graph approach to quantum systems, we prove that descriptions of 3-dim Kochen-Specker (KS) setups as well as descriptions of 3-dim spin systems by means of Greechie lattices that we find in the literature are wrong. Correct lattices generated by McKay-Megill-Pavicic (MMP) hypergraphs and Hilbert subspace equations are given. To enable exhaustive generations of 3-dim KS setups by means of recently found "stripping technique," bipartite graph generation is used to provide us with lattices with equal numbers of elements and blocks (orthogonal triples of elements) - up to 41 of them. We obtain several new results on such lattices and hypergraphs, in particular on properties such as superposition and orthoraguesian equations. Since a bipartite graph approach has recently been applied to CSS (Calderbank-Shor-Steane) and graph states on the one hand, and span programs, quantum walks, and quantum search on the other, our results also enable the study of these quantum information fields by means of hypergraphs and lattices.

id: 1004.0780
title: Ultrasensitive force and displacement detection using trapped ions
authors: M. J. Biercuk, H. Uys, J. W. Britton, A. P. VanDevender, J. J. Bollinger
comments: Expanded introduction and analysis. Methods section added. Subject to press embargo
journal: Nature Nanotechnology, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0780
abstract: The ability to detect extremely small forces is vital for a variety of disciplines including precision spin-resonance imaging, microscopy, and tests of fundamental physical phenomena. Current force-detection sensitivity limits have surpassed 1 $aN/\sqrt{Hz}$ (atto $=10^{-18}$) through coupling of micro or nanofabricated mechanical resonators to a variety of physical systems including single-electron transistors, superconducting microwave cavities, and individual spins. These experiments have allowed for probing studies of a variety of phenomena, but sensitivity requirements are ever-increasing as new regimes of physical interactions are considered. Here we show that trapped atomic ions are exquisitely sensitive force detectors, with a measured sensitivity more than three orders of magnitude better than existing reports. We demonstrate detection of forces as small as 174 $yN$ (yocto $=10^{-24}$), with a sensitivity 390$\pm150$ $yN/\sqrt{Hz}$ using crystals of $n=60$ $^{9}$Be$^{+}$ ions in a Penning trap. Our technique is based on the excitation of normal motional modes in an ion trap by externally applied electric fields, detection via and phase-coherent Doppler velocimetry, which allows for the discrimination of ion motion with amplitudes on the scale of nanometers. These experimental results and extracted force-detection sensitivities in the single-ion limit validate proposals suggesting that trapped atomic ions are capable of detecting of forces with sensitivity approaching 1 $yN/\sqrt{Hz}$. We anticipate that this demonstration will be strongly motivational for the development of a new class of deployable trapped-ion-based sensors, and will permit scientists to access new regimes in materials science.

id: 1004.0788
title: Nonclassicality filters and quasiprobabilities
authors: T. Kiesel, W. Vogel
comments: Significantly revised version, more emphasis on practical application
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032107 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0788
abstract: Necessary and sufficient conditions for the nonclassicality of bosonic quantum states are formulated by introducing nonclassicality filters and nonclassicality quasiprobability distributions. Regular quasiprobabilities are constructed from characteristic functions which can be directly sampled by balanced homodyne detection. Their negativities uncover the nonclassical effects of general quantum states. The method is illustrated by visualizing the nonclassical nature of a squeezed state.

id: 1004.0807
title: Master Equation for the Motion of a Polarizable Particle in a Multimode Cavity
authors: Stefan Nimmrichter, Klemens Hammerer, Peter Asenbaum, Helmut Ritsch, Markus Arndt
comments: 30 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 083003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0807
abstract: We derive a master equation for the motion of a polarizable particle weakly interacting with one or several strongly pumped cavity modes. We focus here on massive particles with complex internal structure such as large molecules and clusters, for which we assume a linear scalar polarizability mediating the particle-light interaction. The predicted friction and diffusion coefficients are in good agreement with former semiclassical calculations for atoms and small molecules in weakly pumped cavities, while the current rigorous quantum treatment and numerical assessment sheds a light on the feasibility of experiments that aim at optically manipulating beams of massive molecules with multimode cavities.

id: 1004.0865
title: Entanglement consumption of instantaneous nonlocal quantum measurements
authors: S.R. Clark, A.J. Connor, D. Jaksch, S. Popescu
comments: 32 pages and 14 figures. Updated to published version
journal: New J.Phys.12:083034,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0865
abstract: Relativistic causality has dramatic consequences on the measurability of nonlocal variables and poses the fundamental question of whether it is physically meaningful to speak about the value of nonlocal variables at a particular time. Recent work has shown that by weakening the role of the measurement in preparing eigenstates of the variable it is in fact possible to measure all nonlocal observables instantaneously by exploiting entanglement. However, for these measurement schemes to succeed with certainty an infinite amount of entanglement must be distributed initially and all this entanglement is necessarily consumed. In this work we sharpen the characterisation of instantaneous nonlocal measurements by explicitly devising schemes in which only a finite amount of the initially distributed entanglement is ever utilised. This enables us to determine an upper bound to the average consumption for the most general cases of nonlocal measurements. This includes the tasks of state verification, where the measurement verifies if the system is in a given state, and verification measurements of a general set of eigenstates of an observable. Despite its finiteness the growth of entanglement consumption is found to display an extremely unfavourable exponential of an exponential scaling with either the number of qubits needed to contain the Schmidt rank of the target state or total number of qubits in the system for an operator measurement. This scaling is seen to be a consequence of the combination of the generic exponential scaling of unitary decompositions combined with the highly recursive structure of our scheme required to overcome the no-signalling constraint of relativistic causality.

id: 1004.0888
title: Entanglement in channel discrimination with restricted measurements
authors: William Matthews, Marco Piani, John Watrous
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0888
abstract: We study the power of measurements implementable with local quantum operations and classical communication (or LOCC measurements for short) in the setting of quantum channel discrimination. More precisely, we consider discrimination procedures that attempt to identify an unknown channel, chosen uniformly from two known alternatives, that take the following form: (i) the input to the unknown channel is prepared in a possibly entangled state with an ancillary system, (ii) the unknown channel is applied to the input system, and (iii) an LOCC measurement is performed on the output and ancillary systems, resulting in a guess for which of the two channels was given. The restriction of the measurement in such a procedure to be an LOCC measurement is of interest because it isolates the entanglement in the initial input/ancillary systems as a resource in the setting of channel discrimination. We prove that there exist channel discrimination problems for which restricted procedures of this sort can be at either of the two extremes: they may be optimal within the set of all discrimination procedures (and simultaneously outperform all strategies that make no use of entanglement), or they may be no better than unentangled strategies (and simultaneously sub-optimal within the set of all discrimination procedures).

id: 1004.0910
title: Entanglement Control of Azobenzene by Photoisomerization in NMR Quantum Computer
authors: Taiga Yasuda, Masahito Tada-Umezaki, Mikio Nakahara, Tomonari Wakabayashi
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure and 1 table.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0910
abstract: Entanglement control of qubits in a photoisomerizing molecule is studied in the context of an NMR quantum computer by taking azobenzene as an example. Azobenzene has two different isomers, {\it{}trans}-azobenzene (TAB) and {\it{}cis}-azobenzene (CAB), which can be interconverted by photoisomerization. Changing molecular structure leads to change in the spin-spin coupling constant, and hence leads to change in entangling operation time. We first obtain stable structures of TAB and CAB by {\it ab initio} calculation. Then, we calculate the NMR spectra of these isomers and verify that they reproduce the chemical shift obtained experimentally with a good precision. Our result indicates that the coupling strength between a $^{15}$N and a $^{13}$C nuclei in the molecule changes by a large amount under photoisomerization.

id: 1004.0929
title: Bases for qudits from a nonstandard approach to SU(2)
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler
comments: From a talk presented at the 13th International Conference on Symmetry Methods in Physics (Dubna, Russia, 6-9 July 2009) organized in memory of Prof. Yurii Fedorovich Smirnov by the Bogoliubov Laboratory of Theoretical Physics of the JINR and the ICAS at Yerevan State University.
journal: 13th International Conference on Symmetry Methods in Physics (SYMPHYS XIII), Dubna : Russian Federation (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0929
abstract: Bases of finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces (in dimension d) of relevance for quantum information and quantum computation are constructed from angular momentum theory and su(2) Lie algebraic methods. We report on a formula for deriving in one step the (1+p)p qupits (i.e., qudits with d = p a prime integer) of a complete set of 1+p mutually unbiased bases in C^p. Repeated application of the formula can be used for generating mutually unbiased bases in C^d with d = p^e (e > or = 2) a power of a prime integer. A connection between mutually unbiased bases and the unitary group SU(d) is briefly discussed in the case d = p^e.

id: 1004.0951
title: All maps equivalent to a given map, completely positive or not
authors: Yong-Cheng Ou, Mark S. Byrd
comments: 
journal: PhysRevA. 82. 022325 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0951
abstract: A dynamical map is a map which takes one density operator to another. Such a map can be written in an operator-sum representation (OSR) using a spectral decomposition. The method of the construction applies to more general maps which need not be completely positive. The OSR not unique; there is a freedom to choose the set of operators in the OSR differently, yet still obtain the same map. Here we identify all maps which are equivalent to a given map. Whereas the freedom for completely positive maps is unitary, the freedom for maps which are not necessarily completely positive is pseudo-unitary.

id: 1004.0976
title: Tailoring discrete quantum walk dynamics via extended initial conditions: Towards homogeneous probability distributions
authors: Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel, Eugenio Rold¨¢n, Alejandro Romanelli
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys 12, 123022 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0976
abstract: We study the evolution of initially extended distributions in the coined quantum walk on the line by analyzing the dispersion relation of the process and its associated wave equations. This allows us, in particular, to devise an initially extended condition leading to a uniform probability distribution whose width increases linearly with time, with increasing homogeneity.

id: 1004.0980
title: Analysis of Controlled Photon Storage Time Using Phase Locking by Atomic Population Transfer
authors: Byoung S. Ham
comments: 4 pages, 3 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0980
abstract: Atomic population transfer in an inhomogeneously broadened optical medium is analyzed for on-demand photon storage-time control in both atomic frequency comb (AFC) and phase locked echoes. In AFC the photon storage mechanism belongs to the conventional three-pulse photon echoes, while the storage time control is limited by conventional two-pulse photon echoes.

id: 1004.1011
title: Process tomography of dynamical decoupling in a dense optically trapped atomic ensemble
authors: Yoav Sagi, Ido Almog, Nir Davidson
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, including supplementary information section
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 053201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1011
abstract: Atomic ensembles have many potential applications in quantum information science. Owing to collective enhancement, working with ensembles at high densities increases the overall efficiency of quantum operations, but at the same time also increases the collision rate and leads to faster decoherence. Here we report on experiments with optically trapped 87Rb atoms demonstrating a 20-fold increase of the coherence time when a dynamical decoupling sequence with more than 200 pi-pulses is applied. We perform quantum process tomography and demonstrate that using the decoupling scheme a dense ensemble with an optical depth of 230 can be used as an atomic memory with coherence times exceeding 3 sec.

id: 1004.1127
title: Concatenated quantum codes can attain the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov bound
authors: Yingkai Ouyang
comments: 15 pages, single column, Manuscript is completely rewritten in standard notation, and minor errors are fixed. The figure is updated
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, JUNE.2014, Volume: 60, Issue: 6, pages: 1-6
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1127
abstract: A family of quantum codes of increasing block length with positive rate is asymptotically good if the ratio of its distance to its block length approaches a positive constant. The asymptotic quantum Gilbert-Varshamov (GV) bound states that there exist $q$-ary quantum codes of sufficiently long block length $N$ having fixed rate $R$ with distance at least $N H^{-1}_{q^2}((1-R)/2)$, where $H_{q^2}$ is the $q^2$-ary entropy function. For $q < 7$, only random quantum codes are known to asymptotically attain the quantum GV bound. However, random codes have little structure. In this paper, we generalize the classical result of Thommesen to the quantum case, thereby demonstrating the existence of concatenated quantum codes that can asymptotically attain the quantum GV bound. The outer codes are quantum generalized Reed-Solomon codes, and the inner codes are random independently chosen stabilizer codes, where the rates of the inner and outer codes lie in a specified feasible region.

id: 1004.1130
title: QMIP = MIP*
authors: Anne Broadbent, Joseph Fitzsimons, Elham Kashefi
comments: Withdrawn by the authors due to an incomplete proof of Theorem 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1130
abstract: The way entanglement influences the power of quantum and classical multi-prover interactive proof systems is a long-standing open question. We show that the class of languages recognized by quantum multi-prover interactive proof systems, QMIP, is equal to MIP*, the class of languages recognized by classical multi-prover interactive proof systems where the provers share entanglement. After the recent result by Jain, Ji, Upadhyay and Watrous showing that QIP=IP, our work completes the picture from the verifier's perspective by showing that also in the setting of multiple provers with shared entanglement, a quantum verifier is no more powerful than a classical one: QMIP=MIP*. Our techniques are based on the adaptation of universal blind quantum computation (a protocol recently introduced by us) to the context of interactive proof systems. We show that in the multi-prover scenario, shared entanglement has a positive effect in removing the need for a quantum verifier. As a consequence, our results show that the entire power of quantum information in multi-prover interactive proof systems is captured by the shared entanglement and not by the quantum communication.

id: 1004.1134
title: Distribution of chirality in the quantum walk: Markov process and entanglement
authors: Alejandro Romanelli
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, It was accepted in Physcial Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1134
abstract: The asymptotic behavior of the quantum walk on the line is investigated focusing on the probability distribution of chirality independently of position. The long-time limit of this distribution is shown to exist and to depend on the initial conditions, and it also determines the asymptotic value of the entanglement between the coin and the position. It is shown that for given asymptotic values of both the entanglement and the chirality distribution it is possible to find the corresponding initial conditions within a particular class of spatially extended Gaussian distributions. Moreover it is shown that the entanglement also measures the degree of Markovian randomness of the distribution of chirality.

id: 1004.1161
title: Hyperfine and Optical Barium Ion Qubits
authors: M. R. Dietrich, N. Kurz, T. Noel, G. Shu, B. B. Blinov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1161
abstract: State preparation, qubit rotation, and high fidelity readout are demonstrated for two separate \baseven qubit types. First, an optical qubit on the narrow 6S$_{1/2}$ to 5D$_{5/2}$ transition at 1.76 $\mu$m is implemented. Then, leveraging the techniques developed there for readout, a ground state hyperfine qubit using the magnetically insensitive transition at 8 GHz is accomplished.

id: 1004.1219
title: Verifiable nonlinear quantum evolution implies failure of density matrices to represent proper mixtures
authors: Eric G. Cavalcanti, Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: 1 page, 0 figures. Comment on PRL 103, 170502 (2009), arXiv:0908.3023; V2: corrected reference, added acknowledgement; V3: reduced length, modified formatting and simplified example to fit 1 page; V4: simplified argument, modified title to emphasise main result
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1219
abstract: In a recent Letter, Bennett and coworkers [1] argue that proofs of exotic quantum effects using closed timelike curves (CTC's) based on the work of Deutsch [2], or other nonlinear quantum dynamics, suffer from a fallacy that they call the "linearity trap," by which one cannot assume that a classical mixture of input states will lead to the same mixture of corresponding output states. We show that this prescription is inconsistent with the assumption that one can verify the postulated nonlinear evolution. Specifically, if some agent can empirically verify the deterministic nonlinear action of a physical device for some set of pure-state inputs, then one cannot generally use density matrices to represent the input for a second agent who is ignorant of the actual pure state prepared. Our argument is epistemological and makes no appeal to the detailed physics of CTC's.

id: 1004.1226
title: Logic is to the quantum as geometry is to gravity
authors: Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: plainTeX, 26 pages, 2 figures. To appear in G.F.R. Ellis, J. Murugan and A. Weltman (eds), {\it Foundations of Space and Time} (Cambridge University Press). Most current version is available at this http URL (or wherever my home-page may be).
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1226
abstract: I will propose that the reality to which the quantum formalism implicitly refers is a kind of generalized history, the word history having here the same meaning as in the phrase sum-over-histories. This proposal confers a certain independence on the concept of event, and it modifies the rules of inference concerning events in order to resolve a contradiction between the idea of reality as a single history and the principle that events of zero measure cannot happen (the Kochen-Specker paradox being a classic expression of this contradiction). The so-called measurement problem is then solved if macroscopic events satisfy classical rules of inference, and this can in principle be decided by a calculation. The resulting conception of reality involves neither multiple worlds nor external observers. It is therefore suitable for quantum gravity in general and causal sets in particular.

id: 1004.1242
title: A Fair Sampling Test for Ekert Protocol
authors: Guillaume Adenier, Noboru Watanabe, Andrei Yu. Khrennikov
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1242
abstract: We propose a local scheme to enhance the security of quantum key distribution in Ekert protocol (E91). Our proposal is a fair sampling test meant to detect an eavesdropping attempt that would use a biased sample to mimic an apparent violation of Bell inequalities. The test is local and non disruptive: it can be unilaterally performed at any time by either Alice or Bob during the production of the key, and together with the Bell inequality test.

id: 1004.1269
title: Quantum Algorithms for Unit Group and principal ideal problem
authors: Hong Wang, Zhi Ma
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1269
abstract: Computing the unit group and solving the principal ideal problem for a number field are two of the main tasks in computational algebraic number theory. This paper proposes efficient quantum algorithms for these two problems when the number field has constant degree. We improve these algorithms proposed by Hallgren by using a period function which is not one-to-one on its fundamental period. Furthermore, given access to a function which encodes the lattice, a new method to compute the basis of an unknown real-valued lattice is presented.

id: 1004.1274
title: Experimental realization of sub-shot-noise quantum imaging
authors: G. Brida, M. Genovese, I. Ruo Berchera
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 227 - 230 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1274
abstract: Properties of quantum states have disclosed new technologies, ranging from quantum information to quantum metrology. Among them a recent research field is quantum imaging, addressed to overcome limits of classical imaging by exploiting spatial properties of quantum states of light . In particular quantum correlations between twin beams represent a fundamental resource for these studies. One of the most interesting proposed scheme exploits spatial quantum correlations between parametric down conversion light beams for realizing sub-shot-noise imaging of the weak absorbing objects, leading ideally to a noise-free imaging. Here we present the first experimental realisation of this scheme, showing its capability to reach a larger signal to noise ratio (SNR) with respect to classical imaging methods. This work represents the starting point of this quantum technology that can have relevant applications, especially whenever there is a need of a low photon flux illumination (e.g. as with certain biological samples).

id: 1004.1316
title: Genuine multipartite nonlocality of entangled thermal states
authors: G. McKeown, F.L. Semiao, H. Jeong, M. Paternostro
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, RevteX4
journal: Phy. Rev. A 82, 022315 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1316
abstract: We assess quantum non-locality of multiparty entangled thermal states by studying, quantitatively, both tripartite and quadripartite states belonging to the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ), W and linear cluster-state classes and showing violation of relevant Bell-like inequalities. We discuss the conditions for maximizing the degree of violation against the local thermal character of the states and the inefficiency of the detection apparatuses. We demonstrate that such classes of multipartite entangled states can be made to last quite significantly, notwithstanding adverse operating conditions. This opens up the possibility for coherent exploitation of multipartite quantum channels made out of entangled thermal states. Our study is accompanied by a detailed description of possible generation schemes for the states analyzed.

id: 1004.1317
title: On the negativity of random pure states
authors: Animesh Datta
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 81, 052312 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1317
abstract: This paper deals with the entanglement, as quantified by the negativity, of pure quantum states chosen at random from the invariant Haar measure. We show that it is a constant (0.72037) multiple of the maximum possible entanglement. In line with the results based on the concentration of measure, we find evidence that the convergence to the final value is exponentially fast. We compare the analytically calculated mean and standard deviation with those calculated numerically for pure states generated via pseudorandom unitary matrices proposed by Emerson et. al. [Science, 302, 3098, (2003)]. Finally, we draw some novel conclusions about the geometry of quantum states based on our result.

id: 1004.1325
title: Atomic vapor quantum memory for a photonic polarization qubit
authors: Young-Wook Cho, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 18, Issue 25, pp. 25786-25793 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1325
abstract: We report an experimental realization of an atomic vapor quantum memory for the photonic po- larization qubit. The performance of the quantum memory for the polarization qubit, realized with electromagnetically-induced transparency in two spatially separated ensembles of warm Rubidium atoms in a single vapor cell, has been characterized with quantum process tomography. The process fidelity better than 0.91 for up to 16 \mu s of storage time has been achieved.

id: 1004.1345
title: Bending The Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle
authors: Anwar Mohiuddin, Abhijeet K.Jha, Prasanta K.Panigrahi
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1345
abstract: The celebrated Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle \Delta x \Delta p\ge \hbar/2 can allow measurement accuracies less than \Delta x or \Delta p. Classical analog of this is known as sub-Fourier sensitivity. We illustrate this phenomenon in a step by step process using the example of compass state, as suggested by Zurek.

id: 1004.1366
title: Casimir energy between media-separated cylinders: the scalar case
authors: F.C. Lombardo, F.D. Mazzitelli, P.I. Villar, D.A.R. Dalvit
comments: New figure and discussion about the integration contour in the complex plane
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:042509,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1366
abstract: We derive exact expressions for the Casimir scalar interaction energy between media-separated eccentric dielectric cylinders and for the media-separated cylinder-plane geometry using a mode-summation approach. Similarly to the electromagnetic Casimir-Lifshitz interaction energy between fluid-separated planar plates, the force between cylinders is attractive or repulsive depending on the relative values of the permittivities of the three intervening media.

id: 1004.1370
title: Efficient multi-mode quantum memory based on photon echo in optimal QED cavity
authors: Sergey A. Moiseev, Sergey N. Andrianov, Firdus F. Gubaidullin
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1370
abstract: Effective multi-mode photon echo based quantum memory on multi-atomic ensemble in the QED cavity is proposed. Analytical solution is obtained for the quantum memory efficiency that can be equal unity when optimal relations for the cavity and atomic parameters are held. Numerical estimation for realistic atomic and cavity parameters demonstrates the high efficiency of the quantum memory for optically thin resonant atomic system.

id: 1004.1386
title: Min- and Max-Entropy in Infinite Dimensions
authors: Fabian Furrer, Johan Aberg, Renato Renner
comments: 
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, Vol. 306, No. 1, 165-186 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1386
abstract: We consider an extension of the conditional min- and max-entropies to infinite-dimensional separable Hilbert spaces. We show that these satisfy characterizing properties known from the finite-dimensional case, and retain information-theoretic operational interpretations, e.g., the min-entropy as maximum achievable quantum correlation, and the max-entropy as decoupling accuracy. We furthermore generalize the smoothed versions of these entropies and prove an infinite-dimensional quantum asymptotic equipartition property. To facilitate these generalizations we show that the min- and max-entropy can be expressed in terms of convergent sequences of finite-dimensional min- and max-entropies, which provides a convenient technique to extend proofs from the finite to the infinite-dimensional setting.

id: 1004.1388
title: A class of commutative dynamics of open quantum systems
authors: D. Chruscinski, A. Kossakowski, P. Aniello, G. Marmo, F. Ventriglia
comments: 22 pages
journal: Open Syst.Info.Dyn. 17:255-278,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1388
abstract: We analyze a class of dynamics of open quantum systems which is governed by the dynamical map mutually commuting at different times. Such evolution may be effectively described via spectral analysis of the corresponding time dependent generators. We consider both Markovian and non-Markovian cases.

id: 1004.1393
title: Mathematical Constraint on Functions with Continuous Second Partial Derivatives
authors: J.D. Franson
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 045202 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1393
abstract: A new integral identity for functions with continuous second partial derivatives is derived. It is shown that the value of any function f(r,t) at position r and time t is completely determined by its previous values at all other locations r' and retarded times t'<t, provided that the function vanishes at infinity and has continuous second partial derivatives. Functions of this kind occur in many areas of physics and it seems somewhat surprising that they are constrained in this way.

id: 1004.1414
title: CNOT and Bell-state analysis in the weak-coupling cavity QED regime
authors: Cristian Bonato, Florian Haupt, Sumant S. R. Oemrawsingh, Jan Gudat, Dapend Ding, Martin P. van Exter, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:160503,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1414
abstract: We propose an interface between the spin of a photon and the spin of an electron confined in a quantum dot embedded in a microcavity operating in the weak coupling regime. This interface, based on spin selective photon reflection from the cavity, can be used to construct a CNOT gate, a multi-photon entangler and a photonic Bell-state analyzer. Finally, we analyze experimental feasibility, concluding that the schemes can be implemented with current technology.

id: 1004.1416
title: The Quantum Wave packet and the Feynman-De Broglie-Bohm propagator of the Schrodinger-Nassar equations for an equation for an extended electron
authors: J. M. F. Bassalo, P. T. S. Alencar, D. G. da Silva, A. B. Nassar, M. Cattani
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1416
abstract: In this paper we study the quantum wave packet and the Feynman-de Broglie-Bohm Propagator of the Schrodinger-Nassar equation for an extended electron.

id: 1004.1433
title: New Class of 4-Dim Kochen-Specker Sets
authors: Mladen Pavicic, Norman D. Megill, P. K. Aravind, Mordecai Waegell
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures; to appear in J. Math. Phys. Vol.52, No. 2 (2011)
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, Vol.52, No. 2, pp. 022104-1-9 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1433
abstract: We find a new highly symmetrical and very numerous class (millions of non-isomorphic sets) of 4-dim Kochen-Specker (KS) vector sets. Due to the nature of their geometrical symmetries, they cannot be obtained from previously known ones. We generate the sets from a single set of 60 orthogonal spin vectors and 75 of their tetrads (which we obtained from the 600-cell) by means of our newly developed "stripping technique." We also consider "critical KS subsets" and analyze their geometry. The algorithms and programs for the generation of our KS sets are presented.

id: 1004.1434
title: On the uselessness of quantum queries
authors: David A. Meyer, James Pommersheim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1434
abstract: Given a prior probability distribution over a set of possible oracle functions, we define a number of queries to be useless for determining some property of the function if the probability that the function has the property is unchanged after the oracle responds to the queries. A familiar example is the parity of a uniformly random Boolean-valued function over $\{1,2,...,N\}$, for which $N-1$ classical queries are useless. We prove that if $2k$ classical queries are useless for some oracle problem, then $k$ quantum queries are also useless. For such problems, which include classical threshold secret sharing schemes, our result also gives a new way to obtain a lower bound on the quantum query complexity, even in cases where neither the function nor the property to be determined is Boolean.

id: 1004.1443
title: Doppler cooling a microsphere
authors: P. F. Barker
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1443
abstract: Doppler cooling the center-of-mass motion of an optically levitated microsphere via the velocity dependent scattering force from narrow whispering gallery mode (WGM) resonances is described. Light that is red detuned from the WGM resonance can be used to damp the center-of-mass motion in a process analogous to the Doppler cooling of atoms. Leakage of photons out of the microsphere when the incident field is near resonant with the narrow WGM resonance acts to damp the motion of the sphere. The scattering force is not limited by saturation, but can be controlled by the incident power. Cooling times on the order of seconds are calculated for a 20 micron diameter silica microsphere trapped within optical tweezers, with a Doppler temperature limit in the microKelvin regime.

id: 1004.1450
title: Non-Markovian entanglement dynamics in the presence of system-bath coherence
authors: Arend G. Dijkstra, Yoshitaka Tanimura
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 250401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1450
abstract: A complete treatment of the entanglement of two-level systems, which evolves through the contact with a thermal bath, must include the fact that the system and the bath are not fully separable. Therefore, quantum coherent superpositions of system and bath states, which are almost never fully included in theoretical models, are invariably present when an entangled state is prepared experimentally. We show their importance for the time evolution of the entanglement of two qubits coupled to independent baths. In addition, our treatment is able to handle slow and low-temperature thermal baths.

id: 1004.1483
title: A derivation of quantum theory from physical requirements
authors: Lluis Masanes, Markus P. Mueller
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures. V3: added alternative formulation of Requirement 5, extended abstract, some minor modifications
journal: New J.Phys.13:063001,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1483
abstract: Quantum theory is usually formulated in terms of abstract mathematical postulates, involving Hilbert spaces, state vectors, and unitary operators. In this work, we show that the full formalism of quantum theory can instead be derived from five simple physical requirements, based on elementary assumptions about preparation, transformations and measurements. This is more similar to the usual formulation of special relativity, where two simple physical requirements -- the principles of relativity and light speed invariance -- are used to derive the mathematical structure of Minkowski space-time. Our derivation provides insights into the physical origin of the structure of quantum state spaces (including a group-theoretic explanation of the Bloch ball and its three-dimensionality), and it suggests several natural possibilities to construct consistent modifications of quantum theory.

id: 1004.1521
title: Experimental Evidence of Quantum Randomness Incomputability
authors: Cristian S. Calude, Michael J. Dinneen, Monica Dumitrescu, Karl Svozil
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures, statistical analysis added, other sections greatly expanded
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022102 (2010) [8 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1521
abstract: In contrast with software-generated randomness (called pseudo-randomness), quantum randomness is provable incomputable, i.e.\ it is not exactly reproducible by any algorithm. We provide experimental evidence of incomputability --- an asymptotic property --- of quantum randomness by performing finite tests of randomness inspired by algorithmic information theory.

id: 1004.1538
title: Quantum Electrodynamics of Quantum Dot-Metal Nanoparticles Molecules
authors: A. Ridolfo, O. Di Stefano, N. Fina, R. Saija, S. Savasta
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1538
abstract: We study theoretically the quantum optical properties of hybrid molecules composed of an individual quantum dot and a metallic nanoparticle. We calculate the resonance fluorescence of this hybrid system. Its incoherent part, the one arising from nonlinear quantum processes, results to be enhanced by more than two orders of magnitude as compared to that in the absence of the metallic nanoparticle. Scattering spectra at different excitation powers and nonperturbative calculations of intensity-field correlation functions show that this system can act as a nonlinear ultra-compact two-photon switch for incident photons, where the presence (or absence) of a single incident photon field is sufficient to allow (or prevent) the scattering of subsequent photons. We also find that a small frequency shift of the incident light field may cause changes in the intensity field correlation function of orders of magnitude.

id: 1004.1598
title: Environment and classical channels in categorical quantum mechanics
authors: Bob Coecke, Simon Perdrix
comments: 26 pages, many pics; this third version has substantially more explanations than previous ones; Journal reference is of short 14 page version; Proceedings of the 19th EACSL Annual Conference on Computer Science Logic (CSL), Lecture Notes in Computer Science 6247, Springer-Verlag (2010)
journal: LMCS 8 (4:14) 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1598
abstract: We present a both simple and comprehensive graphical calculus for quantum computing. In particular, we axiomatize the notion of an environment, which together with the earlier introduced axiomatic notion of classical structure enables us to define classical channels, quantum measurements and classical control. If we moreover adjoin the earlier introduced axiomatic notion of complementarity, we obtain sufficient structural power for constructive representation and correctness derivation of typical quantum informatic protocols.

id: 1004.1599
title: Validity of Landauer's principle in the quantum regime
authors: Stefanie Hilt, Saroosh Shabbir, Janet Anders, Eric Lutz
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys Rev E (R) 83, 030102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1599
abstract: We demonstrate the validity of Landauer's erasure principle in the strong coupling quantum regime by treating the system-reservoir interaction in a consistent way. We show that the initial coupling to the reservoir modifies both energy and entropy of the system and provide explicit expressions for the latter in the case of a damped quantum harmonic oscillator. These contributions are related to the Hamiltonian of mean force and dominate in the strong damping limit. They need therefore to be fully taken into account in any low-temperature thermodynamic analysis of quantum systems.

id: 1004.1603
title: Exact analytical solutions to the master equation of quantum Brownian motion for a general environment
authors: C. H. Fleming, Albert Roura, B. L. Hu
comments: 37 pages (26 + appendices), 14 figures; this paper is an evolution of arXiv:0705.2766v1, but contains far more general and significant results; v2 minor changes, double column, improved Appendix C
journal: Annals of Physics 326,1207 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1603
abstract: We revisit the model of a quantum Brownian oscillator linearly coupled to an environment of quantum oscillators at finite temperature. By introducing a compact and particularly well-suited formulation, we give a rather quick and direct derivation of the master equation and its solutions for general spectral functions and arbitrary temperatures. The flexibility of our approach allows for an immediate generalization to cases with an external force and with an arbitrary number of Brownian oscillators. More importantly, we point out an important mathematical subtlety concerning boundary-value problems for integro-differential equations which led to incorrect master equation coefficients and impacts on the description of nonlocal dissipation effects in all earlier derivations. Furthermore, we provide explicit, exact analytical results for the master equation coefficients and its solutions in a wide variety of cases, including ohmic, sub-ohmic and supra-ohmic environments with a finite cut-off.

id: 1004.1633
title: Construction of Equientangled Bases in Arbitrary Dimensions via Quadratic Gauss Sums and Graph States
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu, Shiang Yong Looi
comments: Minor changes, replaced by the published version. Any comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062341 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1633
abstract: Recently [Karimipour and Memarzadeh, Phys. Rev. A 73, 012329 (2006)] studied the problem of finding a family of orthonormal bases in a bipartite space each of dimension $D$ with the following properties: (i) The family continuously interpolates between the product basis and the maximally entangled basis as some parameter $t$ is varied, and (ii) for a fixed $t$, all basis states have the same amount of entanglement. The authors derived a necessary condition and provided explicit solutions for $D \leq 5$ but the existence of a solution for arbitrary dimensions remained an open problem. We prove that such families exist in arbitrary dimensions by providing two simple solutions, one employing the properties of quadratic Gauss sums and the other using graph states. The latter can be generalized to multipartite equientangled bases with more than two parties.

id: 1004.1641
title: The decoupling approach to quantum information theory
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis
comments: PhD Thesis, Universit\'e de Montr\'eal, defended December 2009. 133 pages.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1641
abstract: Quantum information theory studies the fundamental limits that physical laws impose on information processing tasks such as data compression and data transmission on noisy channels. This thesis presents general techniques that allow one to solve many fundamental problems of quantum information theory in a unified framework. The central theorem of this thesis proves the existence of a protocol that transmits quantum data that is partially known to the receiver through a single use of an arbitrary noisy quantum channel. In addition to the intrinsic interest of this problem, this theorem has as immediate corollaries several central theorems of quantum information theory. The following chapters use this theorem to prove the existence of new protocols for two other types of quantum channels, namely quantum broadcast channels and quantum channels with side information at the transmitter. These protocols also involve sending quantum information partially known by the receiver with a single use of the channel, and have as corollaries entanglement-assisted and unassisted asymptotic coding theorems. The entanglement-assisted asymptotic versions can, in both cases, be considered as quantum versions of the best coding theorems known for the classical versions of these problems. The last chapter deals with a purely quantum phenomenon called locking. We demonstrate that it is possible to encode a classical message into a quantum state such that, by removing a subsystem of logarithmic size with respect to its total size, no measurement can have significant correlations with the message. The message is therefore "locked" by a logarithmic-size key. This thesis presents the first locking protocol for which the success criterion is that the trace distance between the joint distribution of the message and the measurement result and the product of their marginals be sufficiently small.

id: 1004.1645
title: Characterization of universal two-qubit Hamiltonians
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Debbie Leung, Laura Man?inska, Maris Ozols
comments: Added Appendix D, showing how our results easily imply universality of almost any 2-qubit unitary
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 11, 19-39 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1645
abstract: Suppose we can apply a given 2-qubit Hamiltonian H to any (ordered) pair of qubits. We say H is n-universal if it can be used to approximate any unitary operation on n qubits. While it is well known that almost any 2-qubit Hamiltonian is 2-universal (Deutsch, Barenco, Ekert 1995; Lloyd 1995), an explicit characterization of the set of non-universal 2-qubit Hamiltonians has been elusive. Our main result is a complete characterization of 2-non-universal 2-qubit Hamiltonians. In particular, there are three ways that a 2-qubit Hamiltonian H can fail to be universal: (1) H shares an eigenvector with the gate that swaps two qubits, (2) H acts on the two qubits independently (in any of a certain family of bases), or (3) H has zero trace. A 2-non-universal 2-qubit Hamiltonian can still be n-universal for some n >= 3. We give some partial results on 3-universality. Finally, we also show how our characterization of 2-universal Hamiltonians implies the well-known result that almost any 2-qubit unitary is universal.

id: 1004.1655
title: A class of Bell diagonal states and entanglement witnesses
authors: D. Chruscinski, A. Kossakowski, K. Mlodawski, T. Matsuoka
comments: 17 pages
journal: Open Systems and Inf. Dynamics 17, 235-254 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1655
abstract: We analyze special class of bipartite states - so called Bell diagonal states. In particular we provide new examples of bound entangled Bell diagonal states and construct the class of entanglement witnesses diagonal in the magic basis.

id: 1004.1667
title: Temporal compression of quantum information-carrying photons using a photon-echo quantum memory approach
authors: S.A. Moiseev, W. Tittel
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1667
abstract: We study quantum compression and decompression of light pulses that carry quantum information using a photon-echo quantum memory technique with controllable inhomogeneous broadening of an isolated atomic absorption line. We investigate media with differently broadened absorption profiles, transverse and longitudinal, finding that the recall efficiency can be as large as unity and that the quantum information encoded into the photonic qubits can remain unperturbed. Our results provide new insight into reversible light-atom interaction, and are interesting in view of future quantum communication networks, where pulse compression and decompression may play an important role to increase the qubit rate, or to map quantum information from photonic carriers with large optical bandwidth into atomic memories with smaller bandwidth.

id: 1004.1689
title: Higher Order Squeezing and Higher Order Subpoissonian Photon Statistics in Intermediate States
authors: Amit Verma, Anirban Pathak
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1689
abstract: Recently simpler criteria for the Hong-Mandel higher order squeezing (HOS) and higher order subpossonian photon statistics (HOSPS) are provided by us [Phys. Lett. A 374 (2010) 1009]. Here we have used these simplified criteria to study the possibilities of observing HOSPS and HOS in different intermediate states, such as generalized binomial state, hypergeometric state, negative binomial state and photon added coherent state. It is shown that these states may satisfy the condition of HOS and HOSPS. It is also shown that the depth and region of nonclassicality can be controlled by controlling various parameters related to intermediate states. Further, we have analyzed the mutual relationship between different signatures of higher order nonclassicality with reference to these intermediate states. We have observed that the generalized binomial state may show signature of HOSPS in absence of HOS. Earlier we have shown that NLVSS shows HOS in absence of HOSPS. Consequently it is established that the HOSPS and HOS of same order are independent phenomenon.

id: 1004.1697
title: A Library-Based Synthesis Methodology for Reversible Logic
authors: Mehdi Saeedi, Mehdi Sedighi, Morteza Saheb Zamani
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures, Microelectronics Journal, Elsevier
journal: Mehdi Saeedi, Mehdi Sedighi, Morteza Saheb Zamani, ?A Library-Based Synthesis Methodology for Reversible Logic,? Microelectronics Journal, Elsevier, Volume 41, No. 4, pp. 185-194, 2010.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1697
abstract: In this paper, a library-based synthesis methodology for reversible circuits is proposed where a reversible specification is considered as a permutation comprising a set of cycles. To this end, a pre-synthesis optimization step is introduced to construct a reversible specification from an irreversible function. In addition, a cycle-based representation model is presented to be used as an intermediate format in the proposed synthesis methodology. The selected intermediate format serves as a focal point for all potential representation models. In order to synthesize a given function, a library containing seven building blocks is used where each building block is a cycle of length less than 6. To synthesize large cycles, we also propose a decomposition algorithm which produces all possible minimal and inequivalent factorizations for a given cycle of length greater than 5. All decompositions contain the maximum number of disjoint cycles. The generated decompositions are used in conjunction with a novel cycle assignment algorithm which is proposed based on the graph matching problem to select the best possible cycle pairs. Then, each pair is synthesized by using the available components of the library. The decomposition algorithm together with the cycle assignment method are considered as a binding method which selects a building block from the library for each cycle. Finally, a post-synthesis optimization step is introduced to optimize the synthesis results in terms of different costs.

id: 1004.1725
title: Orientation-Dependent Entanglement Lifetime in a Squeezed Atomic Clock
authors: Ian D. Leroux, Monika H. Schleier-Smith, Vladan Vuleti?
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:250801,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1725
abstract: We study experimentally the lifetime of a special class of entangled states in an atomic clock, squeezed spin states. In the presence of anisotropic noise, their lifetime is strongly dependent on squeezing orientation. We measure the Allan deviation spectrum of a clock operated with a phase-squeezed input state. For integration times up to 50 s the squeezed clock achieves a given precision 2.8(3) times faster than a clock operating at the standard quantum limit.

id: 1004.1731
title: Quantum properties of a single beam splitter
authors: F. Lalo?, W.J.Mullin
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1731
abstract: When a single beam-splitter receives two beams of bosons described by Fock states (Bose-Einstein condensates at very low temperatures), interesting generalizations of the two-photon Hong-Ou-Mandel effect take place for larger number of particles. The distributions of particles at two detectors behind the beam splitter can be understood as resulting from the combination of two effects, the spontaneous phase appearing during quantum measurement, and the quantum angle. The latter introduces quantum "population oscillations", which can be seen as a generalized Hong-Ou-Mandel effect, although they do not always correspond to even-odd oscillations.

id: 1004.1755
title: Rule-Based Optimization of Reversible Circuits
authors: Mona Arabzadeh, Mehdi Saeedi, Morteza Saheb Zamani
comments: 12 pages, 15 figures, Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Conference, 2010
journal: Mona Arabzadeh, Mehdi Saeedi, Morteza Saheb Zamani, "Rule-Based Optimization of Reversible Circuits," The 15th Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Conference (ASPDAC), pp. 849 - 854, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1755
abstract: Reversible logic has applications in various research areas including low-power design and quantum computation. In this paper, a rule-based optimization approach for reversible circuits is proposed which uses both negative and positive control Toffoli gates during the optimization. To this end, a set of rules for removing NOT gates and optimizing sub-circuits with common-target gates are proposed. To evaluate the proposed approach, the best-reported synthesized circuits and the results of a recent synthesis algorithm which uses both negative and positive controls are used. Our experiments reveal the potential of the proposed approach in optimizing synthesized circuits.

id: 1004.1817
title: Electromagnetically-induced transparency with amplification in superconducting circuits
authors: Jaewoo Joo, Jerome Bourassa, Alexandre Blais, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 105: 073601 (4 pp.), 9 August 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1817
abstract: We show that electromagnetically-induced transparency and lasing without inversion are simultaneously achieved for microwave fields by using a fluxonium superconducting circuit. As a result of the $\Delta$ energy-level structure of this artificial three-level atom, we find the surprising phenomenon that the electromagnetically-induced transparency window in the frequency domain is sandwiched between absorption on one side and amplification on the other side.

id: 1004.1834
title: Protecting and Dynamically Generating Entanglement in a Two-Atom Two-Field-Mode Model
authors: K. Sinha, N. Cummings, B. L. Hu
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1834
abstract: We analyze the time evolution of quantum entanglement in a model consisting of two two-level atoms interacting with a two-mode electromagnetic field for a variety of initial states. We study two different coupling schemes motivated by the forms that can arise due to atomic separation. We observe a variety of qualitative features such as entanglement sudden death, dynamical generation, protection, and transfer between subsystems. Our quantitative analysis shows that these cases with different couplings and initial states differ significantly in these qualitative features. The multifarious behaviors in these two-mode cases suggest the importance of considering atomic separation carefully for any model where two atoms interact with a common field.

id: 1004.1843
title: Quantum teleportation benchmarks for independent and identically-distributed spin states and displaced thermal states
authors: Madalin Guta, Peter Bowles, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042310 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1843
abstract: A successful state transfer (or teleportation) experiment must perform better than the benchmark set by the `best' measure and prepare procedure. We consider the benchmark problem for the following families of states: (i) displaced thermal equilibrium states of given temperature; (ii) independent identically prepared qubits with completely unknown state. For the first family we show that the optimal procedure is heterodyne measurement followed by the preparation of a coherent state. This procedure was known to be optimal for coherent states and for squeezed states with the `overlap fidelity' as figure of merit. Here we prove its optimality with respect to the trace norm distance and supremum risk. For the second problem we consider n i.i.d. spin-1/2 systems in an arbitrary unknown state $\rho$ and look for the measurement-preparation pair $(M_{n},P_{n})$ for which the reconstructed state $\omega_{n}:=P_{n}\circ M_{n} (\rho^{\otimes n})$ is as close as possible to the input state, i.e. $\|\omega_{n}- \rho^{\otimes n}\|_{1}$ is small. The figure of merit is based on the trace norm distance between input and output states. We show that asymptotically with $n$ the this problem is equivalent to the first one. The proof and construction of $(M_{n},P_{n})$ uses the theory of local asymptotic normality developed for state estimation which shows that i.i.d. quantum models can be approximated in a strong sense by quantum Gaussian models. The measurement part is identical with `optimal estimation', showing that `benchmarking' and estimation are closely related problems in the asymptotic set-up.

id: 1004.1868
title: Decompositional equivalence
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 12 pages; fixed typos, added references to Transactional Interpretation, clarified notation, added discussion of POVM view, added section on emergence of classicality
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1868
abstract: Both classical and quantum mechanics assume that physical laws are invariant under changes in the way that the world is labeled. This Principle of Decompositional Equivalence is formalized, and shown to forbid finite experimental demonstrations that given pointer states |p1> and |p2> refer to the same physical system S. It is then shown that any extra-theoretical assumption that given pointer states |p1> and |p2> with indistinguishable coefficients in a Schmidt basis for the universe refer to the same physical system S is stronger than the assumption of classicality. Standard interpretations of quantum mechanics make such as assumption in analyzing measurement; hence they are logically inconsistent.

id: 1004.1871
title: Asymptotically Secure Quantum Oblivious Transfer
authors: K.Y. Cheong, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Takeshi Koshiba
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors because the scheme may be insecure, due to an attack provided by Cr\'epeau Claude.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1871
abstract: Due to the commonly known impossibility results, unconditional security for oblivious transfer is seen as impossible even in the quantum world. In this paper, we try to overcome these impossibility results by proposing a protocol which is asymptotically secure. The protocol makes use of the basic properties of non-orthogonal quantum states. Apart from security, the advantages of our protocol include the fact that the honest players do not need to have quantum memory or create entanglement between individual qubits. The relation of our work to the known impossibility results is also discussed.

id: 1004.1904
title: Pseudo-Hermiticity and Electromagnetic Wave Propagation: The case of anisotropic and lossy media
authors: A. Mostafazadeh, G. Scolarici
comments: 12 pages, Published Version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 2401-2405 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1904
abstract: Pseudo-Hermitian operators can be used in modeling electromagnetic wave propagation in stationary lossless media. We extend this method to a class of non-dispersive anisotropic media that may display loss or gain. We explore three concrete models to demonstrate the utility of our general results and reveal the physical meaning of pseudo-Hermiticity and quasi-Hermiticity of the relevant wave operator. In particular, we consider a uniaxial model where this operator is not diagonalizable. This implies left-handedness of the medium in the sense that only clockwise circularly polarized plane-wave solutions are bounded functions of time.

id: 1004.1907
title: Universal quantum computer from a quantum magnet
authors: Jianming Cai, Akimasa Miyake, Wolfgang D¨¹r, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052309 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1907
abstract: We show that a local Hamiltonian of spin-3/2 particles with only two-body nearest-neighbor Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki and exchange-type interactions has an unique ground state, which can be used to implement universal quantum computation merely with single-spin measurements. We prove that the Hamiltonian is gapped, independent of the system size. Our result provides a further step towards utilizing systems with condensed matter-type interactions for measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 1004.1931
title: Entanglement properties of optical coherent states under amplitude damping
authors: Ricardo Wickert, Nadja Kolb Bernardes, Peter van Loock
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures. Revised version with small corrections; main results remain unaltered
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062344 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1931
abstract: Through concurrence, we characterize the entanglement properties of optical coherent-state qubits subject to an amplitude damping channel. We investigate the distillation capabilities of known error correcting codes and obtain upper bounds on the entanglement depending on the non-orthogonality of the coherent states and the channel damping parameter. This work provides a first, full quantitative analysis of these photon-loss codes which are naturally reminiscent of the standard qubit codes against Pauli errors.

id: 1004.1944
title: Ordering and quantification of quantumness
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1944
abstract: The properties of distance measures for the quantification of nonclassical properties will be studied. An ordering of quantum states will be introduced which relies on the basic algebraic definition of classical states. The classical manipulations of quantum states will be considered to further generalize the ordering. Our order method can be used for a quantification of nonclassicality in a natural way. We apply this method to introduce a nonclassicality measure, which is based on the fundamental quantum superposition principle.

id: 1004.1975
title: Disorder-Induced Order in Quantum XY Chains
authors: Armand Niederberger, Marek M. Rams, Jacek Dziarmaga, Fernando M. Cucchietti, Jan Wehr, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:013630,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1975
abstract: We observe signatures of disorder-induced order in 1D XY spin chains with an external, site-dependent uni-axial random field within the XY plane. We numerically investigate signatures of a quantum phase transition at T=0, in particular an upsurge of the magnetization in the direction orthogonal to the external magnetic field, and the scaling of the block-entropy with the amplitude of this field. Also, we discuss possible realizations of this effect in ultra-cold atom experiments.

id: 1004.1990
title: Optimality of the Heisenberg limit for continuous-variable quantum metrology
authors: Marcin Zwierz, Carlos A. Perez-Delgado, Pieter Kok
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1990
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to a fatal flaw in the central proof.

id: 1004.2004
title: Multipartite macroscopic locality and macroscopic non-contextuality
authors: Miguel Navascues
comments: This paper has been withdrawn.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2004
abstract: The author cannot grant that Quantum Mechanics satisfies the axioms described here when repeated measurements are at stake. This does not compromise the validity of the conclusions of the previous article "A glance beyond the quantum model", Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond. A 466, 881-890 (2009).

id: 1004.2044
title: Spectral resolution of the Liouvillian of the Lindblad master equation for a harmonic oscillator
authors: Daigo Honda, Hiromichi Nakazato, Motoyuki Yoshida
comments: 22pages, no figure; title changed, minor corrections, references added; minor corrections
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 072107 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2044
abstract: A Lindblad master equation for a harmonic oscillator, which describes the dynamics of an open system, is formally solved. The solution yields the spectral resolution of the Liouvillian, that is, all eigenvalues and eigenprojections are obtained. This spectral resolution is discussed in depth in the context of the biorthogonal system and the rigged Hilbert space, and the contribution of each eigenprojection to expectation values of physical quantities is revealed. We also construct the ladder operators of the Liouvillian, which clarify the structure of the spectral resolution.

id: 1004.2082
title: Symmetry aspects of quantum discord
authors: J. Maziero, L. C. Celeri, R. M. Serra
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2082
abstract: Quantum discord (QD) reveals the nonclassical nature of correlations in bipartite quantum states, going beyond the entanglement-separability paradigm. In this article we discuss the suitability of QD in what concern its possible asymmetry with relation to the bipartition we choose to compute it. We obtain an analytical formula for a symmetrized version of QD (SQD) in Bell-diagonal states. We observe that if correlation is regarded as a shared property, then the SQD could be a convenient quantifier for asymmetric states.

id: 1004.2114
title: Delocalization power of global unitary operations on quantum information
authors: Akihito Soeda, Mio Murao
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 093013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2114
abstract: We investigate how originally localized two pieces of quantum information represented by a tensor product of two unknown qudit states are delocalized by performing two-qudit global unitary operations. To characterize the delocalization power of global unitary operations on quantum information, we analyze the necessary and sufficient condition to deterministically relocalize one of the two pieces of quantum information to its original Hilbert space by using only LOCC. We prove that this LOCC one-piece relocalization is possible if and only if the global unitary operation is local unitary equivalent to a controlled-unitary operation. The delocalization power and the entangling power characterize different non-local properties of global unitary operations.

id: 1004.2163
title: A proposal to generate entangled compass states with sub-Planck structure
authors: Sayan Choudhury, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 7 pages, 1 table.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2163
abstract: We illustrate a procedure to generate a bipartite, entangled compass state, which shows sub-Planck structure. The proposed method uses the interaction of a standing wave laser field, with two, two-level atoms and relies on the ability of this system to choose certain mesoscopic bipartite states to couple with the internal degrees of freedom. An appropriate measurement on the internal degrees of freedom then leads to the entangled state, which shows sub-Planck structures, desired for quantum metrology.

id: 1004.2184
title: Witness for initial system-environment correlations in open system dynamics
authors: Elsi-Mari Laine, Jyrki Piilo, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: EPL 92, 60010 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2184
abstract: We study the evolution of a general open quantum system when the system and its environment are initially correlated. We show that the trace distance between two states of the open system can increase above its initial value, and derive tight upper bounds for the growth of the distinguishability of open system states. This represents a generalization of the contraction property of quantum dynamical maps. The obtained inequalities can be interpreted in terms of the exchange of information between the system and the environment, and lead to a witness for system-environment correlations which can be determined through measurements on the open system alone.

id: 1004.2199
title: Nonlinear Quantum Optical Spring
authors: M. J. Faghihi, M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, Submitted
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 56 (2011) 327-332
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2199
abstract: The original idea of quantum optical spring arises from the requirement of quantization of the frequency of oscillations in Hamiltonian of harmonic oscillator. This purpose is achieved by considering a spring whose constant (and so its frequency) depends on the quantum states of another system. Recently, it is realized that by the assumption of frequency modulation of $\omega$ to $\omega\sqrt{1+\mu a^\dagger a}$ the mentioned idea can be established. In the present paper we generalize the approach of quantum optical spring (has been called by us as nonlinear quantum optical spring) with attention to the {\it dependence of frequency to the intensity of radiation field} that {\it naturally} observed in nonlinear coherent states. Then, after the introduction of the generalized Hamiltonian of nonlinear quantum optical spring and it's solution, we will investigate the nonclassical properties of the obtained states. Specially, typical collapse and revival in the distribution functions and squeezing parameters as particular quantum features will be revealed.

id: 1004.2205
title: Quibbs, a Code Generator for Quantum Gibbs Sampling
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 21 pages (16 files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty, 14 .pdf);V2-added 2 new files(.xxx, .txt) txt file contains quibbs1.4 source code
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2205
abstract: This paper introduces Quibbs v1.3, a Java application available for free. (Source code included in the distribution.) Quibbs is a "code generator" for quantum Gibbs sampling: after the user inputs some files that specify a classical Bayesian network, Quibbs outputs a quantum circuit for performing Gibbs sampling of that Bayesian network on a quantum computer. Quibbs implements an algorithm described in earlier papers, that combines various apple pie techniques such as: an adaptive fixed-point version of Grover's algorithm, Szegedy operators, quantum phase estimation and quantum multiplexors.

id: 1004.2226
title: Adiabatic Quantum Algorithms for the NP-Complete Maximum-Weight Independent Set, Exact Cover and 3SAT Problems
authors: Vicky Choi
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2226
abstract: The problem Hamiltonian of the adiabatic quantum algorithm for the maximum-weight independent set problem (MIS) that is based on the reduction to the Ising problem (as described in [Choi08]) has flexible parameters. We show that by choosing the parameters appropriately in the problem Hamiltonian (without changing the problem to be solved) for MIS on CK graphs, we can prevent the first order quantum phase transition and significantly change the minimum spectral gap. We raise the basic question about what the appropriate formulation of adiabatic running time should be. We also describe adiabatic quantum algorithms for Exact Cover and 3SAT in which the problem Hamiltonians are based on the reduction to MIS. We point out that the argument in Altshuler et al.(arXiv:0908.2782 [quant-ph]) that their adiabatic quantum algorithm failed with high probability for randomly generated instances of Exact Cover does not carry over to this new algorithm.

id: 1004.2240
title: Deterministic Generation of Entangled Photons in Superconducting Resonator Arrays
authors: Y. Hu, L. Tian
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 257002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2240
abstract: We present a scheme for the deterministic generation of entangled photon pairs in a superconducting resonator array. The resonators form a Jaynes-Cummings lattice via the coupling to superconducting qubits, and the Kerr-like nonlinearity arises due to the coupling.We show that entangled photons can be generated on demand by applying spectroscopic techniques and exploiting the nonlinearity and symmetry in the resonators. The scheme is robust against small parameter spreads due to fabrication errors. Our findings can be used as a key element for quantum information processing in superconducting quantum circuits.

id: 1004.2245
title: Linear-optical processing cannot increase photon efficiency
authors: D. W. Berry, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 203601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2245
abstract: We answer the question whether linear-optical processing of the states produced by one or multiple imperfect single-photon sources can improve the single-photon fidelity. This processing can include arbitrary interferometers, coherent states, feedforward, and conditioning on results of detections. We show that without introducing multiphoton components, the single-photon fraction in any of the single-mode states resulting from such processing cannot be made to exceed the efficiency of the best available photon source. If multiphoton components are allowed, the single-photon fidelity cannot be increased beyond 1/2. We propose a natural general definition of the quantum-optical state efficiency, and show that it cannot increase under linear-optical processing.

id: 1004.2282
title: Strongly Enhanced Spin Squeezing via Quantum Control
authors: Collin M. Trail, Poul S. Jessen, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2282
abstract: We describe a new approach to spin squeezing based on a double-pass Faraday interaction between an optical probe and an optically dense atomic sample. A quantum eraser is used to remove residual spin-probe entanglement, thereby realizing a single-axis twisting unitary map on the collective spin. This interaction can be phase-matched, resulting in exponential enhancement of squeezing. In practice the scaling and peak squeezing depends on decoherence, technical loss, and noise. A simplified model indicates ~10 dB of squeezing should be achievable with current laboratory parameters.

id: 1004.2297
title: Fast entanglement detection for unknown states of two spatial qutrits
authors: G. Lima, E. S. G¨®mez, A. Vargas, R. O. Vianna, C. Saavedra
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82, 012302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2297
abstract: We investigate the practicality of the method proposed by Maciel et al. [Phys. Rev. A. 80, 032325(2009)] for detecting the entanglement of two spatial qutrits (3-dimensional quantum systems), which are encoded in the discrete transverse momentum of single photons transmitted through a multi-slit aperture. The method is based on the acquisition of partial information of the quantum state through projective measurements, and a data processing analysis done with semi-definite programs. This analysis relies on generating gradually an optimal entanglement witness operator, and numerical investigations have shown that it allows for the entanglement detection of unknown states with a cost much lower than full state tomography.

id: 1004.2306
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency on a single artificial atom
authors: A. A. Abdumalikov, Jr., O. Astafiev, A. M. Zagoskin, Yu. A. Pashkin, Y. Nakamura, J.-S. Tsai
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2306
abstract: We present experimental observation of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) on a single macroscopic artificial "atom" (superconducting quantum system) coupled to open 1D space of a transmission line. Unlike in a optical media with many atoms, the single atom EIT in 1D space is revealed in suppression of reflection of electromagnetic waves, rather than absorption. The observed almost 100 % modulation of the reflection and transmission of propagating microwaves demonstrates full controllability of individual artificial atoms and a possibility to manipulate the atomic states. The system can be used as a switchable mirror of microwaves and opens a good perspective for its applications in photonic quantum information processing and other fields.

id: 1004.2314
title: Teleportation of an arbitrary multipartite state via photonic Faraday rotation
authors: Juan-Juan Chen, Jun-Hong An, Mang Feng, Ge Liu
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures.
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43, 095505 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2314
abstract: We propose a practical scheme for deterministically teleporting an arbitrary multipartite state, either product or entangled, using Faraday rotation of the photonic polarization. Our scheme, based on the input-output process of single-photon pulses regarding cavities, works in low-Q cavities and only involves virtual excitation of the atoms, which is insensitive to both cavity decay and atomic spontaneous emission. Besides, the Bell-state measurement is accomplished by the Faraday rotation plus product-state measurements, which could much relax the experimental difficulty to realize the Bell-state measurement by the CNOT operation.

id: 1004.2317
title: Nonadiabatic geometric rotation of electron spin in a quantum dot by 2Pi hyperbolic secant pulses
authors: Pei Pei, Feng-Yang Zhang, Chong Li, He-Shan Song
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 125504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2317
abstract: In this paper, the geometric and dynamic phase components of overall phase induced by 2{\pi} hyperbolic secant pulses in a quantum dot is analyzed. The dependence of two phase components on the ratio of the Rabi frequency to the detuning is investigated. Numerical results indicate that only for one resonant pulse the induced overall phase is purely the geometric phase. With other values of the ratio the overall phase consists of a nonzero dynamic part. The effect of spin precession to decrease the dynamic phase is characterized and discussed by analytical and numerical techniques. Utilizing the symmetry relations of the phases, a scheme to eliminate the dynamic phase by multipulse control is proposed. By choosing the proper parameter for each pulse, the dynamic phases induced by different pulses cancel out. The total pure geometric phase varies from -{\pi} to {\pi}, which realizes the arbitrary geometric rotation of spin. Average fidelity is calculated and the effects of magnetic field and decay of the trion state are compared and discussed. The results show the crucial role of weak magnetic field for high fidelity (above 99.3%).

id: 1004.2361
title: Enhanced Resolution of Lossy Interferometry by Coherent Amplification of Single Photons
authors: C. Vitelli, N. Spagnolo, L. Toffoli, F. Sciarrino, F. De Martini
comments: 4 + 3 pages, 3 + 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 113602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2361
abstract: In the quantum sensing context most of the efforts to design novel quantum techniques of sensing have been constrained to idealized, noise-free scenarios, in which effects of environmental disturbances could be neglected. In this work, we propose to exploit optical parametric amplification to boost interferometry sensitivity in the presence of losses in a minimally invasive scenario. By performing the amplification process on the microscopic probe after the interaction with the sample, we can beat the losses detrimental effect on the phase measurement which affects the single-photon state after its interaction with the sample, and thus improve the achievable sensitivity.

id: 1004.2379
title: Linear-optical implementations of the iSWAP and controlled NOT gates based on conventional detectors
authors: Monika Bartkowiak, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 10 pages, 3 tables, 3 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, 2369-2377 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2379
abstract: The majority of linear-optical nondestructive implementations of universal quantum gates are based on single-photon resolving detectors. We propose two implementations, which are nondestructive (i.e., destroying only ancilla states) and work with conventional detectors (i.e., which do not resolve number of photons). Moreover, we analyze a recently proposed scheme of Wang et al. [J. Opt. Soc. Am. B \textbf{27}, 27 (2010)] of an optical iSWAP gate based on two ancillae in Bell's states, classical feedforward, and conventional detectors with the total probability of success equal to $\eta^4/32$, where $\eta$ is detector's efficiency. By observing that the iSWAP gate can be replaced by the controlled NOT (CNOT) gate with additional deterministic gates, we list various possible linear-optical implementations of the iSWAP gate: (i) assuming various ancilla states (unentangled, two-photon and multiphoton-entangled states) or no ancillae at all, (ii) with or without classical feedforward, (iii) destructive or nondestructive schemes, and (iv) using conventional or single-photon detectors. In particular, we show how the nondestructive iSWAP gate can be implemented with the success probability of $\eta^4/8$ assuming the same ancillae, classical feedforward, and fewer number of conventional detectors than those in the scheme of Wang {\em et al.} We discuss other schemes of the nondestructive universal gates using conventional detectors and entangled ancillae in a cluster state, Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and Bell's states giving the success probability of $\eta^4/4$, $\eta^6/8$, and $\eta^4/8$, respectively. In the latter scheme, we analyze how detector imperfections (dark counts in addition to finite efficiency and no photon-number resolution) and imperfect sources of ancilla states deteriorate the quantum gate operation.

id: 1004.2384
title: The Hanbury Brown Twiss effect for atomic matter waves
authors: Christoph I Westbrook, Denis Boiron
comments: also available at this http URL
journal: Quantum of Quasars Workshop, Grenoble : France (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2384
abstract: This paper discusses our recent work on developing the matter wave analogs to the Hanbury Brown Twiss experiment. We discuss experiments using cold atoms, both bosons and fermions, both coherent and incoherent. Simple concepts from classical and quantum optics suffice to understand most of the results, but the ideas can also be traced back to the work of Einstein on the thermodynamics of Bose gases.

id: 1004.2397
title: Fundamental Quantum Effects from a Quantum-Optics Perspective
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2397
abstract: This article provides a brief overview of some fundamental effects of quantum fields under extreme conditions. For the Schwinger mechanism, Hawking radiation, and the Unruh effect, analogies to quantum optics are discussed, which might help to approach to these phenomena from an experimental point of view.

id: 1004.2407
title: Spectroscopy of annular drums and quantum rings: perturbative and nonperturbative results
authors: Carlos Alvarado, Paolo Amore
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2407
abstract: We obtain systematic approximations to the states (energies and wave functions) of quantum rings (annular drums) of arbitrary shape by conformally mapping the annular domain to a simply connected domain. Extending the general results of Ref.\cite{Amore09} we obtain an analytical formula for the spectrum of quantum ring of arbirtrary shape: for the cases of a circular annulus and of a Robnik ring considered here this formula is remarkably simple and precise. We also obtain precise variational bounds for the ground state of different quantum rings. Finally we extend the Conformal Collocation Method of \cite{Amore08,Amore09} to the class of problems considered here and calculate precise numerical solutions for a large number of states ($\approx 2000$).

id: 1004.2409
title: Dynamical quantum phase transitions
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Low. Temp. Phys. 153, 228 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2409
abstract: A sweep through a quantum phase transition by means of a time-dependent external parameter (e.g., pressure) entails non-equilibrium phenomena associated with a break-down of adiabaticity: At the critical point, the energy gap vanishes and the response time diverges (in the thermodynamic limit). Consequently, the external time-dependence inevitably drives the system out of equilibrium, i.e., away from the ground state, if we assume zero temperature initially. In this way, the initial quantum fluctuations can be drastically amplified and may become observable -- especially for symmetry-breaking (restoring) transitions. By means of several examples, possible effects of these amplified quantum fluctuations are studied and universal features (such as freezing) are discussed.

id: 1004.2442
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency with single atoms in a cavity
authors: Martin M¨¹cke, Eden Figueroa, Joerg Bochmann, Carolin Hahn, Karim Murr, Stephan Ritter, Celso J. Villas-Boas, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 465, 755-758 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2442
abstract: Optical nonlinearities offer unique possibilities for the control of light with light. A prominent example is electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) where the transmission of a probe beam through an optically dense medium is manipulated by means of a control beam. Scaling such experiments into the quantum domain with one, or just a few particles of both light and matter will allow for the implementation of quantum computing protocols with atoms and photons or the realisation of strongly interacting photon gases exhibiting quantum phase transitions of light. Reaching these aims is challenging and requires an enhanced matter-light interaction as provided by cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). Here we demonstrate EIT with a single atom quasi-permanently trapped inside a high-finesse optical cavity. The atom acts as a quantum-optical transistor with the ability to coherently control the transmission of light through the cavity. We furthermore investigate the scaling of EIT when the atom number is increased one by one. The measured spectra are in excellent agreement with a theoretical model. Merging EIT with cavity QED and single quanta of matter is likely to become the cornerstone for novel applications, e.g. the dynamic control of the photon statistics of propagating light fields or the engineering of Fock-state superpositions of flying light pulses.

id: 1004.2452
title: Quantum U-statistics
authors: Madalin Guta, Cristina Butucea
comments: 30 pages, added section on quantum metrology
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 102202 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2452
abstract: The notion of a $U$-statistic for an $n$-tuple of identical quantum systems is introduced in analogy to the classical (commutative) case: given a selfadjoint `kernel' $K$ acting on $(\mathbb{C}^{d})^{\otimes r}$ with $r<n$, we define the symmetric operator $U_{n}= {n \choose r} \sum_{\beta}K^{(\beta)}$ with $K^{(\beta)}$ being the kernel acting on the subset $\beta$ of $\{1,\dots ,n\}$. If the systems are prepared in the i.i.d state $\rho^{\otimes n}$ it is shown that the sequence of properly normalised $U$-statistics converges in moments to a linear combination of Hermite polynomials in canonical variables of a CCR algebra defined through the Quantum Central Limit Theorem. In the special cases of non-degenerate kernels and kernels of order $2$ it is shown that the convergence holds in the stronger distribution sense. Two types of applications in quantum statistics are described: testing beyond the two simple hypotheses scenario, and quantum metrology with interacting hamiltonians.

id: 1004.2468
title: Quantum learning: optimal classification of qubit states
authors: Madalin Guta, Wojciech Kotlowski
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 123032 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Machine Learning (stat.ML)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2468
abstract: Pattern recognition is a central topic in Learning Theory with numerous applications such as voice and text recognition, image analysis, computer diagnosis. The statistical set-up in classification is the following: we are given an i.i.d. training set $(X_{1},Y_{1}),... (X_{n},Y_{n})$ where $X_{i}$ represents a feature and $Y_{i}\in \{0,1\}$ is a label attached to that feature. The underlying joint distribution of $(X,Y)$ is unknown, but we can learn about it from the training set and we aim at devising low error classifiers $f:X\to Y$ used to predict the label of new incoming features. Here we solve a quantum analogue of this problem, namely the classification of two arbitrary unknown qubit states. Given a number of `training' copies from each of the states, we would like to `learn' about them by performing a measurement on the training set. The outcome is then used to design mesurements for the classification of future systems with unknown labels. We find the asymptotically optimal classification strategy and show that typically, it performs strictly better than a plug-in strategy based on state estimation. The figure of merit is the excess risk which is the difference between the probability of error and the probability of error of the optimal measurement when the states are known, that is the Helstrom measurement. We show that the excess risk has rate $n^{-1}$ and compute the exact constant of the rate.

id: 1004.2469
title: Impedance-matched cavity quantum memory
authors: Mikael Afzelius, Christoph Simon
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022310 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2469
abstract: We consider an atomic frequency comb based quantum memory inside an asymmetric optical cavity. In this configuration it is possible to absorb the input light completely in a system with an effective optical depth of one, provided that the absorption per cavity round trip exactly matches the transmission of the coupling mirror ("impedance matching"). We show that the impedance matching results in a readout efficiency only limited by irreversible atomic dephasing, whose effect can be made very small in systems with large inhomogeneous broadening. Our proposal opens up an attractive route towards quantum memories with close to unit efficiency.

id: 1004.2507
title: The uncertainty principle determines the non-locality of quantum mechanics
authors: Jonathan Oppenheim, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 28 pages, 6 figures
journal: Science 19 November 2010: Vol. 330 no. 6007 pp. 1072-1074
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2507
abstract: Two central concepts of quantum mechanics are Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, and a subtle form of non-locality that Einstein famously called ``spooky action at a distance''. These two fundamental features have thus far been distinct concepts. Here we show that they are inextricably and quantitatively linked. Quantum mechanics cannot be more non-local with measurements that respect the uncertainty principle. In fact, the link between uncertainty and non-locality holds for all physical theories.More specifically, the degree of non-locality of any theory is determined by two factors -- the strength of the uncertainty principle, and the strength of a property called ``steering'', which determines which states can be prepared at one location given a measurement at another.

id: 1004.2508
title: Perturbation theory for confined systems
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2508
abstract: We discuss the application of perturbation theory to a system of particles confined in a spherical box. A simple argument shows that the particles behave almost independently in sufficiently strong confinement. We choose the helium atom with a moving nucleus as a particular example and compare results of first order with those for the nucleus clamped at the center of the box. We provide a suitable explanation for some numerical results obtained recently by other authors.

id: 1004.2530
title: Quantum Particles as Conceptual Entities: A Possible Explanatory Framework for Quantum Theory
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 45 pages, 10 figures
journal: Found.Sci.14:361-411,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2530
abstract: We put forward a possible new interpretation and explanatory framework for quantum theory. The basic hypothesis underlying this new framework is that quantum particles are conceptual entities. More concretely, we propose that quantum particles interact with ordinary matter, nuclei, atoms, molecules, macroscopic material entities, measuring apparatuses, ..., in a similar way to how human concepts interact with memory structures, human minds or artificial memories. We analyze the most characteristic aspects of quantum theory, i.e. entanglement and non-locality, interference and superposition, identity and individuality in the light of this new interpretation, and we put forward a specific explanation and understanding of these aspects. The basic hypothesis of our framework gives rise in a natural way to a Heisenberg uncertainty principle which introduces an understanding of the general situation of 'the one and the many' in quantum physics. A specific view on macro and micro different from the common one follows from the basic hypothesis and leads to an analysis of Schrodinger's Cat paradox and the measurement problem different from the existing ones. We reflect about the influence of this new quantum interpretation and explanatory framework on the global nature and evolutionary aspects of the world and human worldviews, and point out potential explanations for specific situations, such as the generation problem in particle physics, the confinement of quarks and the existence of dark matter.

id: 1004.2531
title: Interpreting Quantum Particles as Conceptual Entities
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 49, pp. 2950-2970, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2531
abstract: We elaborate an interpretation of quantum physics founded on the hypothesis that quantum particles are conceptual entities playing the role of communication vehicles between material entities composed of ordinary matter which function as memory structures for these quantum particles. We show in which way this new interpretation gives rise to a natural explanation for the quantum effects of interference and entanglement by analyzing how interference and entanglement emerge for the case of human concepts. We put forward a scheme to derive a metric based on similarity as a predecessor for the structure of 'space, time, momentum, energy' and 'quantum particles interacting with ordinary matter' underlying standard quantum physics, within the new interpretation, and making use of aspects of traditional quantum axiomatics. More specifically, we analyze how the effect of non-locality arises as a consequence of the confrontation of such an emerging metric type of structure and the remaining presence of the basic conceptual structure on the fundamental level, with the potential of being revealed in specific situations.

id: 1004.2557
title: Bound state spectra of the 3D rational potential
authors: Amlan K. Roy, Abraham F. Jalbout, Emil I. Proynov
comments: 15 pages, 5 tables, 2 figures, 55 references
journal: international journal of quantum chemistry, 108, 827-836, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2557
abstract: We present bound state spectra of the 3D rational potential, $V(r)=r^2 + \lambda r^2/(1+gr^2)$, $g>0$, by means of the generalized pseudospectral method. All the thirty states corresponding to $n$=0--9 are considered for the first time for a broad range of coupling parameters. These results surpass the accuracy of \emph{all} other existing calculations published so far except the finite-difference method, which yields similar accuracy as ours. Variation of energies and radial distribution functions is followed with respect to the interaction parameters. Special emphasis has been laid on \emph{higher} excitations and \emph{negative} values of the interaction, where relatively less work has been reported. The energy sequence is found to be different for positive and negative interaction; numerically following a mirror-image relationship \emph{usually}, if not always. Additionally, twenty energy splittings arising from certain levels belonging to $n$=0--9 are systematically studied as functions of the potential parameters. Several new states (including the higher ones) are presented.

id: 1004.2562
title: Suppression of decoherence effects in the quantum kicked rotor
authors: Maxence Lepers, V¨¦ronique Zehnl¨¦, Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, revtex 4, submitted to PRL
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 81, 6 (2010) 062132
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2562
abstract: We describe a method allowing transient suppression of decoherence effects on the atom-optics realization of the kicked rotor. The system is prepared in an initial state with a momentum distribution concentrated in an interval much sharper than the Brillouin zone; the measure of the momentum distribution is restricted to this interval of quasimomenta: As most of the atoms undergoing decoherence processes fall outside this detection range and thus are not detected, the measured signal is effectively decoherence-free.

id: 1004.2589
title: Global Control Methods for GHZ State Generation on 1-D Ising Chain
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Abolfazl Bayat, Sougato Bose, Sophie Schirmer
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012330 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2589
abstract: We discuss how to prepare an Ising chain in a GHZ state using a single global control field only. This model does not require the spins to be individually addressable and is applicable to quantum systems such as cold atoms in optical lattices, some liquid- or solid-state NMR experiments, and many nano-scale quantum structures. We show that GHZ states can always be reached asymptotically from certain easy-to-prepare initial states using adiabatic passage, and under certain conditions finite-time reachability can be ensured. To provide a reference useful for future experimental implementations three different control strategies to achieve the objective, adiabatic passage, Lyapunov control and optimal control are compared, and their advantages and disadvantages discussed, in particular in the presence of realistic imperfections such as imperfect initial state preparation, system inhomogeneity and dephasing.

id: 1004.2590
title: "Exotic" quantum effects in the laboratory?
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phil.Trans.Roy.Soc.Lond.A36:2895,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2590
abstract: This Article provides a brief (non-exhaustive) review of some recent developments regarding the theoretical and possibly experimental study of "exotic" quantum effects in the laboratory with special emphasis on cosmological particle creation, Hawking radiation, and the Unruh effect.

id: 1004.2620
title: Coherent states for free particles
authors: A. de la Torre, D. Goyeneche
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2620
abstract: The coherent states are reviewed with particular application to the free particle system. The didactic advantages of the formalism is emphasized. Several interesting features, like the relation of the coherent states with the Galilei group and with the Husimi distribution are presented. Keywords: quantum mechanics, coherent states, free particle.

id: 1004.2686
title: Quantum Transduction of Telecommunications-band Single Photons from a Quantum Dot by Frequency Upconversion
authors: Matthew T. Rakher, Lijun Ma, Oliver Slattery, Xiao Tang, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 786-791 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2686
abstract: The ability to transduce non-classical states of light from one wavelength to another is a requirement for integrating disparate quantum systems that take advantage of telecommunications-band photons for optical fiber transmission of quantum information and near-visible, stationary systems for manipulation and storage. In addition, transducing a single-photon source at 1.3 {\mu}m to visible wavelengths for detection would be integral to linear optical quantum computation due to the challenges of detection in the near-infrared. Recently, transduction at single-photon power levels has been accomplished through frequency upconversion, but it has yet to be demonstrated for a true single-photon source. Here, we transduce the triggered single-photon emission of a semiconductor quantum dot at 1.3 {\mu}m to 710 nm with a total detection (internal conversion) efficiency of 21% (75%). We demonstrate that the 710 nm signal maintains the quantum character of the 1.3 {\mu}m signal, yielding a photon anti-bunched second-order intensity correlation, g^(2)(t), that shows the optical field is composed of single photons with g^(2)(0) = 0.165 < 0.5.

id: 1004.2721
title: On the adiabatic condition and the quantum hitting time of Markov chains
authors: Hari Krovi, Maris Ozols, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland
comments: 22 pages
journal: Physical Review A, 82(2):022333, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2721
abstract: We present an adiabatic quantum algorithm for the abstract problem of searching marked vertices in a graph, or spatial search. Given a random walk (or Markov chain) $P$ on a graph with a set of unknown marked vertices, one can define a related absorbing walk $P'$ where outgoing transitions from marked vertices are replaced by self-loops. We build a Hamiltonian $H(s)$ from the interpolated Markov chain $P(s)=(1-s)P+sP'$ and use it in an adiabatic quantum algorithm to drive an initial superposition over all vertices to a superposition over marked vertices. The adiabatic condition implies that for any reversible Markov chain and any set of marked vertices, the running time of the adiabatic algorithm is given by the square root of the classical hitting time. This algorithm therefore demonstrates a novel connection between the adiabatic condition and the classical notion of hitting time of a random walk. It also significantly extends the scope of previous quantum algorithms for this problem, which could only obtain a full quadratic speed-up for state-transitive reversible Markov chains with a unique marked vertex.

id: 1004.2727
title: Generation of Optical Coherent State Superpositions by Number-Resolved Photon Subtraction from Squeezed Vacuum
authors: Thomas Gerrits, Scott Glancy, Tracy S. Clement, Brice Calkins, Adriana E. Lita, Aaron J. Miller, Alan L. Migdall, Sae Woo Nam, Richard P. Mirin, Emanuel Knill
comments: Main manuscript and supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2727
abstract: We have created heralded coherent state superpositions (CSS), by subtracting up to three photons from a pulse of squeezed vacuum light. To produce such CSSs at a sufficient rate, we used our high-efficiency photon-number-resolving transition edge sensor to detect the subtracted photons. This is the first experiment enabled by and utilizing the full photon-number-resolving capabilities of this detector. The CSS produced by three-photon subtraction had a mean photon number of 2.75 -0.24/+0.06 and a fidelity of 0.59 -0.14/+0.04 with an ideal CSS. This confirms that subtracting more photons results in higher-amplitude CSSs.

id: 1004.2733
title: Achieving a Strongly Temperature-Dependent Casimir Effect
authors: Alejandro W. Rodriguez, David Woolf, Alexander P. McCauley, Federico Capasso, John D. Joannopoulos, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:060401,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2733
abstract: We propose a method of achieving large temperature sensitivity in the Casimir force that involves measuring the stable separation between dielectric objects immersed in fluid. We study the Casimir force between slabs and spheres using realistic material models, and find large > 2nm/K variations in their stable separations (hundreds of nanometers) near room temperature. In addition, we analyze the effects of Brownian motion on suspended objects, and show that the average separation is also sensitive to changes in temperature . Finally, this approach also leads to rich qualitative phenomena, such as irreversible transitions, from suspension to stiction, as the temperature is varied.

id: 1004.2801
title: A progressive diagonalization scheme for the Rabi Hamiltonian
authors: Feng Pan, Xin Guan, Yin Wang, J. P. Draayer
comments: 8pages, 1 figure, LaTeX. Accepted for publication in J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2801
abstract: A diagonalization scheme for the Rabi Hamiltonian, which describes a qubit interacting with a single-mode radiation field via a dipole interaction, is proposed. It is shown that the Rabi Hamiltonian can be solved almost exactly using a progressive scheme that involves a finite set of one variable polynomial equations. The scheme is especially efficient for lower part of the spectrum. Some low-lying energy levels of the model with several sets of parameters are calculated and compared to those provided by the recently proposed generalized rotating-wave approximation and full matrix diagonalization.

id: 1004.2828
title: Correlation Energy and Entanglement Gap in Continuous Models
authors: L. Martina, G. Ruggeri, G. Soliani
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2828
abstract: Our goal is to clarify the relation between entanglement and correlation energy in a bipartite system with infinite dimensional Hilbert space. To this aim we consider the completely solvable Moshinsky's model of two linearly coupled harmonic oscillators. Also for small values of the couplings the entanglement of the ground state is nonlinearly related to the correlation energy, involving logarithmic or algebraic corrections. Then, looking for witness observables of the entanglement, we show how to give a physical interpretation of the correlation energy. In particular, we have proven that there exists a set of separable states, continuously connected with the Hartree-Fock state, which may have a larger overlap with the exact ground state, but also a larger energy expectation value. In this sense, the correlation energy provides an entanglement gap, i.e. an energy scale, under which measurements performed on the 1-particle harmonic sub-system can discriminate the ground state from any other separated state of the system. However, in order to verify the generality of the procedure, we have compared the energy distribution cumulants for the 1-particle harmonic sub-system of the Moshinsky's model with the case of a coupling with a damping Ohmic bath at 0 temperature.

id: 1004.2830
title: Long-range entanglement in the XXZ Heisenberg spin chain after a local quench
authors: Jie Ren, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 10 pages 4figures references added, presentation improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2830
abstract: The long-range entanglement dynamics of an one-dimensional spin-1/2 anisotropic XXZ model are studied using the method of the adaptive time-dependent density-matrix renormalization-group. The long-range entanglement can be generated when a local quench on one of boundary bonds is performed in the system. The anisotropic interaction has a strong influence both on the maximal value of long-range entanglement and the time of reaching the maximum long-range entanglement. The local coupling has a notable impact on the long-range entanglement, but it can be neglected in the time of reaching the maximal long-range entanglement.

id: 1004.2836
title: Kochen-Specker theorem studied with neutron interferometer
authors: Yuji Hasegawa, Katharina Durstberger-Rennhofer, Stephan Sponar, Helmut Rauch
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2836
abstract: The Kochen-Specker theorem theoretically shows evidence of the incompatibility of noncontextual hidden variable theories with quantum mechanics. Quantum contextuality is a more general concept than quantum non-locality which is quite well tested in experiments by using Bell inequalities. Within neutron interferometry we performed an experimental test of the Kochen-Specker theorem with an inequality, which identifies quantum contextuality, by using spin-path entanglement in a single neutron system. Here entanglement is achieved not between different particles, but between degrees of freedom, i.e., between spin and path degree of freedom. Appropriate combinations of the spin analysis and the position of the phase shifter allow an experimental verification of the violation of an inequality of the Kochen-Specker theorem. The observed value of (2.291 +/- 0.008), which is above the threshold of 1, clearly shows that quantum mechanical predictions cannot be reproduced by noncontextual hidden variable theories.

id: 1004.2914
title: Matrix exponential solution of the Landau-Zener problem
authors: Alberto G. Rojo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2914
abstract: We present a derivation of the Landau-Zener solution through the explicit evaluation of the time ordered propagator. The result is exact and does not involve the solution of the differential equation for the spin amplitudes.

id: 1004.2920
title: Symmetry, Compact Closure and Dagger Compactness for Categories of Convex Operational Models
authors: Howard Barnum, Ross Duncan, Alexander Wilce
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2920
abstract: In the categorical approach to the foundations of quantum theory, one begins with a symmetric monoidal category, the objects of which represent physical systems, and the morphisms of which represent physical processes. Usually, this category is taken to be at least compact closed, and more often, dagger compact, enforcing a certain self-duality, whereby preparation processes (roughly, states) are inter-convertible with processes of registration (roughly, measurement outcomes). This is in contrast to the more concrete "operational" approach, in which the states and measurement outcomes associated with a physical system are represented in terms of what we here call a "convex operational model": a certain dual pair of ordered linear spaces -- generally, {\em not} isomorphic to one another. On the other hand, state spaces for which there is such an isomorphism, which we term {\em weakly self-dual}, play an important role in reconstructions of various quantum-information theoretic protocols, including teleportation and ensemble steering. In this paper, we characterize compact closure of symmetric monoidal categories of convex operational models in two ways: as a statement about the existence of teleportation protocols, and as the principle that every process allowed by that theory can be realized as an instance of a remote evaluation protocol --- hence, as a form of classical probabilistic conditioning. In a large class of cases, which includes both the classical and quantum cases, the relevant compact closed categories are degenerate, in the weak sense that every object is its own dual. We characterize the dagger-compactness of such a category (with respect to the natural adjoint) in terms of the existence, for each system, of a {\em symmetric} bipartite state, the associated conditioning map of which is an isomorphism.

id: 1004.2966
title: Entangling a series of trapped ions by moving cavity bus
authors: Miao Zhang, H.Y. Jia, L. F. Wei
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, 28 064213(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2966
abstract: Entangling multiple qubits is one of the central tasks for quantum information processings. Here, we propose an approach to entangle a number of cold ions (individually trapped in a string of microtraps) by a moved cavity. The cavity is pushed to include the ions one by one with an uniform velocity, and thus the information stored in former ions could be transferred to the latter ones by such a moving cavity bus. Since the positions of the trapped ions are precisely located, the strengths and durations of the ion-cavity interactions can be exactly controlled. As a consequence, by properly setting the relevant parameters typical multi-ion entangled states, e.g., $W$ state for 10 ions, could be deterministically generated. The feasibility of the proposal is also discussed.

id: 1004.2975
title: The role of self-coherence in correlations of bosons and fermions in linear counting experiments. Notes on the wave-particle duality
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 58 pages, 8 Figures. A part of this material was delivered by the author in the talk entitled "Correlations in single-quantum experiments" . The 40th Winter Colloquium on the Physics of Quantum Electronics [PQE-2010] 3-7, January 2010. Snowbird, Utah, USA. To be published in Fortschritte der Physics - Progress of Physics (2010)
journal: Fortschritte der Physik 59, No. 3-4, 296 - 324 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2975
abstract: Correlations of detection events in two detectors are studied in case of linear excitation of the measuring apparatus. On the basis of classical probability theory and fundamental conservation laws, a general formula is derived for the two-point correlation functions for both bosons and fermions. The results obtained coincide with that derivable from quantum theory which uses quantized field amplitudes. By applying both the particle and the wave picture at the same time, the phenomena of photon bunching and antibunching, photon anticorrelation and fermion antibunching, measured in beam experiments, are interpreted in the frame of an intuitively clear description.

id: 1004.2985
title: Quantum Mechanics as a Framework for Dealing with Uncertainty
authors: Paul Busch
comments: Plenary Lecture, Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics, Turku 2009.
journal: Phys. Scr. T140 (2010) 014003 (7pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2985
abstract: Quantum uncertainty is described here in two guises: indeterminacy with its concomitant indeterminism of measurement outcomes, and fuzziness, or unsharpness. Both features were long seen as obstructions of experimental possibilities that were available in the realm of classical physics. The birth of quantum information science was due to the realization that such obstructions can be turned into powerful resources. Here we review how the utilization of quantum fuzziness makes room for a notion of approximate joint measurement of noncommuting observables. We also show how from a classical perspective quantum uncertainty is due to a limitation of measurability reflected in a fuzzy event structure -- all quantum events are fundamentally unsharp.

id: 1004.3005
title: Einstein-Bohr controversy and theory of hidden variables
authors: Milos V. Lokajicek
comments: 12 pages
journal: NeuroQuantology 8 (2010), 4: 638-645
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3005
abstract: It has been shown by us recently that Einstein was right in his controversy with Bohr or that the so called hidden-variable theory should be preferred to the Copenhagen quantum mechanics. In the following paper the corresponding arguments will be shortly repeated. The main attention will be then devoted to explaining main differences between these two quantum alternatives, differing in the access to the problem of chance, causality and locality of microscopic objects. The actual meaning of the mentioned hidden variables will be discussed, too, the essence of which remained practically unclear during all past discussions. It will be shown that the theory of hidden variables (or Schroedinger equation alone) is able to represent the properties of the whole known physical reality.

id: 1004.3011
title: Correlation between measured and unmeasured quantities in quantum mechanics, locality, and the legitimacy of counterfactual reasoning
authors: Oliver Cohen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3011
abstract: A correlation measure relating to measured and unmeasured local quantities in quantum mechanics is introduced, and is then applied to assess the locality implications for Bell/CHSH and similar set-ups. This leads to some interesting results, and the scheme is extended to the generalized no-signalling boxes framework. Some questions are raised about the use of counterfactual reasoning in quantum mechanics.

id: 1004.3024
title: Behavior of a bipartite system in a cavity
authors: E.R. Granhen, C.A. Linhares, A.P.C. Malbouisson, J.M.C. Malbouisson
comments: 9 pages 2 figures, Revtex, Version accepted to be published in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 81, 053820 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3024
abstract: We study the time evolution of a superposition of product states of two dressed atoms in a spherical cavity in the situations of an arbitrarily large cavity (free space) and of a small one. In the large-cavity case, the system dissipates, whereas, for the small cavity, the system evolves in an oscillating way and never completely decays. We verify that the von Neumann entropy for such a system does not depend on time, nor on the size of the cavity

id: 1004.3063
title: Some new solutions to the Klein-Gordon equation in 1-1D space-time in the presence of time dependent potentials
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 8 pages, Correction to Eq. 4.7
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3063
abstract: We find three exact solutions to the Klein-Gordon equation in 1-1 dimensional space-time for different time dependent potentials. In two cases we consider a time dependent scalar potential and in one case a time dependent electric potential.

id: 1004.3100
title: The quantitative condition is necessary in guaranteeing the validity of the adiabatic approximation
authors: D M Tong
comments: 4 pages,1 figues
journal: Physical Review Letters 104, 120401, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3100
abstract: The usual quantitative condition has been widely used in the practical applications of the adiabatic theorem. However, it had never been proved to be sufficient or necessary before. It was only recently found that the quantitative condition is insufficient, but whether it is necessary remains unresolved. In this letter, we prove that the quantitative condition is necessary in guaranteeing the validity of the adiabatic approximation.

id: 1004.3112
title: Entanglement entropy in quantum spin chains with broken reflection symmetry
authors: Zoltan Kadar, Zoltan Zimboras
comments: 12 pages and 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032334 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3112
abstract: We investigate the entanglement entropy of a block of L sites in quasifree translation-invariant spin chains concentrating on the effect of reflection symmetry breaking. The majorana two-point functions corresponding to the Jordan-Wigner transformed fermionic modes are determined in the most general case; from these it follows that reflection symmetry in the ground state can only be broken if the model is quantum critical. The large L asymptotics of the entropy is calculated analytically for general gauge-invariant models, which has, until now, been done only for the reflection symmetric sector. Analytical results are also derived for certain non-gauge-invariant models, e.g., for the Ising model with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction. We also study numerically finite chains of length N with a non-reflection-symmetric Hamiltonian and report that the reflection symmetry of the entropy of the first L spins is violated but the reflection-symmetric Calabrese-Cardy formula is recovered asymptotically. Furthermore, for non-critical reflection-symmetry-breaking Hamiltonians, we find an anomaly in the behavior of the "saturation entropy" as we approach the critical line. The paper also provides a concise but extensive review of the block entropy asymptotics in translation invariant quasifree spin chains with an analysis of the nearest neighbor case and the enumeration of the yet unsolved parts of the quasifree landscape.

id: 1004.3126
title: Cooling a quantum circuit via coupling to a multiqubit system
authors: Mihai A. Macovei
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043411 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3126
abstract: The cooling effects of a quantum LC circuit coupled inductively with an ensemble of artificial qubits are investigated. The particles may decay independently or collectively through their interaction with the environmental vacuum electromagnetic field reservoir. For appropriate bath temperatures and the resonator's quality factors, we demonstrate an effective cooling well below the thermal background. In particular, we found that for larger samples the cooling efficiency is better for independent qubits. However, the cooling process can be faster for collectively interacting particles.

id: 1004.3182
title: Testing nonclassicality in multimode fields: a unified derivation of classical inequalities
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Monika Bartkowiak, Xiaoguang Wang, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 17 pages, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013824 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3182
abstract: We consider a way to generate operational inequalities to test nonclassicality (or quantumness) of multimode (or multiparty) bosonic fields that unifies the derivation of many known inequalities and allows to propose new ones. The nonclassicality criteria are based on Vogel's criterion corresponding to analyzing the positivity of multimode P functions or, equivalently, the positivity of matrices of expectation values of, e.g., creation and annihilation operators. We analyze not only monomials, but also polynomial functions of such moments, which can sometimes enable simpler derivations of physically relevant inequalities. As an example, we derive various classical inequalities which can be violated only by nonclassical fields. In particular, we show how the criteria introduced here easily reduce to the well-known inequalities describing: (a) multimode quadrature squeezing and its generalizations including sum, difference and principal squeezing, (b) two-mode one-time photon-number correlations including sub-Poisson photon-number correlations and effects corresponding to violations of the Cauchy-Schwarz and Muirhead inequalities, (c) two-time single-mode photon-number correlations including photon antibunching and hyperbunching, and (d) two- and three-mode quantum entanglement. Other simple inequalities for testing nonclassicality are also proposed. We have found some general relations between the nonclassicality and entanglement criteria, in particular, those resulting from the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality. It is shown that some known entanglement inequalities can be derived as nonclassicality inequalities within our formalism, while some other known entanglement inequalities can be seen as sums of more than one inequality derived from the nonclassicality criterion. This approach enables a deeper analysis of the entanglement for a given nonclassicality.

id: 1004.3218
title: A note on the PT-invariant periodic potential V(x)=4 cos^2 x + 4 i V_0 sin 2x
authors: Bikashkali Midya, Barnana Roy, Rajkumar Roychoudhury
comments: 
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:2605-2607,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3218
abstract: It is shown that the PT symmetric Hamiltonian with the periodic potential V(x) = 4 cos^2 x + 4 i V_0 sin 2x can be mapped into a Hermitian Hamiltonian for $V_0<0.5$, by a similarity transformation. It is also shown that there exist a second critical point of the potential V(x), apart from the known critical point $V_0=0.5$, for $V_0^c ~ .888437$ after which no part of the eigenvalues and the band structure remains real. Relevant physical consequence of this finding has been pointed out.

id: 1004.3230
title: Spatially Resolved Excitation of Rydberg Atoms and Surface Effects on an Atom Chip
authors: Atreju Tauschinsky, Rutger M. T. Thijssen, S. Whitlock, H. B. van Linden van den Heuvell, R. J. C. Spreeuw
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 063411 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3230
abstract: We demonstrate spatially resolved, coherent excitation of Rydberg atoms on an atom chip. Electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) is used to investigate the properties of the Rydberg atoms near the gold coated chip surface. We measure distance dependent shifts (~10 MHz) of the Rydberg energy levels caused by a spatially inhomogeneous electric field. The measured field strength and distance dependence is in agreement with a simple model for the electric field produced by a localized patch of Rb adsorbates deposited on the chip surface during experiments. The EIT resonances remain narrow (< 4 MHz) and the observed widths are independent of atom-surface distance down to ~20 \mum, indicating relatively long lifetime of the Rydberg states. Our results open the way to studies of dipolar physics, collective excitations, quantum metrology and quantum information processing involving interacting Rydberg excited atoms on atom chips.

id: 1004.3247
title: Bound on quantum computation time: Quantum error correction in a critical environment
authors: E. Novais, Eduardo R. Mucciolo, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 4 pages (revised title, following PRA request)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 020303(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3247
abstract: We obtain an upper bound on the time available for quantum computation for a given quantum computer and decohering environment with quantum error correction implemented. First, we derive an explicit quantum evolution operator for the logical qubits and show that it has the same form as that for the physical qubits but with a reduced coupling strength to the environment. Using this evolution operator, we find the trace distance between the real and ideal states of the logical qubits in two cases. For a super-Ohmic bath, the trace distance saturates, while for Ohmic or sub-Ohmic baths, there is a finite time before the trace distance exceeds a value set by the user.

id: 1004.3283
title: Assessing the Polarization of a Quantum Field from Stokes Fluctuation
authors: A. B. Klimov, G. Bjork, J. Soderholm, L. S. Madsen, M. Lassen, U. L. Andersen, J. Heersink, R. Dong, Ch. Marquardt, G. Leuchs, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Comments welcome.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3283
abstract: We propose an operational degree of polarization in terms of the variance of the projected Stokes vector minimized over all the directions of the Poincar\'e sphere. We examine the properties of this degree and show that some problems associated with the standard definition are avoided. The new degree of polarization is experimentally determined using two examples: a bright squeezed state and a quadrature squeezed vacuum.

id: 1004.3301
title: Current status of the Dynamical Casimir Effect
authors: V. V. Dodonov
comments: 12 pages, the text corresponds to the final published version, except for the layout and reference style
journal: Physica Scripta, vol. 82, art. 038105 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3301
abstract: This is a brief review of different aspects of the so-called Dynamical Casimir Effect and the proposals aimed at its possible experimental realizations. A rough classification of these proposals is given and important theoretical problems are pointed out.

id: 1004.3315
title: Bootstrap tomography of high-precision pulses for quantum control
authors: V. V. Dobrovitski, G. de Lange, D. Rist¨¨, R. Hanson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 077601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3315
abstract: Long-time dynamical decoupling and quantum control of qubits require high-precision control pulses. Full characterization (quantum tomography) of imperfect pulses presents a bootstrap problem: tomography requires initial states of a qubit which can not be prepared without imperfect pulses. We present a protocol for pulse error analysis, specifically tailored for a wide range of the single solid-state electron spins. Using a single electron spin of a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond, we experimentally verify the correctness of the protocol, and demonstrate its usefulness for quantum control tasks.

id: 1004.3328
title: The quantum one-time pad in the presence of an eavesdropper
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brand?o, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 040504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3328
abstract: A classical one-time pad allows two parties to send private messages over a public classical channel -- an eavesdropper who intercepts the communication learns nothing about the message. A quantum one-time pad is a shared quantum state which allows two parties to send private messages or private quantum states over a public quantum channel. If the eavesdropper intercepts the quantum communication she learns nothing about the message. In the classical case, a one-time pad can be created using shared and partially private correlations. Here we consider the quantum case in the presence of an eavesdropper, and find the single letter formula for the rate at which the two parties can send messages using a quantum one-time pad.

id: 1004.3345
title: Quantum Cryptography Approaching the Classical Limit
authors: Christian Weedbrook, Stefano Pirandola, Seth Lloyd, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: Letter (4 pages) followed by appendix (4 pages). Updated from published version with some minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 110501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3345
abstract: We consider the security of continuous-variable quantum cryptography as we approach the classical-limit, i.e., when the unknown preparation noise at the sender's station becomes significantly noisy or thermal (even by as much as 10,000 times the variance of the vacuum mode). We show that, provided the channel transmission losses do not exceed 50%, the security of quantum cryptography is not dependent on the channel transmission, and is therefore, incredibly robust against significant amounts of excess preparation noise. We extend these results to consider for the first time quantum cryptography at wavelengths considerably longer than optical and find that regions of security still exist all the way down to the microwave.

id: 1004.3348
title: On mutually unbiased bases
authors: Thomas Durt, Berthold-Georg Englert, Ingemar Bengtsson, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: Review article with 106 pages, 3 figures, 4 tables, 196 references
journal: Int. J. Quantum Information, 8, 535-640 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3348
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases for quantum degrees of freedom are central to all theoretical investigations and practical exploitations of complementary properties. Much is known about mutually unbiased bases, but there are also a fair number of important questions that have not been answered in full as yet. In particular, one can find maximal sets of ${N+1}$ mutually unbiased bases in Hilbert spaces of prime-power dimension ${N=p^\m}$, with $p$ prime and $\m$ a positive integer, and there is a continuum of mutually unbiased bases for a continuous degree of freedom, such as motion along a line. But not a single example of a maximal set is known if the dimension is another composite number ($N=6,10,12,...$). In this review, we present a unified approach in which the basis states are labeled by numbers ${0,1,2,...,N-1}$ that are both elements of a Galois field and ordinary integers. This dual nature permits a compact systematic construction of maximal sets of mutually unbiased bases when they are known to exist but throws no light on the open existence problem in other cases. We show how to use the thus constructed mutually unbiased bases in quantum-informatics applications, including dense coding, teleportation, entanglement swapping, covariant cloning, and state tomography, all of which rely on an explicit set of maximally entangled states (generalizations of the familiar two--q-bit Bell states) that are related to the mutually unbiased bases. There is a link to the mathematics of finite affine planes. We also exploit the one-to-one correspondence between unbiased bases and the complex Hadamard matrices that turn the bases into each other. The ultimate hope, not yet fulfilled, is that open questions about mutually unbiased bases can be related to open questions about Hadamard matrices or affine planes, in particular the ...[rest deleted]

id: 1004.3399
title: A high-fidelity noiseless amplifier for quantum light states
authors: A. Zavatta, J. Fiur¨¢sek, M. Bellini
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 5, 52 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3399
abstract: Noise is the price to pay when trying to clone or amplify arbitrary quantum states. The quantum noise associated to linear phase-insensitive amplifiers can only be avoided by relaxing the requirement of a deterministic operation. Here we present the experimental realization of a probabilistic noiseless linear amplifier that is able to amplify coherent states at the highest level of effective gain and final state fidelity ever reached. Based on a sequence of photon addition and subtraction, and characterized by a significant amplification and low distortions, this high-fidelity amplification scheme may become an essential tool for quantum communications and metrology, by enhancing the discrimination between partially overlapping quantum states or by recovering the information transmitted over lossy channels.

id: 1004.3414
title: Arbitrarily High Super-Resolving Phase Measurements at Telecommunication Wavelengths
authors: Christian Kothe, Gunnar Bj?rk, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 063836 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3414
abstract: We present two experiments that achieve phase super-resolution at telecommunication wavelengths. One of the experiments is realized in the space domain and the other in the time domain. Both experiments show high visibilities and are performed with standard lasers and single-photon detectors. The first experiment uses six-photon coincidences, whereas the latter needs no coincidence measurements, is easy to perform, and achieves, in principle, arbitrarily high phase super-resolution. Here, we demonstrate a 30-fold increase of the resolution. We stress that neither entanglement nor joint detection is needed in these experiments, demonstrating that neither is necessary to achieve phase super-resolution.

id: 1004.3432
title: Geometric phase as a determinant of a qubit--environment coupling
authors: J. Dajka, J. Luczka, P. Hanggi
comments: accepted for publication in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing 10, 85 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3432
abstract: We investigate the qubit geometric phase and its properties in dependence on the mechanism for decoherence of a qubit weakly coupled to its environment. We consider two sources of decoherence: dephasing coupling (without exchange of energy with environment) and dissipative coupling (with exchange of energy). Reduced dynamics of the qubit is studied in terms of the rigorous Davies Markovian quantum master equation, both at zero and non--zero temperature. For pure dephasing coupling, the geometric phase varies monotonically with respect to the polar angle (in the Bloch sphere representation) parameterizing an initial state of the qubit. Moreover, it is antisymmetric about some points on the geometric phase-polar angle plane. This is in distinct contrast to the case of dissipative coupling for which the variation of the geometric phase with respect to the polar angle typically is non-monotonic, displaying local extrema and is not antisymmetric. Sensitivity of the geometric phase to details of the decoherence source can make it a tool for testing the nature of the qubit--environment interaction.

id: 1004.3440
title: Relativistic consistency rules out GRW-Pearle collapse schemes
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 6 pages.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3440
abstract: If the outcome recorded by a detector is required to be the same in all relativistically equivalent frames of reference, then a large class of collapse models, including the GRW-Pearle scheme, is ruled out.

id: 1004.3445
title: Communication at the quantum speed limit along a spin chain
authors: Michael Murphy, Simone Montangero, Vittorio Giovannetti, Tommaso Calarco
comments: 10 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022318 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3445
abstract: Spin chains have long been considered as candidates for quantum channels to facilitate quantum communication. We consider the transfer of a single excitation along a spin-1/2 chain governed by Heisenberg-type interactions. We build on the work of Balachandran and Gong [1], and show that by applying optimal control to an external parabolic magnetic field, one can drastically increase the propagation rate by two orders of magnitude. In particular, we show that the theoretical maximum propagation rate can be reached, where the propagation of the excitation takes the form of a dispersed wave. We conclude that optimal control is not only a useful tool for experimental application, but also for theoretical enquiry into the physical limits and dynamics of many-body quantum systems.

id: 1004.3447
title: On the problem of quantum control in infinite dimensions
authors: R. Vilela Mendes, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 10 pages Latex
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 135302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3447
abstract: In the framework of bilinear control of the Schr\"odinger equation with bounded control operators, it has been proved that the reachable set has a dense complemement in ${\cal S}\cap {\cal H}^{2}$. Hence, in this setting, exact quantum control in infinite dimensions is not possible. On the other hand it is known that there is a simple choice of operators which, when applied to an arbitrary state, generate dense orbits in Hilbert space. Compatibility of these two results is established in this paper and, in particular, it is proved that the closure of the reachable set of bilinear control by bounded operators is dense in ${\cal S}\cap {\cal H}^{2}$. The requirements for controllability in infinite dimensions are also related to the properties of the infinite dimensional unitary group.

id: 1004.3475
title: Bismuth in silicon qubits: the role of EPR cancellation resonances
authors: M.H.Mohammady, G.W. Morley, T.S.Monteiro
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 067602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3475
abstract: We investigate theoretically and experimentally the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra of bismuth doped silicon (Si:Bi) at intermediate magnetic fields, $B \approx 0.05 -0.6$ T. We identify a previously unexplored EPR regime of "cancellation-resonances"- where part of the hyperfine coupling is resonant with the external field-induced splitting. We show this regime has interesting and experimentally accessible consequences for spectroscopy and quantum information applications. These include reduction of decoherence, fast manipulation of the coupled nuclear-electron qubit system and line narrowing in the multi-qubit case. We test our theoretical analysis by comparing with experimental X-band (9.7 GHz) EPR spectra obtained in the intermediate field regime.

id: 1004.3492
title: Quantum Control Landscapes: A Closer Look
authors: Pierre de Fouquieres, Sophie G. Schirmer
comments: This is a revised and abridged version. Numerical examples have been removed
journal: Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics, 16(3), 1350021 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3492
abstract: The control landscape for various canonical quantum control problems is considered. For the class of pure-state transfer problems, analysis of the fidelity as a functional over the unitary group reveals no suboptimal attractive critical points (traps). For the actual optimization problem over controls in $L^2(0,T)$, however, there are critical points for which the fidelity can assume any value in (0,1), critical points for which the second order analysis is inconclusive, and traps. For the class of unitary operator optimization problems analysis of the fidelity over the unitary group shows that while there are no traps over U(N), traps already emerge when the domain is restricted to the special unitary group. The traps on the group can be eliminated by modifying the performance index, corresponding to optimization over the projective unitary group. However, again, the set of critical points for the actual optimization problem for controls in $L^2(0,T)$ is larger and includes traps, some of which remain traps even when the target time is allowed to vary.

id: 1004.3496
title: The Origin of Separable States and Separability Criteria from Entanglement-breaking Channels
authors: Bang-Hai Wang, Qin Li, Dongyang Long
comments: EBCs with trace-preserving and EBCs without trace-preserving are separately discussed
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 185305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3496
abstract: In this paper, we show that an arbitrary separable state can be the output of a certain entanglement-breaking channel corresponding exactly to the input of a maximally entangled state. A necessary and sufficient separability criterion and some sufficient separability criteria from entanglement-breaking channels are given.

id: 1004.3561
title: Topos Quantum Logic and Mixed States
authors: Andreas Doering
comments: 25 pages; to appear in Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science (6th Workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic, QPL VI, Oxford, 8.--9. April 2009), eds. B. Coecke, P. Panangaden, P. Selinger (2010)
journal: In Proceedings of Workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic (QPL 09), eds. B. Coecke, P. Panangaden, P. Selinger, Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science 270, Issue 2, 59--77 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3561
abstract: The topos approach to the formulation of physical theories includes a new form of quantum logic. We present this topos quantum logic, including some new results, and compare it to standard quantum logic, all with an eye to conceptual issues. In particular, we show that topos quantum logic is distributive, multi-valued, contextual and intuitionistic. It incorporates superposition without being based on linear structures, has a built-in form of coarse-graining which automatically avoids interpretational problems usually associated with the conjunction of propositions about incompatible physical quantities, and provides a material implication that is lacking from standard quantum logic. Importantly, topos quantum logic comes with a clear geometrical underpinning. The representation of pure states and truth-value assignments are discussed. It is briefly shown how mixed states fit into this approach.

id: 1004.3564
title: Topos Methods in the Foundations of Physics
authors: Chris J. Isham
comments: 24 pages; to appear in "Deep Beauty", ed. Hans Halvorson, Cambridge University Press (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3564
abstract: This article gives a conceptual introduction to the topos approach to the formulation of physical theories.

id: 1004.3573
title: The physical interpretation of daseinisation
authors: Andreas Doering
comments: 39 pages; to appear in "Deep Beauty", ed. Hans Halvorson, Cambridge University Press (2010)
journal: In Deep Beauty, ed. Hans Halvorson, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 207--238 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3573
abstract: We provide a conceptual discussion and physical interpretation of some of the quite abstract constructions in the topos approach to physics. In particular, the daseinisation process for projection operators and for self-adjoint operators is motivated and explained from a physical point of view. Daseinisation provides the bridge between the standard Hilbert space formalism of quantum theory and the new topos-based approach to quantum theory. As an illustration, we will show all constructions explicitly for a three-dimensional Hilbert space and the spin-z operator of a spin-1 particle. This article is a companion to the article by Isham in the same volume.

id: 1004.3624
title: Optical one-way quantum computing with a simulated valence-bond solid
authors: Jonathan Lavoie, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Bei Zeng, Stephen D. Bartlett, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, 8 tables - added one reference
journal: Nature Physics 6, 850-854 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3624
abstract: One-way quantum computation proceeds by sequentially measuring individual spins (qubits) in an entangled many-spin resource state. It remains a challenge, however, to efficiently produce such resource states. Is it possible to reduce the task of generating these states to simply cooling a quantum many-body system to its ground state? Cluster states, the canonical resource for one-way quantum computing, do not naturally occur as ground states of physical systems. This led to a significant effort to identify alternative resource states that appear as ground states in spin lattices. An appealing candidate is a valence-bond-solid state described by Affleck, Kennedy, Lieb, and Tasaki (AKLT). It is the unique, gapped ground state for a two-body Hamiltonian on a spin-1 chain, and can be used as a resource for one-way quantum computing. Here, we experimentally generate a photonic AKLT state and use it to implement single-qubit quantum logic gates.

id: 1004.3626
title: Optical spin-1 chain and its use as a quantum computational wire
authors: Andrew S. Darmawan, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012328 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3626
abstract: Measurement-based quantum computing, a powerful alternative to the standard circuit model, proceeds using only local adaptive measurements on a highly-entangled resource state of many spins on a graph or lattice. Along with the canonical cluster state, the valence-bond solid ground state on a chain of spin-1 particles, studied by Affleck, Kennedy, Lieb, and Tasaki (AKLT), is such a resource state. We propose a simulation of this AKLT state using linear optics, wherein we can make use of the high-fidelity projective measurements that are commonplace in quantum optical experiments, and describe how quantum logic gates can be performed on this chain. In our proposed implementation, the spin-1 particles comprizing the AKLT state are encoded on polarization biphotons: three level systems consisting of pairs of polarized photons in the same spatio-temporal mode. A logical qubit encoded on the photonic AKLT state can be initialized, read out and have an arbitrary single qubit unitary applied to it by performing projective measurements on the constituent biphotons. For MBQC, biphoton measurements are required which cannot be deterministically performed using only linear optics and photodetection.

id: 1004.3644
title: Anisotropic oscillator with pseudo-hermiticity and its noncommutative extension
authors: Jun-Qing Li, Yan-Gang Miao
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3644
abstract: When a non-hermitian hamiltonian has a certain symmetry, such as the PT pseudo-hermiticity, it is still possible that the hamiltonian has a real spectrum. In this note, by adding an imaginary potential proportional to ip_1p_2 to the hamiltonian of an anisotropic planar oscillator, we construct a PT pseudo-hermitian hamiltonian and obtain its real spectrum. In addition, we find that the reality of the energy spectrum remains when the model is extended to the canonical noncommutative space.

id: 1004.3674
title: Fidelity and entanglement close to quantum phase transition in a two-leg $XXZ$ spin ladder
authors: Jie Ren, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3674
abstract: The fidelity susceptibility and entanglement entropy in a system of two-leg $XXZ$ spin ladder with rung coupling is investigated by using exact diagonalization of the system. The effects of rung coupling on fidelity susceptibility, entanglement entropy and quantum phase transition are analyzed. It is found that the quantum phase transition between two different $XY$ phases can be well characterized by the fidelity susceptibility. Though the quantum phase transition from $XY$ phase to rung singlet phase can be hardly detected by fidelity susceptibility, it can be predicted by the first derivative of the entanglement entropy of the system.

id: 1004.3700
title: Fake violations of the quantum Bell-parameter bound
authors: A. A. Semenov, W. Vogel
comments: Corrected published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032119 (2011); Phys. Rev. A 85, 049904(E) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3700
abstract: Shortcomings of experimental techniques are usually assumed to diminish nonclassical properties of quantum systems. Here it is demonstrated that this standard assumption is not true in general. It is theoretically shown that the inability to resolve different photon numbers in photodetection may pseudo-increase a measured Bell parameter. Under proper conditions one even pseudo-violates the quantum Cirel'son bound of the Bell parameter, the corresponding density operator fails to be positive semi-definite. This paradox can be resolved by appropriate squash models.

id: 1004.3703
title: Entanglement in multi-qubit pure fermionic coherent states
authors: G. Najarbashi, Y. Maleki
comments: 19 pages with no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3703
abstract: In this paper we investigate the entanglement of multi-qubit fermionic coherent states described by anticommutative Grassmann numbers. Choosing an appropriate weight function, we show that it is possible to construct some entangled pure states, consisting of {\bf{GHZ}}, {\bf{W}}, Bell and biseparable states, by tensor product of fermion coherent states. Moreover a comparison with maximal entangled bosonic coherent states is presented and it is shown that in some cases they have fermionic counterpart which are maximal entangled after integration with suitable weight functions.

id: 1004.3727
title: Light storage in a magnetically-dressed optical lattice
authors: Y. O. Dudin, R. Zhao, T.A.B. Kennedy, A. Kuzmich
comments: Physical Review A, in press.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3727
abstract: Differential Stark shift compensation for ground state $^{87}$Rb atoms trapped in an elliptically polarized optical lattice and "magic" magnetic field, was recently proposed and demonstrated experimentally by N. Lundblad {\it et al.}, arXiv:0912.1528 and analyzed theoretically by A. Derevianko, arXiv:0912.3233. Here we demonstrate for the first time enhanced hyperfine coherence times using the magic field technique. We observe coherent light storage with a 0.32 s lifetime in an atomic Rb gas confined in a one dimensional optical lattice and magnetic field.

id: 1004.3730
title: Secure quantum key distribution in an easy way
authors: Jia-Zhong Hu, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3730
abstract: Secure quantum key distribution can be achieved with an imperfect single-photon source through implementing the decoy-state method. However, security of all those theoretical results of decoy-state method based on the original framework raised by Hwang needs monitoring the source state very carefully, because the elementary proposition that the counting rates of the same state from different sources are equal does not hold in general when the source is unstable. Source intensity monitoring greatly decreases the system efficiency. Here without using Hwang's proposition for stable source, we present a sufficient condition for a secure decoy-state protocol without monitoring the source intensity. The passive 2-intensity protocol proposed by Adachi, Yamamoto, Koashi, and Imoto(AYKI) (Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 180503 (2007) satisfies the condition. Therefore, the protocol can always work securely without monitoring the source state or switching the source intensity. We also show that our result can greatly improve the key rate of the 3-intensity protocol with a fluctuating coherent-state source.

id: 1004.3737
title: Better short-seed quantum-proof extractors
authors: Avraham Ben-Aroya, Amnon Ta-Shma
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3737
abstract: We construct a strong extractor against quantum storage that works for every min-entropy $k$, has logarithmic seed length, and outputs $\Omega(k)$ bits, provided that the quantum adversary has at most $\beta k$ qubits of memory, for any $\beta < \half$. The construction works by first condensing the source (with minimal entropy-loss) and then applying an extractor that works well against quantum adversaries when the source is close to uniform. We also obtain an improved construction of a strong quantum-proof extractor in the high min-entropy regime. Specifically, we construct an extractor that uses a logarithmic seed length and extracts $\Omega(n)$ bits from any source over $\B^n$, provided that the min-entropy of the source conditioned on the quantum adversary's state is at least $(1-\beta) n$, for any $\beta < \half$.

id: 1004.3748
title: Entanglement Sudden Death in Three Qubit X-States
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, additional discussion of X-states and entanglement metrics
journal: PRA 82, 032326 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3748
abstract: I explore the entanglement dynamics of a three qubit system in an initial X-state undergoing decoherence including the possible exhibition of entanglement sudden death (ESD). To quantify entanglement I utilize negativity measures and make use of appropriate entanglement witnesses. The negativity results are then extended to X-states with an arbitraty number of qubits. I also demonstrate non-standard behavior of the tri-partite negativity entanglement metric, its sudden appearance after some amount of decoherence followed quickly by its disappearance. Finally, I solve for a lower bound on the three qubit X-state concurrence, demonstrate when this bound goes to zero, and outline simplifcations for the calculation of higher order X-state concurrences.

id: 1004.3787
title: No-go Theorem for One-way Quantum Computing on Naturally Occurring Two-level Systems
authors: Jianxin Chen, Xie Chen, Runyao Duan, Zhengfeng Ji, Bei Zeng
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 050301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3787
abstract: One-way quantum computing achieves the full power of quantum computation by performing single particle measurements on some many-body entangled state, known as the resource state. As single particle measurements are relatively easy to implement, the preparation of the resource state becomes a crucial task. An appealing approach is simply to cool a strongly correlated quantum many-body system to its ground state. In addition to requiring the ground state of the system to be universal for one-way quantum computing, we also want the Hamiltonian to have non-degenerate ground state protected by a fixed energy gap, to involve only two-body interactions, and to be frustration-free so that measurements in the course of the computation leave the remaining particles in the ground space. Recently, significant efforts have been made to the search of resource states that appear naturally as ground states in spin lattice systems. The approach is proved to be successful in spin-5/2 and spin-3/2 systems. Yet, it remains an open question whether there could be such a natural resource state in a spin-1/2, i.e., qubit system. Here, we give a negative answer to this question by proving that it is impossible for a genuinely entangled qubit states to be a non-degenerate ground state of any two-body frustration-free Hamiltonian. What is more, we prove that every spin-1/2 frustration-free Hamiltonian with two-body interaction always has a ground state that is a product of single- or two-qubit states, a stronger result that is interesting independent of the context of one-way quantum computing.

id: 1004.3791
title: Majorana Fermion Codes
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Bernhard Leemhuis, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure. References added + extended discussion
journal: New J.Phys.12:083039,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3791
abstract: We initiate the study of Majorana fermion codes. These codes can be viewed as extensions of Kitaev's 1D model of unpaired Majorana fermions in quantum wires to higher spatial dimensions and interacting fermions. The purpose of Majorana fermion codes (MFCs) is to protect quantum information against low-weight fermionic errors, that is, operators acting on sufficiently small subsets of fermionic modes. We examine to what extent MFCs can surpass qubit stabilizer codes in terms of their stability properties. A general construction of 2D MFCs is proposed which combines topological protection based on a macroscopic code distance with protection based on fermionic parity conservation. Finally, we use MFCs to show how to transform any qubit stabilizer code to a weakly self-dual CSS code.

id: 1004.3794
title: Comparison of quantum statistical models: equivalent conditions for sufficiency
authors: Francesco Buscemi
comments: v4: final version to appear on Communications in Mathematical Physics. v3: submitted version, further improvements and results added, still 23 pages. v2: presentation improved and new results added, now 23 pages. v1: 20 pages, article class, no figures
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 310, 625-647 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3794
abstract: A family of probability distributions (i.e. a statistical model) is said to be sufficient for another, if there exists a transition matrix transforming the probability distributions in the former to the probability distributions in the latter. The Blackwell-Sherman-Stein (BSS) theorem provides necessary and sufficient conditions for one statistical model to be sufficient for another, by comparing their information values in statistical decision problems. In this paper we extend the BSS theorem to quantum statistical decision theory, where statistical models are replaced by families of density matrices defined on finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces, and transition matrices are replaced by completely positive, trace-preserving maps (i.e. coarse-grainings). The framework we propose is suitable for unifying results that previously were independent, like the BSS theorem for classical statistical models and its analogue for pairs of bipartite quantum states, recently proved by Shmaya. An important role in this paper is played by statistical morphisms, namely, affine maps whose definition generalizes that of coarse-grainings given by Petz and induces a corresponding criterion for statistical sufficiency that is weaker, and hence easier to be characterized, than Petz's.

id: 1004.3818
title: Leggett-Garg inequalities and the geometry of the cut polytope
authors: David Avis, Patrick Hayden, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 82, 030102(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3818
abstract: The Bell and Leggett-Garg tests offer operational ways to demonstrate that non-classical behavior manifests itself in quantum systems, and experimentalists have implemented these protocols to show that classical worldviews such as local realism and macrorealism are false, respectively. Previous theoretical research has exposed important connections between more general Bell inequalities and polyhedral combinatorics. We show here that general Leggett-Garg inequalities are closely related to the cut polytope of the complete graph, a geometric object well-studied in combinatorics. Building on that connection, we offer a family of Leggett-Garg inequalities that are not trivial combinations of the most basic Leggett-Garg inequalities. We then show that violations of macrorealism can occur in surprising ways, by giving an example of a quantum system that violates the new "pentagon" Leggett-Garg inequality but does not violate any of the basic "triangle" Leggett-Garg inequalities.

id: 1004.3880
title: Entanglement dynamics of three-qubit states in many-sided noisy channels
authors: Michael Siomau
comments: 18 references (Previous version of this article contains mistakes)
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 035501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3880
abstract: We study entanglement dynamics of pure three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-type (GHZ-type) entangled states when one, two or three qubits being subjected to general local noise. Employing a lower bound for three-qubit concurrence as an entanglement measure, we show that for some many-sided noisy channels the entanglement dynamics can be complete described by the evolution of the entangled states in single-sided channels.

id: 1004.3903
title: Entanglement dynamics of photon pairs emitted from quantum dot
authors: Yang Zou, Ming Gong, Chuan-Feng Li, Geng Chen, Jian-Shun Tang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: Phy. Rev. A, 81, 064303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3903
abstract: We present a model to derive the state of the photon pairs generated by the biexciton cascade decay of a self-assembled quantum dot, which agrees well with the experimental result. Furthermore we calculate the concurrence and entanglement sudden death is found in this system with temperature increasing, which prevents quantum dot emits entangled photon pairs at a high temperature. The relationship between the fine structure splitting and the sudden death temperature is provided too.

id: 1004.3921
title: Decoherence in a nonequilibrium environment
authors: Joseph Beer, Eric Lutz
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3921
abstract: We consider a quantum harmonic oscillator coupled to a general nonequilibrium environment. We show that the decoherence factor can be expressed in terms of a measurable effective temperature, defined via a generalized fluctuation-dissipation relation. We further propose a simple experimental scheme to determine the time-dependent effective temperature in a linear Paul trap with engineered reservoirs. Our formalism allows quantitative description of nonequilibrium decoherence in the presence of an arbitrary number of non-Markovian noise sources in a unified manner.

id: 1004.3944
title: General optimality of the Heisenberg limit for quantum metrology
authors: Marcin Zwierz, Carlos A. Perez-Delgado, Pieter Kok
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. To appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters 105, 180402 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3944
abstract: Quantum metrology promises improved sensitivity in parameter estimation over classical procedures. However, there is an extensive debate over the question how the sensitivity scales with the resources (such as the average photon number) and number of queries that are used in estimation procedures. Here, we reconcile the physical definition of the relevant resources used in parameter estimation with the information-theoretical scaling in terms of the query complexity of a quantum network. This leads to a completely general optimality proof of the Heisenberg limit for quantum metrology. We give an example how our proof resolves paradoxes that suggest sensitivities beyond the Heisenberg limit, and we show that the Heisenberg limit is an information-theoretic interpretation of the Margolus-Levitin bound, rather than Heisenberg's uncertainty relation.

id: 1004.3950
title: Strong quantum correlations in four wave mixing in $^{85}$Rb vapor
authors: Quentin Glorieux, Luca Guidoni, Samuel Guibal, Jean-Pierre Likforman, Thomas Coudreau
comments: 8 pages and 8 figures; work presented at the SPIE Photonics Europe conference (Brussels, 2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3950
abstract: We study quantum intensity correlations produced using four-wave mixing in a room-temperature rubidium vapor cell. An extensive study of the effect of the various parameters allows us to observe very large amounts of non classical correlations.

id: 1004.3987
title: Schemes for the observation of photon correlation functions in circuit QED with linear detectors
authors: Marcus P. da Silva, Deniz Bozyigit, Andreas Wallraff, Alexandre Blais
comments: v1: 11 pages, 7 figures , v2: Minor revisions throughout for clarity. Added a few references and an appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043804 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3987
abstract: Correlations are important tools in the characterization of quantum fields. They can be used to describe statistical properties of the fields, such as bunching and anti-bunching, as well as to perform field state tomography. Here we analyse experiments by Bozyigit et al. [arXiv:1002.3738] where correlation functions can be observed using the measurement records of linear detectors (i.e. quadrature measurements), instead of relying on intensity or number detectors. We also describe how large amplitude noise introduced by these detectors can be quantified and subtracted from the data. This enables, in particular, the observation of first- and second-order coherence functions of microwave photon fields generated using circuit quantum-electrodynamics and propagating in superconducting transmission lines under the condition that noise is sufficiently low.

id: 1004.4008
title: Phases of the electronic two-level model under the rotating wave approximation
authors: M.T. Thomaz, A.C. Aguiar Pinto, M. Moutinho
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4008
abstract: We present the time evolution of the electronic two-level model in the rotating wave approximation (RWA). We calculate the Aharonov-Anandan phase of the vector states with cyclic evolution either within the period of an external monochromatic electric field or the period corresponding to Rabi's frequency. The Aharonov-Anandan phase is shown to be dependent on the initial vector state, unless the system evolves in the adiabatic regime; in the latter case, the Aharonov-Anandan phase recovers Berry's phase. Our results are also discussed in the quasi-resonant regime.

id: 1004.4050
title: Controllability on relaxation-free subspaces: On the relationship between adiabatic population transfer and optimal control
authors: Haidong Yuan, Christiane Koch, Peter Salamon, David Tannor
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 85, 033417, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4050
abstract: We consider the optimal control problem of transferring population between states of a quantum system where the coupling proceeds only via intermediate states that are subject to decay. We pose the question whether it is generally possible to carry out this transfer. For a single intermediate decaying state, we recover the Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage (STIRAP) process which we identify as the global optimum in the limit of infinite control time. We also present analytic solutions for the case of transfer that has to proceed via two consecutive intermediate decaying states. We show that in this case, for finite power the optimal control does not approach perfect state transfer even in the infinite time limit. We generalize our findings to characterize the topologies of paths that can be achieved by coherent control under the assumption of finite power.

id: 1004.4054
title: Quantum Snake Walk on Graphs
authors: Ansis Rosmanis
comments: 22 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4054
abstract: I introduce a new type of continuous-time quantum walk on graphs called the quantum snake walk, the basis states of which are fixed-length paths (snakes) in the underlying graph. First I analyze the quantum snake walk on the line, and I show that, even though most states stay localized throughout the evolution, there are specific states which most likely move on the line as wave packets with momentum inversely proportional to the length of the snake. Next I discuss how an algorithm based on the quantum snake walk might potentially be able to solve an extended version of the glued trees problem which asks to find a path connecting both roots of the glued trees graph. No efficient quantum algorithm solving this problem is known yet.

id: 1004.4099
title: Discretized vs. continuous models of p-wave interacting fermions in 1D
authors: Dominik Muth, Michael Fleischhauer, Bernd Schmidt
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4099
abstract: We present a general mapping between continuous and lattice models of Bose- and Fermi-gases in one dimension, interacting via local two-body interactions. For s-wave interacting bosons we arrive at the Bose-Hubbard model in the weakly interacting, low density regime. The dual problem of p-wave interacting fermions is mapped to the spin-1/2 XXZ model close to the critical point in the highly polarized regime. The mappings are shown to be optimal in the sense that they produce the least error possible for a given discretization length. As an application we examine the ground state of a interacting Fermi gas in a harmonic trap, calculating numerically real-space and momentum-space distributions as well as two-particle correlations. In the analytically known limits the convergence of the results of the lattice model to the continuous one is shown.

id: 1004.4110
title: Computing the distance between quantum channels: Usefulness of the Fano representation
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giuliano Strini
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 215508
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4110
abstract: The diamond norm measures the distance between two quantum channels. From an operational vewpoint, this norm measures how well we can distinguish between two channels by applying them to input states of arbitrarily large dimensions. In this paper, we show that the diamond norm can be conveniently and in a physically transparent way computed by means of a Monte-Carlo algorithm based on the Fano representation of quantum states and quantum operations. The effectiveness of this algorithm is illustrated for several single-qubit quantum channels.

id: 1004.4118
title: DC-powered Fe3+:sapphire Maser and its Sensitivity to Ultraviolet Light
authors: Mark Oxborrow, Pierre-Yves Bourgeois, Yann Kersal¨¦, Vincent Giordano
comments: pdf only; submitted to the proceedings of the 24th European Frequency and Time Forum, 13-15th April, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4118
abstract: The zero-field Fe3+:sapphire whispering-gallery-mode maser oscillator exhibits several alluring features: Its output is many orders of magnitude brighter than that of an active hydrogen maser and thus far less degraded by spontaneous-emission (Schawlow-Townes) and/or receiving-amplifier noise. Its oscillator loop is confined to a piece of mono-crystalline rock bolted into a metal can. Its quiet amplification combined with high resonator Q provide the ingredients for exceptionally low phase noise. We here concentrate on novelties addressing the fundamental conundrums and technical challenges that impede progress. (1) Roasting: The "mase-ability" of sapphire depends significantly on the chemical conditions under which it is grown and heat-treated. We provide some fresh details and nuances here. (2) Simplification: This paper obviates the need for a Ka-band synthesizer: it describes how a 31.3 GHz loop oscillator, operating on the preferred WG pump mode, incorporating Pound locking, was built from low-cost components. (3) "Dark Matter": A Siegman-level analysis of the experimental data determines the substitutional concentration of Fe3+ in HEMEX to be less than a part per billion prior to roasting and up to a few hundred ppb afterwards. Chemical assays, using different techniques (incl. glow discharge mass spectra spectroscopy and neutron activation analysis) consistently indicate, however, that HEMEX contains iron at concentrations of a few parts per million. Drawing from several forgotten-about/under-appreciated papers, this substantial discrepancy is addressed. (4) Excitons: Towards providing a new means of controlling the Fe3+:sapph. system, a cryogenic sapphire ring was illuminated, whilst masing, with UV light at wavelengths corresponding to known electronic and charge-transfer (thus valence-altering) transitions. Preliminary experiments are reported.

id: 1004.4124
title: Quantum heuristic algorithm for traveling salesman problem
authors: Jeongho Bang, Seokwon Yoo, James Lim, Junghee Ryu, Changhyoup Lee, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: Published version
journal: J. Korean Phys. Soc. 61, 1944 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4124
abstract: We propose a quantum heuristic algorithm to solve a traveling salesman problem by generalizing Grover search. Sufficient conditions are derived to greatly enhance the probability of finding the tours with extremal costs, reaching almost to unity and they are shown characterized by statistical properties of tour costs. In particular for a Gaussian distribution of the tours along the cost we show that the quantum algorithm exhibits the quadratic speedup of its classical counterpart, similarly to Grover search.

id: 1004.4146
title: Looking for symmetric Bell inequalities
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Nicolas Gisin, Stefano Pironio
comments: Added a proof in appendix A, 17 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 385303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4146
abstract: Finding all Bell inequalities for a given number of parties, measurement settings, and measurement outcomes is in general a computationally hard task. We show that all Bell inequalities which are symmetric under the exchange of parties can be found by examining a symmetrized polytope which is simpler than the full Bell polytope. As an illustration of our method, we generate 238885 new Bell inequalities and 1085 new Svetlichny inequalities. We find, in particular, facet inequalities for Bell experiments involving two parties and two measurement settings that are not of the Collins-Gisin-Linden-Massar-Popescu type.

id: 1004.4158
title: Heralded single photon absorption by a single atom
authors: Nicolas Piro, Felix Rohde, Carsten Schuck, Marc Almendros, Jan Huwer, Joyee Ghosh, Albrecht Haase, Markus Hennrich, Francois Dubin, J¨¹rgen Eschner
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4158
abstract: The emission and absorption of single photons by single atomic particles is a fundamental limit of matter-light interaction, manifesting its quantum mechanical nature. At the same time, as a controlled process it is a key enabling tool for quantum technologies, such as quantum optical information technology [1, 2] and quantum metrology [3, 4, 5, 6]. Controlling both emission and absorption will allow implementing quantum networking scenarios [1, 7, 8, 9], where photonic communication of quantum information is interfaced with its local processing in atoms. In studies of single-photon emission, recent progress includes control of the shape, bandwidth, frequency, and polarization of single-photon sources [10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17], and the demonstration of atom-photon entanglement [18, 19, 20]. Controlled absorption of a single photon by a single atom is much less investigated; proposals exist but only very preliminary steps have been taken experimentally such as detecting the attenuation and phase shift of a weak laser beam by a single atom [21, 22], and designing an optical system that covers a large fraction of the full solid angle [23, 24, 25]. Here we report the interaction of single heralded photons with a single trapped atom. We find strong correlations of the detection of a heralding photon with a change in the quantum state of the atom marking absorption of the quantum-correlated heralded photon. In coupling a single absorber with a quantum light source, our experiment demonstrates previously unexplored matter-light interaction, while opening up new avenues towards photon-atom entanglement conversion in quantum technology.

id: 1004.4162
title: Experimental measurement-based quantum computing beyond the cluster-state model
authors: Wei-Bo Gao, Xing-Can Yao, Jian-Ming Cai, He Lu, Ping Xu, Tao Yang, Chao-Yang Lu, Yu-Ao Chen, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 26 pages, final version, comments welcome
journal: Nature Photonics 5, 117--123 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4162
abstract: The paradigm of measurement-based quantum computation opens new experimental avenues to realize a quantum computer and deepens our understanding of quantum physics. Measurement-based quantum computation starts from a highly entangled universal resource state. For years, clusters states have been the only known universal resources. Surprisingly, a novel framework namely quantum computation in correlation space has opened new routes to implement measurement-based quantum computation based on quantum states possessing entanglement properties different from cluster states. Here we report an experimental demonstration of every building block of such a model. With a four-qubit and a six-qubit state as distinct from cluster states, we have realized a universal set of single-qubit rotations, two-qubit entangling gates and further Deutsch's algorithm. Besides being of fundamental interest, our experiment proves in-principle the feasibility of universal measurement-based quantum computation without using cluster states, which represents a new approach towards the realization of a quantum computer.

id: 1004.4300
title: Coherent quantum effects through dispersive bosonic media
authors: Sai-Yun Ye, Zhen-Biao Yang, Shi-Biao Zheng, Alessio Serafini
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4300
abstract: The coherent evolution of two atomic qubits mediated by a set of bosonic field modes is investigated. By assuming a specific encoding of the quantum states in the internal levels of the two atoms we show that entangling quantum gates can be realised, with high fidelity, even when a large number of mediating modes is involved. The effect of losses and imperfections on the gates' operation is also considered in detail.

id: 1004.4301
title: Optimal control of population transfer in Markovian open quantum systems
authors: Wei Cui, Zairong Xi, Yu Pan
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4301
abstract: There has long been interest to control the transfer of population between specified quantum states. Recent work has optimized the control law for closed system population transfer by using a gradient ascent pulse engineer- ing algorithm [1]. Here, a spin-boson model consisting of two-level atoms which interact with the dissipative environment, is investigated. With opti- mal control, the quantum system can invert the populations of the quantum logic states. The temperature plays an important role in controlling popula- tion transfer. At low temperatures the control has active performance, while at high temperatures it has less erect. We also analyze the decoherence be- havior of open quantum systems with optimal population transfer control, and we find that these controls can prolong the coherence time. We hope that active optimal control can help quantum solid-state-based engineering.

id: 1004.4303
title: Non-Markovian entanglement dynamics in coupled superconducting qubit systems
authors: Wei Cui, Zairong Xi, Yu Pan
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4303
abstract: We theoretically analyze the entanglement generation and dynamics by coupled Josephson junction qubits. Considering a current-biased Josephson junction (CBJJ), we generate maximally entangled states. In particular, the entanglement dynamics is considered as a function of the decoherence parameters, such as the temperature, the ratio $r\equiv\omega_c/\omega_0$ between the reservoir cutoff frequency $\omega_c$ and the system oscillator frequency $\omega_0$, % between $\omega_0$ the characteristic frequency of the %quantum system of interest, and $\omega_c$ the cut-off frequency of %Ohmic reservoir and the energy levels split of the superconducting circuits in the non-Markovian master equation. We analyzed the entanglement sudden death (ESD) and entanglement sudden birth (ESB) by the non-Markovian master equation. Furthermore, we find that the larger the ratio $r$ and the thermal energy $k_BT$, the shorter the decoherence. In this superconducting qubit system we find that the entanglement can be controlled and the ESD time can be prolonged by adjusting the temperature and the superconducting phases $\Phi_k$ which split the energy levels.

id: 1004.4313
title: Reversible Projective Measurement in Quantum Ensembles
authors: Anatoly Khitrin, Michael Michalski, Jae-Seung Lee
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4313
abstract: We present experimental NMR demonstration of a scheme of reversible projective measurement, which allows extracting information on outcomes and probabilities of a projective measurement in a non-destructive way, with a minimal net effect on the quantum state of an ensemble. The scheme uses reversible dynamics and weak measurement of the intermediate state. The experimental system is an ensemble of 133Cs (S = 7/2) nuclei in a liquid-crystalline matrix.

id: 1004.4320
title: Reversible Circuit Synthesis Using a Cycle-Based Approach
authors: Mehdi Saeedi, Morteza Saheb Zamani, Mehdi Sedighi, Zahra Sasanian
comments: 25 pages, 21 figures, 2 tables
journal: ACM Journal of Emerging Technologies in Computing Systems, Vol. 6, Issue 4, Article 13, December 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4320
abstract: Reversible logic has applications in various research areas including signal processing, cryptography and quantum computation. In this paper, direct NCT-based synthesis of a given $k$-cycle in a cycle-based synthesis scenario is examined. To this end, a set of seven building blocks is proposed that reveals the potential of direct synthesis of a given permutation to reduce both quantum cost and average runtime. To synthesize a given large cycle, we propose a decomposition algorithm to extract the suggested building blocks from the input specification. Then, a synthesis method is introduced which uses the building blocks and the decomposition algorithm. Finally, a hybrid synthesis framework is suggested which uses the proposed cycle-based synthesis method in conjunction with one of the recent NCT-based synthesis approaches which is based on Reed-Muller (RM) spectra. The time complexity and the effectiveness of the proposed synthesis approach are analyzed in detail. Our analyses show that the proposed hybrid framework leads to a better quantum cost in the worst-case scenario compared to the previously presented methods. The proposed framework always converges and typically synthesizes a given specification very fast compared to the available synthesis algorithms. Besides, the quantum costs of benchmark functions are improved about 20% on average (55% in the best case).

id: 1004.4352
title: Tunneling effects in a one-dimensional quantum walk
authors: Mostafa Annabestani, Seyed Javad Akhtarshenas, Mohamad Reza Abolhassani
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4352
abstract: In this article we investigate the effects of shifting position decoherence, arisen from the tunneling effect in the experimental realization of the quantum walk, on the one-dimensional discreet time quantum walk. We show that in the regime of this type of noise the quantum behavior of the walker does not fade, in contrary to the coin decoherence for which the walker undergos the quantum-to-classical transition even for weak noise. Particularly, we show that the quadratic dependency of the variance on the time and also the coin-position entanglement, i.e. two important quantum aspects of the coherent quantum walk, are preserved in the presence of tunneling decoherence. Furthermore, we present an explicit expression for the probability distribution of decoherent one-dimensional quantum walk in terms of the corresponding coherent probabilities, and show that this type of decoherence smooths the probability distribution.

id: 1004.4370
title: Husimi coordinates of multipartite separable states
authors: Georges Parfionov, Roman R. Zapatrin
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 505304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4370
abstract: A parametrization of multipartite separable states in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space is suggested. It is proved to be a diffeomorphism between the set of zero-trace operators and the interior of the set of separable density operators. The result is applicable to any tensor product decomposition of the state space. An analytical criterion for separability of density operators is established in terms of the boundedness of a sequence of operators.

id: 1004.4395
title: Controlling Entanglement Dynamics by Choosing Appropriate Ratio between Cavity-Fiber Coupling and Atom-Cavity Coupling
authors: C. G. Liao, Z. B. Yang, Z. H. Chen, C. L. Luo
comments: 14pages, 3figures, conference
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 51,509(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4395
abstract: The entanglement characteristics including the so-called sudden death effect between two identical two-level atoms trapped in two separate cavities connected by an optical fiber are studied. The results show that the time evolution of entanglement is sensitive not only to the degree of entanglement of the initial state but also to the ratio between cavity-fiber coupling () and atom-cavity coupling (). This means that the entanglement dynamics can be controlled by choosing specific v and g.

id: 1004.4475
title: Convergence of macrostates under reproducible processes
authors: Jochen Rau
comments: 5 pages, no figures; v2: new title and abstract, expanded on motivation and physical meaning
journal: Physics Letters A 374, 3715 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4475
abstract: I show that whenever a system undergoes a reproducible macroscopic process the mutual distinguishability of macrostates, as measured by their relative entropy, diminishes. This extends the second law which regards only ordinary entropies, and hence only the distinguishability between macrostates and one specific reference state (equidistribution). The new result holds regardless of whether the process is linear or nonlinear. Its proof hinges on the monotonicity of quantum relative entropy under arbitrary coarse grainings, even those that cannot be represented by completely positive maps.

id: 1004.4479
title: Atomic decay near a quantized medium of absorbing scatterers
authors: L.G. Suttorp, A.J. van Wonderen
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4479
abstract: The decay of an excited atom in the presence of a medium that both scatters and absorbs radiation is studied with the help of a quantum-electrodynamical model. The medium is represented by a half space filled with a randomly distributed set of non-overlapping spheres, which consist of a linear absorptive dielectric material. The absorption effects are described by means of a quantized damped-polariton theory. It is found that the effective susceptibility of the bulk does not fully account for the medium-induced change in the atomic decay rate. In fact, surface effects contribute to the modification of the decay properties as well. The interplay of scattering and absorption in the total decay rate is discussed.

id: 1004.4515
title: Entanglement of a two-particle Gaussian state interacting with a heat bath
authors: Anne Ghesqui¨¨re, Tony C. Dorlas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4515
abstract: The effect of a thermal reservoir is investigated on a bipartite Gaussian state. We derive a pre-Lindblad master equation in the non-rotating wave approximation for the system. We then solve the master equation for a bipartite harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian with entangled initial state. We show that for strong damping the loss of entanglement is the same as for freely evolving particles. However, if the damping is small, the entanglement is shown to oscillate and eventually tend to a constant nonzero value.

id: 1004.4561
title: Suppression of off-resonant cavity feeding through quasi-resonant pumping in a strongly coupled cavity-quantum dot system
authors: Deepak Sridharan, Ranojoy Bose, Glenn S. Solomon, Edo Waks
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4561
abstract: We compare the photoluminescence spectrum of an indium arsenide (InAs) quantum dot (QD) that is strongly coupled to a photonic crystal cavity under above band excitation (ABE) and quasi-resonant excitation (QRE). We show that off-resonant cavity feeding, which manifests itself in a bare cavity emission peak at the strong coupling point, is suppressed by as much as 40% under QRE relative to ABE. We attribute this suppression to a reduced probability of QD charging because electrons and holes are created in pairs inside the QD. We investigate the pump power dependence of the cavity feeding and show that, below saturation, the ratio of the bare cavity emission to polariton emission for ABE is independent of pump power, while for QRE there is linear pump power dependence. These results suggest that the biexciton plays an important role in cavity feeding for QRE.

id: 1004.4596
title: Emergence and Collapse of Quantum Mechanical Superposition: Orthogonality of Reversible Dynamics and Irreversible Diffusion
authors: Gerhard Groessing, Siegfried Fussy, Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Herbert Schwabl
comments: 33 pages, 2 figures.
journal: Physica A 389, 21 (2010) 4473-4484
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4596
abstract: Based on the modelling of quantum systems with the aid of (classical) non-equilibrium thermodynamics, both the emergence and the collapse of the superposition principle are understood within one and the same framework. Both are shown to depend in crucial ways on whether or not an average orthogonality is maintained between reversible Schroedinger dynamics and irreversible processes of diffusion. Moreover, said orthogonality is already in full operation when dealing with a single free Gaussian wave packet. In an application, the quantum mechanical "decay of the wave packet" is shown to simply result from sub-quantum diffusion with a specific diffusivity varying in time due to a particle's changing thermal environment. The exact quantum mechanical trajectory distributions and the velocity field of the Gaussian wave packet, as well as Born's rule, are thus all derived solely from classical physics.

id: 1004.4599
title: Entropy inequalities from reflection positivity
authors: H. Casini
comments: Significantly enlarged and corrected version. Counterexamples found for the most general form of the inequalities. V3: minor changes
journal: J.Stat.Mech.1008:P08019,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4599
abstract: We investigate the question of whether the entropy and the Renyi entropies of the vacuum state reduced to a region of the space can be represented in terms of correlators in quantum field theory. In this case, the positivity relations for the correlators are mapped into inequalities for the entropies. We write them using a real time version of reflection positivity, which can be generalized to general quantum systems. Using this generalization we can prove an infinite sequence of inequalities which are obeyed by the Renyi entropies of integer index. There is one independent inequality involving any number of different subsystems. In quantum field theory the inequalities acquire a simple geometrical form and are consistent with the integer index Renyi entropies being given by vacuum expectation values of twisting operators in the Euclidean formulation. Several possible generalizations and specific examples are analyzed.

id: 1004.4609
title: Synthesis of Reversible Functions Beyond Gate Count and Quantum Cost
authors: Robert Wille, Mehdi Saeedi, Rolf Drechsler
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, 4 tables, International Workshop on Logic and Synthesis
journal: International Workshop on Logic Synthesis (IWLS), USA, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4609
abstract: Many synthesis approaches for reversible and quantum logic have been proposed so far. However, most of them generate circuits with respect to simple metrics, i.e. gate count or quantum cost. On the other hand, to physically realize reversible and quantum hardware, additional constraints exist. In this paper, we describe cost metrics beyond gate count and quantum cost that should be considered while synthesizing reversible and quantum logic for the respective target technologies. We show that the evaluation of a synthesis approach may differ if additional costs are applied. In addition, a new cost metric, namely Nearest Neighbor Cost (NNC) which is imposed by realistic physical quantum architectures, is considered in detail. We discuss how existing synthesis flows can be extended to generate optimal circuits with respect to NNC while still keeping the quantum cost small.

id: 1004.4619
title: Quantum secret sharing with qudit graph states
authors: Adrian Keet, Ben Fortescue, Damian Markham, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures. v2: Corrected to reflect imperfections of (n,n) QQ protocol. Also changed notation from $(n,m)$ to $(k,n)$, corrected typos, updated references, shortened introduction. v3: Updated acknowledgements
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062315 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4619
abstract: We present a unified formalism for threshold quantum secret sharing using graph states of systems with prime dimension. We construct protocols for three varieties of secret sharing: with classical and quantum secrets shared between parties over both classical and quantum channels.

id: 1004.4632
title: Interplay of Topological Order and Spin Glassiness in the Toric Code under Random Magnetic Fields
authors: D.I. Tsomokos, T.J. Osborne, C. Castelnovo
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures; published version focusing on the topological spin glass phase and percolation properties of the rigid lattice in the random-field toric code model
journal: Phys.Rev.B83:075124,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4632
abstract: We analyze the toric code model in the presence of quenched disorder, which is introduced via different types of random magnetic fields. In general, close to a quantum phase transition between a spin polarized phase and a topologically ordered one, we find that increasing the amount of disorder favors the topological phase. For some realizations of disorder, topological order can be robust against arbitrarily strong magnetic fields. In the case of the toric code in a random \pm h field, we show that the system exhibits a quantum phase transition to a spin glass phase in an appropriate dual variables description. The survival of topological order in the spin glass phase is directly related to the percolation properties of the rigid lattice in the Edwards-Anderson bimodal spin glass model. According to recent numerical results for this model [Phys. Rev. B 82, 214401 (2010)], it is likely that the rigid lattice does not percolate and, as a result, a new intermediate quantum phase appears in the random-field toric code. In this intermediate quantum phase, topological order coexists with spin glassiness.

id: 1004.4659
title: Optimal control of non-Markovian open quantum systems via feedback
authors: Zairong Xi, Wei Cui, Yu Pan
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4659
abstract: The problem of optimal control of non-Markovian open quantum system via weak measurement is presented. Based on the non-Markovian master equation, we evaluate exactly the non-Markovian effect on the dynamics of the system of interest interacting with a dissipative reservoir. We find that the non-Markovian reservoir has dual effects on the system: dissipation and backaction. The dissipation exhausts the coherence of the quantum system, whereas the backaction revives it. Moreover, we design the control Hamiltonian with the control laws attained by the stochastic optimal control and the corresponding optimal principle. At last, we considered the exact decoherence dynamics of a qubit in a dissipative reservoir composed of harmonic oscillators, and demonstrated the effectiveness of our optimal control strategy. Simulation results showed that the coherence will completely lost in the absence of control neither in non-Markovian nor Markovian system. However, the optimal feedback control steers it to a stationary stochastic process which fluctuates around the target. In this case the decoherence can be controlled effectively, which indicates that the engineered artificial reservoirs with optimal feedback control may be designed to protect the quantum coherence in quantum information and quantum computation.

id: 1004.4682
title: Quantum Secret Sharing by applying Analytic Geometry
authors: Ruilong Liu
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4682
abstract: In this paper, we investigate a novel $(2,2)$-threshold scheme and then generalize this to a $(n,n)$-threshold scheme for quantum secret sharing (QSS) which makes use of the fundamentals of Analytic Geometry. The dealer aptly selects GHZ states related to the coefficients which determine straight lines on a two-dimension plane. Then by computing each two of the lines intercept or not, we obtain a judging matrix whose rank can be used to determine the secret stored in entangled bits. Based on the database technology, authorized participants access to the database to obtain the secret information and hence the secret never appears in the channel. In this way, the eavesdroppers fail to obtain any secret by applying various attack strategies.

id: 1004.4689
title: Quantum Location Verification in Noisy Channels
authors: Robert A Malaney
comments: 6 Pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4689
abstract: Recently it has been shown how the use of quantum entanglement can lead to the creation of real-time communication channels whose viability can be made location dependent. Such functionality leads to new security paradigms that are not possible in classical communication networks. Key to these new security paradigms are quantum protocols that can unconditionally determine that a receiver is in fact at an a priori assigned location. A limiting factor of such quantum protocols will be the decoherence of states held in quantum memory. Here we investigate the performance of quantum location verification protocols under decoherence effects. More specifically, we address the issue of how decoherence impacts the verification using N = 2 qubits entangled as Bell states, as compared to N > 2 qubits entangled as GHZ states. We study the original quantum location verification protocol, as well as a variant protocol, introduced here, which utilizes teleportation. We find that the performance of quantum location verification is in fact similar for Bell states and some N > 2 GHZ states, even though quantum decoherence degrades larger-qubit entanglements faster. Our results are important for the design and implementation of location-dependent communications in emerging quantum networks.

id: 1004.4691
title: Quantum interface between frequency-uncorrelated down-converted entanglement and atomic-ensemble quantum memory
authors: Xian-Min Jin, Jian Yang, Han Zhang, Han-Ning Dai, Sheng-Jun Yang, Tian-Ming Zhao, Jun Rui, Yu He, Xiao Jiang, Fan Yang, Ge-Sheng Pan, Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Youjin Deng, Zeng-Bing Chen, Xiao-Hui Bao, Bo Zhao, Shuai Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4691
abstract: Photonic entanglement source and quantum memory are two basic building blocks of linear-optical quantum computation and long-distance quantum communication. In the past decades, intensive researches have been carried out, and remarkable progress, particularly based on the spontaneous parametric down-converted (SPDC) entanglement source and atomic ensembles, has been achieved. Currently, an important task towards scalable quantum information processing (QIP) is to efficiently write and read entanglement generated from a SPDC source into and out of an atomic quantum memory. Here we report the first experimental realization of a quantum interface by building a 5 MHz frequency-uncorrelated SPDC source and reversibly mapping the generated entangled photons into and out of a remote optically thick cold atomic memory using electromagnetically induced transparency. The frequency correlation between the entangled photons is almost fully eliminated with a suitable pump pulse. The storage of a triggered single photon with arbitrary polarization is shown to reach an average fidelity of 92% for 200 ns storage time. Moreover, polarization-entangled photon pairs are prepared, and one of photons is stored in the atomic memory while the other keeps flying. The CHSH Bell's inequality is measured and violation is clearly observed for storage time up to 1 microsecond. This demonstrates the entanglement is stored and survives during the storage. Our work establishes a crucial element to implement scalable all-optical QIP, and thus presents a substantial progress in quantum information science.

id: 1004.4706
title: Coherent state quantization of paragrassmann algebras
authors: M. El Baz, R. Fresneda, J.P. Gazeau, Y. Hassouni
comments: We provide an erratum where we improve upon our previous definition of odd paragrassmann algebras
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4706
abstract: By using a coherent state quantization of paragrassmann variables, operators are constructed in finite Hilbert spaces. We thus obtain in a straightforward way a matrix representation of the paragrassmann algebra. This algebra of finite matrices realizes a deformed Weyl-Heisenberg algebra. The study of mean values in coherent states of some of these operators lead to interesting conclusions.

id: 1004.4739
title: Tomography, Control and Characterization of Entanglement in Three level Atomic System
authors: S. N. Sandhya, V. Ravishankar
comments: 5 figures 14 pages
journal: Physical Review A 82, 062301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4739
abstract: We study the quantum correlations of the radiation emitted by three level atoms (cascade type) interacting with two driving fields. In the linear regime, and in the Weisskopf-Wigner approximation, we show that the atomic and the two-photon density matrix are equivalent to each other. This facilitates the tomography of the two mode state to be realized by measurements on either the atomic system or the emitted fields. While, in general, one needs 4^N measurements for the tomography of a N photon state, we show that one needs (N+1)^2-1 observables for the tomography of photons emitted by an atomic system. Thus there is an exponential reduction in the number of observables for the reconstruction of the class of N photon states emitted by atoms. We show that the driving field strengths and detunings provide the {\it control} parameters for the preparation of a specific target state. Finally, we study the characterization of entanglement of the two photon state. We observe that a characterization of entanglement in terms of a single parameter is not possible when the system is in a mixed state; therefore, we provide a description in terms of the newly introduced probability distribution for entanglement, in various regimes of interest.

id: 1004.4754
title: Quantum key distribution system in standard telecommunications fiber using a short wavelength single-photon source
authors: R. J. Collins, P. J. Clarke, V. Fernandez, K. J. Gordon, M. N. Makhonin, J. A. Timpson, A. Tahraoui, M. Hopkinson, A. M. Fox, M. S. Skolnick, G. S. Buller
comments: Final manuscript version, some grammatical differences from the published version. 26 pages including 7 figures.
journal: Journal of Applied Physics, Volume 107, Number 7, Article Number 073102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4754
abstract: A demonstration of the principles of quantum key distribution is performed using a single-photon source in a proof of concept test-bed over a distance of 2 km in standard telecommunications optical fiber. The single-photon source was an optically-pumped quantum dot in a microcavity emitting at a wavelength of 895 nm. Characterization of the quantum key distribution parameters was performed at a range of different optical excitation powers. An investigation of the effect of varying the optical excitation power of the quantum dot microcavity on the quantum bit error rate and cryptographic key exchange rate of the system are presented.

id: 1004.4770
title: Fast transfer and efficient coherent separation of bound cluster in the extended Hubbard model
authors: L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 063009 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4770
abstract: We study the formation and dynamics of the bound pair (BP) and bound triple (BT) in strongly correlated extended Hubbard model for both Bose and Fermi systems. We find that the bandwidths of the BP and BT gain significantly when the on-site and nearest-neighbor interaction strengths reach the corresponding resonant points. This allows the fast transfer and efficient coherent separation of the BP and BT. The exact result shows that the success probability of the coherent separation is unity in the optimal system. In Fermi system, this finding can be applied to create distant entanglement without the need of temporal control and measurement process.

id: 1004.4782
title: Universal bounds for the Holevo quantity, coherent information \\ and the Jensen-Shannon divergence
authors: Wojciech Roga, Mark Fannes, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 040505 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4782
abstract: The Holevo quantity provides an upper bound for the mutual information between the sender of a classical message encoded in quantum carriers and the receiver. Applying the strong sub-additivity of entropy we prove that the Holevo quantity associated with an initial state and a given quantum operation represented in its Kraus form is not larger than the exchange entropy. This implies upper bounds for the coherent information and for the quantum Jensen--Shannon divergence. Restricting our attention to classical information we bound the transmission distance between any two probability distributions by the entropic distance, which is a concave function of the Hellinger distance.

id: 1004.4787
title: Generalized minimal output entropy conjecture for one-mode Gaussian channels: definitions and some exact results
authors: V. Giovannetti, A. S. Holevo, S. Lloyd, L. Maccone
comments: 7 pages, updated version minor typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 415305, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4787
abstract: A formulation of the generalized minimal output entropy conjecture for Gaussian channels is presented. It asserts that, for states with fixed input entropy, the minimal value of the output entropy of the channel (i.e. the minimal output entropy increment for fixed input entropy) is achieved by Gaussian states. In the case of centered channels (i.e. channels which do not add squeezing to the input state) this implies that the minimum is obtained by thermal (Gibbs) inputs. The conjecture is proved to be valid in some special cases.

id: 1004.4842
title: Trapped-ion probing of light-induced charging effects on dielectrics
authors: Maximilian Harlander, Michael Brownnutt, Wolfgang H?nsel, Rainer Blatt
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 093035
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4842
abstract: We use a string of confined $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ions to measure perturbations to a trapping potential which are caused by light-induced charging of an anti-reflection coated window and of insulating patches on the ion-trap electrodes. The electric fields induced at the ions' position are characterised as a function of distance to the dielectric, and as a function of the incident optical power and wavelength. The measurement of the ion-string position is sensitive to as few as $40$ elementary charges per $\sqrt{\mathrm{Hz}}$ on the dielectric at distances of order millimetres, and perturbations are observed for illumination with light of wavelengths as long as 729\,nm. This has important implications for the future of miniaturised ion-trap experiments, notably with regards to the choice of electrode material, and the optics that must be integrated in the vicinity of the ion. The method presented can be readily applied to the investigation of charging effects beyond the context of ion trap experiments.

id: 1004.4854
title: Introduction to Measurement Space and Application to Operationally Useful Entanglement and Mode Entanglement
authors: Sebastian Meznaric
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4854
abstract: We introduce the idea that the knowable quantum reality depends not only on the state but also on measurements. Mathematically, we map the states from the ordinary Hilbert space into new states in what we call the measurement space. The state vectors in the measurement space contain only the information accessible with a particular set of measurements. The space can be used to find the operational equivalent of any information theoretic quantity. We use the formalism to define the operationally meaningful entanglement, explore its properties and apply it to mode entanglement. There we find that a mode-entangled state of a single particle has no operationally useful entanglement unless additional degrees of freedom are introduced to the system.

id: 1004.4874
title: All-versus-nothing proofs with n qubits distributed between m parties
authors: Adan Cabello, Pilar Moreno
comments: REVTeX4-1, 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81 (2010) 042110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4874
abstract: All-versus-nothing (AVN) proofs show the conflict between Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen's elements of reality and the perfect correlations of some quantum states. Given an n-qubit state distributed between m parties, we provide a method with which to decide whether this distribution allows an m-partite AVN proof specific for this state using only single-qubit measurements. We apply this method to some recently obtained n-qubit m-particle states. In addition, we provide all inequivalent AVN proofs with less than nine qubits and a minimum number of parties.

id: 1004.4906
title: Quantum computational renormalization in the Haldane phase
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Gavin K. Brennen, Akimasa Miyake, Joseph M. Renes
comments: v2: 4 pages, 3 figures; improved description of buffering scheme and connection to string operators. v3: final published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:110502,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4906
abstract: Single-spin measurements on the ground state of an interacting spin lattice can be used to perform a quantum computation. We show how such measurements can mimic renormalization group transformations and remove the short-ranged variations of the state that can reduce the fidelity of a computation. This suggests that the quantum computational ability of a spin lattice could be a robust property of a quantum phase. We illustrate our idea with the ground state of a spin-1 chain, which can serve as a quantum computational wire not only at the Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki point, but within the rotationally-invariant Haldane phase.

id: 1004.4922
title: Sufficient conditions placed on initial system-environment states for positive maps
authors: Yong-Cheng Ou, C. Allen Bishop, Mark S. Byrd
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4922
abstract: A system interacting with its environment will give rise to a quantum evolution. After tracing over the environment the net evolution of the system can be described by a linear Hermitian map. It has recently been shown that a necessary and sufficient condition for this evolution to be completely positive is for the initial state to have vanishing quantum discord. In this paper, we provide a sufficient condition for the map to be positive with respect to the initial system-environment correlation. This could lead to ways in which to identify positive but not completely positive maps. Illustrative examples and suggestive procedures are also provided.

id: 1004.4975
title: The GEO600 squeezed light source
authors: Henning Vahlbruch, Alexander Khalaidovski, Nico Lastzka, Christian Graef, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.27:084027,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4975
abstract: The next upgrade of the GEO600 gravitational wave detector is scheduled for 2010 and will, in particular, involve the implementation of squeezed light. The required non-classical light source is assembled on a 1.5m^2 breadboard and includes a full coherent control system and a diagnostic balanced homodyne detector. Here, we present the first experimental characterization of this setup as well as a detailed description of its optical layout. A squeezed quantum noise of up to 9dB below the shot-noise level was observed in the detection band between 10Hz and 10kHz. We also present an analysis of the optical loss in our experiment and provide an estimation of the possible non-classical sensitivity improvement of the future squeezed light enhanced GEO600 detector.

id: 1004.5003
title: NMR quantum simulation of localization effects induced by decoherence
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Dieter Suter
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 230403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5003
abstract: The loss of coherence in quantum mechanical superposition states limits the time for which quantum information remains useful. Similarly, it limits the distance over which quantum information can be transmitted, resembling Anderson localization, where disorder causes quantum mechanical states to become localized. Here, we investigate in a nuclear spin-based quantum simulator, the localization of the size of spin clusters that are generated by a Hamiltonian driving the transmission of information, while a variable-strength perturbation counteracts the spreading. We find that the system reaches a dynamic equilibrium size, which decreases with the square of the perturbation strength.

id: 1004.5006
title: Inefficient eight-port homodyne detection and covariant phase space observables
authors: Pekka Lahti, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??, Jussi Schultz
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 57 (2010) 1171-1179
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5006
abstract: We consider the quantum optical eight-port homodyne detection scheme in the case that each of the associated photon detectors is assigned with a different quantum efficiency. We give a mathematically rigorous and strictly quantum mechanical proof of the fact that the measured observable (positive operator measure) in the high-amplitude limit is a smearing of the covariant phase space observable related to the ideal measurement. The result is proved for an arbitary parameter field. Furthermore, we investigate some properties of the measured observable. In particular, we show that the state distinguishing power of the observable is not affected by detector inefficiencies.

id: 1004.5017
title: Quantum Theory of Reactive Scattering in Phase Space
authors: Arseni Goussev, Roman Schubert, Holger Waalkens, Stephen Wiggins
comments: 59 pages, 13 figures
journal: Advances in Quantum Chemistry 60, 269 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5017
abstract: We review recent results on quantum reactive scattering from a phase space perspective. The approach uses classical and quantum versions of normal form theory and the perspective of dynamical systems theory. Over the past ten years the classical normal form theory has provided a method for realizing the phase space structures that are responsible for determining reactions in high dimensional Hamiltonian systems. This has led to the understanding that a new (to reaction dynamics) type of phase space structure, a {\em normally hyperbolic invariant manifold} (or, NHIM) is the "anchor" on which the phase space structures governing reaction dynamics are built. The quantum normal form theory provides a method for quantizing these phase space structures through the use of the Weyl quantization procedure. We show that this approach provides a solution of the time-independent Schr\"odinger equation leading to a (local) S-matrix in a neighborhood of the saddle point governing the reaction. It follows easily that the quantization of the directional flux through the dividing surface with the properties noted above is a flux operator that can be expressed in a "closed form". Moreover, from the local S-matrix we easily obtain an expression for the cumulative reactio probability (CRP). Significantly, the expression for the CRP can be evaluated without the need to compute classical trajectories. The quantization of the NHIM is shown to lead to the activated complex, and the lifetimes of quantum states initialized on the NHIM correspond to the Gamov-Siegert resonances. We apply these results to the collinear nitrogen exchange reaction and a three degree-of-freedom system corresponding to an Eckart barrier coupled to two Morse oscillators.

id: 1004.5018
title: Indirect Quantum Tomography of Quadratic Hamiltonians
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Koji Maruyama, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 013019 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5018
abstract: A number of many-body problems can be formulated using Hamiltonians that are quadratic in the creation and annihilation operators. Here, we show how such quadratic Hamiltonians can be efficiently estimated indirectly, employing very few resources. We find that almost all properties of the Hamiltonian are determined by its surface, and that these properties can be measured even if the system can only be initialised to a mixed state. Therefore our method can be applied to various physical models, with important examples including coupled nano-mechanical oscillators, hopping fermions in optical lattices, and transverse Ising chains.

id: 1004.5041
title: Circuit QED scheme for realization of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 90, 54001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5041
abstract: We propose a scheme in which the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model is realized within a circuit QED system. An array of N superconducting qubits interacts with a driven cavity mode. In the dispersive regime, the cavity mode is adiabatically eliminated generating an effective model for the qubits alone. The characteristic long-range order of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model is here mediated by the cavity field. For a closed qubit system, the inherent second order phase transition of the qubits is reflected in the intensity of the output cavity field. In the broken symmetry phase, the many-body ground state is highly entangled. Relaxation of the qubits is analyzed within a mean-field treatment. The second order phase transition is lost, while new bistable regimes occur.

id: 1004.5068
title: Geometric Entanglement in Valance-Bond-Solid state
authors: H.T. Cui, C.M. Wang, S.Z. Yuan
comments: This paper has been published by Eur. Phys. J. B 74, 543-553 (2010). However there provides a updated version, in which some expressions and errors are improved and corrected recently for clarity and readablilty.
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 74, 543-553 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5068
abstract: Multipartite entanglement, measured by the geometric entanglement(GE), is discussed for integer spin Valance-Bond-Solid (VBS) state respectively with periodic boundary condition(PBC) and open boundary condition(OBC) in this paper. The optimization in the definition of geometric entanglement can be reduced greatly by exploring the symmetry of VBS state, and then the fully separable state can be determined explicitly. Numerical evaluation for GE by the random simulation is also implemented in order to demonstrate the validity of the reductions. Our calculations show that GE is saturated by a finite value with the increment of particle number, that means that the total entanglement for VBS state would be divergent under the thermodynamic limit. Moreover it is found that the scaling behavior of GE with spin number $s$ is fitted as $\alpha\log (s+\tfrac{\beta}{s}+\gamma)+\delta$, in which the values of the parameters $\alpha, \beta, \gamma, \sigma$ are only dependent on the parity of spin $s$. A comparison with entanglement entropy of VBS state is also made, in order to demonstrate the essential differences between multipartite and bipartite entanglement in this model.

id: 1004.5073
title: Experimental Test of Quantum No-Hiding Theorem
authors: Jharana Rani Samal, Arun Kumar Pati, Anil Kumar
comments: 12 pages, 6 Figs. Jharana Rani Samal, Deceased on her 27th birthday 12th Nov. 2009. The experimental work of this paper was completely carried out by the first author. We dedicate this paper to the memory of the brilliant soul of Ms. Jharana Rani Samal.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 080401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5073
abstract: Linearity and unitarity are two fundamental tenets of quantum theory. Any consequence that follows from these must be respected in the quantum world. The no-cloning theorem and the no-deleting theorem are the consequences of the linearity and the unitarity. Together with the stronger no-cloning theorem they provide permanence to quantum information, thus, suggesting that in the quantum world information can neither be created nor be destroyed. In this sense quantum information is robust, but at the same time it is also fragile because any interaction with the environment may lead to loss of information. Recently, another fundamental theorem was proved, namely, the no-hiding theorem that addresses precisely the issue of information loss. It says that if any physical process leads to bleaching of quantum information from the original system, then it must reside in the rest of the universe with no information being hidden in the correlation between these two subsystems. This has applications in quantum teleportation, state randomization, private quantum channels, thermalization and black hole evaporation. Here, we report experimental test of the no-hiding theorem with the technique of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). We use the quantum state randomization of a qubit as one example of the bleaching process and show that the missing information can be fully recovered up to local unitary transformations in the ancilla qubits. Since NMR offers a way to test fundamental predictions of quantum theory using coherent control of quantum mechanical nuclear spin states, our experiment is a step forward in this direction.

id: 1004.5086
title: A transform of complementary aspects with applications to entropic uncertainty relations
authors: Prabha Mandayam, Niranjan Balachandran, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, v2: published version, clarified ref [30]
journal: J. Math. Phys, 51, 082201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5086
abstract: Even though mutually unbiased bases and entropic uncertainty relations play an important role in quantum cryptographic protocols they remain ill understood. Here, we construct special sets of up to 2n+1 mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) in dimension d=2^n which have particularly beautiful symmetry properties derived from the Clifford algebra. More precisely, we show that there exists a unitary transformation that cyclically permutes such bases. This unitary can be understood as a generalization of the Fourier transform, which exchanges two MUBs, to multiple complementary aspects. We proceed to prove a lower bound for min-entropic entropic uncertainty relations for any set of MUBs, and show that symmetry plays a central role in obtaining tight bounds. For example, we obtain for the first time a tight bound for four MUBs in dimension d=4, which is attained by an eigenstate of our complementarity transform. Finally, we discuss the relation to other symmetries obtained by transformations in discrete phase space, and note that the extrema of discrete Wigner functions are directly related to min-entropic uncertainty relations for MUBs.

id: 1004.5090
title: Scalable quantum register based on coupled electron spins in a room temperature solid
authors: P. Neumann, R. Kolesov, B. Naydenov, J. Beck, F. Rempp, M. Steiner, V. Jacques, G. Balasubramanian, M.L. Markham, D.J. Twitchen, S. Pezzagna, J. Meijer, J. Twamley, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: original submitted version of the manuscript
journal: Nature Physics 6, 249 - 253 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5090
abstract: Realization of devices based on quantum laws might lead to building processors that outperform their classical analogues and establishing unconditionally secure communication protocols. Solids do usually present a serious challenge to quantum coherence. However, owing to their spin-free lattice and low spin orbit coupling, carbon materials and particularly diamond are suitable for hosting robust solid state quantum registers. We show that scalable quantum logic elements can be realized by exploring long range magnetic dipolar coupling between individually addressable single electron spins associated with separate color centers in diamond. Strong distance dependence of coupling was used to characterize the separation of single qubits 98 A with unprecedented accuracy (3 A) close to a crystal lattice spacing. Our demonstration of coherent control over both electron spins, conditional dynamics, selective readout as well as switchable interaction, opens the way towards a room temperature solid state scalable quantum register. Since both electron spins are optically addressable, this solid state quantum device operating at ambient conditions provides a degree of control that is currently available only for atomic systems.

id: 1004.5112
title: Generalized Multiplicative Domains and Quantum Error Correction
authors: Nathaniel Johnston, David W. Kribs
comments: 14 pages
journal: Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 139 (2011), 627-639
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5112
abstract: Given a completely positive map, we introduce a set of algebras that we refer to as its generalized multiplicative domains. These algebras are generalizations of the traditional multiplicative domain of a completely positive map and we derive a characterization of them in the unital, trace-preserving case, in other words the case of unital quantum channels, that extends Choi's characterization of the multiplicative domains of unital maps. We also derive a characterization that is in the same flavour as a well-known characterization of bimodules, and we use these algebras to provide a new representation-theoretic description of quantum error-correcting codes that extends previous results for unitarily-correctable codes, noiseless subsystems and decoherence-free subspaces.

id: 1004.5118
title: Dimer of two bosons in a one-dimensional optical lattice
authors: Juha Javanainen, Otim Odong, Jerome C. Sanders
comments: This version is very close to the published version. 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 043609 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5118
abstract: We investigate theoretically the stationary states of two bosons in a one-dimensional optical lattice within the Bose-Hubbard model. Starting from a finite lattice with periodic boundary conditions, we effect a partial separation of the center-of-mass and relative motions of the two-atom lattice dimer in the lattice momentum representation, and carefully analyze the eigenstates of the relative motion. In the limit when the lattice becomes infinitely long, we find closed-form analytic expressions for both the bound state and the dissociated states of the lattice dimer. We outline the corresponding analysis in the position representation. The results are used to discuss three ways to detect the dimer: by measuring the momentum distribution of the atoms, by finding the size of the molecule with measurements of atom number correlations at two lattice sites, and by dissociating a bound state of the lattice dimer with a modulation of the lattice depth.

id: 1004.5126
title: Local cloning of entangled states
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu, Li Yu, Scott M. Cohen
comments: REVTEX 15 pages, 1 figure, minor modifications. Same as the published version. Any comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5126
abstract: We investigate the conditions under which a set $\SC$ of pure bipartite quantum states on a $D\times D$ system can be locally cloned deterministically by separable operations, when at least one of the states is full Schmidt rank. We allow for the possibility of cloning using a resource state that is less than maximally entangled. Our results include that: (i) all states in $\SC$ must be full Schmidt rank and equally entangled under the $G$-concurrence measure, and (ii) the set $\SC$ can be extended to a larger clonable set generated by a finite group $G$ of order $|G|=N$, the number of states in the larger set. It is then shown that any local cloning apparatus is capable of cloning a number of states that divides $D$ exactly. We provide a complete solution for two central problems in local cloning, giving necessary and sufficient conditions for (i) when a set of maximally entangled states can be locally cloned, valid for all $D$; and (ii) local cloning of entangled qubit states with non-vanishing entanglement. In both of these cases, a maximally entangled resource is necessary and sufficient, and the states must be related to each other by local unitary "shift" operations. These shifts are determined by the group structure, so need not be simple cyclic permutations. Assuming this shifted form and partially entangled states, then in D=3 we show that a maximally entangled resource is again necessary and sufficient, while for higher dimensional systems, we find that the resource state must be strictly more entangled than the states in $\SC$. All of our necessary conditions for separable operations are also necessary conditions for LOCC, since the latter is a proper subset of the former. In fact, all our results hold for LOCC, as our sufficient conditions are demonstrated for LOCC, directly.

id: 1004.5127
title: Quantum money from knots
authors: Edward Farhi, David Gosset, Avinatan Hassidim, Andrew Lutomirski, Peter Shor
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5127
abstract: Quantum money is a cryptographic protocol in which a mint can produce a quantum state, no one else can copy the state, and anyone (with a quantum computer) can verify that the state came from the mint. We present a concrete quantum money scheme based on superpositions of diagrams that encode oriented links with the same Alexander polynomial. We expect our scheme to be secure against computationally bounded adversaries.

id: 1004.5148
title: Computable constraints on entanglement-sharing of multipartite quantum states
authors: Yong-Cheng Ou, Mark S. Byrd
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information & computation, Vol. 10, No.3&4(2010) 0223-0233
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5148
abstract: Negativity is regarded as an important measure of entanglement in quantum information theory. In contrast to other measures of entanglement, it is easily computable for bipartite states in arbitrary dimensions. In this paper, based on the negativity and realignment, we provide a set of entanglement-sharing constraints for multipartite states, where the entanglement is not necessarily limited to bipartite and pure states, thus aiding in the quantification of constraints for entanglement-sharing. These may find applications in studying many-body systems.

id: 1004.5179
title: Minimal memory requirements for pearl-necklace encoders of quantum convolutional codes
authors: Monireh Houshmand, Saied Hosseini-Khayat, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 30 pages, 9 figures, Accepted for publication in the IEEE Transactions on Computers
journal: IEEE Transactions on Computers vol. 61, no. 3, pages 299-312 (March 2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5179
abstract: One of the major goals in quantum information processing is to reduce the overhead associated with the practical implementation of quantum protocols, and often, routines for quantum error correction account for most of this overhead. A particular technique for quantum error correction that may be useful for protecting a stream of quantum information is quantum convolutional coding. The encoder for a quantum convolutional code has a representation as a convolutional encoder or as a "pearl-necklace" encoder. In the pearl-necklace representation, it has not been particularly clear in the research literature how much quantum memory such an encoder would require for implementation. Here, we offer an algorithm that answers this question. The algorithm first constructs a weighted, directed acyclic graph where each vertex of the graph corresponds to a gate string in the pearl-necklace encoder, and each path through the graph represents a path through non-commuting gates in the encoder. We show that the weight of the longest path through the graph is equal to the minimal amount of memory needed to implement the encoder. A dynamic programming search through this graph determines the longest path. The running time for the construction of the graph and search through it is quadratic in the number of gate strings in the pearl-necklace encoder.

id: 1004.5184
title: Reference frames for Bell inequality violation in the presence of superselection rules
authors: T. Paterek, P. Kurzynski, D. K. L. Oi, D. Kaszlikowski
comments: Substantially rewritten, published version, 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 043027 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5184
abstract: Superselection rules (SSRs) constrain the allowed states and operations in quantum theory. They limit preparations and measurements hence impact upon our ability to observe non-locality, in particular the violation of Bell inequalities. We show that a reference frame compatible with a particle number SSR does not allow observers to violate a Bell inequality if and only if it is prepared using only local operations and classical communication. In particular, jointly prepared separable reference frames are sufficient for obtaining violations of a Bell inequality. We study the size and non-local properties of such reference frames using superselection-induced variance. These results suggest the need for experimental Bell tests in the presence of superselection.

id: 1004.5185
title: Quantum information approach to the quantum phase transition in the Kitaev honeycomb model
authors: Jian Cui, Jun-Peng Cao, Heng Fan
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022319 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5185
abstract: Kitaev honeycomb model with topological phase transition at zero temperature is studied using quantum information method. Based on the exact solution of the ground state, the mutual information between two nearest sites and between two bonds with longest distance are obtained. It is found that the mutual information show some singularities at the critical point where the ground state of the system transits from gapless phase to gapped phase. The finite-size effects and scalar behavior are also studied. The mutual information can serve as good indicators of the topological phase transition, since the mutual information catches some global correlation properties of the system. Meanwhile, this method has other advantages such that the phase transition can be determined easily and the order parameters are not required previously, for the order parameters of some topological phase transitions are hard to know.

id: 1004.5209
title: Parameter estimation of quantum processes using convex optimization
authors: G¨¢bor Ball¨®, Katalin M. Hangos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5209
abstract: A convex optimization based method is proposed for quantum process tomography, in the case of known channel model structure, but unknown channel parameters. The main idea is to select an affine parametrization of the Choi matrix as a set of optimization variables, and formulate a semidefinite programming problem with a least squares objective function. Possible convex relations between the optimization variables are also taken into account to improve the estimation. Simulation case studies show, that the proposed method can significantly increase the accuracy of the parameter estimation, if the channel model structure is known. Beside the convex part, the determination of the channel parameters from the optimization variables is a nonconvex step in general. In the case of Pauli channels however, the method reduces to a purely convex optimization problem, allowing to obtain a globally optimal solution.

id: 1004.5210
title: Designing optimal quantum cloning machine for qubit system
authors: Xiaohua Wu, Fei Wu
comments: 12 pages, 5figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5210
abstract: Following the work of Niu and Griffiths, in \emph{Phys.Rev.A 58, 4377(1998)}, we shall investigate the problem, how to design the optimal quantum cloning machines (QCMs) for qubit system, with the help of Bloch-sphere representation. In stead of the quality factor there, the Fiur\'{a}\u{s}ek's optimal condition, where the optimal cloning machine should maximize a convex mixture of the average fidelity, is used as the optimality criterion in present protocol. Almost all of the known optimal QCMs in previous works, the cloning for states with fixed polar angle, the phase-covariant cloning, the universal QCMs, the cloning for two arbitrary pure states, and the mirror phase-covariant cloning, should be discussed in a systematic way. The known results, the optimal fidelities for various input ensembles according to different optimality criteria, are recovered here. Our present scheme also offers a general way of constructing the unitary transformation to realize the optimal cloning.

id: 1004.5252
title: A composite parameterization of unitary groups, density matrices and subspaces
authors: Christoph Spengler, Marcus Huber, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 385306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5252
abstract: Unitary transformations and density matrices are central objects in quantum physics and various tasks require to introduce them in a parameterized form. In the present article we present a parameterization of the unitary group $\mathcal{U}(d)$ of arbitrary dimension $d$ which is constructed in a composite way. We show explicitly how any element of $\mathcal{U}(d)$ can be composed of matrix exponential functions of generalized anti-symmetric $\sigma$-matrices and one-dimensional projectors. The specific form makes it considerably easy to identify and discard redundant parameters in several cases. In this way, redundancy-free density matrices of arbitrary rank $k$ can be formulated. Our construction can also be used to derive an orthonormal basis of any $k$-dimensional subspaces of $\mathbb{C}^d$ with the minimal number of parameters. As an example it will be shown that this feature leads to a significant reduction of parameters in the case of investigating distillability of quantum states via lower bounds of an entanglement measure (the $m$-concurrence).

id: 1004.5281
title: Geometric measure of quantum discord under decoherence
authors: Xiao-Ming Lu, Zheng-Jun Xi, Zhe Sun, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: Results extended,14 pages, 2 figures. Accepted by Quantum Information & Computation
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol.10 No.11&12 pp0994-1003 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5281
abstract: The dynamics of a geometric measure of the quantum discord (GMQD) under decoherence is investigated. We show that the GMQD of a two-qubit state can be alternatively obtained through the singular values of a $3\times4$ matrix whose elements are the expectation values of Pauli matrices of the two qubits. By using Heisenberg picture, the analytic results of the GMQD is obtained for three typical kinds of the quantum decoherence channels. We compare the dynamics of the GMQD with that of the quantum discord and of entanglement. We show that a sudden change in the decay rate of the GMQD does not always imply that of the quantum discord, and vice versa. We also give a general analysis on the sudden change in behavior and find that at least for the Bell diagonal states, the sudden changes in decay rates of the GMQD and that of the quantum discord occur simultaneously.

id: 1004.5286
title: P¨®lya number of continuous-time quantum walks
authors: Z. Dar¨¢zs, T. Kiss
comments: 8 pages, no figures. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062319 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5286
abstract: We propose a definition for the P\'olya number of continuous-time quantum walks to characterize their recurrence properties. The definition involves a series of measurements on the system, each carried out on a different member from an ensemble in order to minimize the disturbance caused by it. We examine various graphs, including the ring, the line, higher dimensional integer lattices and a number of other graphs and calculate their P\'olya number. For the timing of the measurements a Poisson process as well as regular timing are discussed. We find that the speed of decay for the probability at the origin is the key for recurrence.

id: 1004.5330
title: Information erasure without an energy cost
authors: Joan A. Vaccaro, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 8 pages with 1 figure. Final published version
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 467, 1770-1778 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5330
abstract: Landauer argued that the process of erasing the information stored in a memory device incurs an energy cost in the form of a minimum amount of mechanical work. We find, however, that this energy cost can be reduced to zero by paying a cost in angular momentum or any other conserved quantity. Erasing the memory of Maxwell's demon in this way implies that work can be extracted from a single thermal reservoir at a cost of angular momentum and an increase in total entropy. The implications of this for the second law of thermodynamics are assessed.

id: 1004.5348
title: Optical control of the refractive index of a single atom
authors: Tobias Kampschulte, Wolfgang Alt, Stefan Brakhane, Martin Eckstein, Ren¨¦ Reimann, Artur Widera, Dieter Meschede
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 153603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5348
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the elementary case of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) with a single atom inside an optical cavity probed by a weak field. We observe the modification of the dispersive and absorptive properties of the atom by changing the frequency of a control light field. Moreover, a strong cooling effect has been observed at two-photon resonance, increasing the storage time of our atoms twenty-fold to about 16 seconds. Our result points towards all-optical switching with single photons.

id: 1004.5394
title: Localization and Fractality in Inhomogeneous Quantum Walks with Self-Duality
authors: Yutaka Shikano, Hosho Katsura
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 031122 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5394
abstract: We introduce and study a class of discrete-time quantum walks on a one-dimensional lattice. In contrast to the standard homogeneous quantum walks, coin operators are inhomogeneous and depend on their positions in this class of models. The models are shown to be self-dual with respect to the Fourier transform, which is analogous to the Aubry-Andr\'e model describing the one-dimensional tight-binding model with a quasi-periodic potential. When the period of coin operators is incommensurate to the lattice spacing, we rigorously show that the limit distribution of the quantum walk is localized at the origin. We also numerically study the eigenvalues of the one-step time evolution operator and find the Hofstadter butterfly spectrum which indicates the fractal nature of this class of quantum walks.

id: 1004.5400
title: Klein tunneling and Dirac potentials in trapped ions
authors: J. Casanova, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, R. Gerritsma, C. F. Roos, E. Solano
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, minor changes
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:020101,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5400
abstract: We propose the quantum simulation of the Dirac equation with potentials, allowing the study of relativistic scaterring and the Klein tunneling. This quantum relativistic effect permits a positive-energy Dirac particle to propagate through a repulsive potential via the population transfer to negative-energy components. We show how to engineer scalar, pseudoscalar, and other potentials in the 1+1 Dirac equation by manipulating two trapped ions. The Dirac spinor is represented by the internal states of one ion, while its position and momentum are described by those of a collective motional mode. The second ion is used to build the desired potentials with high spatial resolution.

id: 1004.5405
title: Lazy states: sufficient and necessary condition for zero quantum entropy rates under any coupling to the environment
authors: Cesar A. Rodriguez-Rosario, Gen Kimura, Hideki Imai, Alan Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 050403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5405
abstract: We find the necessary and sufficient conditions for the entropy rate of the system to be zero under any system-environment Hamiltonian interaction. We call the class of system-environment states that satisfy this condition lazy states. They are a generalization of classically correlated states defined by quantum discord, but based on projective measurements of any rank. The concept of lazy states permits the construction of a protocol for detecting global quantum correlations using only local dynamical information. We show how quantum correlations to the environment provide bounds to the entropy rate, and how to estimate dissipation rates for general non-Markovian open quantum systems.

id: 1004.5409
title: Adiabatic quantum computation: Enthusiast and Sceptic's perspectives
authors: Zhenwei Cao, Alexander Elgart
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5409
abstract: Enthusiast's perspective: We analyze the effectiveness of AQC for a small rank problem Hamiltonian $H_F$ with the arbitrary initial Hamiltonian $H_I$. We prove that for the generic $H_I$ the running time cannot be smaller than $O(\sqrt N)$, where $N$ is a dimension of the Hilbert space. We also construct an explicit $H_I$ for which the running time is indeed $O(\sqrt N)$. Our algorithm can be used to solve the unstructured search problem with the unknown number of marked items. Sceptic's perspective: We show that for a robust device, the running time for such $H_F$ cannot be much smaller than $O(N/\ln N)$.

id: 1004.5459
title: Enhancement of nonclassical properties of two qubits via deformed operators
authors: N. Metwally, M. Sebawe Abdalla, M. Abdel-Aty
comments: 
journal: Int, J. Theor Phys 2010, Volume 49, Number 9, Pages 2051-2064
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5459
abstract: We explore the dynamics of two atoms interacting with a cavity field via deformed operators. Properties of the asymptotic regularization of entanglement measures proving, for example, purity cost, regularized fidelity and accuracy of information transfer are analyzed. We show that the robustness of a bipartite system having a finite number of quantum states vanishes at finite photon numbers, for arbitrary interactions between its constituents and with cavity field. Finally it is shown that the stability of the purity and the fidelity is improved in the absence of the deformation parameters.

id: 1004.5486
title: Ultrasensitive Atomic clock with single-mode number-squeezing
authors: L. Pezze, A. Smerzi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5486
abstract: We show that the sensitivity of an atomic clock can be enhanced below the shot-noise level by initially squeezing, and then measuring in output, the population of a single atomic level. This can simplify current experimental protocols which requires squeezing of the relative number of particles of the two populated states. We finally study, as a specific application, the clock sensitivity obtained with a single mode quantum non-demolition measurement.

id: 1004.5497
title: On the relationship between quantum entanglement and classical synchronization in open systems
authors: E.D. Vol
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5497
abstract: We propose a simple model of classical open system consisting of two subsystems all stationary states of which correspond to phase synchronization between the subsystems. The model is generalized to quantum systems in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space. The analysis of the simplest two qubit version of the quantum model shows that all its stationary states are nonseparable.

id: 1004.5504
title: Control and Tomography of a Three Level Superconducting Artificial Atom
authors: R.Bianchetti, S.Filipp, M. Baur, J. M. Fink, C. Lang, L. Steffen, M. Boissonneault, A. Blais, A. Wallraff
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 223601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5504
abstract: A number of superconducting qubits, such as the transmon or the phase qubit, have an energy level structure with small anharmonicity. This allows for convenient access of higher excited states with similar frequencies. However, special care has to be taken to avoid unwanted higher-level populations when using short control pulses. Here we demonstrate the preparation of arbitrary three-level superposition states using optimal control techniques in a transmon. Performing dispersive read-out we extract the populations of all three levels of the qutrit and study the coherence of its excited states. Finally we demonstrate full quantum state tomography of the prepared qutrit states and evaluate the fidelities of a set of states, finding on average 96%.

id: 1004.5522
title: Local discrimination of mixed states
authors: J. Calsamiglia, J. I. de Vicente, R. Munoz-Tapia, E. Bagan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures+ supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 080504 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5522
abstract: We provide rigorous, efficiently computable and tight bounds on the average error probability of multiple-copy discrimination between qubit mixed states by Local Operations assisted with Classical Communication (LOCC). In contrast to the pure-state case, these experimentally feasible protocols perform strictly worse than the general collective ones. Our numerical results indicate that the gap between LOCC and collective error rates persists in the asymptotic limit. In order for LOCC and collective protocols to achieve the same accuracy, the former requires up to twice the number of copies of the latter. Our techniques can be used to bound the power of LOCC strategies in other similar settings, which is still one of the most elusive questions in quantum communication.

id: 1004.5528
title: Using Quantum Computers for Quantum Simulation
authors: Katherine L Brown, William J Munro, Vivien M Kendon
comments: 43 pages, 136 references, review article, v2 major revisions in response to referee comments, v3 significant revisions, identical to published version apart from format, ArXiv version has table of contents and references in alphabetical order
journal: Entropy 2010, 12(11), 2268-2307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5528
abstract: Numerical simulation of quantum systems is crucial to further our understanding of natural phenomena. Many systems of key interest and importance, in areas such as superconducting materials and quantum chemistry, are thought to be described by models which we cannot solve with sufficient accuracy, neither analytically nor numerically with classical computers. Using a quantum computer to simulate such quantum systems has been viewed as a key application of quantum computation from the very beginning of the field in the 1980s. Moreover, useful results beyond the reach of classical computation are expected to be accessible with fewer than a hundred qubits, making quantum simulation potentially one of the earliest practical applications of quantum computers. In this paper we survey the theoretical and experimental development of quantum simulation using quantum computers, from the first ideas to the intense research efforts currently underway.

id: 1004.5551
title: Entanglement Transmission over Arbitrarily Varying Quantum Channels
authors: R. Ahlswede, I. Bjelakovic, H. Boche, J. Noetzel
comments: 6 pages, no figures. Accepted for presentation at the ISIT 2010 Austin, Texas. This is the conference version of a paper in preparation.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5551
abstract: We derive a regularized formula for the common randomness assisted entanglement transmission capacity of finite arbitrarily varying quantum channels (AVQC's). For finite AVQC's with positive capacity for classical message transmission we show, by derandomization through classical forward communication, that the random capacity for entanglement transmission equals the deterministic capacity for entanglement transmission. This is a quantum version of the famous Ahlswede dichotomy. In the infinite case, we derive a similar result for certain classes of AVQC's. At last, we give two possible definitions of symmetrizability of an AVQC.

id: 1004.5573
title: Optimal super dense coding over noisy quantum channels
authors: Zahra Shadman, Hermann Kampermann, Chiara Macchiavello, Dagmar Bruss
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 073042 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5573
abstract: We investigate super dense coding in the presence of noise, i.e. the subsystems of the entangled resource state have to pass a noisy unital quantum channel between the sender and the receiver. We discuss explicitly the case of Pauli channels in arbitrary dimension and derive the super dense coding capacity (i.e. the optimal information transfer) for some given resource states. We also study the case that the initial resource state can be chosen: for the qubit depolarizing channel we show that there is a threshold value for the noise parameter, below which the super dense coding protocol is optimized by a maximally entangled initial state, while above the threshold the dense coding capacity for any entangled initial state is smaller than the one for a product state. Finally, we provide an example of a noisy channel where non-unitary pre-processing increases the super dense coding capacity, as compared to only unitary encoding.

id: 1004.0044
title: Ambegaokar-Baratoff relations of Josephson critical current in heterojunctions with multi-gap superconductors
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Noriyuki Nakai, Hiroki Nakamura, Masahiko Machida, Daisuke Inotani, Yoji Ohashi, Tomio Koyama, Hideki Matsumoto
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 214511 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0044
abstract: An extension of the Ambegaokar-Baratoff relation to a superconductor-insulator-superconductor (SIS) Josephson junction with multiple tunneling channels is derived. Appling the resultant relation to a SIS Josephson junction formed by an iron-based (five-band) and a single-band Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) type superconductors, a theoretical bound of the Josephson critical current ($I_{\rm c}$) multiplied by the resistance of the junction ($R_{\rm n}$) is given. We reveal that such a bound is useful for identifying the pairing symmetry of iron-pnictide superconductors. One finds that if a measured value of $I_{\rm c}R_{\rm n}$ is smaller than the bound then the symmetry is $\pm s$-wave, and otherwise $s$-wave without any sign changes. In addition, we stress that temperature dependence of $I_{\rm c}R_{\rm n}$ is sensitive to the difference of the gap functions from the BCS type gap formula in the above heterojunction.

id: 1004.0105
title: Optimal Direct Sum Results for Deterministic and Randomized Decision Tree Complexity
authors: Rahul Jain, Hartmut Klauck, Miklos Santha
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0105
abstract: A Direct Sum Theorem holds in a model of computation, when solving some k input instances together is k times as expensive as solving one. We show that Direct Sum Theorems hold in the models of deterministic and randomized decision trees for all relations. We also note that a near optimal Direct Sum Theorem holds for quantum decision trees for boolean functions.

id: 1004.0130
title: Three applications of path integrals: equilibrium and kinetic isotope effects, and the temperature dependence of the rate constant of the [1,5] sigmatropic hydrogen shift in (Z)-1,3-pentadiene
authors: Tomas Zimmermann, Jiri Vanicek
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Mol. Modeling 16, 779 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0130
abstract: Recent experiments have confirmed the importance of nuclear quantum effects even in large biomolecules at physiological temperature. Here we describe how the path integral formalism can be used to describe rigorously the nuclear quantum effects on equilibrium and kinetic properties of molecules. Specifically, we explain how path integrals can be employed to evaluate the equilibrium (EIE) and kinetic (KIE) isotope effects, and the temperature dependence of the rate constant. The methodology is applied to the [1,5] sigmatropic hydrogen shift in pentadiene. Both the KIE and the temperature dependence of the rate constant confirm the importance of tunneling and other nuclear quantum effects as well as of the anharmonicity of the potential energy surface. Moreover, previous results on the KIE were improved by using a combination of a high level electronic structure calculation within the harmonic approximation with a path integral anharmonicity correction using a lower level method.

id: 1004.0133
title: Evaluation of the nondiabaticity of quantum molecular dynamics with the dephasing representation of quantum fidelity
authors: Tomas Zimmermann, Jiri Vanicek
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, section Theory extended(v2), small textual improvements(v2), added reference(v2 & v3), added acknowledgement(v3), submitted to J. Chem. Phys
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 132, 241101 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0133
abstract: We propose an approximate method for evaluating the importance of non-Born-Oppenheimer effects on the quantum dynamics of nuclei. The method uses a generalization of the dephasing representation (DR) of quantum fidelity to several diabatic potential energy surfaces and its computational cost is the cost of dynamics of a classical phase space distribution. It can be implemented easily into any molecular dynamics program and also can utilize on-the-fly ab initio electronic structure information. We test the methodology on three model problems introduced by Tully and on the photodissociation of NaI. The results show that for dynamics close to the diabatic limit the decay of fidelity due to nondiabatic effects is described accurately by the DR. In this regime, unlike the mixed quantum-classical methods such as surface hopping or Ehrenfest dynamics, the DR can capture more subtle quantum effects than the population transfer between potential energy surfaces. Hence we propose using the DR to estimate the dynamical importance of diabatic, spin-orbit, or other couplings between potential energy surfaces. The acquired information can help reduce the complexity of a studied system without affecting the accuracy of the quantum simulation.

id: 1004.0189
title: Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory of Open Quantum Systems in the Linear-Response Regime
authors: David G. Tempel, Mark A. Watson, Roberto Olivares-Amaya, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0189
abstract: Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory (TDDFT) has recently been extended to describe many-body open quantum systems (OQS) evolving under non-unitary dynamics according to a quantum master equation. In the master equation approach, electronic excitation spectra are broadened and shifted due to relaxation and dephasing of the electronic degrees of freedom by the surrounding environment. In this paper, we develop a formulation of TDDFT linear-response theory (LR-TDDFT) for many-body electronic systems evolving under a master equation, yielding broadened excitation spectra. This is done by mapping an interacting open quantum system onto a non-interacting open Kohn-Sham system yielding the correct non-equilibrium density evolution. A pseudo-eigenvalue equation analogous to the Casida equations of usual LR-TDDFT is derived for the Redfield master equation, yielding complex energies and Lamb shifts. As a simple demonstration, we calculate the spectrum of a C$^{2+}$ atom in an optical resonator interacting with a bath of photons. The performance of an adiabatic exchange-correlation kernel is analyzed and a first-order frequency-dependent correction to the bare Kohn-Sham linewidth based on Gorling-Levy perturbation theory is calculated.

id: 1004.0196
title: On the Choi-Jamiolkowski Correspondence in Infinite Dimensions
authors: A. S. Holevo
comments: Results in Sec. 3,4 are strengthened. Sec. 4 is complemented with treatment of three degenerate cases. Sec. 5 is added where a decomposition of the Gaussian CJ form into product of the four principal types and a necessary and sufficient condition for existence of the bounded CJ operator are given
journal: J. Math. Phys., 52 (2011), 042202
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0196
abstract: We give a mathematical formulation for the Choi-Jamiolkowski (CJ) correspondence in the infinite-dimensional case in the form close to one used in quantum information theory. We show that there is no need to use a limiting procedure to define "unnormalized maximally entangled state" and the corresponding analog of the Choi matrix since they can be defined rigorously as, in general, nonclosable forms on an appropriate dense subspace. The properties of these forms are discussed in Sec. 2. An important question is: when the CJ form is given by a bounded operator. This is the case for entanglement-breaking channels: we prove this in Sec. 3 along with a version of a result of Wolf et al. characterizing CJ operators which correspond to such channels by giving precise definitions of a separable operator and a relevant integral. In Sec. 4 we obtain explicit expressions for CJ forms and operators defining a general Bosonic Gaussian channel. In Sec. 5 we give a decomposition of the Gaussian CJ form into product of the four principal types and a necessary and sufficient condition for existence of the bounded CJ operator.

id: 1004.0198
title: Separation-dependent localization in a two-impurity spin-boson model
authors: Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Ahsan Nazir, Sougato Bose, Andrew J. Fisher
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures. Published version. Expanded discussion of the distance dependence between the impurities, and added a related figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 235321 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0198
abstract: Using a variational approach we investigate the delocalized to localized crossover in the ground state of an Ohmic two-impurity spin-boson model, describing two otherwise non-interacting spins coupled to a common bosonic environment. We show that a competition between an environment-induced Ising spin interaction and externally applied fields leads to variations in the system-bath coupling strength, $\alpha_c$, at which the delocalized-localized crossover occurs. Specifically, the crossover regime lies between $\alpha_c=0.5$ and $\alpha_c=1$ depending upon the spin separation and the strength of the transverse tunneling field. This is in contrast to the analogous single spin case, for which the crossover occurs (in the scaling limit) at fixed $\alpha_c\approx1$. We also discuss links between the two-impurity spin-boson model and a dissipative two-spin transverse Ising model, showing that the latter possesses the same qualitative features as the Ising strength is varied. Finally, we show that signatures of the crossover may be observed in single impurity observables, as well as in the behaviour of the system-environment entanglement.

id: 1004.0201
title: Direct evaluation of the temperature dependence of the rate constant based on the quantum instanton approximation
authors: Marcin Buchowiecki, Jiri Vanicek
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures, submitted to J. Chem. Phys.
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 132, 194106 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0201
abstract: A general method for the direct evaluation of the temperature dependence of the quantum-mechanical reaction rate constant in many-dimensional systems is described. The method is based on the quantum instanton approximation for the rate constant, thermodynamic integration with respect to the inverse temperature, and the path integral Monte Carlo evaluation. It can describe deviations from the Arrhenius law due to the coupling of rotations and vibrations, zero-point energy, tunneling, corner-cutting, and other nuclear quantum effects. The method is tested on the Eckart barrier and the full-dimensional H + H_2 -> H_2 + H reaction. In the temperature range from 300K to 1500K, the error of the present method remains within 13% despite the very large deviations from the Arrhenius law. The direct approach makes the calculations much more efficient, and the efficiency is increased even further (by up to two orders of magnitude in the studied reactions) by using optimal estimators for reactant and transition state thermal energies. Which of the estimators is optimal, however, depends on the system and the strength of constraint in a constrained simulation.

id: 1004.0220
title: Persistent Rabi oscillations probed via low-frequency noise correlation
authors: Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 041406(R) (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0220
abstract: The qubit Rabi oscillations are known to be non-decaying (though with a fluctuating phase) if the qubit is continuously monitored in the weak-coupling regime. In this paper we propose an experiment to demonstrate these persistent Rabi oscillations via low-frequency noise correlation. The idea is to measure a qubit by two detectors, biased stroboscopically at the Rabi frequency. The low-frequency noise depends on the relative phase between the two combs of biasing pulses, with a strong increase of telegraph noise in both detectors for the in-phase or anti-phase combs. This happens because of self-synchronization between the persistent Rabi oscillations and measurement pulses. Almost perfect correlation of the noise in the two detectors for the in-phase regime and almost perfect anticorrelation for the anti-phase regime indicates a presence of synchronized persistent Rabi oscillations. The experiment can be realized with semiconductor or superconductor qubits.

id: 1004.0251
title: Hiding Single Photons With Spread Spectrum Technology
authors: Chinmay Belthangady, Chih-Sung Chuu, Ite A. Yu, G. Y. Yin, J. M. Kahn, S. E. Harris
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures.
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0251
abstract: We describe a proof-of-principal experiment demonstrating the use of spread spectrum technology at the single photon level. We show how single photons with a prescribed temporal shape, in the presence of interfering noise, may be hidden and recovered.

id: 1004.0289
title: Modification of Crum's Theorem for `Discrete' Quantum Mechanics
authors: Leonor Garcia-Gutierrez, Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 31 pages, 2 figures. Two typos (eq.(3.16), ref.[15]) corrected, several comments added. To appear in Progress of Theoretical Physics
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.124:1-26,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0289
abstract: Crum's theorem in one-dimensional quantum mechanics asserts the existence of an associated Hamiltonian system for any given Hamiltonian with the complete set of eigenvalues and eigenfunctions. The associated system is iso-spectral to the original one except for the lowest energy state, which is deleted. A modification due to Krein-Adler provides algebraic construction of a new complete Hamiltonian system by deleting a finite number of energy levels. Here we present a discrete version of the modification based on the Crum's theorem for the `discrete' quantum mechanics developed by two of the present authors.

id: 1004.0329
title: Spin echo decay at low magnetic fields in a nuclear spin bath
authors: L. Cywinski, V.V. Dobrovitski, S. Das Sarma
comments: Final extended version with 3 new figures and a new appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 035315 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0329
abstract: We investigate theoretically the spin echo signal of an electron localized in a quantum dot and interacting with a bath of nuclear spins. We consider the regime of very low magnetic fields (corresponding to fields as low as a militesla in realistic GaAs and InGaAs dots). We use both the exact numerical simulations and the analytical theory employing the effective pure dephasing Hamiltonian. The comparison shows that the latter approach describes very well the spin echo decay at magnetic fields larger than the typical Overhauser field, and that the timescale at which this theory works is larger than previously expected. The numerical simulations are also done for very low values of electron spin splitting at which the effective Hamiltonian based theory fails quantitatively. Interestingly, the qualitative difference in the spin echo decay between the cases of a homonuclear and a heteronuclear bath (i.e. bath containing nuclear isotopes having different Zeeman energies), predicted previously using the effective Hamiltonian approach, is still visible at very low fields outside the regime of applicability of the analytical theory. We have found that the spin echo signal for a homonuclear bath oscillates with a frequency corresponding to the Zeeman splitting of the single nuclear isotope present in the bath. The physics behind this feature is similar to that of the electron spin echo envelope modulation (ESEEM). While purely isotropic hyperfine interactions are present in our system, the tilting of the electron precession axis at low fields may explain this result.

id: 1004.0340
title: Electron spin coherence and electron nuclear double resonance of Bi donors in natural Si
authors: Richard E. George, Wayne Witzel, H. Riemann, N.V. Abrosimov, N. Notzel, Mike L. W. Thewalt, John J. L. Morton
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, plus supporting information 2 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 067601 (2010)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0340
abstract: Donors in silicon hold considerable promise for emerging quantum technologies, due to the their uniquely long electron spin coherence times. Bi donors in silicon differ from P and other Group V donors in several significant respects: they have the strongest binding energy (70.98 meV), a large nuclear spin (I = 9/2) and strong hyperfine coupling constant (A = 1475.4 MHz). These larger energy scales allow a detailed test of theoretical models describing the spectral diffusion mechanism that is known to govern the electron spin coherence time (T2e) of P-donors in natural silicon. We report the electron nuclear double resonance spectra of the Bi donor, across the range 200 MHz to 1.4 GHz, and confirm that coherence transfer is possible between electron and nuclear spin degrees of freedom at these higher frequencies.

id: 1004.0441
title: Characterization of A Novel Avalanche Photodiode for Single Photon Detection in VIS-NIR Range
authors: M. Stipcevic, H. Skenderovic, D. Gracin
comments: 
journal: Opt.Express 18:17448-17459,2010
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0441
abstract: In this work we investigate operation in the Geiger mode of the new single photon avalanche photo diode (SPAD) SAP500 manufactured by Laser Components. This SPAD is sensitive in the range 400-1000nm and has a conventional reach-through structure which ensures good quantum efficiency at the long end of the spectrum. By use of passive and active quenching schemes we investigate detection efficiency, timing jitter, dark counts, afterpulsing, gain and other important parameters and compare them to the "standard" low noise SPAD C30902SH from Perkin Elmer. We conclude that SAP500 offers better combination of detection efficiency, low noise and timing precision.

id: 1004.0453
title: Rectifiable PT-symmetric Quantum Toboggans with Two Branch Points
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures, amended text for proceedings of a meeting at: this http URL
journal: Acta Polytech.50:84-90,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0453
abstract: Certain complex-contour (a.k.a. quantum-toboggan) generalizations of Schroedinger's bound-state problem are reviewed and studied in detail. Our key message is that the practical numerical solution of these atypical eigenvalue problems may perceivably be facilitated via an appropriate complex change of variables which maps their multi-sheeted complex domain of definition to a suitable single-sheeted complex plane.

id: 1004.0523
title: Aharonov-Bohm Effect and High-Velocity Estimates of Solutions to the Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Miguel Ballesteros, Ricardo Weder
comments: 38 pages, two figures.
journal: Commun.Math.Phys.303:175-211,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0523
abstract: The Aharonov-Bohm effect is a fundamental and controversial issue in physics. At stake are what are the fundamental electromagnetic quantities in quantum physics, if magnetic fields can act at a distance on charged particles and if the magnetic potentials have a real physical significance. From the experimental side the issues were settled by the remarkable experiments of Tonomura et al. in 1982 and 1986 with toroidal magnets that gave a strong experimental evidence of the physical existence of the Aharonov-Bohm effect, and by the recent experiment of Caprez et al. in 2007 that shows that the results of these experiments can not be explained by a force. The Aharonov-Bohm Ansatz of 1959 predicts the results of the experiments of Tonomura et al. and of Caprez et al. In 2009 we gave the first rigorous proof that the Aharonov-Bohm Ansatz is a good approximation to the exact solution for toroidal magnets under the conditions of the experiments of Tonomura et al.. In this paper we prove that our results do not depend on the particular geometry of the magnets and on the velocities of the incoming electrons used on the experiments, and on the gaussian shape of the wave packets used to obtain our quantitative error bound. We consider a general class of magnets that are a finite union of handle bodies. We formulate the Aharonov-bohm Ansatz that is appropriate to this general case and we prove that the exact solution to the Schroedinger equation is given by the Aharonov-Bohm Ansatz up to an error bound in norm that is uniform in time and that decays as a constant divided by $v^\rho, 0 < \rho <1$, with $v$ the velocity. The results of Tonomura et al., of Caprez et al., our previous results and the results of this paper give a firm experimental and theoretical basis to the existence of the Aharonov-Bohm effect and to its quantum nature.

id: 1004.0530
title: Thermal entanglement of Hubbard dimers in the nonextensive statistics
authors: Hideo Hasegawa
comments: 28 pages, 6 figures; the final version accepted in Physica A
journal: Physica A 390 (2011) 1486
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0530
abstract: The thermal entanglement of the Hubbard dimer (two-site Hubbard model) has been studied with the nonextensive statistics. We have calculated the auto-correlation ($O_q$), pair correlation ($L_q$), concurrence ($\Gamma_q$) and conditional entropy ($R_q$) as functions of entropic index $q$ and the temperature $T$. The thermal entanglement is shown to considerably depend on the entropic index. For $q < 1.0$, the threshold temperature where $\Gamma_q$ vanishes or $R_q$ changes its sign is more increased and the entanglement may survive at higher temperatures than for $q=1.0$. Relations among $L_q$, $\Gamma_q$ and $R_q$ are investigated. The physical meaning of the entropic index $q$ is discussed with the microcanonical and superstatistical approaches. The nonextensive statistics is applied also to Heisenberg dimers.

id: 1004.0544
title: Exceptional Askey-Wilson type polynomials through Darboux-Crum transformations
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 24 pages. Comments and references added. To appear in J.Phys.A
journal: J.Phys.A43:335201,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0544
abstract: An alternative derivation is presented of the infinitely many exceptional Wilson and Askey-Wilson polynomials, which were introduced by the present authors in 2009. Darboux-Crum transformations intertwining the discrete quantum mechanical systems of the original and the exceptional polynomials play an important role. Infinitely many continuous Hahn polynomials are derived in the same manner. The present method provides a simple proof of the shape invariance of these systems as in the corresponding cases of the exceptional Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials.

id: 1004.0757
title: Theory of Josephson transport through spintronics nano-structure
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Yasuhiro Asano, Yukio Tanaka, Satoshi Kashiwaya
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physica E 42 (2010)1010
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0757
abstract: We study the Josephson transport through ferromagnetic insulators (FIs) by taking into account its band structure explicitly. In the case of the fully polarized FIs (FPFIs), we found the formation of a pi-junction and an atomic-scale 0-pi transition induced by increasing the FI thickness. More remarkably, in the Josephson junction through spin-filter materials such as Eu chalcogenides, the orbital hybridization between the conduction d and the localized f electron gives rise to the pi-junction behavior. Such FI-based pi-junctions can be used to implement highly-coherent solid-state quantum bits.

id: 1004.0856
title: Non-Weyl asymptotics for quantum graphs with general coupling conditions
authors: E. Brian Davies, Pavel Exner, Jiri Lipovsky
comments: minor changes, to appear in Pierre Duclos memorial issue of J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0856
abstract: Inspired by a recent result of Davies and Pushnitski, we study resonance asymptotics of quantum graphs with general coupling conditions at the vertices. We derive a criterion for the asymptotics to be of a non-Weyl character. We show that for balanced vertices with permutation-invariant couplings the asymptotics is non-Weyl only in case of Kirchhoff or anti-Kirchhoff conditions, while for graphs without permutation numerous examples of non-Weyl behaviour can be constructed. Furthermore, we present an insight helping to understand what makes the Kirchhoff/anti-Kirchhoff coupling particular from the resonance point of view. Finally, we demonstrate a generalization to quantum graphs with nonequal edge weights.

id: 1004.0868
title: Displaced path integral formulation for the momentum distribution of quantum particles
authors: Lin Lin, Joseph Morrone, Roberto Car, Michele Parrinello
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:110602,2010
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0868
abstract: The proton momentum distribution, accessible by deep inelastic neutron scattering, is a very sensitive probe of the potential of mean force experienced by the protons in hydrogen-bonded systems. In this work we introduce a novel estimator for the end to end distribution of the Feynman paths, i.e. the Fourier transform of the momentum distribution. In this formulation, free particle and environmental contributions factorize. Moreover, the environmental contribution has a natural analogy to a free energy surface in statistical mechanics, facilitating the interpretation of experiments. The new formulation is not only conceptually but also computationally advantageous. We illustrate the method with applications to an empirical water model, ab-initio ice, and one dimensional model systems.

id: 1004.0885
title: Density functional theory and free energy of inhomogeneous electron gas
authors: V.B. Bobrov, S.A. Trigger
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0885
abstract: It is shown that in adiabatic approximation for nuclei the many-component Coulomb system cannot be described on the basis of the grand canonical ensemble. Using the variational Bogolyubov's procedure for the free energy, the Hohenberg-Kohn theorem is proved in the canonical ensemble for inhomogeneous electron gas at finite temperature. The principal difference between consideration in the framework of quantum statistics in the canonical ensemble and quantum-mechanical consideration of a finite number of particles in infinite volume is established. The problem of universality of the density functional for describing the inhomogeneous electron density in a disordered nuclei field is considered.

id: 1004.0916
title: Antilinear deformations of Coxeter groups, an application to Calogero models
authors: Andreas Fring, Monique Smith
comments: 32 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 43:325201,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0916
abstract: We construct complex root spaces remaining invariant under antilinear involutions related to all Coxeter groups. We provide two alternative constructions: One is based on deformations of factors of the Coxeter element and the other based on the deformation of the longest element of the Coxeter group. Motivated by the fact that non-Hermitian Hamiltonians admitting an antilinear symmetry may be used to define consistent quantum mechanical systems with real discrete energy spectra, we subsequently employ our constructions to formulate deformations of Coxeter models remaining invariant under these extended Coxeter groups. We provide explicit and generic solutions for the Schroedinger equation of these models for the eigenenergies and corresponding wavefunctions. A new feature of these novel models is that when compared with the undeformed case their solutions are usually no longer singular for an exchange of an amount of particles less than the dimension of the representation space of the roots. The simultaneous scattering of all particles in the model leads to anyonic exchange factors for processes which have no analogue in the undeformed case.

id: 1004.0966
title: The localization transition at finite temperatures: electric and thermal transport
authors: Yoseph Imry, Ariel Amir
comments: Article for the book: "50 Years of Anderson Localization", edited by E. Abrahams (World Scientific, Singapore, 2010)
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0966
abstract: The Anderson localization transition is considered at finite temperatures. This includes the electrical conductivity as well as the electronic thermal conductivity and the thermoelectric coefficients. An interesting critical behavior of the latter is found. A method for characterizing the conductivity critical exponent, an important signature of the transition, using the conductivity and thermopower measurements, is outlined.

id: 1004.1027
title: On the completeness of quantum computation models
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Gilles Dowek
comments: 15 pages, LaTeX
journal: 6th conference on Computability in Europe, CiE 2010, Proceedings in LNCS
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1027
abstract: The notion of computability is stable (i.e. independent of the choice of an indexing) over infinite-dimensional vector spaces provided they have a finite "tensorial dimension". Such vector spaces with a finite tensorial dimension permit to define an absolute notion of completeness for quantum computation models and give a precise meaning to the Church-Turing thesis in the framework of quantum theory. (Extra keywords: quantum programming languages, denotational semantics, universality.)

id: 1004.1109
title: Relativistic Comparison Theorems
authors: Richard L. Hall
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052101 (2010).
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1109
abstract: Comparison theorems are established for the Dirac and Klein--Gordon equations. We suppose that V^{(1)}(r) and V^{(2)}(r) are two real attractive central potentials in d dimensions that support discrete Dirac eigenvalues E^{(1)}_{k_d\nu} and E^{(2)}_{k_d\nu}. We prove that if V^{(1)}(r) \leq V^{(2)}(r), then each of the corresponding discrete eigenvalue pairs is ordered E^{(1)}_{k_d\nu} \leq E^{(2)}_{k_d\nu}. This result generalizes an earlier more restrictive theorem that required the wave functions to be node free. For the the Klein--Gordon equation, similar reasoning also leads to a comparison theorem provided in this case that the potentials are negative and the eigenvalues are positive.

id: 1004.1157
title: On the Ground Level of Purely Magnetic Algebro-Geometric 2D Pauli Operator (spin 1/2)
authors: P. Grinevich, A. Mironov, S. Novikov
comments: Latex 32 pages, in the recent version an Important discussion of the problem concerning Bohm-Aharonov Phenomenon is added. The arguments are presented how the delta-term in magnetic field do not affect seriously the spectrum near the ground state
journal: Theoretical and Mathematical Physics, 2010, 164:3, 1110-1127
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1157
abstract: Full manifold of the complex Bloch-Floquet eigenfunctions is investigated for the ground level of the purely magnetic 2D Pauli operators (equal to zero because of supersymmetry). Deep connection of it with the 2D analog of the "Burgers Nonlinear Hierarchy" plays fundamental role here. Everything is completely calculated for the broad class of Algebro-Geometric operators found in this work for this case. For the case of nonzero flux the ground states were found by Aharonov-Casher (1979) for the rapidly decreasing fields, and by Dubrovin-Novikov (1980) for the periodic fields. No Algebro-Geometric operators where known in the case of nonzero flux. For genus $g=1$ we found periodic operators with zero flux, singular magnetic fields and Bohm-Aharonov phenomenon. Our arguments imply that the delta-term really does not affect seriously the spectrum nearby of the ground state. For $g>1$ our theory requires to use only algebraic curves with selected point leading to the solutions elliptic in the variable $x$ for KdV and KP in order to get periodic magnetic fields. The algebro-geometric case of genus zero leads, in particular, to the slowly decreasing lump-like magnetic fields with especially interesting variety of ground states in the Hilbert Space $\cL_2(\bR^2)$.

id: 1004.1207
title: Riccati Diagonalization of Hermitian Matrices
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Hiroshi Oike
comments: Latex ; 17 pages ; no figure ; many typos corrected
journal: Int. J. Geom. Meth. Mod. Phys. 7(2010) 1437-1449
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1207
abstract: In this paper a geometric method based on Grassmann manifolds and matrix Riccati equations to make hermitian matrices diagonal is presented. We call it Riccati Diagonalization.

id: 1004.1335
title: Statistical mechanics of Monte Carlo sampling and the sign problem
authors: Gustavo During, Jorge Kurchan
comments: 
journal: Europhys.Lett.92:50004,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1335
abstract: Monte Carlo sampling of any system may be analyzed in terms of an associated glass model -- a variant of the Random Energy Model -- with, whenever there is a sign problem, complex fields. This model has three types of phases (liquid, frozen and `chaotic'), as is characteristic of glass models with complex parameters. Only the liquid one yields the correct answers for the original problem, and the task is to design the simulation to stay inside it. The statistical convergence of the sampling to the correct expectation values may be studied in these terms, yielding a general lower bound for the computer time as a function of the free energy difference between the true system, and a reference one. In this way, importance-sampling strategies may be optimized.

id: 1004.1385
title: Low-angle misorientation dependence of the optical properties of InGaAs/InAlAs quantum wells
authors: Robert J. Young, Lorenzo O. Mereni, Nikolay Petkov, Gabrielle R. Knight, Valeria Dimastrodonato, Paul K. Hurley, Greg Hughes, Emanuele Pelucchi
comments: 
journal: Journal of Crystal Growth 312 (2010), pp. 1546-1550
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1385
abstract: We investigate the dependence of the low-temperature photoluminescence linewidths from InP-lattice-matched InGaAs/InAlAs quantum wells on the low-angle misorientation from the (100) surface of the host InP substrate. Quantum wells were grown on InP substrates misorientated by 0, 0.2, 0.4 and 0.6 degrees; 0.4 degrees was found to consistently result in the narrowest peaks, with the optimal spectral purity of ~4.25 meV found from a 15nm quantum well. The width of the emission from the 15nm quantum well was used to optimize the growth parameters. Thick layers of Si-doped InGaAs were then grown and found to have bulk, low temperature (77 K), electron mobilities up to \mu ~ 3.5 x 10^4 cm2/Vs with an electron concentration of ~1 x 10^16.

id: 1004.1560
title: Strong Coupling of a Quantum Oscillator to a Flux Qubit at its Symmetry Point
authors: A. Fedorov, A. K. Feofanov, P. Macha, P. Forn-D¨ªaz, C. J. P. M. Harmans, J. E. Mooij
comments: 4 pages, updated
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 060503 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1560
abstract: A flux qubit biased at its symmetry point shows a minimum in the energy splitting (the gap), providing protection against flux noise. We have fabricated a qubit whose gap can be tuned fast and have coupled this qubit strongly to an LC oscillator. We show full spectroscopy of the qubit-resonator system and generate vacuum Rabi oscillations. When the gap is made equal to the oscillator frequency $\nu_{osc}$ we find the strongest qubit-resonator coupling ($g/h\sim0.1\nu_{\rm osc}$). Here being at resonance coincides with the optimal coherence of the symmetry point. Significant further increase of the coupling is possible.

id: 1004.1580
title: Adiabatic Cooling with Non-Abelian Anyons
authors: G. Gervais, Kun Yang
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:086801,2010
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1580
abstract: We show in this Letter that the ground state degeneracy associated with the presence of non-Abelian anyons can be probed by using an adiabatic cooling process based on the non-Abelian entropy. In particular, we show that when the number of such anyons is increased adiabatically at sufficiently low temperatures, the non-Abelian liquid undergoes cooling, whereas heating occurs in the Abelian case. Estimates are provided for the cooling power produced by the non-Abelian anyon refrigerator, and its implementation in non-Abelian fractional quantum Hall liquids is discussed.

id: 1004.1626
title: Transfer Matrices and Circuit Representation for the Semiclassical Traces of the Baker Map
authors: Romulo F. Abreu, Raul O. Vallejos, Gabriel G. Carlo
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1626
abstract: Because of a formal equivalence with the partition function of an Ising chain, the semiclassical traces of the quantum baker map can be calculated using the transfer-matrix method. We analyze the transfer matrices associated with the baker map and the symmetry-reflected baker map (the latter happens to be unitary but the former is not). In both cases simple quantum-circuit representations are obtained, which exhibit the typical structure of qubit quantum bakers. In the case of the baker map it is shown that nonunitarity is restricted to a one-qubit operator (close to a Hadamard gate for some parameter values). In a suitable continuum limit we recover the already known infinite-dimensional transfer-operator. We devise truncation schemes allowing the calculation of long-time traces in regimes where the direct summation of Gutzwiller's formula is impossible. Some aspects of the long-time divergence of the semiclassical traces are also discussed.

id: 1004.1630
title: Quantum dynamics of a driven three-level Josephson-atom maser
authors: N. Didier, Ya. M. Blanter, F. W. J. Hekking
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 214507 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1630
abstract: Recently, a lasing effect has been observed in a superconducting nano-circuit where a Cooper pair box, acting as an artificial three-level atom, was coupled to a resonator. Motivated by this experiment, we analyze the quantum dynamics of a three-level atom coupled to a quantum-mechanical resonator in the presence of a driving on the cavity within the framework of the Lindblad master equation. As a result, we have access to the dynamics of the atomic level populations and the photon number in the cavity as well as to the output spectrum. The results of our quantum approach agree with the experimental findings. The presence of a fluctuator in the circuit is also analyzed. Finally, we compare our results with those obtained within a semiclassical approximation.

id: 1004.1635
title: Summation of Parquet diagrams as an ab initio method in nuclear structure calculations
authors: Elise Bergli, M. Hjorth-Jensen
comments: 48 pages, elsevier latex style
journal: Annals Phys.326:1125-1160,2011
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1635
abstract: In this work we discuss the summation of the Parquet class of diagrams within Green's function theory as a possible framework for ab initio nuclear structure calculations. The theory is presented and some numerical details are discussed, in particular the approximations employed. We apply the Parquet method to a simple model, and compare our results with those from an exact solution. The main conclusion is that even at the level of approximation presented here, the results shows good agreement with other comparable ab initio approaches.

id: 1004.1681
title: Effective cavity pumping from weakly coupled quantum dots
authors: E. del Valle, F. P. Laussy
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, PLMCN10 conference proceedings
journal: Superlattices and Microstructures, 2010
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1681
abstract: We derive the effective cavity pumping and decay rates for the master equation of a quantum dot-microcavity system in presence of $N$ weakly coupled dots. We show that the in-flow of photons is not linked to the out-flow by thermal equilibrium relationships.

id: 1004.1737
title: Counterexamples in Levin-Wen string-net models, group categories, and Turaev unimodality
authors: Spencer D. Stirling
comments: 7 pages, shortened with slight revisions
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1737
abstract: We remark on the claim that the string-net model of Levin and Wen is a microscopic Hamiltonian formulation of the Turaev-Viro topological quantum field theory. Using simple counterexamples we indicate where interesting extra structure may be needed in the Levin-Wen model for this to hold (however we believe that some form of the correspondence is true). In order to be accessible to the condensed matter community we provide a brief and gentle introduction to the relevant concepts in category theory (relying heavily on analogy with ordinary group representation theory). Likewise, some physical ideas are briefly surveyed for the benefit of the more mathematical reader. The main feature of group categories under consideration is Turaev's unimodality. We pinpoint where unimodality should fit into the Levin-Wen construction, and show that the simplest example fails to be unimodal. Unimodality is straightforward to compute for group categories, and we provide a complete classification at the end of the paper.

id: 1004.1742
title: Fine-tuning molecular energy levels by nonresonant laser pulses
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko, Bretislav Friedrich
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, 4 tables
journal: J. Phys. Chem. A 114, 9848 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1742
abstract: We evaluate the shifts imparted to vibrational and rotational levels of a linear molecule by a nonresonant laser field at intensities of up to 10^12 W/cm^2. Both types of shift are found to be either positive or negative, depending on the initial rotational state acted upon by the field. An adiabatic field-molecule interaction imparts a rotational energy shift which is negative and exceeds the concomitant positive vibrational shift by a few orders of magnitude. The rovibrational states are thus pushed downward in such a field. A nonresonant pulsed laser field that interacts nonadiabatically with the molecule is found to impart rotational and vibrational shifts of the same order of magnitude. The nonadiabatic energy transfer occurs most readily at a pulse duration which amounts to about a tenth of the molecule's rotational period, and vanishes when the sudden regime is attained for shorter pulses. We applied our treatment to the much studied 87Rb_2 molecule in the last bound vibrational levels of its lowest singlet and triplet electronic states. Our calculations indicate that 15 ns and 1.5 ns laser pulses of an intensity in excess of 5x10^9 W/cm^2 are capable of dissociating the molecule due to the vibrational shift. Lesser shifts can be used to fine tune the rovibrational levels and thereby to affect collisional resonances by the nonresonant light. The energy shifts may be discernible spectroscopically, at a 10 MHz resolution.

id: 1004.1813
title: Quantum noise reduction using a cavity with a Bose Einstein condensate
authors: Aranya B Bhattacherjee
comments: 8 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B : At. Mol. Opt. Phys ,43,205301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1813
abstract: We study an optomechanical system in which the collective density excitations (Bogoliubov modes) of a Bose Einstein condensate (BEC) is coupled to a cavity field. We show that the optical force changes the frequency and the damping constant of the collective density excitations of the BEC. We further analyze the occurrence of normal mode splitting (NMS) due to mixing of the fluctuations of the cavity field and the fluctuations of the condensate with finite atomic two-body interaction. The NMS is found to vanish for small values of the two-body interaction. We further show that the density excitations of the condensate can be used to squeeze the output quantum fluctuations of the light beam. This system may serve as an optomechanical control of quantum fluctuations using a Bose Einstein condensate.

id: 1004.1838
title: Topological Order with a Twist: Ising Anyons from an Abelian Model
authors: H. Bombin
comments: As accepted in journal
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:030403,2010
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1838
abstract: Anyon models can be symmetric under some permutations of their topological charges. One can then conceive topological defects that, under monodromy, transform anyons according to a symmetry. We study the realization of such defects in the toric code model, showing that a process where defects are braided and fused has the same outcome as if they were Ising anyons. These ideas can also be applied in the context of topological codes.

id: 1004.1895
title: Electronic implementations of Interaction-Free Measurements
authors: L. Chirolli, E. Strambini, V. Giovannetti, F. Taddei, V. Piazza, R. Fazio, F. Beltram, G. Burkard
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 045403 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1895
abstract: Three different implementations of interaction-free measurements (IFMs) in solid-state nanodevices are discussed. The first one is based on a series of concatenated Mach-Zehnder interferometers, in analogy to optical-IFM setups. The second one consists of a single interferometer and concatenation is achieved in the time domain making use of a quantized electron emitter. The third implementation consists of an asymmetric Aharonov-Bohm ring. For all three cases we show that the presence of a dephasing source acting on one arm of the interferometer can be detected without degrading the coherence of the measured current. Electronic implementations of IFMs in nanoelectronics may play a fundamental role as very accurate and noninvasive measuring schemes for quantum devices.

id: 1004.1961
title: Atomically flat single-crystalline gold nanostructures for plasmonic nanocircuitry
authors: Jer-Shing Huang, Victor Callegari, Peter Geisler, Christoph Br¨¹ning, Johannes Kern, Jord C. Prangsma, Xiaofei Wu, Thorsten Feichtner, Johannes Ziegler, Pia Weinmann, Martin Kamp, Alfred Forchel, Paolo Biagioni, Urs Sennhauser, Bert Hecht
comments: 28 pages, 14 figures, including Supporting Information (11 pages, 10 figures)
journal: Nature Communications 1, 150 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1961
abstract: Deep subwavelength integration of high-definition plasmonic nanostructures is of key importance for the development of future optical nanocircuitry for high-speed communication, quantum computation and lab-on-a-chip applications. So far the experimental realization of proposed extended plasmonic networks consisting of multiple functional elements remains challenging, mainly due to the multi-crystallinity of commonly used thermally evaporated gold layers. Resulting structural imperfections in individual circuit elements will drastically reduce the yield of functional integrated nanocircuits. Here we demonstrate the use of very large (>100 micron^2) but thin (<80 nm) chemically grown single-crystalline gold flakes, which, after immobilization, serve as an ideal basis for focused-ion beam milling and other top-down nanofabrication techniques on any desired substrate. Using this methodology we obtain high-definition ultrasmooth gold nanostructures with superior optical properties and reproducible nano-sized features over micrometer length scales. Our approach provides a possible solution to overcome the current fabrication bottleneck and to realize high-definition plasmonic nanocircuitry.

id: 1004.1965
title: The natural definition of the quantum dynamical entropy in the framework of deformation quantization
authors: Gavriel Segre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1965
abstract: It is shown how, in the framework of deformation quantization, the quantum dynamical entropy may be simply defined as the Kolmogorov-Sinai's entropy of the quantum flow.

id: 1004.1980
title: On the absence of absolutely continuous spectra for Schr?dinger operators on radial tree graphs
authors: Pavel Exner, Jiri Lipovsky
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1980
abstract: The subject of the paper are Schr\"odinger operators on tree graphs which are radial having the branching number $b_n$ at all the vertices at the distance $t_n$ from the root. We consider a family of coupling conditions at the vertices characterized by $(b_n-1)^2+4$ real parameters. We prove that if the graph is sparse so that there is a subsequence of $\{t_{n+1}-t_n\}$ growing to infinity, in the absence of the potential the absolutely continuous spectrum is empty for a large subset of these vertex couplings, but on the the other hand, there are cases when the spectrum of such a Schr\"odinger operator can be purely absolutely continuous.

id: 1004.2086
title: Lieb-Robinson Bounds in Quantum Many-Body Physics
authors: Bruno Nachtergaele, Robert Sims
comments: Lecture Notes for the school "Entropy and the Quantum", 16-20 March 2009, Tucson, Arizona.
journal: "Entropy and the Quantum", Robert Sims and Daniel Ueltschi (Eds), Contemporary Mathematics, volume 529, American Mathematical Society (2010) pp 141-176
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2086
abstract: We give an overview of recent results on Lieb-Robinson bounds and some of their applications in the study of quantum many-body models in condensed matter physics.

id: 1004.2143
title: New Aspects of the Problem of the Source of Kerr Spinning Particle
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 8 pages, 1 fig., Essay written for Gravity Research Foundation Competition 2010.
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2143
abstract: We consider development of the models of the source of the Kerr-Newman (KN) solution and new aspects related with the obtained recently field model based on a domain wall bubble with superconducting interior, arXiv:1003.2928[hep-th]. The internal Higgs field regularizes the KN solution, expelling electromagnetic field from interior to the boundary of bubble. The KN source forms a gravitating soliton, interior of which is similar to oscillating solitons (Q-balls, oscillons), while exterior is consistent with the KN solution. We obtain that a closed Wilson loop appears on the edge of the bubble, resulting in quantization of angular momentum of the regularized solutions. A new holographic interpretation of the mysterious twosheetedness of the Kerr geometry is given. The KN gravitating soliton with parameters of electron is discussed.

id: 1004.2232
title: Thermal equilibration between two quantum systems
authors: Alexey V. Ponomarev, Sergey Denisov, Peter H?nggi
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, including supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 010405 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2232
abstract: Two identical finite quantum systems prepared initially at different temperatures, isolated from the environment, and subsequently brought into contact are demonstrated to relax towards Gibbs-like quasi-equilibrium states with a common temperature and small fluctuations around the time-averaged expectation values of generic observables. The temporal thermalization process proceeds via a chain of intermediate Gibbs-like states. We specify the conditions under which this scenario occurs and corroborate the quantum equilibration with two different models.

id: 1004.2250
title: Quantum field theory as a bilocal statistical field theory
authors: S. Floerchinger
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2250
abstract: We develop a reformulation of the functional integral for bosons in terms of bilocal fields. Correlation functions correspond to quantum probabilities instead of probability amplitudes. Discrete and continuous global symmetries can be treated similar to the usual formalism. Situations where the formalism can be interpreted in terms of a statistical field theory in Minkowski space are characterized by violations of unitarity at very large momentum scales. Renormalization group equations suggest that unitarity can be essentially restored by strong fluctuation effects.

id: 1004.2346
title: The attractor mechanism as a distillation procedure
authors: P¨¦ter L¨¦vay, Szil¨¢rd Szalay
comments: 38 pages LaTex
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:026002,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2346
abstract: In a recent paper it has been shown that for double extremal static spherically symmetric BPS black hole solutions in the STU model the well-known process of moduli stabilization at the horizon can be recast in a form of a distillation procedure of a three-qubit entangled state of GHZ-type. By studying the full flow in moduli space in this paper we investigate this distillation procedure in more detail. We introduce a three-qubit state with amplitudes depending on the conserved charges the warp factor, and the moduli. We show that for the recently discovered non-BPS solutions it is possible to see how the distillation procedure unfolds itself as we approach the horizon. For the non-BPS seed solutions at the asymptotically Minkowski region we are starting with a three-qubit state having seven nonequal nonvanishing amplitudes and finally at the horizon we get a GHZ state with merely four nonvanishing ones with equal magnitudes. The magnitude of the surviving nonvanishing amplitudes is proportional to the macroscopic black hole entropy. A systematic study of such attractor states shows that their properties reflect the structure of the fake superpotential. We also demonstrate that when starting with the very special values for the moduli corresponding to flat directions the uniform structure at the horizon deteriorates due to errors generalizing the usual bit flips acting on the qubits of the attractor states.

id: 1004.2495
title: Mutual and coherent informations for infinite-dimensional quantum channels
authors: A.S.Holevo, M.E.Shirokov
comments: 27 pages, an alternative expression for the coherent information is added (Remark 2)
journal: Problems of Information Transmission, 2010, V.46, N.3, 201-218
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2495
abstract: The work is devoted to study of quantum mutual information and coherent information -- the two important characteristics of quantum communication channel. Appropriate definitions of these quantities in the infinite-dimensional case are given and their properties are studied in detail. Basic identities relating quantum mutual information and coherent information of a pair of complementary channels are proved. An unexpected continuity property of quantum mutual information and coherent information following from the above identities is observed. An upper bound for the coherent information is obtained.

id: 1004.2499
title: Collective many-body interaction in Rydberg dressed atoms
authors: Jens Honer, Hendrik Weimer, Tilman Pfau, Hans Peter B¨¹chler
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures Accepted for publication as a Letter in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 160404 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2499
abstract: We present a method to control the shape and character of the interaction potential between cold atomic gases by weakly dressing the atomic ground state with a Rydberg level. For increasing particle densities, a crossover takes place from a two-particle interaction into a collective many-body interaction, where the dipole-dipole/van der Waals Blockade phenomenon between the Rydberg levels plays a dominant role. We study the influence of these collective interaction potential on a Bose-Einstein condensate, and present the optimal parameters for its experimental detection.

id: 1004.2509
title: The Stokes Phenomenon and Schwinger Vacuum Pair Production in Time-Dependent Laser Pulses
authors: Cesim K. Dumlu, Gerald V. Dunne
comments: 5 pages, 4 figs.; v2 sign typo corrected, version to appear in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:250402,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2509
abstract: Particle production due to external fields (electric, chromo-electric or gravitational) requires evolving an initial state through an interaction with a time-dependent background, with the rate being computed from a Bogoliubov transformation between the in and out vacua. When the background fields have temporal profiles with sub-structure, a semiclassical analysis of this problem confronts the full subtlety of the Stokes phenomenon: WKB solutions are only local, while the production rate requires global information. Incorporating the Stokes phenomenon, we give a simple quantitative explanation of the recently computed [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 150404 (2009)] oscillatory momentum spectrum of e+e- pairs produced from vacuum subjected to a time-dependent electric field with sub-cycle laser pulse structure. This approach also explains naturally why for spinor and scalar QED these oscillations are out of phase.

id: 1004.2510
title: Cooling and squeezing via quadratic optomechanical coupling
authors: A. Nunnenkamp, K. Borkje, J. G. E. Harris, S. M. Girvin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 021806(R) (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2510
abstract: We explore the physics of optomechanical systems in which an optical cavity mode is coupled parametrically to the square of the position of a mechanical oscillator. We derive an effective master equation describing two-phonon cooling of the mechanical oscillator. We show that for high temperatures and weak coupling, the steady-state phonon number distribution is non-thermal (Gaussian) and that even for strong cooling the mean phonon number remains finite. Moreover, we demonstrate how to achieve mechanical squeezing by driving the cavity with two beams. Finally, we calculate the optical output and squeezing spectra. Implications for optomechanics experiments with the membrane-in-the-middle geometry or ultracold atoms in optical resonators are discussed.

id: 1004.2525
title: A Quantum-Conceptual Explanation of Violations of Expected Utility in Economics
authors: Diederik Aerts, Jan Broekaert, Marek Czachor, Bart D'Hooghe
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Interaction. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 7052, pp. 192-198, 2011
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2525
abstract: The expected utility hypothesis is one of the building blocks of classical economic theory and founded on Savage's Sure-Thing Principle. It has been put forward, e.g. by situations such as the Allais and Ellsberg paradoxes, that real-life situations can violate Savage's Sure-Thing Principle and hence also expected utility. We analyze how this violation is connected to the presence of the 'disjunction effect' of decision theory and use our earlier study of this effect in concept theory to put forward an explanation of the violation of Savage's Sure-Thing Principle, namely the presence of 'quantum conceptual thought' next to 'classical logical thought' within a double layer structure of human thought during the decision process. Quantum conceptual thought can be modeled mathematically by the quantum mechanical formalism, which we illustrate by modeling the Hawaii problem situation, a well-known example of the disjunction effect, and we show how the dynamics in the Hawaii problem situation is generated by the whole conceptual landscape surrounding the decision situation.

id: 1004.2529
title: Quantum Experimental Data in Psychology and Economics
authors: Diederik Aerts, Bart D'Hooghe, Emmanuel Haven
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 49, pp. 2971-2990, (2010)
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2529
abstract: We prove a theorem which shows that a collection of experimental data of probabilistic weights related to decisions with respect to situations and their disjunction cannot be modeled within a classical probabilistic weight structure in case the experimental data contain the effect referred to as the 'disjunction effect' in psychology. We identify different experimental situations in psychology, more specifically in concept theory and in decision theory, and in economics (namely situations where Savage's Sure-Thing Principle is violated) where the disjunction effect appears and we point out the common nature of the effect. We analyze how our theorem constitutes a no-go theorem for classical probabilistic weight structures for common experimental data when the disjunction effect is affecting the values of these data. We put forward a simple geometric criterion that reveals the non classicality of the considered probabilistic weights and we illustrate our geometrical criterion by means of experimentally measured membership weights of items with respect to pairs of concepts and their disjunctions. The violation of the classical probabilistic weight structure is very analogous to the violation of the well-known Bell inequalities studied in quantum mechanics. The no-go theorem we prove in the present article with respect to the collection of experimental data we consider has a status analogous to the well known no-go theorems for hidden variable theories in quantum mechanics with respect to experimental data obtained in quantum laboratories. For this reason our analysis puts forward a strong argument in favor of the validity of using a quantum formalism for modeling the considered psychological experimental data as considered in this paper.

id: 1004.2545
title: Visualization study of counterflow in superfluid helium-4 using metastable helium molecules
authors: Wei Guo, Sidney B. Cahn, James A. Nikkel, William F. Vinen, Daniel N. McKinsey
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Supplementary information is included.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 045301 (2010)
subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2545
abstract: Heat is carried in superfluid He-4 by the motion of the normal fluid$^{1}$, a counterflowing superfluid component serving to eliminate any net mass flow. It has been known for many years that above a critical heat current the superfluid component in this counterflow becomes turbulent. This turbulence takes the form of a disorganized tangle of quantized vortex lines and is maintained by the relative motion of the two fluids$^{2-3}$. It has been suspected that the normal fluid may also become turbulent$^{4}$, but experimental verification is difficult without a technique for visualizing the flow. Here we report a series of visualization studies on the normal-fluid component in a thermal counterflow performed by imaging the motion of seeded metastable helium molecules using a laser-induced-fluorescence technique$^{5-8}$. We present evidence that the flow of the normal fluid is indeed turbulent, at least at relatively large velocities. Thermal counterflow in which both components are turbulent presents us with a new and theoretically challenging type of turbulent behaviour.

id: 1004.2563
title: Grassmann tensor network states and its renormalization for strongly correlated fermionic and bosonic states
authors: Zheng-Cheng Gu, Frank Verstraete, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2563
abstract: The projective construction (the slave-particle approach) has played an very important role in understanding strongly correlated systems, such as the emergence of fermions, anyons, and gauge theory in quantum spin liquids and quantum Hall states. Recently, fermionic Projected Entangled Pair States (fPEPS) have been introduced to effciently represent many-body fermionic states. In this paper, we show that the strongly correlated bosonic/fermionic states obtained both from the projective construction and the fPEPS approach can be represented systematically as Grassmann tensor product states. This construction can also be applied to all other tensor network states approaches. The Grassmann tensor product states allow us to encode many-body bosonic/fermionic states effciently with a polynomial number of parameters. We also generalize the tensor-entanglement renormalization group (TERG) method for complex tensor networks to Grassmann tensor networks. This allows us to approximate the norm and average local operators of Grassmann tensor product states in polynomial time, and hence leads to a variational approach for describing strongly correlated bosonic/fermionic systems in higher dimensions.

id: 1004.2604
title: A low-dimensional detector model for full counting statistics: Trajectories, Back-Action, and Fidelity
authors: Gernot Schaller, Gerold Kiesslich, Tobias Brandes
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, changed title, extensively re-organized version with improved presentation
journal: Physical Review B (Rapid Communications) 82, 041303(R) (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2604
abstract: We study the combined counting statistics of two capacitively coupled transport channels. In particular, we examine the conditions necessary for utilizing one channel as detector sensitive to the occupation of the other. A good detector fidelity may be achieved in a bistable regime when the tunneling rates through the two channels are vastly different -- even when the physical back-action of the detector on the probed channel is large. Our methods allow to estimate the error of charge counting detectors from time-resolved current measurements -- which have been obtained in recent experiments -- alone.

id: 1004.2644
title: Field Ionization of Cold Atoms near the Wall of a Single Carbon Nanotube
authors: Anne Goodsell, Trygve Ristroph, J. A. Golovchenko, Lene Vestergaard Hau
comments: Article (8 pages) and Supplementary Information (4 pages). Associated figure appeared on cover of the April 2, 2010 issue of PRL.
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:133022,2010
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2644
abstract: We observe the capture and field ionization of individual atoms near the side wall of a single suspended nanotube. Extremely large cross sections for ionization from an atomic beam are observed at modest voltages due to the nanotube's small radius and extended length. The effects of the field strength on both the atomic capture and the ionization process are clearly distinguished in the data, as are prompt and delayed ionizations related to the locations at which they occur. Efficient and sensitive neutral atom detectors can be based on the nanotube capture and wall ionization processes.

id: 1004.2738
title: Time-Domain Detection of Weakly Coupled TLS Fluctuators in Phase Qubits
authors: M.S. Allman, F. Altomare, J.D. Whittaker, K. Cicak, D. Li, A. Sirois, J. Strong, J.D. Teufel, R.W. Simmonds
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures.
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2738
abstract: We report on a method for detecting weakly coupled spurious two-level system fluctuators (TLSs) in superconducting qubits. This method is more sensitive that standard spectroscopic techniques for locating TLSs with a reduced data acquisition time.

id: 1004.2758
title: Proposal of a full Bell state analyzer for spin qubits in a double quantum dot
authors: Nobuhiko Yokoshi, Hiroshi Imamura, Hideo Kosaka
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 161305(R) (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2758
abstract: We propose a scheme for full Bell state measurement of spin qubits in a double quantum dot. Our scheme consists of Pauli spin-blockade measurements and biaxial electron-spin resonance. In order to eliminate the average of the Zeeman fields, the double quantum dot is designed so that the Land\'e g-factors of first and second dots satisfy g1=g2 with the use of g-factor engineering. Thus, we can swap one of the three spin-triplet states for the spin-singlet state without disturbing the other states. Our study shows that the sequential spin-to-charge conversions enable us to implement the full Bell state measurement of electron-spin qubits.

id: 1004.2761
title: Random Interaction Matrix Ensembles in Mesoscopic Physics
authors: Manan Vyas
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures, To appear in the proceedings of the National Seminar on "New Frontiers in Nuclear, Hadron and Mesoscopic Physics", eds: V.K.B. Kota, A. Pratap, Allied Publishers, 2010.
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2761
abstract: We analyze several ground state related properties of mesoscopic systems using the random interaction matrix model EGOE(1+2)-$\cs$ (or RIMM) for many fermion systems with spin degree of freedom and the Hamiltonian containing pairing and exchange interactions in addition to the mean-field one-body and random two-body parts. RIMM reproduces the essential features of various properties: odd-even staggering in ground state energies as a function of particle number, delay in ground state magnetization and conductance peak spacing distributions. The analytical formula, we have derived, for the ensemble averaged spectral variances provides a simple understanding of some of these properties.

id: 1004.2882
title: The communication complexity of XOR games via summing operators
authors: C. Palazuelos, D. Perez-Garcia, I. Villanueva
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2882
abstract: The discrepancy method is widely used to find lower bounds for communication complexity of XOR games. It is well known that these bounds can be far from optimal. In this context Disjointness is usually mentioned as a case where the method fails to give good bounds, because the increment of the value of the game is linear (rather than exponential) in the number of communicated bits. We show in this paper the existence of XOR games where the discrepancy method yields bounds as poor as one desires. Indeed, we show the existence of such games with any previously prescribed value. To prove this result we apply the theory of p-summing operators, a central topic in Banach space theory. We show in the paper other applications of this theory to the study of the communication complexity of XOR games.

id: 1004.2956
title: Thermalisation of a two-dimensional photonic gas in a 'white-wall' photon box
authors: Jan Klaers, Frank Vewinger, Martin Weitz
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Physics 6, 512 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2956
abstract: Bose-Einstein condensation, the macroscopic accumulation of bosonic particles in the energetic ground state below a critical temperature, has been demonstrated in several physical systems. The perhaps best known example of a bosonic gas, blackbody radiation, however exhibits no Bose-Einstein condensation at low temperatures. Instead of collectively occupying the lowest energy mode, the photons disappear in the cavity walls when the temperature is lowered - corresponding to a vanishing chemical potential. Here we report on evidence for a thermalised two-dimensional photon gas with freely adjustable chemical potential. Our experiment is based on a dye filled optical microresonator, acting as a 'white-wall' box for photons. Thermalisation is achieved in a photon number-conserving way by photon scattering off the dye-molecules, and the cavity mirrors both provide an effective photon mass and a confining potential - key prerequisites for the Bose-Einstein condensation of photons. As a striking example for the unusual system properties, we demonstrate a yet unobserved light concentration effect into the centre of the confining potential, an effect with prospects for increasing the efficiency of diffuse solar light collection.

id: 1004.2977
title: Vacuum polarization for compactified $QED_{4+1}$ in a magnetic flux background
authors: C. Ccapa Tira, C.D. Fosco, A.P.C. Malbouisson, I. Roditi
comments: 8 pages no figures Revtex
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:032116,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2977
abstract: We evaluate one-loop effects for $QED_{4+1}$ compactified to ${\bf R}^4 \times S^1$, in a non-trivial vacuum for the gauge field, such that a non-vanishing magnetic flux is encircled along the extra dimension. We obtain the vacuum polarization tensor and evaluate the exact parity breaking term, presenting the results from the point of view of the effective 3+1 dimensional theory.

id: 1004.2980
title: Applications of Two-Body Dirac Equations to the Meson Spectrum with Three versus Two Covariant Interactions, SU(3) Mixing, and Comparison to a Quasipotential Approach
authors: Horace W. Crater, James Schiermeyer
comments: Revisions of earlier version
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:094020,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2980
abstract: In a previous paper Crater and Van Alstine applied the Two Body Dirac equations of constraint dynamics to the meson quark-antiquark bound states using a relativistic extention of the Adler-Piran potential and compared their spectral results to those from other approaches, ones which also considered meson spectroscopy as a whole and not in parts. In this paper we explore in more detail the differences and similarities in an important subset of those approaches, the quasipotential approach. In the earlier paper, the transformation properties of the quark-antiquark potentials were limited to a scalar and an electromagnetic-like four vector, with the former accounting for the confining aspects of the overall potential, and the latter the short range portion. A part of that work consisted of developing a way in which the static Adler-Piran potential was apportioned between those two different types of potentials in addition to covariantization. Here we make a change in this apportionment that leads to a substantial improvement in the resultant spectroscopy by including a time-like confining vector potential over and above the scalar confining one and the electromagnetic-like vector potential. Our fit includes 19 more mesons than the earlier results and we modify the scalar portion of the potential in such a way that allows this formalism to account for the isoscalar mesons {\eta} and {\eta}' not included in the previous work. Continuing the comparisons made in the previous paper with other approaches to meson spectroscopy we examine in this paper the quasipotential approach of Ebert, Faustov, and Galkin for a comparison with our formalism and spectral results.

id: 1004.3122
title: Quantum counterparts of VII$_{a}$, III$_{a=1}$, VI$_{a\neq1}$ over harmonic oscillator
authors: E. Paal, J. Virkepu
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX2e. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0901.4264
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3122
abstract: Operadic Lax representations for the harmonic oscillator are used to construct the quantum counterparts of some real three dimensional Lie algebras. The Jacobi operators of these quantum algebras are studied in semiclassical approximation.

id: 1004.3210
title: Thermalization in a coherently driven ensemble of two-level systems
authors: Igor Lesanovsky, Beatriz Olmos, Juan P. Garrahan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 100603 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3210
abstract: We study the coherent quantum evolution of a closed and driven mesoscopic chain of two-level systems that interact via the van-der-Waals interaction in their excited state. The Hamiltonian consists of a part corresponding to a classical lattice gas and an off-diagonal driving term without classical counterpart. We show that in a certain parameter range the latter leads to a thermalization of the system with respect to observables of the classical lattice gas such as the interaction energy and particle number distribution. We investigate the evolution of the system into this thermal state and discuss how to determine the corresponding temperature. Our findings can be applied to understand thermalization in strongly interacting systems of laser-driven Rydberg atoms, ions or polar molecules.

id: 1004.3352
title: String-inspired ultraviolet/infrared mixing and preliminary evidence of a violation of the de Broglie relation for nonrelativistic neutrons
authors: Giovanni Amelino-Camelia, Flavio Mercati
comments: Analysis unchanged; additional comments on the part of the motivation drawn from a Loop-Quantum-Gravity-inspired model; additional comments on the derivation of a LOWER bound on the parameter $\chi$ for the lightlike-noncommutativity case.
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3352
abstract: We advocate a novel perspective on the phenomenology of a framework with spacetime noncommutativity which is of established relevance for string theory. Our analysis applies to cases in which the noncommutativity parameters are arranged according to the criteria of "light-like noncommutativity" and ultraviolet supersymmetry is assumed, so that the implications of the characteristic mechanism of ultraviolet/infrared mixing are relatively soft. We also observe that an analogous case of soft ultraviolet-infrared mixing is present in a previously-proposed Loop-quantum-gravity-inspired description of quantum spacetime. And we show that soft ultraviolet-infrared mixing produces an anomaly for the nonrelativistic de Broglie relation $\lambda v = h/m$, with correction term governed by a single (but particle-dependent) parameter $\chi$. We test this hypothesis by comparing a determination of the fine structure constant that relies on the de Broglie relation for nonrelativistic neutrons to other independent determinations of the fine structure constant, and we obtain an estimate of $\chi$ that differs from 0 with four-standard-deviation significance.

id: 1004.3429
title: Magnetic dipole excitations in nuclei: elementary modes of nucleonic motion
authors: Kris Heyde, Peter von Neumann-Cosel, Achim Richter
comments: 59 pages, 59 figures, accepted for publication in Rev. Mod. Phys.
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3429
abstract: The nucleus is one of the most multi-faceted many-body systems in the universe. It exhibits a multitude of responses depending on the way one 'probes' it. With increasing technical advancements of beams at the various accelerators and of detection systems the nucleus has, over and over again, surprised us by expressing always new ways of 'organized' structures and layers of complexity. Nuclear magnetism is one of those fascinating faces of the atomic nucleus we discuss in the present review. We shall not just limit ourselves to presenting the by now very large data set that has been obtained in the last two decades using various probes, electromagnetic and hadronic alike and that presents ample evidence for a low-lying orbital scissors mode around 3 MeV, albeit fragmented over an energy interval of the order of 1.5 MeV, and higher-lying spin-flip strength in the energy region 5 - 9 MeV in deformed nuclei, nor to the presently discovered evidence for low-lying proton-neutron isovector quadrupole excitations in spherical nuclei. To the contrary, we put the experimental evidence in the perspectives of understanding the atomic nucleus and its various structures of well-organized modes of motion and thus enlarge our discussion to more general fermion and bosonic many-body systems.

id: 1004.3567
title: Theory and applications of atomic and ionic polarizabilities
authors: J. Mitroy, M. S. Safronova, Charles W. Clark
comments: Review paper, 44 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3567
abstract: Atomic polarization phenomena impinge upon a number of areas and processes in physics. The dielectric constant and refractive index of any gas are examples of macroscopic properties that are largely determined by the dipole polarizability. When it comes to microscopic phenomena, the existence of alkaline-earth anions and the recently discovered ability of positrons to bind to many atoms are predominantly due to the polarization interaction. An imperfect knowledge of atomic polarizabilities is presently looming as the largest source of uncertainty in the new generation of optical frequency standards. Accurate polarizabilities for the group I and II atoms and ions of the periodic table have recently become available by a variety of techniques. These include refined many-body perturbation theory and coupled-cluster calculations sometimes combined with precise experimental data for selected transitions, microwave spectroscopy of Rydberg atoms and ions, refractive index measurements in microwave cavities, ab initio calculations of atomic structures using explicitly correlated wave functions, interferometry with atom beams, and velocity changes of laser cooled atoms induced by an electric field. This review examines existing theoretical methods of determining atomic and ionic polarizabilities, and discusses their relevance to various applications with particular emphasis on cold-atom physics and the metrology of atomic frequency standards.

id: 1004.3578
title: Another Dirac
authors: Jeremy Bernstein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3578
abstract: This article discusses aspects of Dirac's work that are less familiar.

id: 1004.3587
title: Observability of radiation pressure shot noise in optomechanical systems
authors: K. Borkje, A. Nunnenkamp, B. M. Zwickl, C. Yang, J. G. E. Harris, S. M. Girvin
comments: 12 pages + 4 page appendix, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013818 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3587
abstract: We present a theoretical study of an experiment designed to detect radiation pressure shot noise in an optomechanical system. Our model consists of a coherently driven optical cavity mode that is coupled to a mechanical oscillator. We examine the cross-correlation between two quadratures of the output field from the cavity. We determine under which circumstances radiation pressure shot noise can be detected by a measurement of this cross-correlation. This is done in the general case of nonzero detuning between the frequency of the drive and the cavity resonance frequency. We study the qualitative features of the different contributions to the cross-correlator and provide quantitative figures of merit for the relative importance of the radiation pressure shot noise contribution to other contributions. We also propose a modified setup of this experiment relevant to the "membrane-in-the-middle" geometry, which potentially can avoid the problems of static bistability and classical noise in the drive.

id: 1004.3589
title: A new class of coherent states with Meixner-Pollaczek polynomials for the Gol'dman-Krivchenkov Hamiltonian
authors: Zouhair Mouayn
comments: 10 pages, Submitted
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3589
abstract: A class of generalized coherent states with a new type of the identity resolution are constructed by replacing the labeling parameter zn/n! of the canonical coherent states by Meixner-Pollaczek polynomials with specific parameters. The constructed coherent states belong to the state Hilbert space of the Gol'dman-Krivchenkov Hamiltonian.

id: 1004.3605
title: Magnetic strong coupling in a spin-photon system and transition to classical regime
authors: I. Chiorescu, N. Groll, S. Bertaina, T. Mori, S. Miyashita
comments: Received 8 April 2010; revised manuscript received 17 June 2010; published 14 July 2010
journal: Phys. Rev. B, vol 82, issue 2, 024413 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3605
abstract: We study the energy level structure of the Tavis-Cumming model applied to an ensemble of independent magnetic spins $s=1/2$ coupled to a variable number of photons. Rabi splittings are calculated and their distribution is analyzed as a functin of photon number $n_{\rm max}$ and spin system size $N$. A sharp transition in the distribution of the Rabi frequency is found at $n_{\rm max}\approx N$. The width of the Rabi frequency spectrum diverges as $\sqrt{N}$ at this point. For increased number of photons $n_{\rm max}>N$, the Rabi frequencies converge to a value proportional to $\sqrt{n_{\rm max}}$. This behavior is interpreted as analogous to the classical spin resonance mechanism where the photon is treated as a classical field and one resonance peak is expected. We also present experimental data demonstrating cooperative, magnetic strong coupling between a spin system and photons, measured at room temperature. This points towards quantum computing implementation with magnetic spins, using cavity quantum-electrodynamics techniques.

id: 1004.3639
title: STU Black Holes as Four Qubit Systems
authors: P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 47 pages LATEX
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:026003,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3639
abstract: In this paper we describe the structure of extremal stationary spherically symmetric black hole solutions in the STU model of D=4, N=2 supergravity in terms of four-qubit systems. Our analysis extends the results of previous investigations based on three qubits. The basic idea facilitating this four-qubit interpretation is the fact that stationary solutions in D=4 supergravity can be described by dimensional reduction along the time direction. In this D=3 picture the global symmetry group $SL(2,R)^{\times 3}$ of the model is extended by the Ehlers SL(2,R) accounting for the fourth qubit. We introduce a four qubit state depending on the charges (electric, magnetic and NUT) the moduli and the warp factor. We relate the entanglement properties of this state to different classes of black hole solutions in the STU model. In the terminology of four qubit entanglement extremal black hole solutions correspond to nilpotent, and nonextremal ones to semisimple states. In arriving at this entanglement based scenario the role of the four algebraically independent four qubit SL(2,C) invariants is emphasized.

id: 1004.3718
title: Subcritical temperature in Bose-Einstein condensates of chiral molecules
authors: Pedro Bargueno, Ricardo Perez de Tudela, Salvador Miret-Artes, Isabel Gonzalo
comments: submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3718
abstract: Bose-Einstein condensation of a sample of non-interacting chiral molecules leads to a non zero optical activity of the condensate and also to a subcritical temperature in the heat capacity. This is due to the internal structure of the molecule which, in our model, is considered as a simple two-state system, characterized by tunneling and parity violation. The predicted singular behavior found for the specific heat, below the condensation temperature, sheds some light on the existence of the so far elusive parity violation energy difference between enantiomers.

id: 1004.3835
title: Local unitary transformation, long-range quantum entanglement, wave function renormalization, and topological order
authors: Xie Chen, Zheng-Cheng Gu, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 29 pages, 68 figures. Version 2, fixed point conditions refined, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 155138 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3835
abstract: Two gapped quantum ground states in the same phase are connected by an adiabatic evolution which gives rise to a local unitary transformation that maps between the states. On the other hand, gapped ground states remain within the same phase under local unitary transformations. Therefore, local unitary transformations define an equivalence relation and the equivalence classes are the universality classes that define the different phases for gapped quantum systems. Since local unitary transformations can remove local entanglement, the above equivalence/universality classes correspond to pattern of long range entanglement, which is the essence of topological order. The local unitary transformation also allows us to define a wave function renormalization scheme, under which a wave function can flow to a simpler one within the same equivalence/universality class. Using such a setup, we find conditions on the possible fixed-point wave functions where the local unitary transformations have \emph{finite} dimensions. The solutions of the conditions allow us to classify this type of topological orders, which generalize the string-net classification of topological orders. We also describe an algorithm of wave function renormalization induced by local unitary transformations. The algorithm allows us to calculate the flow of tensor-product wave functions which are not at the fixed points. This will allow us to calculate topological orders as well as symmetry breaking orders in a generic tensor-product state.

id: 1004.3864
title: Ultimate on-chip quantum amplifier
authors: O. Astafiev, A. A. Abdumalikov Jr., A. M. Zagoskin, Yu. A. Pashkin, Y. Nakamura, J. S. Tsai
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures + supplemenntary materials accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett.
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3864
abstract: We report amplification of electromagnetic waves by a single artificial atom in open 1D space. Our three-level artificial atom -- a superconducting quantum circuit -- coupled to a transmission line presents an analog of a natural atom in open space. The system is the most fundamental quantum amplifier whose gain is limited by a spontaneous emission mechanism. The noise performance is determined by the quantum noise revealed in the spectrum of spontaneous emission, also characterized in our experiments.

id: 1004.3892
title: Relativistic Double Barrier Problem with Three Sub-Barrier Transmission Resonance Regions
authors: A. D. Alhaidari, H. Bahlouli, A. Jellal
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, one table (animations could be obtained from first author)
journal: Advances in Mathematical Physics, vol. 2012, Article ID 762908, 13 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3892
abstract: We obtain exact scattering solutions of the Dirac equation in 1+1 dimensions for a double square barrier vector potential. The potential floor between the two barriers is higher than 2mc^2 whereas the top of the barriers is at least 2mc^2 above the floor. The relativistic version of the conventional double barrier transmission resonance is obtained for energies within + or - mc^2 from the height of the barriers. However, we also find two more (sub-barrier) transmission resonance regions below the conventional one. Both are located within the two Klein energy zones and characterized by resonances that are broader than the conventional ones.

id: 1004.3893
title: Control of the Bose-Einstein condensate by dissipation. Nonlinear Zeno effect
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich, V. V. Konotop
comments: To appear in PRA, 5 pages, 4 figures (one in color) [Typos are corrected]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3893
abstract: We show that controlled dissipation can be used as a tool for exploring fundamental phenomena and managing mesoscopic systems of cold atoms and Bose-Einstein condensates. Even the simplest boson-Josephson junction, that is, a Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well trap, subjected to removal of atoms from one of the two potential minima allows one to observe such phenomena as the suppression of losses and the nonlinear Zeno effect. In such a system the controlled dissipation can be used to create desired macroscopic states and implement controlled switching among different quantum regimes.

id: 1004.3894
title: Directed transport and localization in phase-modulated driven lattices
authors: Christoph Petri, Florian Lenz, Fotis K. Diakonos, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3894
abstract: We explore the dynamics of non-interacting particles loaded into a phase-modulated one-dimensional lattice formed by laterally oscillating square barriers. Tuning the parameters of the driven unit cell of the lattice selected parts of the classical phase space can be manipulated in a controllable manner. We find superdiffusion in position space for all parameters regimes. A directed current of an ensemble of particles can be created through locally breaking the spatiotemporal symmetries of the time-driven potential. Magnitude and direction of the current are tunable. Several mechanisms for transient localization and trapping of particles in different wells of the driven unit cell are presented and analyzed.

id: 1004.3898
title: J-matrix method of scattering in one dimension: The nonrelativistic theory
authors: A. D. Alhaidari, H. Bahlouli, M. S. Abdelmonem
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures (3 in color)
journal: Ann. Phys. 324, 2561 (2009)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3898
abstract: We formulate a theory of nonrelativistic scattering in one dimension based on the J-matrix method. The scattering potential is assumed to have a finite range such that it is well represented by its matrix elements in a finite subset of a basis that supports a tridiagonal matrix representation for the reference wave operator. Contrary to our expectation, the 1D formulation reveals a rich and highly non-trivial structure compared to the 3D formulation. Examples are given to demonstrate the utility and accuracy of the method. It is hoped that this formulation constitutes a viable alternative to the classical treatment of 1D scattering problem and that it will help unveil new and interesting applications.

id: 1004.3905
title: Extending the class of solvable potentials: II. Screened Coulomb potential with a barrier
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 22 pages, 5 tables, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 81 (2010) 025013
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3905
abstract: This is the second article in a series where we succeed in enlarging the class of solvable problems in one and three dimensions. We do that by working in a complete square integrable basis that carries a tridiagonal matrix representation of the wave operator. Consequently, the wave equation becomes equivalent to a three-term recursion relation for the expansion coefficients of the wavefunction in the basis. Finding solutions of the recursion relation is equivalent to solving the original problem. This method gives a larger class of solvable potentials. The usual diagonal representation constraint results in a reduction to the conventional class of solvable potentials. However, the tridiagonal requirement allows only very few and special potentials to be added to the solvability class. In the present work, we obtain S-wave solutions for a three-parameter 1/r singular but short-range potential with a non-orbital barrier and study its energy spectrum. We argue that it could be used as a more appropriate model for the screened Coulomb interaction of an electron with extended molecules. We give also its resonance structure for non-zero angular momentum. Additionally, we plot the phase shift for an electron scattering off a molecule modeled by a set of values of the potential parameters.

id: 1004.3906
title: Extending the class of solvable potentials: III. The hyperbolic single wave
authors: H. Bahlouli, A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 12 pages, 1 table, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 81 (2010) 025008
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3906
abstract: A new solvable hyperbolic single wave potential is found by expanding the regular solution of the 1D Schr\"odinger equation in terms of square integrable basis. The main characteristic of the basis is in supporting an infinite tridiagonal matrix representation of the wave operator. However, the eigen-energies associated with this potential cannot be obtained using traditional procedures. Hence, a new approach (the "potential parameter" approach) has been adopted for this eigenvalue problem. For a fixed energy, the problem is solvable for a set of values of the potential parameters (the "parameter spectrum"). Subsequently, the map that associates the parameter spectrum with the energy is inverted to give the energy spectrum. The bound states wavefunction is written as a convergent series involving products of the ultra-spherical Gegenbauer polynomial in space and a new polynomial in energy, which is a special case of the "dipole polynomial" of the second kind.

id: 1004.3969
title: EIT-based Vector Magnetometry in Linear Polarized Light
authors: V. I. Yudin, A. V. Taichenachev, Y. I. Dudin, V. L. Velichansky, A. S. Zibrov, S. A. Zibrov
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3969
abstract: We develop a generalized principle of EIT vector magnetometry based on high-contrast EIT-resonances and the symmetry of atom-light interaction in the linearly polarized bichromatic fields. Operation of such vector magnetometer on the D1 line of 87Rb has been demonstrated. The proposed compass-magnetometer has an increased immunity to shifts produced by quadratic Zeeman and ac-Stark effects, as well as by atom-buffer gas and atom-atom collisions. In our proof-of-principle experiment the detected sensitivity to magnetic field orientation is 10^{-3} deg/Hz^{1/2}, which is limited by laser intensity fluctuations, light polarization quality, and the magnitude of the magnetic field.

id: 1004.4152
title: Multiband Hamiltonians of the Luttinger-Kohn Theory and Ellipticity Requirements
authors: Dmytro Sytnyk, Sunil Patil, Roderick Melnik
comments: 1 figure in PDF-3D format
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4152
abstract: Modern applications require a robust and theoretically strong tool for the realistic modeling of electronic states in low dimensional nanostructures. The $k \cdot p$ theory has fruitfully served this role for the long time since its creation. During last two decades several problems have been detected in connection with the application of the $k \cdot p$ approach to such nanostructures. These problems are closely related to the violation of the ellipticity conditions for the underlying system, the fact that until recently has been largely overlooked. We demonstrate that in many cases the models derived by a formal application of the Luttinger-Kohn theory fail to satisfy the ellipticity requirements. The detailed analysis, presented here on an example of the $6 \times 6$ Hamiltonians, shows that this failure has a strong impact on the physically important properties conventionally studied with these models.

id: 1004.4246
title: Generation of Three-Qubit Entangled States using Superconducting Phase Qubits
authors: M. Neeley, R. C. Bialczak, M. Lenander, E. Lucero, M. Mariantoni, A. D. O'Connell, D. Sank, H. Wang, M. Weides, J. Wenner, Y. Yin, T. Yamamoto, A. N. Cleland, J. M. Martinis
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. Version 2: added supplementary information and fixed image distortion in Figure 2.
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4246
abstract: Entanglement is one of the key resources required for quantum computation, so experimentally creating and measuring entangled states is of crucial importance in the various physical implementations of a quantum computer. In superconducting qubits, two-qubit entangled states have been demonstrated and used to show violations of Bell's Inequality and to implement simple quantum algorithms. Unlike the two-qubit case, however, where all maximally-entangled two-qubit states are equivalent up to local changes of basis, three qubits can be entangled in two fundamentally different ways, typified by the states $|\mathrm{GHZ}> = (|000> + |111>)/\sqrt{2}$ and $|\mathrm{W}> = (|001> + |010> + |100>)/\sqrt{3}$. Here we demonstrate the operation of three coupled superconducting phase qubits and use them to create and measure $|\mathrm{GHZ}>$ and $|\mathrm{W}>$ states. The states are fully characterized using quantum state tomography and are shown to satisfy entanglement witnesses, confirming that they are indeed examples of three-qubit entanglement and are not separable into mixtures of two-qubit entanglement.

id: 1004.4316
title: Quantum form of Nonlinear Maxwell Equation
authors: Y. Chen, F.L. Zhang, J.L. Chen
comments: 5 pages,no figures, conference or other essential info
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4316
abstract: We generalize Maxwell equations which describe the vacuum of quantum electrodynamics into the quantum form. This nontraditional approach is different from the widely used theory|-Quantum Electrodynamics. From another viewpoint, it could be a direction for interpreting quantum theories properly.

id: 1004.4323
title: High-Fidelity Readout in Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics Using the Jaynes-Cummings Nonlinearity
authors: M. D. Reed, L. DiCarlo, B. R. Johnson, L. Sun, D. I. Schuster, L. Frunzio, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 173601 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4323
abstract: We demonstrate a qubit readout scheme that exploits the Jaynes-Cummings nonlinearity of a superconducting cavity coupled to transmon qubits. We find that in the strongly-driven dispersive regime of this system, there is the unexpected onset of a high-transmission "bright" state at a critical power which depends sensitively on the initial qubit state. A simple and robust measurement protocol exploiting this effect achieves a single-shot fidelity of 87% using a conventional sample design and experimental setup, and at least 61% fidelity to joint correlations of three qubits.

id: 1004.4324
title: Preparation and Measurement of Three-Qubit Entanglement in a Superconducting Circuit
authors: L. DiCarlo, M. D. Reed, L. Sun, B. R. Johnson, J. M. Chow, J. M. Gambetta, L. Frunzio, S. M. Girvin, M. H. Devoret, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, and Supplementary Information (4 figures).
journal: Nature 467, 574-578 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4324
abstract: Traditionally, quantum entanglement has played a central role in foundational discussions of quantum mechanics. The measurement of correlations between entangled particles can exhibit results at odds with classical behavior. These discrepancies increase exponentially with the number of entangled particles. When entanglement is extended from just two quantum bits (qubits) to three, the incompatibilities between classical and quantum correlation properties can change from a violation of inequalities involving statistical averages to sign differences in deterministic observations. With the ample confirmation of quantum mechanical predictions by experiments, entanglement has evolved from a philosophical conundrum to a key resource for quantum-based technologies, like quantum cryptography and computation. In particular, maximal entanglement of more than two qubits is crucial to the implementation of quantum error correction protocols. While entanglement of up to 3, 5, and 8 qubits has been demonstrated among spins, photons, and ions, respectively, entanglement in engineered solid-state systems has been limited to two qubits. Here, we demonstrate three-qubit entanglement in a superconducting circuit, creating Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states with fidelity of 88%, measured with quantum state tomography. Several entanglement witnesses show violation of bi-separable bounds by 830\pm80%. Our entangling sequence realizes the first step of basic quantum error correction, namely the encoding of a logical qubit into a manifold of GHZ-like states using a repetition code. The integration of encoding, decoding and error-correcting steps in a feedback loop will be the next milestone for quantum computing with integrated circuits.

id: 1004.4385
title: Protocol for high fidelity readout in the photon blockade regime of circuit QED
authors: E. Ginossar, Lev S. Bishop, D. I. Schuster, S. M. Girvin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures.
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022335 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4385
abstract: The driven-damped Jaynes-Cummings model in the regime of strong coupling is found to exhibit a coexistence between the quantum photon blockaded state and a quasi-coherent bright state. We characterize the slow time scales and the basin of attraction of these metastable states using full quantum simulations. This form of bistability can be useful for implementing a qubit readout scheme that does not require additional circuit elements. We propose a coherent control sequence that makes use of a simple linear chirp of drive amplitude and frequency as well as qubit frequency. By optimizing the parameters of the system and the control pulse we demonstrate theoretically very high readout fidelities (>98%) and high contrast, with experimentally realistic parameters for qubits implemented in the circuit QED architecture.

id: 1004.4429
title: Theory of Extrinsic and Intrinsic Tunnelling in Cuprate Superconductors
authors: J. Beanland, A. S. Alexandrov
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures, misprints corrected
journal: J. Phys. Condens. Matter: 22 (2010) 403202
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4429
abstract: A theory capable of explaining intrinsic and extrinsic tunnelling conductance in underdoped cuprates has been devised that accounts for the existence of two energy scales, their temperature and doping dependencies. The asymmetry and inhomogeneity seen in extrinsic (normal metal - superconductor (NS)) tunnelling and the normal-state gapped intrinsic (SS) conductance is explained, as well as the superconducting gap and normal state pseudogap and the temperature dependence of the full gap.

id: 1004.4470
title: Frustrated collisions and unconventional pairing on a quantum superlattice
authors: Manuel Valiente, Matthias Kuster, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: EPL 92, 10001 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4470
abstract: We solve the problem of scattering and binding of two spin-1/2 fermions on a one-dimensional superlattice with a period of twice the lattice spacing analytically. We find the exact bound states and the scattering states, consisting of a generalized Bethe ansatz augmented with an extra scattering product due to "asymptotic" degeneracy. If a Bloch band is doubly occupied, the extra wave can be a bound state in the continuum corresponding to a single-particle interband transition. In all other cases, it corresponds to a quasi-momentum changing, frustrated collision.

id: 1004.4497
title: Quantum Phase Transitions in Bosonic Heteronuclear Pairing Hamiltonians
authors: M. Hohenadler, A. O. Silver, M. J. Bhaseen, B. D. Simons
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013639 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4497
abstract: We explore the phase diagram of two-component bosons with Feshbach resonant pairing interactions in an optical lattice. It has been shown in previous work to exhibit a rich variety of phases and phase transitions, including a paradigmatic Ising quantum phase transition within the second Mott lobe. We discuss the evolution of the phase diagram with system parameters and relate this to the predictions of Landau theory. We extend our exact diagonalization studies of the one-dimensional bosonic Hamiltonian and confirm additional Ising critical exponents for the longitudinal and transverse magnetic susceptibilities within the second Mott lobe. The numerical results for the ground state energy and transverse magnetization are in good agreement with exact solutions of the Ising model in the thermodynamic limit. We also provide details of the low-energy spectrum, as well as density fluctuations and superfluid fractions in the grand canonical ensemble.

id: 1004.4508
title: N=2 supersymmetric extension of the Tremblay-Turbiner-Winternitz Hamiltonians on a plane
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 18 pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A 43 (2010) 305202, 12 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4508
abstract: The family of Tremblay-Turbiner-Winternitz Hamiltonians $H_k$ on a plane, corresponding to any positive real value of $k$, is shown to admit a ${\cal N} = 2$ supersymmetric extension of the same kind as that introduced by Freedman and Mende for the Calogero problem and based on an ${\rm osp}(2/2, \R) \sim {\rm su}(1,1/1)$ superalgebra. The irreducible representations of the latter are characterized by the quantum number specifying the eigenvalues of the first integral of motion $X_k$ of $H_k$. Bases for them are explicitly constructed. The ground state of each supersymmetrized Hamiltonian is shown to belong to an atypical lowest-weight state irreducible representation.

id: 1004.4519
title: Quantum conditional entropy for infinite-dimensional systems
authors: A. A. Kuznetsova
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4519
abstract: In this paper a general definition of quantum conditional entropy for infinite-dimensional systems is given based on recent work of Holevo and Shirokov arXiv:1004.2495 devoted to quantum mutual and coherent informations in the infinite-dimensional case. The properties of the conditional entropy such as monotonicity, concavity and subadditivity are also generalized to the infinite-dimensional case.

id: 1004.4579
title: Generalized MICZ-Kepler system, duality, polynomial and deformed oscillator algebras
authors: Ian Marquette
comments: 15 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys.51:102105,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4579
abstract: We present the quadratic algebra of the generalized MICZ-Kepler system in three-dimensional Euclidean space $E_{3}$ and its dual the four dimensional singular oscillator in four-dimensional Euclidean space $E_{4}$. We present their realization in terms of a deformed oscillator algebra using the Daskaloyannis construction. The structure constants are in these cases function not only of the Hamiltonian but also of other integrals commuting with all generators of the quadratic algebra. We also present a new algebraic derivation of the energy spectrum of the MICZ-Kepler system on the three sphere $S^{3}$ using a quadratic algebra. These results point out also that results and explicit formula for structure functions obtained for quadratic, cubic and higher order polynomial algebras in context of two-dimensional superintegrable systems may be applied to superintegrable systems in higher dimensions with and without monopoles.

id: 1004.4657
title: Tunable Quantum Beam Splitters for Coherent Manipulation of a Solid-State Tripartite Qubit System
authors: Guozhu Sun, Xueda Wen, Bo Mao, Jian Chen, Yang Yu, Peiheng Wu, Siyuan Han
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures
journal: NATURE COMMUNICATIONS 1:51,2010
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4657
abstract: Coherent control of quantum states is at the heart of implementing solid-state quantum processors and testing quantum mechanics at the macroscopic level. Despite significant progress made in recent years in controlling single- and bi-partite quantum systems, coherent control of quantum wave function in multipartite systems involving artificial solid-state qubits has been hampered due to the relatively short decoherence time and lacking of precise control methods. Here we report the creation and coherent manipulation of quantum states in a tripartite quantum system, which is formed by a superconducting qubit coupled to two microscopic two-level systems (TLSs). The avoided crossings in the system's energy-level spectrum due to the qubit-TLS interaction act as tunable quantum beam splitters of wave functions. Our result shows that the Landau-Zener-St\"{u}ckelberg interference has great potential in the precise control of the quantum states in the tripartite system.

id: 1004.4664
title: Quantum Dynamics of a Microwave Driven Superconducting Phase Qubit Coupled to a Two-Level System
authors: Guozhu Sun, Xueda Wen, Bo Mao, Zhongyuan Zhou, Yang Yu, Peiheng Wu, Siyuan Han
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review B 82, 132501 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4664
abstract: We present an analytical and comprehensive description of the quantum dynamics of a microwave resonantly driven superconducting phase qubit coupled to a microscopic two-level system (TLS), covering a wide range of the external microwave field strength. Our model predicts several interesting phenomena in such an ac driven four-level bipartite system including anomalous Rabi oscillations, high-contrast beatings of Rabi oscillations, and extraordinary two-photon transitions. Our experimental results in a coupled qubit-TLS system agree quantitatively very well with the predictions of the theoretical model.

id: 1004.4711
title: Exceptional Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials and the corresponding potentials through Darboux-Crum Transformations
authors: Ryu Sasaki, Satoshi Tsujimoto, Alexei Zhedanov
comments: LaTeX2e with amsmath, amssymb, amscd 26 pages, no figure,
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4711
abstract: Simple derivation is presented of the four families of infinitely many shape invariant Hamiltonians corresponding to the exceptional Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials. Darboux-Crum transformations are applied to connect the well-known shape invariant Hamiltonians of the radial oscillator and the Darboux-P\"oschl-Teller potential to the shape invariant potentials of Odake-Sasaki. Dutta and Roy derived the two lowest members of the exceptional Laguerre polynomials by this method. The method is expanded to its full generality and many other ramifications, including the aspects of generalised Bochner problem and the bispectral property of the exceptional orthogonal polynomials, are discussed.

id: 1004.4712
title: Exactly and quasi-exactly solvable `discrete' quantum mechanics
authors: Ryu Sasaki
comments: LaTeX2e with rspublic.cls, amsmath,amssymb, bm, 15 pages. Contribution to the Theme issue of the Philosophical Transactions A, entitled "Nonlinear phenomena, Optical and Quantum solitons," dedicated to the figure of Robin Bullough.
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4712
abstract: Brief introduction to the discrete quantum mechanics is given together with the main results on various exactly solvable systems. Namely, the intertwining relations, shape invariance, Heisenberg operator solutions, annihilation/creation operators, dynamical symmetry algebras including the $q$-oscillator algebra and the Askey-Wilson algebra. A simple recipe to construct exactly and quasi-exactly solvable Hamiltonians in one-dimensional `discrete' quantum mechanics is presented. It reproduces all the known ones whose eigenfunctions consist of the Askey scheme of hypergeometric orthogonal polynomials of a continuous or a discrete variable. Several new exactly and quasi-exactly solvable ones are constructed. The sinusoidal coordinate plays an essential role.

id: 1004.4911
title: On the efficiency of Hamiltonian-based quantum computation for low-rank matrices
authors: Zhenwei Cao, Alexander Elgart
comments: 17 pages, no figures, to appear in JMP
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 032201 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4911
abstract: We present an extension of Adiabatic Quantum Computing (AQC) algorithm for the unstructured search to the case when the number of marked items is unknown. The algorithm maintains the optimal Grover speedup and includes a small counting subroutine. Our other results include a lower bound on the amount of time needed to perform a general Hamiltonian-based quantum search, a lower bound on the evolution time needed to perform a search that is valid in the presence of control error and a generic upper bound on the minimum eigenvalue gap for evolutions. In particular, we demonstrate that quantum speedup for the unstructured search using AQC type algorithms may only be achieved under very rigid control precision requirements.

id: 1004.4935
title: A Heuristic Derivation Of The Schr?dinger Equation and the Momentum Operator
authors: Ricardo Cordero-Soto
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. This paper has been removed due to a crucial lack of heuristic motivation for students
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4935
abstract: Students in a quantum mechanics course are often introduced to the Schr\"odinger equation as the standard mathematical tool. However, rarely do students develop an understanding as to why the equation is the choice for modeling quantum phenomena or where it came from. While many books do have a heuristic derivation, they sometimes differ in their approach and often fail to give a satisfying explanation to the so-called canonical substitution of momentum. In this paper, we use de Broglie's hypothesis along with experimental results and theories to provide a heuristic derivation of the Schr\"odinger equation and of the the momentum operator.

id: 1004.4967
title: Finite Projective Spaces, Geometric Spreads of Lines and Multi-Qubits
authors: Metod Saniga
comments: 3 pages, no figures/tables; V2 - short introductory paragraph added; V3 - to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. B
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, 26 (2012) 1243013
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4967
abstract: Given a (2N - 1)-dimensional projective space over GF(2), PG(2N - 1, 2), and its geometric spread of lines, there exists a remarkable mapping of this space onto PG(N - 1, 4) where the lines of the spread correspond to the points and subspaces spanned by pairs of lines to the lines of PG(N - 1, 4). Under such mapping, a non-degenerate quadric surface of the former space has for its image a non-singular Hermitian variety in the latter space, this quadric being {\it hyperbolic} or {\it elliptic} in dependence on N being {\it even} or {\it odd}, respectively. We employ this property to show that generalized Pauli groups of N-qubits also form two distinct families according to the parity of N and to put the role of symmetric operators into a new perspective. The N=4 case is taken to illustrate the issue.

id: 1004.4978
title: Dynamics of atoms in a time-orbiting-potential trap: consequences of the classical description
authors: Bruno Zambon, Roberto Franzosi
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures, regular article
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43, 085302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4978
abstract: The classical model that describes the motion of an atom in a magnetic trap is solved in order to investigate the relationship between the failure of the usual adiabatic approximation assumption and the physical parameters of the trap. This allows to evaluate the effect that reversing of the bias field rotation produces on the vertical position of the atomic orbit, a displacement that is closely related to the adiabatic character of the trap motion. The present investigation has been motivated by a similar experimental test previously carried out in the actual magnetic time orbiting potential trap. We find that the non-adiabatic effects provided by the classical model are extremely small. Thus, we conclude that the theoretical explanation of the experimental measures, requires a quantum description of the dynamics in magnetic traps.

id: 1004.5054
title: The scaling of the density of states in systems with resonance states
authors: Federico M. Pont, Omar Osenda, Pablo Serra
comments: Presented in the Workshop on Quantum Nonstationary Systems (Brasilia- 2009)
journal: Phys. Scr. 82 (2010) 038104
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5054
abstract: Resonance states of a two-electron quantum dot are studied using a variational expansion with both real basis-set functions and complex scaling methods. We present numerical evidence about the critical behavior of the density of states in the region where there are resonances. The critical behavior is signaled by a strong dependence of some features of the density of states with the basis-set size used to calculate it. The resonance energy and lifetime are obtained using the scaling properties of the density of states

id: 1004.5066
title: High-speed phonon imaging using frequency-multiplexed kinetic inductance detectors
authors: L. J. Swenson, A. Cruciani, A. Benoit, M. Roesch, C. S. Yung, A. Bideaud, A. Monfardini
comments: Accepted for publication in Applied Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5066
abstract: We present a measurement of phonon propagation in a silicon wafer utilizing an array of frequency-multiplexed superconducting resonators coupled to a single transmission line. The electronic readout permits fully synchronous array sampling with a per-resonator bandwidth of 1.2 MHz, allowing sub-$\mu$s array imaging. This technological achievement is potentially vital in a variety of low-temperature applications, including single-photon counting, quantum-computing and dark-matter searches.

id: 1004.5096
title: Observation of cooperative Mie scattering from an ultracold atomic cloud
authors: H. Bender, C. Stehle, S. Slama, R. Kaiser, N. Piovella, C. Zimmermann, Ph.W. Courteille
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5096
abstract: Scattering of light at a distribution of scatterers is an intrinsically cooperative process, which means that the scattering rate and the angular distribution of the scattered light are essentially governed by bulk properties of the distribution, such as its size, shape, and density, although local disorder and density fluctuations may have an important impact on the cooperativity. Via measurements of the radiation pressure exerted by a far-detuned laser beam on a very small and dense cloud of ultracold atoms, we are able to identify the respective roles of superradiant acceleration of the scattering rate and of Mie scattering in the cooperative process. They lead respectively to a suppression or an enhancement of the radiation pressure. We observe a maximum in the radiation pressure as a function of the induced phase shift, marking the borderline of the validity of the Rayleigh-Debye-Gans approximation from a regime, where Mie scattering is more complex. Our observations thus help to clarify the intricate relationship between Rayleigh scattering of light at a coarse-grained ensemble of individual scatterers and Mie scattering at the bulk density distribution.

id: 1004.5101
title: Wilson Fermions and Axion Electrodynamics in Optical Lattices
authors: A. Bermudez, L. Mazza, M. Rizzi, N. Goldman, M. Lewenstein, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: RevTex4 file, color figures, slightly longer than the published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:190404,2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5101
abstract: The formulation of massless relativistic fermions in lattice gauge theories is hampered by the fundamental problem of species doubling, namely, the rise of spurious fermions modifying the underlying physics. A suitable tailoring of the fermion masses prevents such abundance of species, and leads to the so-called Wilson fermions. Here we show that ultracold atoms provide us with the first controllable realization of these paradigmatic fermions, thus generating a quantum simulator of fermionic lattice gauge theories. We describe a novel scheme that exploits laser-assisted tunneling in a cubic optical superlattice to design the Wilson fermion masses. The high versatility of this proposal allows us to explore a variety of interesting phases in three-dimensional topological insulators, and to test the remarkable predictions of axion electrodynamics.

id: 1004.5129
title: Bose-Fermi solid and its quantum melting in an one-dimensional optical lattice
authors: Bin Wang, Daw-Wei Wang, S. Das Sarma
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 82, 021602(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5129
abstract: We investigate the quantum phase diagram of Bose-Fermi mixtures of ultracold dipolar particles trapped in one-dimensional optical lattices in the thermodynamic limit. With the presence of nearest-neighbor (N.N.) interactions, a long-ranged ordered crystalline phase (Bose-Fermi solid) is found stabilized between a Mott insulator of bosons and a band-insulator of fermions in the limit of weak inter-site tunneling ($J$). When $J$ is increased, such a Bose-Fermi solid can be quantum melted into a Bose-Fermi liquid through either a two-stage or a three-stage transition, depending on whether the crystalline order is dominated by the N.N. interaction between fermions or bosons. These properties can be understood as quantum competition between a pseudo-spin frustration and a pseudo-spin-charge separation, qualitatively different from the classical picture of solid-liquid phase transition.

id: 1004.5202
title: Ion dynamics in a linear radio-frequency trap with a single cooling laser
authors: Mathieu Marciante, Caroline Champenois, Annette Calisti, Jofre Pedregosa-Gutierrez, Martina Knoop
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 82 (2010) 033406
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5202
abstract: We analyse the possibility of cooling ions with a single laser beam, due to the coupling between the three components of their motion induced by the Coulomb interaction. For this purpose, we numerically study the dynamics of ion clouds of up to 140 particles, trapped in a linear quadrupole potential and cooled with a laser beam propagating in the radial plane. We use Molecular Dynamics simulations and model the laser cooling by a stochastic process. For each component of the motion, we systematically study the dependence of the temperature with the anisotropy of the trapping potential. Results obtained using the full radio-frequency (rf) potential are compared to those of the corresponding pseudo-potential. In the rf case, the rotation symmetry of the potential has to be broken to keep ions inside the trap. Then, as for the pseudo-potential case, we show that the efficiency of the Coulomb coupling to thermalize the components of motion depends on the geometrical configuration of the cloud. Coulomb coupling appears to be not efficient when the ions organise as a line or a pancake and the three components of motion reach the same temperature only if the cloud extends in three dimensions.

id: 1004.5298
title: Counting statistics for mesoscopic conductors with internal degrees of freedom
authors: Christopher Birchall, Henning Schomerus
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 026801 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5298
abstract: We consider the transport of electrons passing through a mesoscopic device possessing internal dynamical quantum degrees of freedom. The mutual interaction between the system and the conduction electrons contributes to the current fluctuations, which we describe in terms of full counting statistics. We identify conditions where this discriminates coherent from incoherent internal dynamics, and also identify and illustrate conditions under which the device acts to dynamically bunch transmitted or reflected electrons, thereby generating super-Poissonian noise.

id: 1004.5303
title: Complete-Graph Tensor Network States: A New Fermionic Wave Function Ansatz for Molecules
authors: Konrad H Marti, Bela Bauer, Markus Reiher, Matthias Troyer, Frank Verstraete
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 103008
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5303
abstract: We present a new class of tensor network states that are specifically designed to capture the electron correlation of a molecule of arbitrary structure. In this ansatz, the electronic wave function is represented by a Complete-Graph Tensor Network (CGTN) ansatz which implements an efficient reduction of the number of variational parameters by breaking down the complexity of the high-dimensional coefficient tensor of a full-configuration-interaction (FCI) wave function. We demonstrate that CGTN states approximate ground states of molecules accurately by comparison of the CGTN and FCI expansion coefficients. The CGTN parametrization is not biased towards any reference configuration in contrast to many standard quantum chemical methods. This feature allows one to obtain accurate relative energies between CGTN states which is central to molecular physics and chemistry. We discuss the implications for quantum chemistry and focus on the spin-state problem. Our CGTN approach is applied to the energy splitting of states of different spin for methylene and the strongly correlated ozone molecule at a transition state structure. The parameters of the tensor network ansatz are variationally optimized by means of a parallel-tempering Monte Carlo algorithm.

id: 1004.5327
title: On amending the Maskin's sufficiency theorem by using complex numbers
authors: Haoyang Wu
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5327
abstract: The Maskin's theorem is a fundamental work in the theory of mechanism design. In this paper, we will propose a self-enforcing agreement by which agents can fight a bad social choice rule which satisfies monotonicity and no-veto if an additional condition is satisfied. The agreement is based on complex numbers and is justified if the designer receives messages from the agents through some communication channels (e.g., Internet). Under the assumption of complete information among agents, the designer cannot prevent the agents from signing such agreement. Thereby, the Maskin's sufficiency theorem is amended.

id: 1004.5398
title: Limitations on the attainable intensity of high power lasers
authors: A.M. Fedotov, N.B. Narozhny, G. Mourou, G. Korn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:080402,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5398
abstract: It is shown that even a single $e^-e^+$ pair created by a super strong laser field in vacuum would cause development of an avalanche-like QED cascade which rapidly depletes the incoming laser pulse. This confirms the old N. Bohr conjecture that the electric field of the critical QED strength $E_S=m^2c^3/e\hbar$ could never be created.

id: 1004.5420
title: Universal rates for reactive ultracold polar molecules in reduced dimensions
authors: Andrea Micheli, Zbigniew Idziaszek, Guido Pupillo, Mikhail A. Baranov, Peter Zoller, Paul S. Julienne
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 073202 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5420
abstract: Analytic expressions describe universal elastic and reactive rates of quasi-two-dimensional and quasi-one-dimensional collisions of highly reactive ultracold molecules interacting by a van der Waals potential. Exact and approximate calculations for the example species of KRb show that stability and evaporative cooling can be realized for spin-polarized fermions at moderate dipole and trapping strength, whereas bosons or unlike fermions require significantly higher dipole or trapping strengths.

id: 1004.5425
title: Quantum Fourier transform, Heisenberg groups and quasiprobability distributions
authors: Manas K. Patra, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: 39 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 063013
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5425
abstract: This paper aims to explore the inherent connection among Heisenberg groups, quantum Fourier transform and (quasiprobability) distribution functions. Distribution functions for continuous and finite quantum systems are examined first as a semiclassical approach to quantum probability distribution. This leads to studying certain functionals of a pair of "conjugate" observables, connected via the quantum Fourier transform. The Heisenberg groups emerge naturally from this study and we take a rapid look at their representations. The quantum Fourier transform appears as the intertwining operator of two equivalent representation arising out of an automorphism of the group. Distribution functions correspond to certain distinguished sets in the group algebra. The marginal properties of a particular class of distribution functions (Wigner distributions) arise from a class of automorphisms of the group algebra of the Heisenberg group. We then study the reconstruction of Wigner function from the marginal distributions via inverse Radon transform giving explicit formulas. We consider applications of our approach to quantum information processing and quantum process tomography.

id: 1004.5426
title: Imaging mesoscopic nuclear spin noise with a diamond magnetometer
authors: C. A. Meriles, L. Jiang, G. Goldstein, J. S. Hodges, J. R. Maze, M. D. Lukin, P. Cappellaro
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 133, 124105 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5426
abstract: Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) can characterize and discriminate among tissues using their diverse physical and biochemical properties. Unfortunately, submicrometer screening of biological specimens is presently not possible, mainly due to lack of detection sensitivity. Here we analyze the use of a nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond as a magnetic sensor for nanoscale nuclear spin imaging and spectroscopy. We examine the ability of such a sensor to probe the fluctuations of the "classical" dipolar field due to a large number of neighboring nuclear spins in a densely protonated sample. We identify detection protocols that appropriately take into account the quantum character of the sensor and find a signal-to-noise ratio compatible with realistic experimental parameters. Through various example calculations we illustrate different kinds of image contrast. In particular, we show how to exploit the comparatively long nuclear spin correlation times to reconstruct a local, high-resolution sample spectrum.

id: 1004.5532
title: Self-consistent electron counting statistics
authors: Clive Emary
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 23 025304 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5532
abstract: We develop a self-consistent version of perturbation theory in Liouville space which seeks to combine the advantages of master equation approaches in quantum transport with the nonperturbative features that a self-consistent treatment brings. We describe how counting fields may be included in a self-consistent manner in this formalism such that the full counting statistics can be calculated. NonMarkovian effects are also incorporated. Several different self-consistent approximations are introduced and we discuss their relative strengths with a simple example.

id: 1004.5533
title: Topological quantum computation away from the ground state with Majorana fermions
authors: A. R. Akhmerov
comments: 3 pages, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.B82:020509,2010
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5533
abstract: We relax one of the requirements for topological quantum computation with Majorana fermions. Topological quantum computation was discussed so far as manipulation of the wave function within degenerate many body ground state. The simplest particles providing degenerate ground state, Majorana fermions, often coexist with extremely low energy excitations, so keeping the system in the ground state may be hard. We show that the topological protection extends to the excited states, as long as the Majorana fermions do not interact neither directly, nor via the excited states. This protection relies on the fermion parity conservation, and so it is generic to any implementation of Majorana fermions.

id: 1004.5599
title: Quantum nature of the critical points of substances
authors: S.A. Trigger
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5599
abstract: Thermodynamics of chemical elements, based on the two-component electron-nuclear plasma model shows that the critical parameters for the liquid-vapor transition are the quantum values for which the classical limit is absent.

id: 1004.5489
title: The origin of the hidden supersymmetry
authors: Vit Jakubsky, Luis-Miguel Nieto, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure. Typos corrected. Published version
journal: Phys.Lett.B692:51-56,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5489
abstract: The hidden supersymmetry and related tri-supersymmetric structure of the free particle system, the Dirac delta potential problem and the Aharonov-Bohm effect (planar, bound state, and tubule models) are explained by a special nonlocal unitary transformation, which for the usual N=2 supercharges has a nature of Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation. We show that in general case, the bosonized supersymmetry of nonlocal, parity even systems emerges in the same construction, and explain the origin of the unusual N=2 supersymmetry of electron in three-dimensional parity even magnetic field. The observation extends to include the hidden superconformal symmetry.

id: 1004.2408
title: Preparation of stable excited states in an optical lattice via sudden quantum quench
authors: Li Wang, Yajiang Hao, Shu Chen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 063637 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2408
abstract: We study how stable excited many-body states of the Bose-Hubbard model, including both the gas-like state for strongly attractive bosons and bound cluster state for repulsive bosons, can be produced with cold bosonic atoms in an one-dimensional optical lattice. Starting from the initial ground states of strongly interacting bosonic systems, we can achieve stable excited states of the systems with opposite interaction strength by suddenly switching the interaction to the opposite limit. By exactly solving dynamics of the Bose-Hubbard model, we demonstrate that the produced excited state can be a very stable dynamic state. This allows the experimental study of excited state properties of ultracold atoms system in optical lattices.

id: 1004.1519
title: Thermoelectric transport through strongly correlated quantum dots
authors: T.A. Costi, V. Zlatic
comments: 21 pages, 12 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 235127 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1519
abstract: The thermoelectric properties of strongly correlated quantum dots, described by a single level Anderson model coupled to conduction electron leads, is investigated using Wilson's numerical renormalization group method. We calculate the electronic contribution, $K_{\rm e}$, to the thermal conductance, the thermopower, $S$, and the electrical conductance, $G$, of a quantum dot as a function of both temperature, $T$, and gate voltage, ${\rm v}_g$, for strong, intermediate and weak Coulomb correlations, $U$, on the dot. For strong correlations and in the Kondo regime, we find that the thermopower exhibits two sign changes, at temperatures $T_{1}({\rm v}_g)$ and $T_{2}({\rm v}_g)$ with $T_{1}< T_{2}$. Such sign changes in $S(T)$ are particularly sensitive signatures of strong correlations and Kondo physics. The relevance of this to recent thermopower measurements of Kondo correlated quantum dots is discussed. We discuss the figure of merit, power factor and the degree of violation of the Wiedemann-Franz law in quantum dots. The extent of temperature scaling in the thermopower and thermal conductance of quantum dots in the Kondo regime is also assessed.

id: 1004.2433
title: Model of a relativistic oscillator in a generalized Schr?dinger picture
authors: Rudolf A. Frick
comments: 16 pages, physical discussion extended to three dimensional problem (spin=0)
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 523, No. 11, 871-882 (2011)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2433
abstract: In a generalized Schr\"odinger picture, we consider the motion of a relativistic particle in an external field (like in the case of a harmonic oscillator). In this picture the analogs of the Schr\"odinger operators of the particle are independent of both the time and the space coordinates. These operators induce operators which are related to Killing vectors of the Anti de Sitter (AdS) space. We also consider the nonrelativistic limit.

id: 1004.1717
title: Is Einstein's relation D = kTU always true?
authors: Roumen Tsekov
comments: 
journal: Ann. Univ. Sofia, Fac. Chem. 89 (1997) 39-45
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1717
abstract: The validity of Einstein's fluctuation-dissipation relation is discussed in respect to the type of relaxation in an isothermal system. The first model, presuming isothermic fluctuations, leads to the Einstein formula. The second model supposes adiabatic fluctuations and yields another relation between the diffusion coefficient and mobility of a Brownian particle. A new approach to relaxations in quantum systems is also proposed that demonstrates applicability only of the adiabatic model for description of the quantum Brownian dynamics.

id: 1004.0188
title: Bounds for mixing time of quantum walks on finite graphs
authors: Vladislav Kargin
comments: This is the journal version (except formatting); it is a significant revision of the previous version, in particular, it contains a new result about the convergence of quantum walks with decoherence; 16 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 335302
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.0188
abstract: Several inequalities are proved for the mixing time of discrete-time quantum walks on finite graphs. The mixing time is defined differently than in Aharonov, Ambainis, Kempe and Vazirani (2001) and it is found that for particular examples of walks on a cycle, a hypercube and a complete graph, quantum walks provide no speed-up in mixing over the classical counterparts. In addition, non-unitary quantum walks (i.e., walks with decoherence) are considered and a criterion for their convergence to the unique stationary distribution is derived.

id: 1004.4305
title: The formal path integral and quantum mechanics
authors: Theo Johnson-Freyd
comments: 33 pages, many TikZ diagrams, submitted to _Journal of Mathematical Physics_
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.4305
abstract: Given an arbitrary Lagrangian function on \RR^d and a choice of classical path, one can try to define Feynman's path integral supported near the classical path as a formal power series parameterized by "Feynman diagrams," although these diagrams may diverge. We compute this expansion and show that it is (formally, if there are ultraviolet divergences) invariant under volume-preserving changes of coordinates. We prove that if the ultraviolet divergences cancel at each order, then our formal path integral satisfies a "Fubini theorem" expressing the standard composition law for the time evolution operator in quantum mechanics. Moreover, we show that when the Lagrangian is inhomogeneous-quadratic in velocity such that its homogeneous-quadratic part is given by a matrix with constant determinant, then the divergences cancel at each order. Thus, by "cutting and pasting" and choosing volume-compatible local coordinates, our construction defines a Feynman-diagrammatic "formal path integral" for the nonrelativistic quantum mechanics of a charged particle moving in a Riemannian manifold with an external electromagnetic field.

id: 1004.3954
title: Fragmented Many-Body states of definite angular momentum and stability of attractive 3D Condensates
authors: Marios C. Tsatsos, Alexej I. Streltsov, Ofir E. Alon, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 45 pages, 10 figures, appeared in Phys. Rev. A with minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033613 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3954
abstract: A three dimensional attractive Bose-Einstein Condensate (BEC) is expected to collapse, when the number of the particles $N$ in the ground state or the interaction strength $\lambda_0$ exceeds a critical value. We study systems of different particle numbers and interaction strength and find that even if the overall ground state is collapsed there is a plethora of fragmented excited states that are still in the metastable region. Utilizing the \emph{configuration interaction} expansion we determine the spectrum of the ground (`yrast') and excited many-body states with definite total angular momentum quantum numbers $0\leqslant L\leqslant N$ and $-L\leqslant M_L\leqslant L$, and we find and examine states that survive the collapse. This opens up the possibility of realizing a metastable system with overcritical numbers of bosons in a ground state with angular momentum $L\neq0$. The multi-orbital mean-field theory predictions about the existence of fragmented metastable states with overcritical numbers of bosons are verified and elucidated at the many-body level. The descriptions of the total angular momentum within the mean-field and the many-body approaches are compared.

id: 1004.1572
title: Finite-frequency counting statistics of electron transport: Markovian Theory
authors: D. Marcos, C. Emary, T. Brandes, R. Aguado
comments: Accepted in New Journal of Physics. Updated text
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 123009 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1572
abstract: We present a theory of frequency-dependent counting statistics of electron transport through nanostructures within the framework of Markovian quantum master equations. Our method allows the calculation of finite-frequency current cumulants of arbitrary order, as we explicitly show for the second- and third-order cumulants. Our formulae generalize previous zero-frequency expressions in the literature and can be viewed as an extension of MacDonald's formula beyond shot noise. When combined with an appropriate treatment of tunneling, using, e.g. Liouvillian perturbation theory in Laplace space, our method can deal with arbitrary bias voltages and frequencies, as we illustrate with the paradigmatic example of transport through a single resonant level model. We discuss various interesting limits, including the recovery of the fluctuation-dissipation theorem near linear response, as well as some drawbacks inherent of the Markovian description arising from the neglect of quantum fluctuations.

id: 1004.1496
title: Hypergeometric type operators and their supersymmetric partners
authors: Nicolae Cotfas, Liviu Adrian Cotfas
comments: New examples concerning the Poschl-Teller, Morse, Scarf, Coulomb, Rosen-Morse and Eckart type potentials have been added
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 052101 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.1496
abstract: The generalization of the factorization method performed by Mielnik [J. Math. Phys. {\bf 25}, 3387 (1984)] opened new ways to generate exactly solvable potentials in quantum mechanics. We present an application of Mielnik's method to hypergeometric type operators. It is based on some solvable Riccati equations and leads to a unitary description of the quantum systems exactly solvable in terms of orthogonal polynomials or associated special functions.

id: 1004.2320
title: Perturbative interpretation of relativistic symmetries in nuclei
authors: Haozhao Liang, Pengwei Zhao, Ying Zhang, Jie Meng, Nguyen Van Giai
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, Phys. Rev. C in press
journal: Phys.Rev.C83:041301,2011
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2320
abstract: Perturbation theory is used systematically to investigate the symmetries of the Dirac Hamiltonian and their breaking in atomic nuclei. Using the perturbation corrections to the single-particle energies and wave functions, the link between the single-particle states in realistic nuclei and their counterparts in the symmetry limits is discussed. It is shown that the limit of S-V=const and relativistic harmonic oscillator (RHO) potentials can be connected to the actual Dirac Hamiltonian by the perturbation method, while the limit of S+V=const cannot, where S and V are the scalar and vector potentials, respectively. This indicates that the realistic system can be treated as a perturbation of spin-symmetric Hamiltonians, and the energy splitting of the pseudospin doublets can be regarded as a result of small perturbation around the Hamiltonian with RHO potentials, where the pseudospin doublets are quasidegenerate.

id: 1004.5325
title: Partial Dynamical Symmetries
authors: A. Leviatan
comments: 74 pages, 22 figures, published version, Progress in Particle and Nuclear Physics
journal: Prog. Part. Nucl Phys. 66: 93-143, 2011
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.5325
abstract: This overview focuses on the notion of partial dynamical symmetry (PDS), for which a prescribed symmetry is obeyed by a subset of solvable eigenstates, but is not shared by the Hamiltonian. General algorithms are presented to identify interactions, of a given order, with such intermediate-symmetry structure. Explicit bosonic and fermionic Hamiltonians with PDS are constructed in the framework of models based on spectrum generating algebras. PDSs of various types are shown to be relevant to nuclear spectroscopy, quantum phase transitions and systems with mixed chaotic and regular dynamics.

id: 1004.3165
title: The space complexity of recognizing well-parenthesized expressions in the streaming model: the Index function revisited
authors: Rahul Jain, Ashwin Nayak
comments: 36 pages. Added more explanations for information cost, the proofs, and the notation; introduced abbreviations for random variables in Section 2 to simplify expressions; corrected typos and minor errors; updated references. To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3165
abstract: We show an Omega(sqrt{n}/T) lower bound for the space required by any unidirectional constant-error randomized T-pass streaming algorithm that recognizes whether an expression over two types of parenthesis is well-parenthesized. This proves a conjecture due to Magniez, Mathieu, and Nayak (2009) and rigorously establishes that bidirectional streams are exponentially more efficient in space usage as compared with unidirectional ones. We obtain the lower bound by establishing the minimum amount of information that is necessarily revealed by the players about their respective inputs in a two-party communication protocol for a variant of the Index function, namely Augmented Index. The information cost trade-off is obtained by a novel application of the conceptually simple and familiar ideas such as average encoding and the cut-and-paste property of randomized protocols. Motivated by recent examples of exponential savings in space by streaming quantum algorithms, we also study quantum protocols for Augmented Index. Defining an appropriate notion of information cost for quantum protocols involves a delicate balancing act between its applicability and the ease with which we can analyze it. We define a notion of quantum information cost which reflects some of the non-intuitive properties of quantum information and give a trade-off for this notion. While this trade-off demonstrates the strength of our proof techniques, it does not lead to a space lower bound for checking parentheses. We leave such an implication for quantum streaming algorithms as an intriguing open question.

