id: 1005.0003
title: Entanglement verification with finite data
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout, Jun O.S. Yin, S. J. van Enk
comments: 4 pages, 3 pretty pictures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 170501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0003
abstract: Suppose an experimentalist wishes to verify that his apparatus produces entangled quantum states. A finite amount of data cannot conclusively demonstrate entanglement, so drawing conclusions from real-world data requires statistical reasoning. We propose a reliable method to quantify the weight of evidence for (or against) entanglement, based on a likelihood ratio test. Our method is universal in that it can be applied to any sort of measurements. We demonstrate the method by applying it to two simulated experiments on two qubits. The first measures a single entanglement witness, while the second performs a tomographically complete measurement.

id: 1005.0004
title: Improved Superconducting Qubit Readout by Qubit-Induced Nonlinearities
authors: Maxime Boissonneault, J. M. Gambetta, Alexandre Blais
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 100504 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0004
abstract: In dispersive readout schemes, qubit-induced nonlinearity typically limits the measurement fidelity by reducing the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) when the measurement power is increased. Contrary to seeing the nonlinearity as a problem, here we propose to use it to our advantage in a regime where it can increase the SNR. We show analytically that such a regime exists if the qubit has a many-level structure. We also show how this physics can account for the high-fidelity avalanchelike measurement recently reported by Reed {\it et al.} [arXiv:1004.4323v1].

id: 1005.0005
title: Extracting dynamical equations from experimental data is NP-hard
authors: Toby S. Cubitt, Jens Eisert, Michael M. Wolf
comments: For mathematical details, see arXiv:0908.2128[math-ph]. v2: final version, accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 120503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0005
abstract: The behavior of any physical system is governed by its underlying dynamical equations. Much of physics is concerned with discovering these dynamical equations and understanding their consequences. In this work, we show that, remarkably, identifying the underlying dynamical equation from any amount of experimental data, however precise, is a provably computationally hard problem (it is NP-hard), both for classical and quantum mechanical systems. As a by-product of this work, we give complexity-theoretic answers to both the quantum and classical embedding problems, two long-standing open problems in mathematics (the classical problem, in particular, dating back over 70 years).

id: 1005.0016
title: Kochen-Specker Sets and Generalized Orthoarguesian Equations
authors: Norman D. Megill, Mladen Pavicic
comments: 16 pages and 5 figures
journal: Annales Henri Poincare, 12, 1417-1429 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0016
abstract: Every set (finite or infinite) of quantum vectors (states) satisfies generalized orthoarguesian equations ($n$OA). We consider two 3-dim Kochen-Specker (KS) sets of vectors and show how each of them should be represented by means of a Hasse diagram---a lattice, an algebra of subspaces of a Hilbert space--that contains rays and planes determined by the vectors so as to satisfy $n$OA. That also shows why they cannot be represented by a special kind of Hasse diagram called a Greechie diagram, as has been erroneously done in the literature. One of the KS sets (Peres') is an example of a lattice in which 6OA pass and 7OA fails, and that closes an open question of whether the 7oa class of lattices properly contains the 6oa class. This result is important because it provides additional evidence that our previously given proof of noa =< (n+1)oa can be extended to proper inclusion noa < (n+1)oa and that nOA form an infinite sequence of successively stronger equations.

id: 1005.0020
title: Simulation of Classical Thermal States on a Quantum Computer: A Transfer Matrix Approach
authors: Man-Hong Yung, Daniel Nagaj, James D. Whitfield, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; (new in version 2: added new figure, title changed, rearranged paragraphs)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 060302(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0020
abstract: We present a hybrid quantum-classical algorithm to simulate thermal states of a classical Hamiltonians on a quantum computer. Our scheme employs a sequence of locally controlled rotations, building up the desired state by adding qubits one at a time. We identify a class of classical models for which our method is efficient and avoids potential exponential overheads encountered by Grover-like or quantum Metropolis schemes. Our algorithm also gives an exponential advantage for 2D Ising models with magnetic field on a square lattice, compared with the previously known Zalka's algorithm.

id: 1005.0034
title: Efficient and economic five-party quantum state sharing of an arbitrary m-qubit state
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 48, 279-284 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0034
abstract: We present an efficient and economic scheme for five-party quantum state sharing of an arbitrary m-qubit state with $2m$ three-particle Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states and three-particle GHZ-state measurements. It is more convenient than other schemes as it only resorts to three-particle GHZ states and three-particle joint measurement, not five-particle entanglements and five-particle joint measurements. Moreover, this symmetric scheme is in principle secure even though the number of the dishonest agents is more than one. Its total efficiency approaches the maximal value.

id: 1005.0044
title: Solving the time-dependent Schr?dinger equation with absorbing boundary conditions and source terms in Mathematica 6.0
authors: F. L. Dubeibe
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics C (IJMPC) 21 (11), 1391 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0044
abstract: In recent decades a lot of research has been done on the numerical solution of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation. On the one hand, some of the proposed numerical methods do not need any kind of matrix inversion, but source terms cannot be easily implemented into this schemes; on the other, some methods involving matrix inversion can implement source terms in a natural way, but are not easy to implement into some computational software programs widely used by non-experts in programming (e.g. Mathematica). We present a simple method to solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation by using a standard Crank-Nicholson method together with a Cayley's form for the finite-difference representation of evolution operator. Here, such standard numerical scheme has been simplified by inverting analytically the matrix of the evolution operator in position representation. The analytical inversion of the N x N matrix let us easily and fully implement the numerical method, with or without source terms, into Mathematica or even into any numerical computing language or computational software used for scientific computing.

id: 1005.0050
title: Efficient quantum entanglement distribution over an arbitrary collective-noise channel
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 042332 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0050
abstract: We present an efficient quantum entanglement distribution over an arbitrary collective-noise channel. The basic idea in the present scheme is that two parties in quantum communication first transmit the entangled states in the frequency degree of freedom which suffers little from the noise in an optical fiber. After the two parties share the photon pairs, they add some operations and equipments to transfer the frequency entanglement of pairs into the polarization entanglement with the success probability of 100\%. Finally, they can get maximally entangled polarization states with polarization independent wavelength division multiplexers and quantum frequency up-conversion which can erase distinguishability for frequency. Compared with conventional entanglement purification protocols, the present scheme works in a deterministic way in principle. Surprisingly, the collective noise leads to an additional advantage.

id: 1005.0065
title: Why Quantum Theory is Possibly Wrong
authors: Holger Lyre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0065
abstract: Quantum theory is a tremendously successful physical theory, but nevertheless suffers from two serious problems: the measurement problem and the problem of interpretational underdetermination. The latter, however, is largely overlooked as a genuine problem of its own. Both problems concern the doctrine of realism, but pull, quite curiously, into opposite directions. The measurement problem can be captured such that due to scientific realism about quantum theory common sense anti-realism follows, while theory underdetermination usually counts as an argument against scientific realism. I will also consider the more refined distinctions of ontic and epistemic realism and demonstrate that quantum theory in its most viable interpretations conflicts with at least one of the various realism claims. A way out of the conundrum is to come to the bold conclusion that quantum theory is, possibly, wrong (in the realist sense).

id: 1005.0071
title: Deterministic source of a train of indistinguishable single-photon pulses with single-atom-cavity system
authors: A. Gogyan, S. Gu¨¦rin, H.-R. Jauslin, Yu. Malakyan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0071
abstract: We present a mechanism to produce indistinguishable single-photon pulses on demand from an optical cavity. The sequences of two laser pulses generate, at the two Raman transitions of a four-level atom, the same cavity-mode photons without repumping of the atom between photon generations. Photons are emitted from the cavity with near-unit efficiency in well-defined temporal modes of identical shapes controlled by the laser fields. The second order correlation function reveals the single-photon nature of the proposed source. A realistic setup for the experimental implementation is presented.

id: 1005.0131
title: The quantum vacuum at the foundations of classical electrodynamics
authors: G. Leuchs, A. S. Villar, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: Accepted in Applied Physics B: Special Issue for the 50 years of the laser. Comments are welcome.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0131
abstract: In the classical theory of electromagnetism, the permittivity and the permeability of free space are constants whose magnitudes do not seem to possess any deeper physical meaning. By replacing the free space of classical physics with the quantum notion of the vacuum, we speculate that the values of the aforementioned constants could arise from the polarization and magnetization of virtual pairs in vacuum. A classical dispersion model with parameters determined by quantum and particle physics is employed to estimate their values. We find the correct orders of magnitude. Additionally, our simple assumptions yield an independent estimate for the number of charged elementary particles based on the known values of the permittivity and the permeability, and for the volume of a virtual pair. Such interpretation would provide an intriguing connection between the celebrated theory of classical electromagnetism and the quantum theory in the weak field limit.

id: 1005.0183
title: Quantumness in decoherent quantum walk using measurement-induced disturbance
authors: R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee, C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 8 pages with 8 figures, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 81, 062123 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0183
abstract: The classicalization of a decoherent discrete-time quantum walk on a line or an n-cycle can be demonstrated in various ways that do not necessarily provide a geometry-independent description. For example, the position probability distribution becomes increasingly Gaussian, with a concomitant fall in the standard deviation, in the former case, but not in the latter. As another example, each step of the quantum walk on a line may be subjected to an arbitrary phase gate, without affecting the position probability distribution, no matter whether the walk is noiseless or noisy. This symmetry, which is absent in the case of noiseless cyclic walk, but is restored in the presence of sufficient noise, serves as an indicator of classicalization, but only in the cyclic case. Here we show that the degree of quantum correlations between the coin and position degrees of freedom, quantified by a measure based on the disturbance induced by local measurements (Luo, Phys. Rev. A 77, 022301 (2008)), provides a suitable measure of classicalization across both type of walks. Applying this measure to compare the two walks, we find that cyclic quantum walks tend to classicalize faster than quantum walks on a line because of more efficient phase randomization due to the self-interference of the two counter-rotating waves. We model noise as acting on the coin, and given by the squeezed generalized amplitude damping (SGAD) channel, which generalizes the generalized amplitude damping channel.

id: 1005.0236
title: A scanning microcavity for in-situ control of single-molecule emission
authors: C. Toninelli, Y. Delley, T. St?ferle, A. Renn, S. G?tzinger, V. Sandoghdar
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0236
abstract: We report on the fabrication and characterization of a scannable Fabry-Perot microcavity, consisting of a curved micromirror at the end of an optical fiber and a planar distributed Bragg reflector. Furthermore, we demonstrate the coupling of single organic molecules embedded in a thin film to well-defined resonator modes. We discuss the choice of cavity parameters that will allow sufficiently high Purcell factors for enhancing the zero-phonon transition between the vibrational ground levels of the electronic excited and ground states.

id: 1005.0272
title: Security of high speed quantum key distribution with finite detector dead time
authors: Viacheslav Burenkov, Bing Qi, Ben Fortescue, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0272
abstract: The security of a high speed quantum key distribution system with finite detector dead time \tau is analyzed. When the transmission rate becomes higher than the maximum count rate of the individual detectors (1/\tau ), security issues affect the algorithm for sifting bits. Analytical calculations and numerical simulations of the Bennett-Brassard BB84 protocol are performed. We study Rogers et al.'s protocol (introduced in "Detector dead-time effects and paralyzability in high-speed quantum key distribution," New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 319) in the presence of an active eavesdropper Eve who has the power to perform an intercept-resend attack. It is shown that Rogers et al.'s protocol is no longer secure. More specifically, Eve can induce a basis-dependent detection efficiency at the receiver's end. Modified key sifting schemes that are secure in the presence of dead time and an active eavesdropper are then introduced. We analyze and compare these secure sifting schemes for this active Eve scenario, and calculate and simulate their key generation rate. It is shown that the maximum key generation rate is 1/(2\tau ) for passive basis selection, and 1/\tau for active basis selection. The security analysis for finite detector dead time is also extended to the decoy state BB84 protocol.

id: 1005.0282
title: Dynamics of a stored Zeeman coherence grating in an external magnetic field
authors: D. Moretti, D. Felinto, J. W. R. Tabosa, A. Lezama
comments: To appear in J. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0282
abstract: We investigate the evolution of a Zeeman coherence grating induced in a cold atomic cesium sample in the presence of an external magnetic field. The gratings are created in a three-beam light storage configuration using two quasi-collinear writing laser pulses and reading with a counterpropagating pulse after a variable time delay. The phase conjugated pulse arising from the atomic sample is monitored. Collapses and revivals of the retrieved pulse are observed for different polarizations of the laser beams and for different directions of the applied magnetic field. While magnetic field inhomogeneities are responsible for the decay of the coherent atomic response, a five-fold increase in the coherence decay time, with respect to no applied magnetic field, is obtained for an appropriate choice of the direction of the applied magnetic field. A simplified theoretical model illustrates the role of the magnetic field mean and its inhomogeneity on the collective atomic response.

id: 1005.0321
title: Quantum theory for a total system including one internal measuring apparatus
authors: Wen-ge Wang
comments: 23 pages, 2 figure. It is shown that different decomposition of a given density operator for the internal measuring apparatus into mixture of pure states may have different physical implications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0321
abstract: In this paper, we extend the standard formalism of quantum mechanics to a quantum theory for a total system including one internal measuring apparatus. The internality of the measuring apparatus implies that different decomposition of a given density operator for the internal measuring apparatus into mixture of pure states may have different physical implications. We use `specified mixed-state description' to call a density operator with a specified decomposition into mixture of pure states. The proposed theory has three basic assumptions, which roughly speaking have the following contents: (i) Physical states of the total system can be associated with vectors in the total Hilbert space; (ii) the dynamical evolution of a state vector obeys Schr\"{o}dinger equation; and (iii) under a principle of compatible description and certain non-transition condition, a pure-vector description of the total system may imply the existence of certain specified mixed-state description. The principle of compatible description states that different mathematical descriptions for the same physical state of the total system must give consistent predictions for results of measurements performed by the internal measuring apparatus. This principle imposes a restriction to vectors in the Hilbert space and this may effectively break the time-reversal symmetry of Schr\"{o}dinger equation.

id: 1005.0328
title: Long distance quantum key distribution with continuous variables
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Philippe Grangier
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0328
abstract: We present a continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocol combining a continuous but slightly non-Gaussian modulation together with a efficient reverse reconciliation scheme. We establish the security of this protocol against collective attacks which correspond to a linear quantum channel. In particular, all Gaussian attacks are considered in our framework. We show that this protocol outperforms all known practical protocols, even taking into account finite size effects.

id: 1005.0333
title: Transmission of a quantum state in a periodically poled nonlinear crystal
authors: Ranjit Singh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0333
abstract: Theoretical calculations on transmission of quantum states such as Schr\"{o}dinger cat (SC) states are considered in a periodically poled nonlinear crystal (PPNC). Combinations of various initial states (SC, coherent (C),and vacuum (V)) of light waves at frequencies $\omega_{e}$ and $3\omega_{e}$ at the input of a PPNC are studied. It is shown that the transmission and interference between superposition of macroscopically distinguishable states can be achieved by using a PPNC. Visualization and analyzes of transmission and interference processes are demonstrated with the help of reduced Wigner quasi-probability distribution functions of considered light waves.

id: 1005.0334
title: Experimental Quantum Error-Free Transmission
authors: Xian-Min Jin, Zhen-Huan Yi, Bin Yang, Fei Zhou, Tao Yang, Cheng-Zhi Peng
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures, Submitted to Nature Communications, Under review
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0334
abstract: Error-free transmission (EFT) of quantum information is a crucial ingredient in quantum communication network. To overcome the unavoidable decoherence in noisy channel, to date, many efforts have focused on faithfully transmitting one state by consuming large numbers of synchronized ancillary states. However, huge demands of quantum resources are hard to meet with current technology, thus restrict practical applications. Here we propose and demonstrate an economical method of reliably transmitting quantum information. An arbitrary unknown quantum state is converted into time bins deterministically in terms of its own polarization using a modified Franson interferometer. Any arisen noise in channel will induce an associated error to the reference frame of the time bins, which can be utilized to reject errors and recover the initial state. By virtue of state-independent feature, our method can be applied to entanglement distribution. After passing through 0.8 km randomly twisted optical fiber, the entanglement still survives and is verified. Our approach significantly simplifies the implementation of quantum EFT and enables a general quantum state even entanglement to be protected by feedback, thus can be used as a basic building block in practical long-distance quantum communication network.

id: 1005.0339
title: Finite-size analysis of continuous-variable quantum key distribution
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Grosshans, Philippe Grangier
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062343 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0339
abstract: The goal of this paper is to extend the framework of finite size analysis recently developed for quantum key distribution to continuous-variable protocols. We do not solve this problem completely here, and we mainly consider the finite size effects on the parameter estimation procedure. Despite the fact that some questions are left open, we are able to give an estimation of the secret key rate for protocols which do not contain a postselection procedure. As expected, these results are significantly more pessimistic than the ones obtained in the asymptotic regime. However, we show that recent continuous-variable protocols are able to provide fully secure secret keys in the finite size scenario, over distances larger than 50 km.

id: 1005.0364
title: Distance growth of quantum states due to initial system--environment correlations
authors: J. Dajka, J. Luczka
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012341 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0364
abstract: Intriguing features of the distance between two arbitrary states of an open quantum system are identified that are induced by initial system-environment correlations. As an example, we analyze a qubit dephasingly coupled to a bosonic environment. Within tailored parameter regimes, initial correlations are shown to substantially increase a distance between two qubit states evolving to long-time limit states according to exact non-Markovian dynamics. It exemplifies the breakdown of the distance contractivity of the reduced dynamics.

id: 1005.0365
title: Stochastic simulation algorithm for the quantum linear Boltzmann equation
authors: Marc Busse, Piotr Pietrulewicz, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures; v2: corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 026706 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0365
abstract: We develop a Monte Carlo wave function algorithm for the quantum linear Boltzmann equation, a Markovian master equation describing the quantum motion of a test particle interacting with the particles of an environmental background gas. The algorithm leads to a numerically efficient stochastic simulation procedure for the most general form of this integro-differential equation, which involves a five-dimensional integral over microscopically defined scattering amplitudes that account for the gas interactions in a non-perturbative fashion. The simulation technique is used to assess various limiting forms of the quantum linear Boltzmann equation, such as the limits of pure collisional decoherence and quantum Brownian motion, the Born approximation and the classical limit. Moreover, we extend the method to allow for the simulation of the dissipative and decohering dynamics of superpositions of spatially localized wave packets, which enables the study of many physically relevant quantum phenomena, occurring e.g. in the interferometry of massive particles.

id: 1005.0377
title: Response of the Strongly-Driven Jaynes-Cummings Oscillator
authors: Lev S. Bishop, Eran Ginossar, S. M. Girvin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 100505 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0377
abstract: We analyze the Jaynes-Cummings model of quantum optics, in the strong-dispersive regime. In the bad cavity limit and on timescales short compared to the atomic coherence time, the dynamics are those of a nonlinear oscillator. A steady-state non-perturbative semiclassical analysis exhibits a finite region of bistability delimited by a pair of critical points, unlike the usual dispersive bistability from a Kerr nonlinearity. This analysis explains our quantum trajectory simulations that show qualitative agreement with recent experiments from the field of circuit quantum electrodynamics.

id: 1005.0381
title: Do the uncertainty relations really have crucial significances for physics ?
authors: Spiridon Dumitru
comments: 13 pages (in PDF format); 5 Sections; 39 references; PACS codes: 03.65.Ta, 05.40.-a, 01.70.+w ; Key words: uncertainty relations, cucial significances, quantum philosophy.
journal: Progress in Physics, 2010, Vol 4
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0381
abstract: It is proved the falsity of idea that the Uncertainty Relations (UR) have crucial significances for physics. Additionally one argues for the necesity of an UR-disconnected quantum philosophy.

id: 1005.0434
title: Simulating quantum effects of cosmological expansion using a static ion trap
authors: Nicolas C. Menicucci, S. Jay Olson, Gerard J. Milburn
comments: (v2) revisions based on referee comments, figure added for clarity; (v1) 17 pages, no figures
journal: New J.Phys.12:095019,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0434
abstract: We propose a new experimental testbed that uses ions in the collective ground state of a static trap for studying the analog of quantum-field effects in cosmological spacetimes, including the Gibbons-Hawking effect for a single detector in de Sitter spacetime, as well as the possibility of modeling inflationary structure formation and the entanglement signature of de Sitter spacetime. To date, proposals for using trapped ions in analog gravity experiments have simulated the effect of gravity on the field modes by directly manipulating the ions' motion. In contrast, by associating laboratory time with conformal time in the simulated universe, we can encode the full effect of curvature in the modulation of the laser used to couple the ions' vibrational motion and electronic states. This model simplifies the experimental requirements for modeling the analog of an expanding universe using trapped ions and enlarges the validity of the ion-trap analogy to a wide range of interesting cases.

id: 1005.0465
title: Non-Markovian stochastic description of quantum transport in photosynthetic systems
authors: Ines de Vega
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0465
abstract: We analyze several aspects of the transport dynamics in the LH1-RC core of purple bacteria, which consists basically in a ring of antenna molecules that transport the energy into a target molecule, the reaction center, placed in the center of the ring. We show that the periodicity of the system plays an important role to explain the relevance of the initial state in the transport efficiency. This picture is modified, and the transport enhanced for any initial state, when considering that molecules have different energies, and when including their interaction with the environment. We study this last situation by using stochastic Schr{\"o}dinger equations, both for Markovian and non-Markovian type of interactions.

id: 1005.0472
title: Approximating incompatible von Neumann measurements simultaneously
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Maria Anastasia Jivulescu, Daniel Reitzner, Mario Ziman
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; v2 has a more extensive introduction + other minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032328 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0472
abstract: We study the problem of performing orthogonal qubit measurements simultaneously. Since these measurements are incompatible, one has to accept additional imprecision. An optimal joint measurement is the one with the least possible imprecision. All earlier considerations of this problem have concerned only joint measurability of observables, while in this work we also take into account conditional state transformations (i.e., instruments). We characterize the optimal joint instrument for two orthogonal von Neumann instruments as being the Luders instrument of the optimal joint observable.

id: 1005.0481
title: Non-classicality thresholds for multiqubit states - numerical analysis
authors: Jacek Gruca, Wieslaw Laskowski, Marek Zukowski, Nikolai Kiesel, Witlef Wieczorek, Christian Schmid, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 8 pages, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012118 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0481
abstract: States that strongly violate Bell's inequalities are required in many quantum informational protocols as, for example, in cryptography, secret sharing and the reduction of communication complexity. We investigate families of such states with a numerical method which allows to reveal non-classicality even without direct knowledge of Bell's inequalities for the given problem. An extensive set of numerical results is presented and discussed.

id: 1005.0512
title: Two-Source Extractors Secure Against Quantum Adversaries
authors: Roy Kasher, Julia Kempe
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0512
abstract: We initiate the study of multi-source extractors in the quantum world. In this setting, our goal is to extract random bits from two independent weak random sources, on which two quantum adversaries store a bounded amount of information. Our main result is a two-source extractor secure against quantum adversaries, with parameters closely matching the classical case and tight in several instances. Moreover, the extractor is secure even if the adversaries share entanglement. The construction is the Chor-Goldreich [CG88] two-source inner product extractor and its multi-bit variant by Dodis et al. [DEOR04]. Previously, research in this area focused on the construction of seeded extractors secure against quantum adversaries; the multi-source setting poses new challenges, among which is the presence of entanglement that could potentially break the independence of the sources.

id: 1005.0523
title: New Results on Quantum Property Testing
authors: Sourav Chakraborty, Eldar Fischer, Arie Matsliah, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 2nd version: updated some references, in particular to Aaronson's Fourier checking problem
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0523
abstract: We present several new examples of speed-ups obtainable by quantum algorithms in the context of property testing. First, motivated by sampling algorithms, we consider probability distributions given in the form of an oracle $f:[n]\to[m]$. Here the probability $\PP_f(j)$ of an outcome $j\in[m]$ is the fraction of its domain that $f$ maps to $j$. We give quantum algorithms for testing whether two such distributions are identical or $\epsilon$-far in $L_1$-norm. Recently, Bravyi, Hassidim, and Harrow \cite{BHH10} showed that if $\PP_f$ and $\PP_g$ are both unknown (i.e., given by oracles $f$ and $g$), then this testing can be done in roughly $\sqrt{m}$ quantum queries to the functions. We consider the case where the second distribution is known, and show that testing can be done with roughly $m^{1/3}$ quantum queries, which we prove to be essentially optimal. In contrast, it is known that classical testing algorithms need about $m^{2/3}$ queries in the unknown-unknown case and about $\sqrt{m}$ queries in the known-unknown case. Based on this result, we also reduce the query complexity of graph isomorphism testers with quantum oracle access. While those examples provide polynomial quantum speed-ups, our third example gives a much larger improvement (constant quantum queries vs polynomial classical queries) for the problem of testing periodicity, based on Shor's algorithm and a modification of a classical lower bound by Lachish and Newman \cite{lachish&newman:periodicity}. This provides an alternative to a recent constant-vs-polynomial speed-up due to Aaronson \cite{aaronson:bqpph}.

id: 1005.0569
title: Position Measurements Obeying Momentum Conservation
authors: Paul Busch, Leon Loveridge
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0569
abstract: We present a hitherto unknown fundamental limitation to a basic measurement: that of the position of a quantum object when the total momentum of the object and apparatus is conserved. This result extends the famous Wigner-Araki-Yanase (WAY) theorem, and shows that accurate position measurements are only practically feasible if there is a large momentum uncertainty in the apparatus.

id: 1005.0604
title: Unsharp Quantum Reality
authors: Paul Busch, Gregg Jaeger
comments: Sections 2 and 4 of this Version 2 have been revised to increase clarity and reduce ambiguity. The terminology of unsharp properties, vagueness and fuzziness has been explained more explicitly. Main message has remained unchanged
journal: Found Phys (2010) 40: 1341-1367
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0604
abstract: The positive operator (valued) measures (POMs) allow one to generalize the notion of observable beyond the traditional one based on projection valued measures (PVMs). Here, we argue that this generalized conception of observable enables a consistent notion of unsharp reality and with it an adequate concept of joint properties. A sharp or unsharp property manifests itself as an element of sharp or unsharp reality by its tendency to become actual or to actualize a specific measurement outcome. This actualization tendency - or potentiality - of a property is quantified by the associated quantum probability. The resulting single-case interpretation of probability as a degree of reality will be explained in detail and its role in addressing the tensions between quantum and classical accounts of the physical world will be elucidated. It will be shown that potentiality can be viewed as a causal agency that evolves in a well-defined way.

id: 1005.0642
title: The transition to chaos of coupled oscillators: An operator fidelity susceptibility study
authors: N. Tobias Jacobson, Paolo Giorda, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 056204 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0642
abstract: The operator fidelity is a measure of the information-theoretic distinguishability between perturbed and unperturbed evolutions. The response of this measure to the perturbation may be formulated in terms of the operator fidelity susceptibility (OFS), a quantity which has been used to investigate the parameter spaces of quantum systems in order to discriminate their regular and chaotic regimes. In this work we numerically study the OFS for a pair of non-linearly coupled two-dimensional harmonic oscillators, a model which is equivalent to that of a hydrogen atom in a uniform external magnetic field. We show how the two terms of the OFS, being linked to the main properties that differentiate regular from chaotic behavior, allow for the detection of this model's transition between the two regimes. In addition, we find that the parameter interval where perturbation theory applies is delimited from above by a local minimum of one of the analyzed terms.

id: 1005.0651
title: A dispersive correction to the Casimir force
authors: Finn Ravndal, Lee-Peng Teo
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0651
abstract: Using perturbation theory the first order dispersive correction to the Casimir energy between two plates separated by a dielectric material is calculated. It falls off with the plate separation as 1/L^6. The result is derived both from evaluation of the zero-point energy and within the Lifshitz formulation. It is pointed out that a possible surface term can be more important, varying like 1/L^5.

id: 1005.0654
title: Quasi-determinism of weak measurement statistics: Laplace's demon's quantum cousin
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 4 pages, contribution to the proceedings of QIT22 held May 10-11 2010 in Osaka
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0654
abstract: Weak measurements can provide a complete characterization of post-selected ensembles, including the uncertainties of observables. Interestingly, the average uncertainties for pure initial and final states are always zero, suggesting the kind of complete knowledge that would allow a knowledge of past, presence and future in the sense of Laplace's demon. However, the quantum version actually describes cancellations of positive and negative uncertainties made possible by the strangeness of weak values. In this paper, I take a closer look at the relation between statistics and causality in quantum mechanics, in an attempt to recover the traces of classical determinism in the statistical relations of quantum measurement outcomes.

id: 1005.0687
title: Delayed birth of distillable entanglement in the evolution of bound entangled states
authors: ?ukasz Derkacz, Lech Jakobczyk
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022312(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0687
abstract: The dynamical creation of entanglement between three-level atoms coupled to the common vacuum is investigated. For the class of bound entangled initial states we show that the dynamics of closely separated atoms generates stationary distillable entanglement of asymptotic states. We also find that the effect of delayed sudden birth of distillable entanglement occurs in the case of atoms separated by a distance comparable with the radiation wavelength.

id: 1005.0688
title: Recurrences in three-state quantum walks on a plane
authors: B. Koll¨¢r, M. ?tefa¨¾¨¢k, T. Kiss, I. Jex
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0688
abstract: We analyze the role of dimensionality in the time evolution of discrete time quantum walks through the example of the three-state walk on a two-dimensional, triangular lattice. We show that the three-state Grover walk does not lead to trapping (localization) or recurrence to the origin, in sharp contrast to the Grover walk on the two dimensional square lattice. We determine the power law scaling of the probability at the origin with the method of stationary phase. We prove that only a special subclass of coin operators can lead to recurrence and there are no coins leading to localization. The propagation for the recurrent subclass of coins is quasi one-dimensional.

id: 1005.0763
title: Spectral theorem for the Lindblad equation for quadratic open fermionic systems
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: 19 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0763
abstract: The spectral theorem is proven for the quantum dynamics of quadratic open systems of n fermions described by the Lindblad equation. Invariant eigenspaces of the many-body Liouvillean dynamics and their largest Jordan blocks are explicitly constructed for all eigenvalues. For eigenvalue zero we describe an algebraic procedure for constructing (possibly higher dimensional) spaces of (degenerate) non-equilibrium steady states.

id: 1005.0767
title: Temperature dependence of the plasmonic Casimir interaction
authors: F. Intravaia, H. Haakh, C. Henkel
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 82, No. 1, 012507 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0767
abstract: We investigate the role of surface plasmons in the electromagnetic Casimir effect at finite temperature, including situations out of global thermal equilibrium. The free energy is calculated analytically and expanded for different regimes of distances and temperatures. Similar to the zero-temperature case, the interaction changes from attraction to repulsion with distance. Thermal effects are shown to be negligible for small plate separations and at room temperature, but become dominant and repulsive at large values of these parameters. In configurations out of global thermal equilibrium, we show that the selective excitation of surface plasmons can create a repulsive Casimir force between metal plates.

id: 1005.0777
title: Tricolored Lattice Gauge Theory with Randomness: Fault-Tolerance in Topological Color Codes
authors: Ruben S. Andrist, Helmut G. Katzgraber, H. Bombin, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 083006 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0777
abstract: We compute the error threshold of color codes, a class of topological quantum codes that allow a direct implementation of quantum Clifford gates, when both qubit and measurement errors are present. By mapping the problem onto a statistical-mechanical three-dimensional disordered Ising lattice gauge theory, we estimate via large-scale Monte Carlo simulations that color codes are stable against 4.5(2)% errors. Furthermore, by evaluating the skewness of the Wilson loop distributions, we introduce a very sensitive probe to locate first-order phase transitions in lattice gauge theories.

id: 1005.0789
title: Quantum Time
authors: John Ashmead
comments: 110 pages, 17 figures, presented shorter form of this as poster at Third International Conference on the Nature and Ontology of Spacetime (Montreal, 2008) and as a talk at the 4th Feynman Festival (Olomouc, 2009).
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0789
abstract: Normally we quantize along the space dimensions but treat time classically. But from relativity we expect a high level of symmetry between time and space. What happens if we quantize time using the same rules we use to quantize space? To do this, we generalize the paths in the Feynman path integral to include paths that vary in time as well as in space. We use Morlet wavelet decomposition to ensure convergence and normalization of the path integrals. We derive the Schr\"odinger equation in four dimensions from the short time limit of the path integral expression. We verify that we recover standard quantum theory in the non-relativistic, semi-classical, and long time limits. Quantum time is an experiment factory: most foundational experiments in quantum mechanics can be modified in a way that makes them tests of quantum time. We look at single and double slits in time, scattering by time-varying electric and magnetic fields, and the Aharonov-Bohm effect in time.

id: 1005.0798
title: Dynamics of a quantum reference frame undergoing selective measurements and coherent interactions
authors: Mehdi Ahmadi, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032320 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0798
abstract: We consider the dynamics of a quantum directional reference frame undergoing repeated interactions. We first describe how a precise sequence of measurement outcomes affects the reference frame, looking at both the case that the measurement record is averaged over and the case wherein it is retained. We find, in particular, that there is interesting dynamics in the latter situation which cannot be revealed by considering the averaged case. We then consider in detail how a sequence of rotationally invariant unitary interactions affects the reference frame, a situation which leads to quite different dynamics than the case of repeated measurements. We then consider strategies for correcting reference frame drift if we are given a set of particles with polarization opposite to the direction of drift. In particular, we find that by implementing a suitably chosen unitary interaction after every two measurements we can eliminate the rotational drift of the reference frame.

id: 1005.0802
title: Interference of overlap-free entangled photons with a Mach-Zehnder-like interferometer
authors: Xian-Min Jin, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Tao Yang, Youjin Deng
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, Submitted to New Journal of Physics (under review)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0802
abstract: Using spontaneous parametric down conversion and a 50:50 beam splitter, we generate coaxial polarization-entangled photon pairs, of which the two photons are far separated from each other. The photons are then sent one by one through one port of a modified Mach-Zehnder interferometer. We observe interference fringes with a periodicity half of the single-photon wavelength, independent of the distance between the photons. This feature can find applications in quantum-enhanced measurement.

id: 1005.0846
title: Entanglement in Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Enderalp Yakaboylu
comments: 40 pages, M.Sc. Thesis, METU 2010, Supervisor: Y. \.Ipeko\u{g}lu, Co-Supervisor: N.K. Pak
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0846
abstract: In this thesis, entanglement under fully relativistic settings are discussed. The thesis starts with a brief review of the relativistic quantum mechanics. In order to describe the effects of Lorentz transformations on the entangled states, quantum mechanics and special relativity are merged by construction of the unitary irreducible representations of Poincar{\'e} group on the infinite dimensional Hilbert space of state vectors. In this framework, the issue of finding the unitary irreducible representations of Poincar{\'e} group is reduced to that of the little group. Wigner rotation for the massive particles plays a crucial role due to its effect on the spin polarization directions. Furthermore, the physical requirements for constructing the correct relativistic spin operator is also studied. Then, the entanglement and Bell type inequalities are reviewed. Special attention has been devoted to two historical papers, by EPR in 1935 and by J.S. Bell in 1964. The main part of the thesis is based on the Lorentz transformation of the Bell states and the Bell inequalities on these transformed states. It is shown that entanglement is a Lorentz invariant quantity. That is, no inertial observer can see the entangled state as a separable one. However, it was shown that the Bell inequality may be satisfied for the Wigner angle dependent transformed entangled states. Since the Wigner rotation changes the spin polarization direction with the increased velocity, initial dichotomous operators can satisfy the Bell inequality for those states. By choosing the dichotomous operators taking into consideration the Wigner angle, it is always possible to show that Bell type inequalities can be violated for the transformed entangled states.

id: 1005.0866
title: Intensity fluctuations in steady state superradiance
authors: D. Meiser, M. J. Holland
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0866
abstract: Alkaline-earth like atoms with ultra-narrow optical transitions enable superradiance in steady state. The emitted light promises to have an unprecedented stability with a linewidth as narrow as a few millihertz. In order to evaluate the potential usefulness of this light source as an ultrastable oscillator in clock and precision metrology applications it is crucial to understand the noise properties of this device. In this paper we present a detailed analysis of the intensity fluctuations by means of Monte-Carlo simulations and semi-classical approximations. We find that the light exhibits bunching below threshold, is to a good approximation coherent in the superradiant regime, and is chaotic above the second threshold.

id: 1005.0890
title: Matter waves in the Talbot-Lau interferometry
authors: Valeriy I. Sbitnev
comments: 21 pages, 19 figures; added new section, figures, and references; PACS numbers: 03.75.-b, 03.75.Dg, 42.25.Hz
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0890
abstract: Paths of particles, emitted from distributed sources and passing out through slits of two gratings, $G_{0}$ and $G_{1}$, up to detectors, have been computed in details by the path integral method. The slits are represented by Gaussian functions that simulate fuzzy edges of the slits. Waves of matter be computed by this method show perfect interference patterns both between the gratings and behind the second grating. Coherent and noncoherent the distributed particle sources reproducing the interference patterns are discussed in details. Paraxial approximation stems from the wave function when removing the distributed sources onto infinity. The more hard-edged slits of the grating $G_{1}$ are examined by simulating those slits by a superposition of more hard the Gaussian functions. As for the particles here we consider fullerene molecules. De Broglie wavelength of the molecules is adopted equal to 5 pm.

id: 1005.0904
title: Exact non-Markovian cavity dynamics strongly coupled to a reservoir
authors: Heng-Na Xiong, Wei-Min Zhang, Xiaoguang Wang, Meng-Hsiu Wu
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A82, 012105 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0904
abstract: The exact non-Markovian dynamics of a microcavity strongly coupled to a general reservoir at arbitrary temperature is studied. With the exact master equation for the reduced density operator of the cavity system, we analytically solve the time evolution of the cavity state and the associated physical observables. We show that the non-Markovian dynamics is completely determined by the propagating (retarded) and correlation Green functions. Compare the non-Markovian behavior at finite temperature with those at zero-temperature limit or Born-Markov limit, we find that the non-Markovian memory effect can dramatically change the coherent and thermal dynamics of the cavity. We also numerically study the dissipation dynamics of the cavity through the mean mode amplitude decay and the average photon number decay in the microwave regime. It is shown that the strong coupling between the cavity and the reservoir results in a long-time dissipationless evolution to the cavity field amplitude, and its noise dynamics undergoes a critical transition from the weak to strong coupling due to the non-Markovian memory effect.

id: 1005.0906
title: Corpuscular model of two-beam interference and double-slit experiments with single photons
authors: Fengping Jin, Shengjun Yuan, Hans De Raedt, Kristel Michielsen, Seiji Miyashita
comments: Accepted for publication in J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 79, 074401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0906
abstract: We introduce an event-based corpuscular simulation model that reproduces the wave mechanical results of single-photon double slit and two-beam interference experiments and (of a one-to-one copy of an experimental realization) of a single-photon interference experiment with a Fresnel biprism. The simulation comprises models that capture the essential features of the apparatuses used in the experiment, including the single-photon detectors recording individual detector clicks. We demonstrate that incorporating in the detector model, simple and minimalistic processes mimicking the memory and threshold behavior of single-photon detectors is sufficient to produce multipath interference patterns. These multipath interference patterns are built up by individual particles taking one single path to the detector where they arrive one-by-one. The particles in our model are not corpuscular in the standard, classical physics sense in that they are information carriers that exchange information with the apparatuses of the experimental set-up. The interference pattern is the final, collective outcome of the information exchanges of many particles with these apparatuses. The interference patterns are produced without making reference to the solution of a wave equation and without introducing signalling or non-local interactions between the particles or between different detection points on the detector screen.

id: 1005.1001
title: Entanglement distribution over the subsystems and its invariance
authors: Qing-Jun Tong, Jun-Hong An, Hong-Gang Luo, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Quantu. Inf. Comput. 11, 0874 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1001
abstract: We study the entanglement dynamics of two qubits, each of which is embedded into its local amplitude-damping reservoir, and the entanglement distribution among all the bipartite subsystems including qubit-qubit, qubit-reservoir, and reservoir-reservoir. It is found that the entanglement can be stably distributed among all components, which is much different to the result obtained under the Born-Markovian approximation by C. E. L\'{o}pez {\it et al.} [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{101}, 080503 (2008)], and particularly it also satisfies an identity. Our unified treatment includes the previous results as special cases. The result may give help to understand the physical nature of entanglement under decoherence.

id: 1005.1043
title: Non-classical correlations in non-Markovian continuous variable systems
authors: R. Vasile, P. Giorda, S. Olivares, M. G. A. Paris, S. Maniscalco
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1043
abstract: We consider two identical and non-interacting harmonic oscillators coupled to either two independent bosonic baths or to a common bosonic bath. Under the only assumption of weak coupling, we analyze in details the non-Markovian short time-scale evolution of intensity correlations, entanglement and quantum discord for initial two-mode squeezed-thermal vacuum states. In the independent reservoirs case we observe the detrimental effect of the environment for all these quantities and we establish a hierarchy for their robustness against the environmental noise. In the common reservoir case, for initial uncorrelated states, we find that only quantum discord can be created via interaction with the bath, while entanglement and sub shot noise intensity correlations remain absent.

id: 1005.1045
title: A Family of Continuous Variable Entanglement Criteria using General Entropy Functions
authors: A. Saboia, F. Toscano, S. P. Walborn
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1045
abstract: We derive a family of entanglement criteria for continuous variable systems based on the R\'enyi entropy of complementary distributions. We show that these entanglement witnesses can be more sensitive than those based on second-order moments, as well as previous tests involving the Shannon entropy [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{103}, 160505 (2009)]. We extend our results to include the case of discrete sampling, and develop another set of entanglement tests using the discrete Tsallis entropy. We provide several numerical results which show that our criteria can be used to identify entanglement in a number of experimentally relevant quantum states.

id: 1005.1061
title: Nonlinearity from quantum mechanics: Dynamically unstable Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well trap
authors: Juha Javanainen
comments: very close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 051602(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1061
abstract: We study theoretically an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well trap both quantum mechanically and classically under conditions such that in the classical model an unstable equilibrium dissolves into large-scale oscillations of the atoms between the potential wells. Quantum mechanics alone does not exhibit such nonlinear dynamics, but measurements of the atom numbers in the potential wells may nevertheless cause the condensate to behave essentially classically.

id: 1005.1112
title: Efficient generation of universal two-dimensional cluster states with hybrid systems
authors: Qing Lin, Bing He
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 82 022331 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1112
abstract: We present a scheme to generate two-dimensional cluster state efficiently. The number of the basic gate-entangler-for the operation is in the order of the entanglement bonds of a cluster state, and could be reduced greatly if one uses them repeatedly. The scheme is deterministic and uses few ancilla resources and no quantum memory. It is suitable for large-scale quantum computation and feasible with the current experimental technology.

id: 1005.1119
title: Coherent Manipulation of Multilevel Atoms for Quantum Information Processing
authors: Juan D. Serna
comments: Ph.D. thesis. University of Arkansas (2005). (Advisor: Julio Gea-Banacloche). 90 pages, 29 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1119
abstract: In quantum information processing, quantum cavities play an important role by providing the mechanisms to transfer information between atom qubits and photon qubits, or to couple single atoms with the optical modes of the cavity field. We explore numerically the population transfer in an atom + cavity system by using the $\pi$-pulse and adiabatic passage methods. While the first method is very efficient transferring the atomic population for no radiative decay of the intermediate level, the second method shows very interesting nonadiabatic, resonance-like properties that can be used to achieve very large transfer efficiencies without needing very large Rabi frequencies or very long interaction times. We introduce a simple analytical model to explore the origin of these properties and describe "qualitatively" the power-law dependence of the failure probability on the product of the pulse amplitude and the interaction time. We also examine numerically the transfer of interatomic coherence in a two-atom + cavity system by using adiabatic methods. For some specific symmetry conditions, we show that the dynamics of the original system can be studied as the individual evolution of a symmetric and an antisymmetric system, interacting separately with the classical field and the cavity mode, but mutually exchanging the atomic coherence.

id: 1005.1126
title: Linear optical quantum computation with imperfect entangled photon-pair sources and inefficient non-photon-number-resolving detectors
authors: Yan-Xiao Gong, Xu-Bo Zou, Timothy C. Ralph, Shi-Ning Zhu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052303 (2010) http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevA.81.052303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1126
abstract: We propose a scheme for efficient cluster state quantum computation by using imperfect polarization-entangled photon-pair sources, linear optical elements and inefficient non-photon-number-resolving detectors. The efficiency threshold for loss tolerance in our scheme requires the product of source and detector efficiencies should be >1/2 - the best known figure. This figure applies to uncorrelated loss. We further find that the loss threshold is unaffected by correlated loss in the photon pair source. Our approach sheds new light on efficient linear optical quantum computation with imperfect experimental conditions.

id: 1005.1143
title: Quantum matchgate computations and linear threshold gates
authors: M. Van den Nest
comments: 
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 467, 821-840 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1143
abstract: The theory of matchgates is of interest in various areas in physics and computer science. Matchgates occur in e.g. the study of fermions and spin chains, in the theory of holographic algorithms and in several recent works in quantum computation. In this paper we completely characterize the class of boolean functions computable by unitary two-qubit matchgate circuits with some probability of success. We show that this class precisely coincides with that of the linear threshold gates. The latter is a fundamental family which appears in several fields, such as the study of neural networks. Using the above characterization, we further show that the power of matchgate circuits is surprisingly trivial in those cases where the computation is to succeed with high probability. In particular, the only functions that are matchgate-computable with success probability greater than 3/4 are functions depending on only a single bit of the input.

id: 1005.1164
title: From the Equations of Motion to the Canonical Commutation Relations
authors: Elisa Ercolessi, Giuseppe Marmo, Giuseppe Morandi
comments: 199 pages; to be published in "La Rivista del Nuovo Cimento" (www.sif.it/SIF/en/portal/journals)
journal: Riv.Nuovo Cim.033:401-590,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1164
abstract: The problem of whether or not the equations of motion of a quantum system determine the commutation relations was posed by E.P.Wigner in 1950. A similar problem (known as "The Inverse Problem in the Calculus of Variations") was posed in a classical setting as back as in 1887 by H.Helmoltz and has received great attention also in recent times. The aim of this paper is to discuss how these two apparently unrelated problems can actually be discussed in a somewhat unified framework. After reviewing briefly the Inverse Problem and the existence of alternative structures for classical systems, we discuss the geometric structures that are intrinsically present in Quantum Mechanics, starting from finite-level systems and then moving to a more general setting by using the Weyl-Wigner approach, showing how this approach can accomodate in an almost natural way the existence of alternative structures in Quantum Mechanics as well.

id: 1005.1189
title: Entanglement swapping of atomic states through the photonic Faraday rotation
authors: W.P. Bastos, W.B. Cardoso, A.T. Avelar, B. Baseia
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1189
abstract: We propose an entanglement swapping of atomic states confined by cavities QED using a photonic Faraday rotation. Two schemes are considered in which we use three and four cavities, respectively, plus an additional circularly-polarized photon. After interacting with an atom trapped inside the cavity the system evolves to an entangled atom-photon state. The entanglement swapping is then achieved by a Bell-state measurement upon the entire atom-photon state.

id: 1005.1190
title: Stochastic process behind nonlinear thermodynamic quantum master equation
authors: Hans Christian ?ttinger
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1190
abstract: We propose a piecewise deterministic Markovian jump process in Hilbert space such that the covariance matrix of this stochastic process solves the thermodynamic quantum master equation. The proposed stochastic process is particularly simple because the normalization of the vectors in Hilbert space is preserved only on average. As a consequence of the nonlinearity of the thermodynamic master equation, the construction of stochastic trajectories involves the density matrix as a running ensemble average. We identify a principle of detailed balance and a fluctuation-dissipation relation for our Markovian jump process.

id: 1005.1222
title: Improving the Control Strategy in two-way deterministic cryptographic protocols
authors: Anita Eusebi, Stefano Mancini
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol.9, No.5 (2011) 1209-1222
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1222
abstract: We introduce a new control strategy on a two-way deterministic cryptographic scheme, which relies on a suitable unitary transformation rather than quantum measurement. The study is developed for d-ary alphabets and the particular choice of the transformation works when d is an odd prime power. It leads to an improvement of the protocol security, which we prove to increase with the alphabet order d.

id: 1005.1226
title: Variational properties of a pumped dynamical system
authors: Erika Andersson, Stig Stenholm
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022111 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1226
abstract: We have earlier constructed a generalized entropy concept to show the direction of time in an evolution following from a Markov generator. In such a dynamical system, the entity found changes in a monotonic way starting from any initial state of the system. In this paper, we generalize the treatment to the case when population is pumped into the system from levels not explicitly considered. These populations then pass through the coupled levels and exit by decay to levels outside the system. We derive the form of the equation of motion and relate it to our earlier treatments. It turns out that the formalism can be generalized to the new situation. Its physically relevant features are demonstrated, and the behaviour obtained is illustrated by numerical treatment of the standard two-level system with pumping and relaxation included.

id: 1005.1227
title: The generalized quantum isotonic oscillator
authors: Javier Sesma
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 185303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1227
abstract: Recently, it has been proved that a nonlinear quantum oscillator, generalization of the isotonic one, is exactly solvable for certain values of its parameters. Here we show that the Schroedinger equation for such an oscillator can be transformed into a confluent Heun equation. We give a very simple and efficient algorithm to solve it numerically, no matter what the values of the parameters are. Algebraic quasi-polynomial solutions, for particular values of the parameters, are found.

id: 1005.1242
title: Quantum mechanical effect of path-polarization contextuality for a single photon
authors: Alok Kumar Pan, Dipankar Home
comments: To be published in IJTP
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys.49, 1920(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1242
abstract: Using measurements pertaining to a suitable Mach-Zehnder(MZ) type setup, a curious quantum mechanical effect of contextuality between the path and the polarization degrees of freedom of a polarized photon is demonstrated, without using any notion of realism or hidden variables - an effect that holds good for the product as well as the entangled states. This form of experimental context-dependence is manifested in a way such that at \emph{either} of the two exit channels of the MZ setup used, the empirically verifiable \emph{subensemble} statistical properties obtained by an arbitrary polarization measurement depend upon the choice of a commuting(comeasurable) path observable, while this effect disappears for the \emph{whole ensemble} of photons emerging from the two exit channels of the MZ setup.

id: 1005.1258
title: Experimental bound entanglement in a four-photon state
authors: Jonathan Lavoie, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Marco Piani, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures. For a simultaneously submitted related work see arXiv:1005.1965
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 130501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1258
abstract: Entanglement [1, 2] enables powerful new quantum technologies [3-8], but in real-world implementations, entangled states are often subject to decoherence and preparation errors. Entanglement distillation [9, 10] can often counteract these effects by converting imperfectly entangled states into a smaller number of maximally entangled states. States that are entangled but cannot be distilled are called bound entangled [11]. Bound entanglement is central to many exciting theoretical results in quantum information processing [12-14], but has thus far not been experimentally realized. A recent claim for experimental bound entanglement is not supported by their data [15]. Here, we consider a family of four-qubit Smolin states [16], focusing on a regime where the bound entanglement is experimentally robust. We encode the state into the polarization of four photons and show that our state exhibits both entanglement and undistillability, the two defining properties of bound entanglement. We then use our state to implement entanglement unlocking, a key feature of Smolin states [16].

id: 1005.1268
title: Holographic quantum states
authors: Tobias J. Osborne, Jens Eisert, Frank Verstraete
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. Emphasis changed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 260401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1268
abstract: We show how continuous matrix product states of quantum field theories can be described in terms of the dissipative non-equilibrium dynamics of a lower-dimensional auxiliary boundary field theory. We demonstrate that the spatial correlation functions of the bulk field can be brought into one-to-one correspondence with the temporal statistics of the quantum jumps of the boundary field. This equivalence: (1) illustrates an intimate connection between the theory of continuous quantum measurement and quantum field theory; (2) gives an explicit construction of the boundary field theory allowing the extension of real-space renormalization group methods to arbitrary dimensional quantum field theories without the introduction of a lattice parameter; and (3) yields a novel interpretation of recent cavity QED experiments in terms of quantum field theory, and hence paves the way toward observing genuine quantum phase transitions in such zero-dimensional driven quantum systems.

id: 1005.1290
title: Replacing the Breit-Wigner amplitude by the complex delta function to describe resonances
authors: R. de la Madrid
comments: Invited, refereed contribution to the proceedings of the YKIS2009 workshop, Kyoto, Japan.
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. Suppl.184:516-522, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1290
abstract: Whenever the Breit-Wigner amplitude appears in a calculation,there are many instances (e.g., Fermi's two-level system and the Weisskopf-Wigner approximation) where energy integrations are extended from the scattering spectrum of the Hamiltonian to the whole real line. Such extensions are performed in order to obtain a desirable, causal result. In this paper, we recall several of those instances and show that substituting the Breit-Wigner amplitude by the complex delta function allows us to recover such desirable results without having to extend energy integrations outside of the scattering spectrum.

id: 1005.1318
title: On the Efficiency of Quantum Algorithms for Hamiltonian Simulation
authors: Anargyros Papageorgiou, Chi Zhang
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1318
abstract: We study the efficiency of algorithms simulating a system evolving with Hamiltonian $H=\sum_{j=1}^m H_j$. We consider high order splitting methods that play a key role in quantum Hamiltonian simulation. We obtain upper bounds on the number of exponentials required to approximate $e^{-iHt}$ with error $\e$. Moreover, we derive the order of the splitting method that optimizes the cost of the resulting algorithm. We show significant speedups relative to previously known results.

id: 1005.1323
title: On the generalized Hartman effect and transmission time for a particle tunneling through two identical rectangular potential barriers
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 20 pages (new style files); one old figure and six new figures; purified and more detailed mathematical part; rewritten physical part
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1323
abstract: We develop a new quantum-mechanical approach to scattering a particle on a one-dimensional (1D) system of two identical rectangular potential barriers, which implies modelling the dynamics of its subprocesses -- transmission and reflection -- at all stages of scattering. On its basis we define, for each subprocess, the dwell time as well as the local (exact) and asymptotic (extrapolated) group times. Our concept of the asymptotic transmission group time confirms the validity of the Wigner phase time in the opaque limit, as well as the existence of the usual and generalized Hartman effects predicted on its basis. On the energy scale, this concept is valid everywhere in the high energy region as well as in the low energy region, excepting resonance points and their neighborhoods. On the contrary, the Buttiker dwell time is valid, as the transmission time, just only at the resonance points. Our concept of the transmission dwell time predicts monotonous growth of the tunneling time when the distance between the opaque barriers increases. By our approach only this time scale yields the true time spent, on average, by transmitted particles in the region occupied by the system. We explain why the asymptotic and local transmission group times cannot play this role and why the concept of {\it transmission group} velocity lies beyond the scope of special relativity. And else, all the transmission times admit only indirect measurements. Hence the unambiguous interpretation of all tunneling-time experiments is impossible when the transmission dynamics at all stages of scattering is unknown.

id: 1005.1348
title: A Theory of Quantum Preparation
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1348
abstract: Based on an analysis of two conventional preparators, the Stern-Gerlach and the hole-in-the-screen ones, it is argued that four entities can be taken as the basic ingredients of a rather general theory of a quantum preparator. These are the composite-system (object plus preparator) state coming about as a result of a suitable interaction between the subsystems, a suitable preparator projector called the triggering event, the conditional quantum state (density operator) of the quantum object coming about as a consequence of the occurrence of the triggering event on the preparator, and, finally, a unitary evolution operator of the object subsystem acting after preparation. The concepts of a general conditional state and of retrospective apparent ideal occurrence (which appears in the theory) are discussed in considerable detail. Ideal occurrence and the selective L\"{u}ders formula, which are made use of, are reviewed. Dynamical and geometrical preparators are distinguished in the general theory. They are described by the same entities in the same way, but in terms of different physical mechanisms from the point of view of standard interpretation with collapse.

id: 1005.1407
title: Classical simulation of commuting quantum computations implies collapse of the polynomial hierarchy
authors: Michael J. Bremner, Richard Jozsa, Dan J. Shepherd
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1407
abstract: We consider quantum computations comprising only commuting gates, known as IQP computations, and provide compelling evidence that the task of sampling their output probability distributions is unlikely to be achievable by any efficient classical means. More specifically we introduce the class post-IQP of languages decided with bounded error by uniform families of IQP circuits with post-selection, and prove first that post-IQP equals the classical class PP. Using this result we show that if the output distributions of uniform IQP circuit families could be classically efficiently sampled, even up to 41% multiplicative error in the probabilities, then the infinite tower of classical complexity classes known as the polynomial hierarchy, would collapse to its third level. We mention some further results on the classical simulation properties of IQP circuit families, in particular showing that if the output distribution results from measurements on only O(log n) lines then it may in fact be classically efficiently sampled.

id: 1005.1414
title: Relativistic Coulomb problem for Z larger than 137
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A25:3703-3714,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1414
abstract: We propose a relativistic one-parameter Hermitian theory for the Coulomb problem with an electric charge greater than 137. In the non-relativistic limit, the theory becomes identical to the Schr\"odinger-Coulomb problem for all Z. Moreover, it agrees with the Dirac-Coulomb problem to order (\alph Z)^2, where \alpha is the fine structure constant. The vacuum in the theory is stable and does not suffer from the "charged vacuum" problem for all Z. Moreover, transition between positive and negative energy states could be eliminated. The relativistic bound states energy spectrum and corresponding spinor wavefunctions are obtained.

id: 1005.1426
title: Experimental non-local generation of entanglement from independent sources
authors: Xian-Min Jin, J¨¹gen R?ch, Juan Yin, Tao Yang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. Vol. 26, No. 7(2009) 070302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1426
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a non-local generation of entanglement from two independent photonic sources in an ancilla-free process . Two bosons (photons) are entangled in polarization space by steering into a novel interferometer setup, in which they have never meet each other. The entangled photons are delivered to polarization analyzers in different sites, respectively, and a non-local interaction is observed. Entanglement is further verified by the way of the measured violation of a CHSH type Bell's inequality with S-values of 2.54 and 27 standard deviations. Our results will shine a new light into the understanding on how quantum mechanics works, have possible philosophic consequences on the one hand and provide an essential element for quantum information processing on the other hand. Potential applications of our results are briefly discussed.

id: 1005.1436
title: Light trapping in high-density ultracold atomic gases for quantum memory applications
authors: I.M. Sokolov, D.V. Kupriyanov, R.G. Olave, M.D. Havey
comments: Submitted to Journal of Modern Optics, Special 2010 PQE Issue
journal: J. Modern Optics 57, 1833 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1436
abstract: High-density and ultracold atomic gases have emerged as promising media for storage of individual photons for quantum memory applications. In this paper we provide an overview of our theoretical and experimental efforts in this direction, with particular attention paid to manipulation of light storage (a) through complex recurrent optical scattering processes in very high density gases (b) by an external control field in a characteristic electromagnetically induced transparency configuration.

id: 1005.1493
title: The quantum correlation between the selection of the problem and that of the solution sheds light on the mechanism of the quantum speed up
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli
comments: Earlier version submitted to QIP 2011. Further clarified section 1, "Outline of the argument", submitted to Phys Rev A, 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1493
abstract: In classical problem solving, there is of course correlation between the selection of the problem on the part of Bob (the problem setter) and that of the solution on the part of Alice (the problem solver). In quantum problem solving, this correlation becomes quantum. This means that Alice contributes to selecting 50% of the information that specifies the problem. As the solution is a function of the problem, this gives to Alice advanced knowledge of 50% of the information that specifies the solution. Both the quadratic and exponential speed ups are explained by the fact that quantum algorithms start from this advanced knowledge.

id: 1005.1576
title: Twin-Photon Confocal Microscopy
authors: D.S. Simon, A.V. Sergienko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1576
abstract: A recently introduced two-channel confocal microscope with correlated detection promises up to 50% improvement in transverse spatial resolution [Simon, Sergienko, Optics Express {\bf 18}, 9765 (2010)] via the use of photon correlations. Here we achieve similar results in a different manner, introducing a triple-confocal correlated microscope which exploits the correlations present in optical parametric amplifiers. It is based on tight focusing of pump radiation onto a thin sample positioned in front of a nonlinear crystal, followed by coincidence detection of signal and idler photons, each focused onto a pinhole. This approach offers further resolution enhancement in confocal microscopy.

id: 1005.1601
title: Reflections for quantum query algorithms
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 13 pages
journal: Proc. 22nd ACM-SIAM Symp. on Discrete Algorithms (SODA), 2011, pages 560-569
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1601
abstract: We show that any boolean function can be evaluated optimally by a quantum query algorithm that alternates a certain fixed, input-independent reflection with a second reflection that coherently queries the input string. Originally introduced for solving the unstructured search problem, this two-reflections structure is therefore a universal feature of quantum algorithms. Our proof goes via the general adversary bound, a semi-definite program (SDP) that lower-bounds the quantum query complexity of a function. By a quantum algorithm for evaluating span programs, this lower bound is known to be tight up to a sub-logarithmic factor. The extra factor comes from converting a continuous-time query algorithm into a discrete-query algorithm. We give a direct and simplified quantum algorithm based on the dual SDP, with a bounded-error query complexity that matches the general adversary bound. Therefore, the general adversary lower bound is tight; it is in fact an SDP for quantum query complexity. This implies that the quantum query complexity of the composition f(g,...,g) of two boolean functions f and g matches the product of the query complexities of f and g, without a logarithmic factor for error reduction. It further shows that span programs are equivalent to quantum query algorithms.

id: 1005.1604
title: Nakajima-Zwanzig versus time-convolutionless master equation for the non-Markovian dynamics of a two-level system
authors: Andrea Smirne, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022110 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1604
abstract: We consider the exact reduced dynamics of a two-level system coupled to a bosonic reservoir, further obtaining the exact time-convolutionless and Nakajima-Zwanzig non-Markovian equations of motion. The considered system includes the damped and undamped Jaynes-Cummings model. The result is obtained by exploiting an expression of quantum maps in terms of matrices and a simple relation between the time evolution map and time-convolutionless generator as well as Nakajima-Zwanzig memory kernel. This non-perturbative treatment shows that each operator contribution in Lindblad form appearing in the exact time-convolutionless master equation is multiplied by a different time dependent function. Similarly, in the Nakajima-Zwanzig master equation each such contribution is convoluted with a different memory kernel. It appears that depending on the state of the environment the operator structures of the two set of equations of motion can exhibit important differences.

id: 1005.1610
title: Transferring orbital and spin angular momenta of light to atoms
authors: Antonio Pic¨®n, Albert Benseny, Jordi Mompart, Javier R. V¨¢zquez de Aldana, Luis Plaja, Gabriel F. Calvo, Luis Roso
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 12 083053 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1610
abstract: Light beams carrying orbital angular momentum, such as Laguerre-Gaussian beams, give rise to the violation of the standard dipolar selection rules during the interaction with matter yielding, in general, an exchange of angular momentum larger than hbar per absorbed photon. By means of ab initio 3D numerical simulations, we investigate in detail the interaction of a hydrogen atom with intense Gaussian and Laguerre-Gaussian light pulses. We analyze the dependence of the angular momentum exchange with the polarization, the orbital angular momentum, and the carrier-envelope phase of light, as well as with the relative position between the atom and the light vortex. In addition, a quantum-trajectory approach based on the de Broglie-Bohm formulation of quantum mechanics is used to gain physical insight into the absorption of angular momentum by the hydrogen atom.

id: 1005.1620
title: State-independent quantum contextuality for continuous variables
authors: Angel R. Plastino, Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4-1, 5 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:022114,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1620
abstract: Recent experiments have shown that nature violates noncontextual inequalities regardless of the state of the physical system. So far, all these inequalities involve measurements of dichotomic observables. We show that state-independent quantum contextuality can also be observed in the correlations between measurements of observables with genuinely continuous spectra, highlighting the universal character of the effect.

id: 1005.1621
title: Reduce, reuse, recycle, for robust cluster state generation
authors: Clare Horsman, Katherine L. Brown, William J. Munro, Vivien M. Kendon
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; v2 significant update, results improved, typos and references fixed; v3 minor update in response to referee comments, figure added; v4 now 5.5 pages 3 figures, added section headings and more references; v5 minor corrections, updated references, close to publishers version; v6 correct formatting error and add journal reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042327 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1621
abstract: Efficient generation of cluster states is crucial for engineering large-scale measurement-based quantum computers. Hybrid matter-optical systems offer a robust, scalable path to this goal. Such systems have an ancilla which acts as a bus connecting the qubits. We show that by generating smaller cluster "Lego bricks", reusing one ancilla per brick, the cluster can be produced with maximal efficiency, requiring fewer than half the operations compared with no bus reuse. By reducing the time required to prepare sections of the cluster, bus reuse more than doubles the size of the computational workspace that can be used before decoherence effects dominate. A row of buses in parallel provides fully scalable cluster state generation requiring only 20 CPhase gates per bus use.

id: 1005.1630
title: Casimir-Foucault interaction: Free energy and entropy at low temperature
authors: F. Intravaia, Simen ?. Ellingsen, C. Henkel
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:032504,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1630
abstract: It was recently found that thermodynamic anomalies which arise in the Casimir effect between metals described by the Drude model can be attributed to the interaction of fluctuating Foucault (or eddy) currents [Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 130405 (2009)]. We show explicitly that the two leading terms of the low-temperature correction to the Casimir free energy of interaction between two plates, are identical to those pertaining to the Foucault current interaction alone, up to a correction which is very small for good metals. Moreover, a mode density along real frequencies is introduced, showing that the Casimir free energy, as given by the Lifshitz theory, separates in a natural manner in contributions from eddy currents and propagating cavity modes, respectively. The latter have long been known to be of little importance to the low-temperature Casimir anomalies. This convincingly demonstrates that eddy current modes are responsible for the large temperature correction to the Casimir effect between Drude metals, predicted by the Lifshitz theory, but not observed in experiments.

id: 1005.1656
title: Derivation of Bell's locality condition from the relativity of simultaneity
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 8 pages. In version 2, it is acknowledged that Nicolas Gisin published essentially the same idea somewhat earlier in arXiv:quant-ph/1002.1392
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1656
abstract: One way to deal with the fact that many versions of reality simultanenously exist in the wave function is to suppose there are hidden variables that single out one version for perception. Bell showed theoretically and the Aspect experiment confirmed that there could be no hidden variable theory which satisfied a locality condition. We show here that the locality condition can be derived from the well-established principle of the relativity of simultaneity. Thus virtually all hidden variable theories, not just obviously local ones, are in conflict with the results of the Aspect experiment and are therefore forbidden.

id: 1005.1665
title: Directly estimating non-classicality
authors: A. Mari, K. Kieling, B. Melholt Nielsen, E. S. Polzik, J. Eisert
comments: 4+1 pages, 2 figures, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 010403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1665
abstract: We establish a method of directly measuring and estimating non-classicality - operationally defined in terms of the distinguishability of a given state from one with a positive Wigner function. It allows to certify non-classicality, based on possibly much fewer measurement settings than necessary for obtaining complete tomographic knowledge, and is at the same time equipped with a full certificate. We find that even from measuring two conjugate variables alone, one may infer the non-classicality of quantum mechanical modes. This method also provides a practical tool to eventually certify such features in mechanical degrees of freedom in opto-mechanics. The proof of the result is based on Bochner's theorem characterizing classical and quantum characteristic functions and on semi-definite programming. In this joint theoretical-experimental work we present data from experimental optical Fock state preparation, demonstrating the functioning of the approach.

id: 1005.1666
title: Universal Quantum Computation Using Continuous Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Felipe F. Fanchini, Reginaldo d. J. Napolitano, Amir O. Caldeira
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1666
abstract: We show, for the first time, that continuous dynamical decoupling can preserve the coherence of a two-qubit state as it evolves during a SWAP quantum operation. Hence, because the Heisenberg exchange interaction alone can be used for achieving universal quantum computation, its combination with continuous dynamical decoupling can also make the computation robust against general environmental perturbations. Furthermore, since the exchange-interaction Hamiltonian is invariant under rotations, the same control-field arrangement used to protect a stationary quantum-memory state can also preserve the coherence of the driven qubits. The simplicity of the required control fields greatly improves prospects for an experimental realization.

id: 1005.1750
title: Position-Based Quantum Cryptography
authors: Nishanth Chandran, Serge Fehr, Ran Gelles, Vipul Goyal, Rafail Ostrovsky
comments: The paper arXiv:1009.2490 supersedes this paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1750
abstract: This paper is replaced by arXiv:1009.2490. The new paper includes a general impossibility result and restricted possibility results, and it has two additional authors.

id: 1005.1813
title: Finite temperature quantum statistics of H$_3^+$ molecular ion
authors: Ilkka Kyl?np??, Tapio T. Rantala
comments: submitted to the Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics 133, 044312 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1813
abstract: Full quantum statistical $NVT$ simulation of the five-particle system H$_3^+$ has been carried out using the path integral Monte Carlo method. Structure and energetics is evaluated as a function of temperature up to the thermal dissociation limit. The weakly density dependent dissociation temperature is found to be around $4000$ K. Contributions from the quantum dynamics and thermal motion are sorted out by comparing differences between simulations with quantum and classical nuclei. The essential role of the quantum description of the protons is established.

id: 1005.1823
title: Perturbation Theory Based on Darboux Transformation on One-Dimensional Dirac Equation in Quantum Computation
authors: Agung Trisetyarso
comments: 2 pages, 3 figures Information and Communication Technology (ICoICT), 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1823
abstract: We present the recent works \cite{trisetyarso2011} on the application of Darboux transformation on one-dimensional Dirac equation related to the field of Quantum Information and Computation (QIC). The representation of physical system in one-dimensional equation and its transformation due to the Bagrov, Baldiotti, Gitman, and Shamshutdinova (BBGS)-Darboux transformation showing the possibility admitting the concept of relativity and the trade-off of concurrent condition of quantum and classical physics play into the area of QIC. The applications in cavity quantum electrodynamics and on the proposal of quantum transistor are presented.

id: 1005.1849
title: Constrained Quantum Systems as an Adiabatic Problem
authors: Jakob Wachsmuth, Stefan Teufel
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022112 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1849
abstract: We derive the effective Hamiltonian for a quantum system constrained to a submanifold (the constraint manifold) of configuration space (the ambient space) in the asymptotic limit where the restoring forces tend to infinity. In contrast to earlier works we consider at the same time the effects of variations in the constraining potential and the effects of interior and exterior geometry which appear at different energy scales and thus provide, for the first time, a complete picture ranging over all interesting energy scales. We show that the leading order contribution to the effective Hamiltonian is the adiabatic potential given by an eigenvalue of the confining potential well-known in the context of adiabatic quantum wave guides. At next to leading order we see effects from the variation of the normal eigenfunctions in form of a Berry connection. We apply our results to quantum wave guides and provide an example for the occurrence of a topological phase due to the geometry of a quantum wave circuit, i.e. a closed quantum wave guide.

id: 1005.1903
title: Complexity analysis of Klein-Gordon single-particle systems
authors: Daniel Manzano, Sheila L¨®pez-Rosa, Jes¨²s S¨¢nchez-Dehesa
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, Accepted in EPL (Europhysics Letters)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1903
abstract: The Fisher-Shannon complexity is used to quantitatively estimate the contribution of relativistic effects to on the internal disorder of Klein-Gordon single-particle Coulomb systems which is manifest in the rich variety of three-dimensional geometries of its corresponding quantum-mechanical probability density. It is observed that, contrary to the non-relativistic case, the Fisher-Shannon complexity of these relativistic systems does depend on the potential strength (nuclear charge). This is numerically illustrated for pionic atoms. Moreover, its variation with the quantum numbers (n, l, m) is analysed in various ground and excited states. It is found that the relativistic effects enhance when n and/or l are decreasing.

id: 1005.1922
title: Enhanced and reduced atom number fluctuations in a BEC splitter
authors: Kenneth Maussang, G. Edward Marti, Tobias Schneider, Philipp Treutlein, Yun Li, Alice Sinatra, Romain Long, J¨¦r?me Est¨¨ve, Jakob Reichel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1922
abstract: We measure atom number statistics after splitting a gas of ultracold 87Rb atoms in a purely magnetic double-well potential created on an atom chip. Well below the critical temperature for Bose-Einstein condensation T_c, we observe reduced fluctuations down to -4.9dB below the atom shot noise level. Fluctuations rise to more than +3.8dB close to T_c, before reaching the shot noise level for higher temperatures. We use two-mode and classical field simulations to model these results. This allows us to confirm that the super-shot noise fluctuations directly originate from quantum statistics.

id: 1005.1945
title: Entanglement without Dissipation: A Touchstone for an exact Comparison of Entanglement Measures
authors: G. W. Ford, Yang Gao, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Optics Communications 283,831 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1945
abstract: Entanglement, which is an essential characteristic of quantum mechanics, is the key element in potential practical quantum information and quantum communication systems. However, there are many open and fundamental questions (relating to entanglement measures, sudden death, etc.) that require a deeper understanding. Thus, we are motivated to investigate a simple but non-trivial correlated two-body continuous variable system in the absence of a heat bath, which facilitates an \underline{exact} measure of the entanglement at all times. In particular, we find that the results obtained from all well-known existing entanglement measures agree with each other but that, in practice, some are more straightforward to use than others.

id: 1005.1965
title: Experimental multiparticle entanglement dynamics induced by decoherence
authors: J. T. Barreiro, P. Schindler, O. G¨¹hne, T. Monz, M. Chwalla, C. F. Roos, M. Hennrich, R. Blatt
comments: For a simultaneously submitted related work see arXiv:1005.1258
journal: Nature Physics 6, 943 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1965
abstract: Multiparticle entanglement leads to richer correlations than two-particle entanglement and gives rise to striking contradictions with local realism, inequivalent classes of entanglement, and applications such as one-way or topological quantum computing. When exposed to decohering or dissipative environments, multiparticle entanglement yields subtle dynamical features and access to new classes of states and applications. Here, using a string of trapped ions, we experimentally characterize the dynamics of entanglement of a multiparticle state under the influence of decoherence. By embedding an entangled state of four qubits in a decohering environment (via spontaneous decay), we observe a rich dynamics crossing distinctive domains: Bell-inequality violation, entanglement superactivation, bound entanglement, and full separability. We also develop new theoretical tools for characterizing entanglement in quantum states. Our techniques to control the environment can be used to enable novel quantum-computation, state-engineering, and simulation paradigms based on dissipation and decoherence.

id: 1005.1975
title: Public Quantum Communication and Superactivation
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brand?o, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 10 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Info. Theo. 59, 2517 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1975
abstract: Is there a meaningful quantum counterpart to public communication? We argue that the symmetric-side channel -- which distributes quantum information symmetrically between the receiver and the environment -- is a good candidate for a notion of public quantum communication in entanglement distillation and quantum error correction. This connection is partially motivated by [Brand\~ao and Oppenheim, arXiv:1004.3328], where it was found that if a sender would like to communicate a secret message to a receiver through an insecure quantum channel using a shared quantum state as a key, then the insecure quantum channel is only ever used to simulate a symmetric-side channel, and can always be replaced by it without altering the optimal rate. Here we further show, in complete analogy to the role of public classical communication, that assistance by a symmetric-side channel makes equal the distillable entanglement, the recently-introduced mutual independence, and a generalization of the latter, which quantifies the extent to which one of the parties can perform quantum privacy amplification. Symmetric-side channels, and the closely related erasure channel, have been recently harnessed to provide examples of superactivation of the quantum channel capacity. Our findings give new insight into this non-additivity of the channel capacity and its relation to quantum privacy. In particular, we show that single-copy superactivation protocols with the erasure channel, which encompasses all examples of non-additivity of the quantum capacity found to date, can be understood as a conversion of mutual independence into distillable entanglement.

id: 1005.1997
title: On the geometry and invariants of qubits, quartits and octits
authors: Michel Planat
comments: version to be published in International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics (IJGMMP)
journal: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics 8, 2 (2011) 303-313
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1997
abstract: Four level quantum systems, known as quartits, and their relation to two- qubit systems are investigated group theoretically. Following the spirit of Klein's lectures on the icosahedron and their relation to Hopf sphere bra- tions, invariants of complex re ection groups occuring in the theory of qubits and quartits are displayed. Then, real gates over octits leading to the Weyl group of E8 and its invariants are derived. Even multilevel systems are of interest in the context of solid state nuclear magnetic resonance.

id: 1005.2045
title: Decoherence as attenuation of mesoscopic echoes in a spin-chain channel
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Ernesto P. Danieli, Patricia R. Levstein, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012310 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2045
abstract: An initial local excitation in a confined quantum system evolves exploring the whole system, returning to the initial position as a mesoscopic echo at the Heisenberg time. We consider a two weakly coupled spin chains, a spin ladder, where one is a quantum channel while the other represents an environment. We quantify decoherence in the quantum channel through the attenuation of the mesoscopic echoes. We evaluate decoherence rates for different ratios between sources of amplitude fluctuation and dephasing in the inter-chain interaction Hamiltonian. The many-body dynamics is seen as a one-body evolution with a decoherence rate given by the Fermi golden rule.

id: 1005.2083
title: Concurrence for a two-qubits mixed state consisting of three pure states in the framework of SU(2) coherent states
authors: S. Salimi, A. Mohammadzade, K. Berrada
comments: 17 page, 1 figure
journal: Quantum Inf Process 11(2012) 501-518
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2083
abstract: A simplified expression of concurrence for two-qubit mixed state having no more than three non-vanishing eigenvalues is obtained. Basing on SU(2) coherent states, the amount of entanglement of two-qubit pure states is studied and conditions for entanglement are calculated by formulating the measure in terms of some new parameters (amplitudes of coherent states). This formalism is generalized to the case of two-qubit mixed states using the simplified expression of concurrence.

id: 1005.2112
title: Coherent excitation-energy transfer and quantum entanglement in a dimer
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, Jin-Feng Huang, Le-Man Kuang, C. P. Sun
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052109 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2112
abstract: We study coherent energy transfer of a single excitation and quantum entanglement in a dimer, which consists of a donor and an acceptor modeled by two two-level systems. Between the donor and the acceptor, there exists a dipole-dipole interaction, which provides the physical mechanism for coherent energy transfer and entanglement generation. The donor and the acceptor couple to two independent heat baths with diagonal couplings that do not dissipate the energy of the non-coupling dimer. Special attention is paid to the effect on single-excitation energy transfer and entanglement generation of the energy detuning between the donor and the acceptor and the temperatures of the two heat baths. It is found that, the probability for single-excitation energy transfer largely depends on the energy detuning in the low temperature limit. Concretely, the positive and negative energy detunings can increase and decrease the probability at the steady state, respectively. In the high temperature limit, however, the effect of the energy detuning on the probability is neglectably small. We also find that the probability is neglectably dependent on the bath temperature difference of the two heat baths. In addition, it is found that quantum entanglement can be generated in the process of coherent energy transfer. As the bath temperature increases, the generated steady state entanglement decreases. For a given bath temperature, the steady-state entanglement decreases with the increasing of the absolute value of the energy detuning.

id: 1005.2114
title: Generating maximal entanglement between non-interacting atoms by collective decay and symmetry breaking
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Sophie G. Schirmer
comments: just over 4 pages, 6 figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2114
abstract: A simple scheme is presented for achieving effectively maximal pure-state entanglement between non-interacting atoms through purely collective decay and controlled symmetry breaking. The scheme requires no measurements or feedback or even knowledge of the initial states of the atoms. It relies on breaking the symmetry of the system Hamiltonian to ensure the existence of a unique attractive steady state and minimal control to achieve almost perfect overlap of this steady state with the maximally entangled singlet state. We demonstrate how our scheme can be implemented for two qubits encoded in hyperfine levels of atoms such as Rubidium in a lossy microwave cavity using only small magnetic field gradient. Error analysis suggests considerable robustness with regard to many imperfections including atomic decay, asymmetric atom-cavity coupling and frequency offsets.

id: 1005.2153
title: Coherent excitation of a single atom to a Rydberg state
authors: Y. Miroshnychenko, A. Ga?tan, C. Evellin, P. Grangier, D. Comparat, P. Pillet, T. Wilk, A. Browaeys
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013405 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2153
abstract: We present the coherent excitation of a single Rubidium atom to the Rydberg state (58d3/2) using a two-photon transition. The experimental setup is described in detail, as well as experimental techniques and procedures. The coherence of the excitation is revealed by observing Rabi oscillations between ground and Rydberg states of the atom. We analyze the observed oscillations in detail and compare them to numerical simulations which include imperfections of our experimental system. Strategies for future improvements on the coherent manipulation of a single atom in our settings are given.

id: 1005.2204
title: Deterministic coupling of a single nitrogen vacancy center to a photonic crystal cavity
authors: Dirk Englund, Brendan Shields, Kelley Rivoire, Fariba Hatami, Jelena Vuckovic, Hongkun Park, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2204
abstract: We describe and experimentally demonstrate a technique for deterministic coupling between a photonic crystal (PC) nanocavity and single emitters. The technique is based on in-situ scanning of a PC cavity over a sample and allows the positioning of the cavity over a desired emitter with nanoscale resolution. The power of the technique, which we term a Scanning Cavity Microscope (SCM), is demonstrated by coupling the PC nanocavity to a single nitrogen vacancy (NV) center in diamond, an emitter system that provides optically accessible electron and nuclear spin qubits.

id: 1005.2208
title: Bell inequalities for Continuous-Variable Measurements
authors: Q. Y. He, E. G. Cavalcanti, M. D. Reid, P. D. Drummond
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2208
abstract: Tests of local hidden variable theories using measurements with continuous variable (CV) outcomes are developed, and a comparison of different methods is presented. As examples, we focus on multipartite entangled GHZ and cluster states. We suggest a physical process that produces the states proposed here, and investigate experiments both with and without binning of the continuous variable. In the former case, the Mermin-Klyshko inequalities can be used directly. For unbinned outcomes, the moment-based CFRD inequalities are extended to functional inequalities by considering arbitrary functions of the measurements at each site. By optimising these functions, we obtain more robust violations of local hidden variable theories than with either binning or moments. Recent inequalities based on the algebra of quaternions and octonions are compared with these methods. Since the prime advantage of CV experiments is to provide a route to highly efficient detection via homodyne measurements, we analyse the effect of noise and detection losses in both binned and unbinned cases. The CV moment inequalities with an optimal function have greater robustness to both loss and noise. This could permit a loophole-free test of Bell inequalities.

id: 1005.2219
title: Closed timelike curves via post-selection: theory and experimental demonstration
authors: Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Raul Garcia-Patron, Vittorio Giovannetti, Yutaka Shikano, Stefano Pirandola, Lee A. Rozema, Ardavan Darabi, Yasaman Soudagar, Lynden K. Shalm, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:040403,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2219
abstract: Closed timelike curves (CTCs) are trajectories in spacetime that effectively travel backwards in time: a test particle following a CTC can in principle interact with its former self in the past. CTCs appear in many solutions of Einstein's field equations and any future quantum version of general relativity will have to reconcile them with the requirements of quantum mechanics and of quantum field theory. A widely accepted quantum theory of CTCs was proposed by Deutsch. Here we explore an alternative quantum formulation of CTCs and show that it is physically inequivalent to Deutsch's. Because it is based on combining quantum teleportation with post-selection, the predictions/retrodictions of our theory are experimentally testable: we report the results of an experiment demonstrating our theory's resolution of the well-known `grandfather paradox.

id: 1005.2242
title: Quantum measures and the coevent interpretation
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: one file submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2242
abstract: This paper first reviews quantum measure and integration theory. A new representation of the quantum integral is presented. This representation is illustrated by computing some quantum (Lebesgue)${}^2$ integrals. The rest of the paper only considers finite spaces. Anhomomorphic logics are discussed and the classical domain of a coevent is studied. Pure quantum measures and coevents are considered and it is shown that pure quantum measures are strictly contained in the extremal elements for the set of quantum measures bounded above by one. Moreover, we prove that any quantum measure on a finite event space $\ascript$ can be transferred to an ordinary measure on an anhomomorphic logic $\ascript ^*$. In this way, the quantum dynamics on $\ascript$ can be described by a classical dynamics on the larger space $\ascript ^*$.

id: 1005.2274
title: Multi-Atomic Mirror for Perfect Reflection of Single Photons in A Wide Band of Frequency
authors: Yue Chang, Z. R. Gong, C. P. Sun
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2274
abstract: A resonant two level atom doped in one dimensional waveguide behaves as a mirror, but this single-atom "mirror" can only reflect single photon perfectly at a specific frequency. For a one dimensional coupled-resonator waveguide, we propose to extend the perfect reflection region from a specific frequency to a wide band by placing many atoms individually in the resonators in a finite coordinate region of the waveguide. Such a doped resonator array promises us to control the propagation of a practical photon wave packet with certain momentum distribution instead of a single photon, which is ideally represented by a plane wave with specific momentum. The studies based on the discrete-coordinate scattering theory display that such hybrid structure indeed provides a near-perfect reflection for single photon in a wide band. We also calculated photon group velocity distribution, which shows that the perfect reflection with wide band exactly corresponds to the stopping light region.

id: 1005.2291
title: Efficiency in Quantum Key Distribution Protocols using entangled Gaussian states
authors: Carles Rod¨®
comments: Master Thesis in Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2291
abstract: Efficiency is a key issue in any real implementation of a cryptographic protocol since the physical resources are not unlimited. We will first show that Quantum Key Distribution is possible with an "Entanglement based" scheme with NPPT symmetric Gaussian states in spite of the fact that these systems cannot be distilled with Gaussian operations (they are all bound entangled). In this work we analyze the secrecy properties of Gaussian states under Gaussian operations. Although such operations are useless for quantum distillation, we prove that it is possible to distill efficiently a secret key secure against finite coherent attacks from sufficiently entangled Gaussian states with non-positive partial transposition. Moreover, all such states allow for efficient key distillation, when the eavesdropper is assumed to perform individual attacks before in an efficient way.

id: 1005.2351
title: Visualisation of an entangled channel spin-1 system
authors: Swarnamala Sirsi, Veena Adiga
comments: 4 pages,4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.C 82: 027601, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2351
abstract: Co-variance matrix formalism gives powerful entanglement criteria for continuous as well as finite dimensional systems. We use this formalism to study a mixed channel spin-1 system which is well known in nuclear reactions. A spin-j state can be visualized as being made up of 2j spinors which are represented by a constellation of 2j points on a Bloch sphere using Majorana construction. We extend this formalism to visualize an entangled mixed spin-1 system.

id: 1005.2357
title: Entropic Dynamics, Time and Quantum Theory
authors: Ariel Caticha
comments: 29 pages
journal: J.Phys.A44:225303,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2357
abstract: Quantum mechanics is derived as an application of the method of maximum entropy. No appeal is made to any underlying classical action principle whether deterministic or stochastic. Instead, the basic assumption is that in addition to the particles of interest x there exist extra variables y whose entropy S(x) depends on x. The Schr\"odinger equation follows from their coupled dynamics: the entropy S(x) drives the dynamics of the particles x while they in their turn determine the evolution of S(x). In this "entropic dynamics" time is introduced as a device to keep track of change. A welcome feature of such an entropic time is that it naturally incorporates an arrow of time. Both the magnitude and the phase of the wave function are given statistical interpretations: the magnitude gives the distribution of x in agreement with the usual Born rule and the phase carries information about the entropy S(x) of the extra variables. Extending the model to include external electromagnetic fields yields further insight into the nature of the quantum phase.

id: 1005.2358
title: The $¦Ö^2$ - divergence and Mixing times of quantum Markov processes
authors: K. Temme, M. J. Kastoryano, M. B. Ruskai, M. M. Wolf, F. Verstraete
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 122201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2358
abstract: We introduce quantum versions of the $\chi^2$-divergence, provide a detailed analysis of their properties, and apply them in the investigation of mixing times of quantum Markov processes. An approach similar to the one presented in [1-3] for classical Markov chains is taken to bound the trace-distance from the steady state of a quantum processes. A strict spectral bound to the convergence rate can be given for time-discrete as well as for time-continuous quantum Markov processes. Furthermore the contractive behavior of the $\chi^2$-divergence under the action of a completely positive map is investigated and contrasted to the contraction of the trace norm. In this context we analyse different versions of quantum detailed balance and, finally, give a geometric conductance bound to the convergence rate for unital quantum Markov processes.

id: 1005.2376
title: Experimental demonstration of phase-remapping attack in a practical quantum key distribution system
authors: Feihu Xu, Bing Qi, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 113026
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2376
abstract: Unconditional security proofs of various quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols are built on idealized assumptions. One key assumption is: the sender (Alice) can prepare the required quantum states without errors. However, such an assumption may be violated in a practical QKD system. In this paper, we experimentally demonstrate a technically feasible "intercept-and-resend" attack that exploits such a security loophole in a commercial "plug & play" QKD system. The resulting quantum bit error rate is 19.7%, which is below the proven secure bound of 20.0% for the BB84 protocol. The attack we utilize is the phase-remapping attack (C.-H. F. Fung, et al., Phys. Rev. A, 75, 32314, 2007) proposed by our group.

id: 1005.2402
title: A variant of Peres-Mermin proof for testing noncontextual realist models
authors: Alok Kumar Pan
comments: 3 pages, To be published in Euro. Phys. Lett
journal: Europhysics Letters., 90, 40002 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2402
abstract: For any state in four-dimensional system, the quantum violation of an inequality based on the Peres-Mermin proof for testing noncontextual realist models has experimentally been corroborated. In the Peres-Mermin proof, an array of nine holistic observables for two two-qubit system was used. We, in this letter, present a new symmetric set of observables for the same system which also provides a contradiction of quantum mechanics with noncontextual realist models in a state-independent way. The whole argument can also be cast in the form of a new inequality that can be empirically tested.

id: 1005.2420
title: Comment on "Inequivalence between the Schrodinger equation and the Madelung hydrodynamic equations"
authors: Vel Hushwater
comments: Paper was shortened - only one method of the proof was left. Presentation was improved, some notations were corrected. Note [4] was improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2420
abstract: In the paper with the above-noted title, T. C. Wallstrom claims that the description of the particle's motion as a certain "conservative" diffusion is not equivalent to quantum mechanics in spite of the fact that the Madelung "hydrodynamic" equations, which provide the description of such a diffusion, can be converted to the Schroedinger equation. He pointed out that such a stochastic theory can be regarded as equivalent to conventional quantum mechanics only if they can derive from it not just the Madelung equations but also the condition that the circulation of the "probability fluid" is always quantized, which is equivalent the condition for the single-valuedness of the wave function. We, however, show that the single-valuedness of the wave function required in quantum mechanics, is not an auxiliary condition but a property of all local solutions of the Schrodinger equation. Based on the one-to-one correspondence between local solutions of the Schroedinger and the Madelung equations this means that the quantization of the circulation of the "probability fluid" is a property of all solutions of the Madelung equations.

id: 1005.2438
title: Revisiting consistency conditions for quantum states of systems on closed timelike curves: an epistemic perspective
authors: Joel J. Wallman, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, comments welcome; v2 added references and clarified some points; v3 published version
journal: Found. Phys. 42, 656-673 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2438
abstract: There has been considerable recent interest in the consequences of closed timelike curves (CTCs) for the dynamics of quantum mechanical systems. A vast majority of research into this area makes use of the dynamical equations developed by Deutsch, which were developed from a consistency condition that assumes that mixed quantum states uniquely describe the physical state of a system. We criticise this choice of consistency condition from an epistemic perspective, i.e., a perspective in which the quantum state represents a state of knowledge about a system. We demonstrate that directly applying Deutsch's condition when mixed states are treated as representing an observer's knowledge of a system can conceal time travel paradoxes from the observer, rather than resolving them. To shed further light on the appropriate dynamics for quantum systems traversing CTCs, we make use of a toy epistemic theory with a strictly classical ontology due to Spekkens and show that, in contrast to the results of Deutsch, many of the traditional paradoxical effects of time travel are present.

id: 1005.2446
title: Lyapunov Control on Quantum Open System in Decoherence-free Subspaces
authors: W. Wang, L. C. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: PRA 82,034308 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2446
abstract: A scheme to drive and manipulate a finite-dimensional quantum system in the decoherence-free subspaces(DFS) by Lyapunov control is proposed. Control fields are established by Lyapunov function. This proposal can drive the open quantum system into the DFS and manipulate it to any desired eigenstate of the free Hamiltonian. An example which consists of a four-level system with three long-lived states driven by two lasers is presented to exemplify the scheme. We have performed numerical simulations for the dynamics of the four-level system, which show that the scheme works good.

id: 1005.2448
title: Quantum probabilities: an information-theoretic interpretation
authors: Jeffrey Bub
comments: 32 pages, 1 figure, forthcoming in Stephan Hartmann and Claus Beisbart (eds.), Probabilities in Physics (Oxford University Press, 2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2448
abstract: This Chapter develops a realist information-theoretic interpretation of the nonclassical features of quantum probabilities. On this view, what is fundamental in the transition from classical to quantum physics is the recognition that \emph{information in the physical sense has new structural features}, just as the transition from classical to relativistic physics rests on the recognition that space-time is structurally different than we thought. Hilbert space, the event space of quantum systems, is interpreted as a kinematic (i.e., pre-dynamic) framework for an indeterministic physics, in the sense that the geometric structure of Hilbert space imposes objective probabilistic or information-theoretic constraints on correlations between events, just as the geometric structure of Minkowski space in special relativity imposes spatio-temporal kinematic constraints on events. The interpretation of quantum probabilities is more subjectivist in spirit than other discussions in this book (e.g., the chapter by Timpson), insofar as the quantum state is interpreted as a credence function---a bookkeeping device for keeping track of probabilities---but it is also objective (or intersubjective), insofar as the credences specified by the quantum state are understood as uniquely determined, via Gleason's theorem, by objective correlational constraints on events in the nonclassical quantum event space defined by the subspace structure of Hilbert space.

id: 1005.2449
title: Quantum computation and pseudo-telepathic games
authors: Jeffrey Bub
comments: 13 pages
journal: Philosophy of Science 75, 458-472 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2449
abstract: A quantum algorithm succeeds not because the superposition principle allows 'the computation of all values of a function at once' via 'quantum parallelism,' but rather because the structure of a quantum state space allows new sorts of correlations associated with entanglement, with new possibilities for information-processing transformations between correlations, that are not possible in a classical state space. I illustrate this with an elementary example of a problem for which a quantum algorithm is more efficient than any classical algorithm. I also introduce the notion of 'pseudo-telepathic' games and show how the difference between classical and quantum correlations plays a similar role here for games that can be won by quantum players exploiting entanglement, but not by classical players whose only allowed common resource consists of shared strings of random numbers (common causes of the players' correlated responses in a game).

id: 1005.2456
title: Fault tolerant quantum computation with very high threshold for loss errors
authors: Sean D. Barrett, Thomas M. Stace
comments: 4 pages, comments still very welcome. v2 is a reasonable approximation to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 200502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2456
abstract: Many proposals for fault tolerant quantum computation (FTQC) suffer detectable loss processes. Here we show that topological FTQC schemes, which are known to have high error thresholds, are also extremely robust against losses. We demonstrate that these schemes tolerate loss rates up to 24.9%, determined by bond percolation on a cubic lattice. Our numerical results show that these schemes retain good performance when loss and computational errors are simultaneously present.

id: 1005.2467
title: Entangling power and local invariants of two-qubit gates
authors: S Balakrishnan, R Sankaranarayanan
comments: Brief report
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 034301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2467
abstract: We show a simple relation connecting entangling power and local invariants of two-qubit gates. From the relation, a general condition under which gates have same entangling power is arrived. The relation also helps in finding the lower bound of entangling power for perfect entanglers, from which the classification of gates as perfect and nonperfect entanglers is obtained in terms of local invariants.

id: 1005.2470
title: Joint quantum nondemolition measurements of qubits: beyond the mean-field theory
authors: L. F. Wei, J. S. Huang, X. L. Feng, Z. D. Wang, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2470
abstract: We propose an approach to nondestructively detect $N$ qubits by measuring the transmissions of a dispersively-coupled cavity. By taking into account all the cavity-qubits quantum correlations (i.e., beyond the usual coarse-grained/mean-field approximations), it is revealed that for an unknown normalized $N$-qubit state $|\psi_N>=\sum_{k=0}^{2^N-1}\beta_k|k>_N$, each detected peak in the cavity transmitted spectra marks one of the basis states $|k>_N$ and the relative height of such a peak is related to the corresponding superposed-probability $|\beta_k|^2$. Our results are able to unambiguously account for the intriguing multi-peak structures of the spectra observed in a very recent circuit-quantum-electrodynamics experiment [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 81}, 062325 (2010)] with two superconducting qubits.

id: 1005.2485
title: Thermal Casimir-Polder shifts in Rydberg atoms near metallic surfaces
authors: J. A. Crosse, Simen ?. Ellingsen, Kate Clements, Stefan Y. Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: Updated to journal version with corrected figures. 4 Pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 82, 010901(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2485
abstract: The Casimir-Polder (CP) potential and transition rates of a Rydberg atom above a plane metal surface at finite temperature are discussed. As an example, the CP potential and transition rates of a rubidium atom above a copper surface at room temperature is computed. Close to the surface we show that the quadrupole correction to the force is significant and increases with increasing principal quantum number n. For both the CP potential and decay rates one finds that the dominant contribution comes from the longest wavelength transition and the potential is independent of temperature. We provide explicit scaling laws for potential and decay rates as functions of atom-surface distance and principal quantum number of the initial Rydberg state.

id: 1005.2503
title: Quantum Key Distribution over Probabilistic Quantum Repeaters
authors: Jeyran Amirloo, Mohsen Razavi, A. Hamed Majedi
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures; Fig. 5(a) is replaced
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2503
abstract: A feasible route towards implementing long-distance quantum key distribution (QKD) systems relies on probabilistic schemes for entanglement distribution and swapping as proposed in the work of Duan, Lukin, Cirac, and Zoller (DLCZ) [Nature 414, 413 (2001)]. Here, we calculate the conditional throughput and fidelity of entanglement for DLCZ quantum repeaters, by accounting for the DLCZ self-purification property, in the presence of multiple excitations in the ensemble memories as well as loss and other sources of inefficiency in the channel and measurement modules. We then use our results to find the generation rate of secure key bits for QKD systems that rely on DLCZ quantum repeaters. We compare the key generation rate per logical memory employed in the two cases of with and without a repeater node. We find the cross-over distance beyond which the repeater system outperforms the non-repeater one. That provides us with the optimum inter-node distancing in quantum repeater systems. We also find the optimal excitation probability at which the QKD rate peaks. Such an optimum probability, in most regimes of interest, is insensitive to the total distance.

id: 1005.2559
title: Multipartite entangled states with two bosonic modes and qubits
authors: P. P. Munhoz, F. L. Semi?o
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX 4.1, BibTeX, final version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 59, 509 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2559
abstract: We theoretically investigate the role of different phases of coupling constants in the dynamics of atoms and two cavity modes, observing deterministic generation of prototype or hybrid Bell, W, GHZ, and cluster states. Commonly induced dipole-dipole interactions (far-off resonance) are inhibited between particular pairs of qubits under suitable choice of those phases. We evaluate the generation fidelities when imperfections such as dissipative environments and time precision errors are considered. We show violation of local realism for the generated cluster state under such imperfections, even when approaching the weak coupling regime.

id: 1005.2571
title: Spin State Transfer in Laterally Coupled Quantum Dot Chains with Disorders
authors: Song Yang, Abolfazl Bayat, Sougato Bose
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures. Comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022336 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2571
abstract: Quantum dot arrays are a promising media for transferring quantum information between two distant points without resorting to mobile qubits. Here we study two most common disorders namely, hyperfine interaction and exchange coupling fluctuations, in quantum dot arrays and their effects on quantum communication through these chains. Our results show that the hyperfine interaction is more destructive than the exchange coupling fluctuations. The average optimal time for communication is not affected by any disorder in the system and our simulations show that anti-ferromagnetic chains are much more resistive than the ferromagnetic ones against both kind of disorders. Even when time modulation of a coupling and optimal control is employed to improve the transmission, the anti-ferromagnetic chain performs much better. We have assumed the quasi-static approximation for hyperfine interaction and time dependent fluctuations in the exchange couplings. Particularly, for studying exchange coupling fluctuations we have considered the static disorder, white noise and $1/f$ noise.

id: 1005.2579
title: Symmetry-enhanced supertransfer of delocalized quantum states
authors: Seth Lloyd, Masoud Mohseni
comments: 6 pages
journal: New Journal of Physics 12, 075020 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2579
abstract: Coherent hopping of excitation rely on quantum coherence over physically extended states. In this work, we consider simple models to examine the effect of symmetries of delocalized multi-excitation states on the dynamical timescales, including hopping rates, radiative decay, and environmental interactions. While the decoherence (pure dephasing) rate of an extended state over N sites is comparable to that of a non-extended state, superradiance leads to a factor of N enhancement in decay and absorption rates. In addition to superradiance, we illustrate how the multi-excitonic states exhibit `supertransfer' in the far-field regime: hopping from a symmetrized state over N sites to a symmetrized state over M sites at a rate proportional to MN. We argue that such symmetries could play an operational role in physical systems based on the competition between symmetry-enhanced interactions and localized inhomogeneities and environmental interactions that destroy symmetry. As an example, we propose that supertransfer and coherent hopping play a role in recent observations of anomolously long diffusion lengths in nano-engineered assembly of light-harvesting complexes.

id: 1005.2593
title: Perfect state transfers by selective quantum interferences within complex spin networks
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Mor Mishkovsky, Ernesto P. Danieli, Patricia R. Levstein, Horacio M. Pastawski, Lucio Frydman
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 060302(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2593
abstract: We present a method that implement directional, perfect state transfers within a branched spin network by exploiting quantum interferences in the time-domain. That provides a tool to isolate subsystems from a large and complex one. Directionality is achieved by interrupting the spin-spin coupled evolution with periods of free Zeeman evolutions, whose timing is tuned to be commensurate with the relative phases accrued by specific spin pairs. This leads to a resonant transfer between the chosen qubits, and to a detuning of all remaining pathways in the network, using only global manipulations. As the transfer is perfect when the selected pathway is mediated by 2 or 3 spins, distant state transfers over complex networks can be achieved by successive recouplings among specific pairs/triads of spins. These effects are illustrated with a quantum simulator involving 13C NMR on Leucine's backbone; a six-spin network.

id: 1005.2635
title: Coherence freeze in an optical lattice investigated via pump-probe spectroscopy
authors: Samansa Maneshi, Chao Zhuang, Christopher R. Paul, Luciano S. Cruz, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: PRL 105, 193001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2635
abstract: Motivated by our observation of fast echo decay and a surprising coherence freeze, we have developed a pump-probe spectroscopy technique for vibrational states of ultracold $^{85}$Rb atoms in an optical lattice to gain information about the memory dynamics of the system. We use pump-probe spectroscopy to monitor the time-dependent changes of frequencies experienced by atoms and to characterize the probability distribution of these frequency trajectories. We show that the inferred distribution, unlike a naive microscopic model of the lattice, correctly predicts the main features of the observed echo decay.

id: 1005.2655
title: Schr?dinger uncertainty relation with Wigner-Yanase skew information
authors: Shigeru Furuichi
comments: to appear in Phys.Rev.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2655
abstract: We shall give a new Schr\"odinger type uncertainty relation for a quantity representing a quantum uncertainty, introduced by S.Luo in \cite{Luo1}. Our result improves the Heisenberg uncertainty relation shown in \cite{Luo1} for a mixed state.

id: 1005.2723
title: SU(2) symmetry in a Hubbard model with spin-orbit coupling
authors: X. Z. Zhang, L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Sci China-Phys Mech Astron, 2014, 57: 2086-2091
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2723
abstract: We study the underlying symmetry in a spin-orbit coupled tight-binding model with Hubbard interaction. It is shown that, in the absence of the on-site interaction, the system possesses the SU(2) symmetry arising from the timereversal symmetry. The influence of the on-site interaction on the symmetry depends on the topology of the networks: The SU(2) symmetry is shown to be the spin rotation symmetry of a simply-connected lattice, so it still holds in the presence of the Hubbard correlation. In contrary, the on-site interaction breaks the SU(2) symmetry of a multi-connected lattice.

id: 1005.2734
title: The statistical origins of gauge coupling and spin
authors: U. Klein
comments: 28 pages, no figures. Withdrawn: Most of this is contained in the extended (N-particle) paper "A statistical derivation of non-relativistic quantum theory"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2734
abstract: A previous one-dimensional derivation of Schr\"odinger's equation from statistical assumptions is generalized to three spatial dimensions, gauge fields, and spin. It is found that the same statistical assumptions that imply Schr\"odinger's equation determine also the form of the gauge coupling terms, and the form of the corresponding local (Lorentz) forces. An explanation for the role of the electrodynamic potentials, as statistical representatives of the Lorentz force, is given. Spin one-half is introduced as the property of a statistical ensemble to respond to an external gauge field in two different ways. A generalized calculation, using the twofold number of variables, leads to Pauli's equation. The new spin term is again the statistical representative of the corresponding local force. The classical limit $\hbar \to 0$ of Schr\"odinger's equation and closely related questions of interpretation of the quantum mechanical formalism are discussed.

id: 1005.2763
title: Quantum interference and sub-Poissonian statistics for time-modulated driven dissipative nonlinear oscillator
authors: T.V. Gevorgyan, A. R. Shahinyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 053828 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2763
abstract: We show that quantum-interference phenomena can be realized for the dissipative nonlinear systems exhibiting hysteresis-cycle behavior and quantum chaos. Such results are obtained for a driven dissipative nonlinear oscillator with time-dependent parameters and take place for the regimes of long time intervals exceeding dissipation time and for macroscopic levels of oscillatory excitation numbers. Two schemas of time modulation: (i) periodic variation of the strength of the {\chi}(3) nonlinearity; (ii) periodic modulation of the amplitude of the driving force, are considered. These effects are obtained within the framework of phase-space quantum distributions. It is demonstrated that the Wigner functions of oscillatory mode in both bistable and chaotic regimes acquire negative values and interference patterns in parts of phase-space due to appropriately time-modulation of the oscillatory nonlinear dynamics. It is also shown that the time-modulation of the oscillatory parameters essentially improves the degree of sub-Poissonian statistics of excitation numbers.

id: 1005.2775
title: Quantum circuits for spin and flavor degrees of freedom of quarks forming nucleons
authors: F. L. Semiao, M. Paternostro
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4; Accepted for publication in Quantum Information Processing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2775
abstract: We discuss the quantum-circuit realization of the state of a nucleon in the scope of simple symmetry groups. Explicit algorithms are presented for the preparation of the state of a neutron or a proton as resulting from the composition of their quark constituents. We estimate the computational resources required for such a simulation and design a photonic network for its implementation. Moreover, we highlight that current work on three-body interactions in lattices of interacting qubits, combined with the measurement-based paradigm for quantum information processing, may also be suitable for the implementation of these nucleonic spin states.

id: 1005.2792
title: Conformal Mapping of Relativistic Quantum Bound Systems to Eliminate Potential Fields
authors: Robert J. Ducharme
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2792
abstract: In two recent papers, an isometric conformal transformation has been introduced that eliminates potential interaction terms from the Schr\"odinger equation for central potential problems. The method has been demonstrated for both the hydrogen atom and three-dimensional harmonic oscillator. Here, it is shown that the same transformation technique can also be applied to central potential problems formulated using the Klein-Gordon equation.

id: 1005.2807
title: QND Measurement of Large-Spin Ensembles by Dynamical Decoupling
authors: M. Koschorreck, M. Napolitano, B. Dubost, M. W. Mitchell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2807
abstract: Quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement of collective variables by off-resonant optical probing has the ability to create entanglement and squeezing in atomic ensembles. Until now, this technique has been applied to real or effective spin one-half systems. We show theoretically that the build-up of Raman coherence prevents the naive application of this technique to larger spin atoms, but that dynamical decoupling can be used to recover the ideal QND behavior. We experimentally demonstrate dynamical decoupling by using a two-polarization probing technique. The decoupled QND measurement achieves a sensitivity 5.7(6) dB better than the spin projection noise.

id: 1005.2808
title: A new quasi-exactly solvable problem and its connection with an anharmonic oscillator
authors: Da-Bao Yang, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. (Beijing, China) 54 (2010) pp. 654-660
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2808
abstract: The two-dimensional hydrogen with a linear potential in a magnetic field is solved by two different methods. Furthermore the connection between the model and an anharmonic oscillator had been investigated by methods of KS transformation.

id: 1005.2810
title: Deterministic creation and stabilization of entanglement in circuit QED by homodyne-mediated feedback control
authors: Zhuo Liu, Lulin Kuang, Kai Hu, Luting Xu, Suhua Wei, Lingzhen Guo, Xin-Qi Li
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032335 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2810
abstract: In the solid-state circuit QED system and based on the homodyne measurement in dispersive regime, we demonstrate that a homodyne-current-based feedback can create and stabilize highly entangled two-qubit states in the presence of moderate noisy environment. Particularly, we present an extended analysis for the current-based Markovian feedback, which leads to an improved filtered-current-based feedback scheme. We show that this is essential for us to achieve the desirable control effect in present system.

id: 1005.2828
title: Nonlinear evolution of coarse-grained quantum systems with generalized purity constraints
authors: Nikola Buric
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2828
abstract: Constrained quantum dynamics is used to propose a nonlinear dynamical equation for pure states of a generalized coarse-grained system. The relevant constraint is given either by the generalized purity or by the generalized invariant fluctuation, and the coarse-grained pure states correspond to the generalized coherent i.e. generalized nonentangled states. Open system model of the coarse-graining is discussed. It is shown that in this model and in the weak coupling limit the constrained dynamical equations coincide with an equation for pointer states, based on Hilbert-Schmidt distance, that was previously suggested in the context of the decoherence theory.

id: 1005.2856
title: Resonator-assisted entangling gate for singlet-triplet spin qubits in nanowire double quantum dots
authors: Peng Xue, Yun-Feng Xiao
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2856
abstract: We propose a resonator-assisted entangling gate for spin qubits with high fidelity. Each spin qubit corresponds to two electrons in a nanowire double quantum dot, with the singlet and one of the triplets as the logical qubit states. The gate is effected by virtual charge dipole transitions. We include noise in our model to show feasibility of the scheme under current experimental conditions.

id: 1005.2870
title: Characterizing Multiple Solutions to the Time-Energy Canonical Commutation Relation via Quantum Dynamics
authors: Roland Cristopher F. Caballar, Eric A. Galapon
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A, vol. 373, no. 31, 2660-2666 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2870
abstract: We address the multiplicity of solutions to the time-energy canonical commutation relation for a given Hamiltonian. Specifically, we consider a particle spatially confined in a potential free interval, where it is known that two distinct self-adjoint and compact time operators conjugate to the system Hamiltonian exist. The dynamics of the eigenvectors of these operators indicate that different time operators posses distinguishing properties that can unambiguously associate them to specific aspects of the quantum time problem.

id: 1005.2872
title: Characterizing Multiple Solutions to the Time - Energy Canonical Commutation Relation via Internal Symmetries
authors: Roland Cristopher F. Caballar, Leonard R. Ocampo, Eric A. Galapon
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A, 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062105 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2872
abstract: Internal symmetries can be used to classify multiple solutions to the time energy canonical commutation relation (TE-CCR). The dynamical behavior of solutions to the TE-CCR posessing particular internal symmetries involving time reversal differ significantly from solutions to the TE-CCR without those particular symmetries, implying a connection between the internal symmetries of a quantum system, its internal unitary dynamics, and the TE-CCR.

id: 1005.2878
title: Memory effects in attenuation and amplification quantum processes
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Vittorio Giovannetti, Stefano Mancini
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032312 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2878
abstract: With increasing communication rates via quantum channels, memory effects become unavoidable whenever the use rate of the channel is comparable to the typical relaxation time of the channel environment. We introduce a model of a bosonic memory channel, describing correlated noise effects in quantum-optical processes via attenuating or amplifying media. To study such a channel model, we make use of a proper set of collective field variables, which allows us to unravel the memory effects, mapping the n-fold concatenation of the memory channel to a unitarily equivalent, direct product of n single-mode bosonic channels. We hence estimate the channel capacities by relying on known results for the memoryless setting. Our findings show that the model is characterized by two different regimes, in which the cross correlations induced by the noise among different channel uses are either exponentially enhanced or exponentially reduced.

id: 1005.2886
title: Entanglement between states of single quadrupole nuclear spin
authors: G. B. Furman, V. M. Meerovich, V. L. Sokolovsky
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2886
abstract: We study entanglement between quantum states of multi level spin system of a single particle considering a nucleus with spin 3/2 in both the internal electric field gradient and the external magnetic field. It was shown that entanglement is achieved by applying a magnetic field to a single particle at low temperature (~ 5 mK). In this temperature range, the numerical calculation revealed the coincidence between magnetization and concurrence. As a result, the magnetization can be used as an entanglement witness for such systems.

id: 1005.2912
title: Quantum state transfer in spin chains with q-deformed interaction terms
authors: E.I. Jafarov, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 405301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2912
abstract: We study the time evolution of a single spin excitation state in certain linear spin chains, as a model for quantum communication. Some years ago it was discovered that when the spin chain data (the nearest neighbour interaction strengths and the magnetic field strengths) are related to the Jacobi matrix entries of Krawtchouk polynomials or dual Hahn polynomials, so-called perfect state transfer takes place. The extension of these ideas to other types of discrete orthogonal polynomials did not lead to new models with perfect state transfer, but did allow more insight in the general computation of the correlation function. In the present paper, we extend the study to discrete orthogonal polynomials of q-hypergeometric type. A remarkable result is a new analytic model where perfect state transfer is achieved: this is when the spin chain data are related to the Jacobi matrix of q-Krawtchouk polynomials. The other cases studied here (affine q-Krawtchouk polynomials, quantum q-Krawtchouk polynomials, dual q-Krawtchouk polynomials, q-Hahn polynomials, dual q-Hahn polynomials and q-Racah polynomials) do not give rise to models with perfect state transfer. However, the computation of the correlation function itself is quite interesting, leading to advanced q-series manipulations.

id: 1005.2915
title: A Photonic Implementation for the Topological Cluster State Quantum Computer
authors: David A. Herrera-Mart¨ª, Austin G. Fowler, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032332 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2915
abstract: A new implementation of the topological cluster state quantum computer is suggested, in which the basic elements are linear optics, measurements, and a two-dimensional array of quantum dots. This overcomes the need for non-linear devices to create a lattice of entangled photons. We give estimates of the minimum efficiencies needed for the detectors, fusion gates and quantum dots, from a numerical simulation.

id: 1005.2937
title: Detection of multimode spatial correlation in PDC and application to the absolute calibration of a CCD camera
authors: Giorgio Brida, Ivo Pietro Degiovanni, Marco Genovese, Maria Luisa Rastello, Ivano Ruo-Berchera
comments: 
journal: Opt.Exp. 18 (2010) 20572
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2937
abstract: We propose and demonstrate experimentally a new method based on the spatial entanglement for the absolute calibration of analog detector. The idea consists on measuring the sub-shot-noise intensity correlation between two branches of parametric down conversion, containing many pairwise correlated spatial modes. We calibrate a scientific CCD camera and a preliminary evaluation of the statistical uncertainty indicates the metrological interest of the method.

id: 1005.2992
title: Hidden parameters in open-system evolution unveiled by geometric phase
authors: Patrik Pawlus, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: QSD analysis added; several stylistic changes; journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052107 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2992
abstract: We find a class of open-system models in which individual quantum trajectories may depend on parameters that are undetermined by the full open-system evolution. This dependence is imprinted in the geometric phase associated with such trajectories and persists after averaging. Our findings indicate a potential source of ambiguity in the quantum trajectory approach to open quantum systems.

id: 1005.3011
title: On the relevance of avoided crossings away from quantum critical point to the complexity of quantum adiabatic algorithm
authors: S. Knysh, V. Smelyanskiy
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3011
abstract: Two recent preprints [B. Altshuler, H. Krovi, and J. Roland, "Quantum adiabatic optimization fails for random instances of NP-complete problems", arXiv:0908.2782 and "Anderson localization casts clouds over adiabatic quantum optimization", arXiv:0912.0746] argue that random 4th order perturbative corrections to the energies of local minima of random instances of NP-complete problem lead to avoided crossings that cause the failure of quantum adiabatic algorithm (due to exponentially small gap) close to the end, for very small transverse field that scales as an inverse power of instance size N. The theoretical portion of this work does not to take into account the exponential degeneracy of the ground and excited states at zero field. A corrected analysis shows that unlike those in the middle of the spectrum, avoided crossings at the edge would require high [O(1)] transverse fields, at which point the perturbation theory may become divergent due to quantum phase transition. This effect manifests itself only in large instances [exp(0.02 N) >> 1], which might be the reason it had not been observed in the authors' numerical work. While we dispute the proposed mechanism of failure of quantum adiabatic algorithm, we cannot draw any conclusions on its ultimate complexity.

id: 1005.3015
title: Local phase invariance of the free-particle Schrodinger equation in momentum space
authors: Boyan Obreshkov
comments: submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3015
abstract: The local phase-invariance of the momentum-space Schr\"odinger equation for free-particle has been used to construct quantum kinematics that describes a motion of the particle in external U(1) background gauge field. The gauge structure over the momentum space of the particle is interpreted in terms of helicity and spin carried by the particle. As a by-product an effective one-particle Schr\"odinger equation of motion for the helicity-carrying particle in external potential field is derived. An effect of screening of the external potential is predicted, that can affect quantization and splittings of energy levels of the particle.

id: 1005.3034
title: Fast quantum algorithms for traversing paths of eigenstates
authors: S. Boixo, E. Knill, R.D. Somma
comments: 36 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3034
abstract: Consider a path of non-degenerate eigenstates of unitary operators or Hamiltonians with minimum eigenvalue gap G. The eigenpath traversal problem is to transform one or more copies of the initial to the final eigenstate. Solutions to this problem have applications ranging from quantum physics simulation to optimization. For Hamiltonians, the conventional way of doing this is by applying the adiabatic theorem. We give ``digital'' methods for performing the transformation that require no assumption on path continuity or differentiability other than the absence of large jumps. Given sufficient information about eigenvalues and overlaps between states on the path, the transformation can be accomplished with complexity O(L/G log(L/e)), where L is the angular length of the path and e is a specified bound on the error of the output state. We show that the required information can be obtained in a first set of transformations, whose complexity per state transformed has an additional factor that depends logarithmically on a maximum angular velocity along the path. This velocity is averaged over constant angular distances and does not require continuity. Our methods have substantially better behavior than conventional adiabatic algorithms, with fewer conditions on the path. They also improve on the previously best digital methods and demonstrate that path length and the gap are the primary parameters that determine the complexity of state transformation along a path.

id: 1005.3069
title: Open quantum systems approach to atomtronics
authors: R. A. Pepino, J. Cooper, D. Meiser, D. Z. Anderson, M. J. Holland
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3069
abstract: We derive a quantum master equation to treat quantum systems interacting with multiple reservoirs. The formalism is used to investigate atomic transport across a variety of lattice configurations. We demonstrate how the behavior of an electronic diode, a field-effect transistor, and a bipolar junction transistor can be realized with neutral, ultracold atoms trapped in optical lattices. An analysis of the current fluctuations is provided for the case of the atomtronic diode. Finally, we show that it is possible to demonstrate AND logic gate behavior in an optical lattice.

id: 1005.3072
title: Implementation of a three-qubit quantum error correction code in a cavity-QED setup
authors: Carlo Ottaviani, David Vitali
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. This is v2. Some misprints corrected, conclusions section extended, refs added. Accepted for publication on PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012319 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3072
abstract: The correction of errors is of fundamental importance for the development of contemporary computing devices and of robust communication protocols. In this paper we propose a scheme for the implementation of the three-qubit quantum repetition code, exploiting the interaction of Rydberg atoms with the quantized mode of a microwave cavity field. Quantum information is encoded within two circular Rydberg states of the atoms and encoding and decoding process are realized within two separate microwave cavities. We show that errors due to phase noise fluctuations could be efficiently corrected using a state-of-the-art apparatus.

id: 1005.3086
title: Engineered optical nonlinearity for a quantum light source
authors: Agata M. Bra¨½czyk, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Timothy C. Ralph, Andrew G. White
comments: 7 pages (4 pages + appendices), 5 figures. Minor formatting changes. Fixed typos. Some additional references
journal: Optics Express 19, 55 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3086
abstract: Single-photon pairs created in the nonlinear process of spontaneous parametric downconversion form the backbone of fundamental and applied experimental quantum information science. Many applications benefit from careful spectral shaping of the single-photon wave-packets. In this paper we tailor the joint spectral wave-function of downconverted photons by modulating the nonlinearity of a poled crystal without affecting the phase-matching conditions. We designed a crystal with a Gaussian nonlinearity profile and confirmed successful wave-packet shaping by two-photon interference experiments. We numerically show how our method can be applied for attaining one of the currently most important goals of single-photon quantum optics, the creation of pure single photons without spectral correlations.

id: 1005.3117
title: Effective Mass Schrodinger Equation via Point Canonical Transformation
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 10 pages
journal: Chinese Phys. Lett. 27, 040306(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3117
abstract: Exact solutions of effective radial Schr\"{o}dinger equation are obtained for some inverse potentials by using the point canonical transformation. The energy eigenvalues and the corresponding wave functions are calculated by using a set of mass distributions

id: 1005.3119
title: Fidelity is a sub-martingale for discrete-time quantum filters
authors: Pierre Rouchon
comments: 
journal: IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control, 56(11), pp.2743 - 2747, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3119
abstract: Fidelity is known to increase through any Kraus map: the fidelity between two density matrices is less than the fidelity between their images via a Kraus map. We prove here that, in average, fidelity is also increasing for any discrete-time quantum filter: fidelity between the density matrix of the underlying Markov chain and the density matrix of its associated quantum filter is a sub-martingale. This result is not restricted to pure states. It also holds true for mixed states.

id: 1005.3171
title: Entanglement preservation for multilevel systems under non-ideal pulse control
authors: Z. Y. Xu, M. Feng
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3171
abstract: We investigate how to effectively preserve the entanglement between two noninteracting multilevel oscillators coupled to a common reservoir under non-ideal pulse control. A universal characterization using fidelity is developed for the behavior of the system based on Nakajima-Zwanzig projection operator technique. Our analysis includes the validity of the approximation method and the decoherence-suppression by the non-ideal pulse control. The power of our strategy for protecting entanglement is numerically tested, showing potential applications for quantum information processing.

id: 1005.3177
title: Quantum processes
authors: Mark Fannes, Jeroen Wouters
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures, to appear in the proceedings of the 46th Karpacz Winter School of Theoretical Physics "Quantum Dynamics and Information: Theory and Experiment"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3177
abstract: A number of ideas and questions related to the construction of quantum processes are discussed. Quantum state extension, entanglement and asymptotic behaviour of the entropy are some of the issues explored. These topics are studied in more detail for a class of quantum processes known as finitely correlated states. Several examples of such processes are presented, specifically a Free Fermionic model.

id: 1005.3236
title: Testing Bell inequalities with weak measurements
authors: Shmuel Marcovitch, Benni Reznik
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3236
abstract: Quantum theory is inconsistent with any local hidden variable model as was first shown by Bell. To test Bell inequalities two separated observers extract correlations from a common ensemble of identical systems. Since quantum theory does not allow simultaneous measurements of noncommuting observables, on each system every party measures a single randomly chosen observable out of a given set. Here we suggest a different approach for testing Bell inequalities that is experimentally realizable by current methods. We show that Bell inequalities can be maximally violated even when all observables are measured on each member of the ensemble. This is possible by using weak measurements that produce small disturbance, at the expense of accuracy. However, our approach does not constitute an independent test of quantum nonlocality since the local hidden variables may correlate the noise of the measurement instruments. Nevertheless, by adding a randomly chosen precise measurement at the end of every cycle of weak measurements, the parties can verify that the hidden variables were not interfering with the noise, and thus validate the suggested test.

id: 1005.3289
title: Electromagnetically Induced Transparency from a Single Atom in Free Space
authors: L. Slodicka, G. Hetet, S. Gerber, M. Hennrich, R. Blatt
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 153604 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3289
abstract: We report an absorption spectroscopy experiment and the observation of electromagnetically induced transparency from a single trapped atom. We focus a weak and narrowband Gaussian light beam onto an optically cooled Barium ion using a high numerical aperture lens. Extinction of this beam is observed with measured values of up to 1.3 %. We demonstrate electromagnetically induced transparency of the ion by tuning a strong control beam over a two-photon resonance in a three-level lambda-type system. The probe beam extinction is inhibited by more than 75 % due to population trapping.

id: 1005.3313
title: Permutationally invariant quantum tomography
authors: Geza Toth, Witlef Wieczorek, David Gross, Roland Krischek, Christian Schwemmer, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 4 pages including 5 figures, 3-page appendix with 2 figures, revtex4; v2: shortened, some references added; v3: Observation 2 improved, extension to many qubits discussed; v4: more details added to the Appendix, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 250403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3313
abstract: We present a scalable method for the tomography of large multiqubit quantum registers. It acquires information about the permutationally invariant part of the density operator, which is a good approximation to the true state in many, relevant cases. Our method gives the best measurement strategy to minimize the experimental effort as well as the uncertainties of the reconstructed density matrix. We apply our method to the experimental tomography of a photonic four-qubit symmetric Dicke state.

id: 1005.3326
title: Three body dwell time
authors: N. G. Kelkar
comments: 13 pages, reference added
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:062109,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3326
abstract: The lifetime of an unstable state or resonance formed as an intermediate state in two body scattering is known to be related to the dwell time or the time spent within a given region of space by the two interacting particles. This concept is extended to the case of three body systems and a relation connecting the three body dwell time with the two body dwell times of the substructures of the three body system is derived for the case of separable wave functions. The Kapur Peierls formalism is revisited to discover one of the first definitions of dwell time in literature. An extension of the Kapur Peierls formalism to the three body case shows that the lifetime of a three body resonance can indeed be given by the three body dwell time.

id: 1005.3343
title: Measurement in control and discrimination of entangled pairs under self-distortion
authors: Francisco Delgado
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3343
abstract: Quantum correlations and entanglement are fundamental resources for quantum information and quantum communication processes. Developments in these fields normally assume these resources stable and not susceptible of distortion. That is not always the case, Heisenberg interactions between qubits can produce distortion on entangled pairs generated for engineering purposes (e. g. for quantum computation or quantum cryptography). Experimental work shows how to produce entangled spin qubits in quantum dots and electron gases, so its identification and control are crucial for later applications. The presence of parasite magnetic fields modifies the expected properties and behavior for which the pair was intended. Quantum measurement and control help to discriminate the original state in order to correct it or, just to try of reconstruct it using some procedures which do not alter their quantum nature. Two different kinds of quantum entangled pairs driven by a Heisenberg Hamiltonian with an additional inhomogeneous magnetic field which becoming self-distorted, can be reconstructed without previous discrimination by adding an external magnetic field, with fidelity close to 1 (with respect to the original state, but without discrimination). After, each state can be more efficiently discriminated. The aim of this work is to show how combining both processes, first reconstruction without discrimination and after discrimination with adequate non-local measurements, it's possible a) improve the discrimination, and b) reprepare faithfully the original states. The complete process gives fidelities better than 0.9. In the meanwhile, some results about a class of equivalence for the required measurements were found. This property lets us select the adequate measurement in order to ease the repreparation after of discrimination, without loss of entanglement.

id: 1005.3355
title: Evolution equation for entanglement of assistance
authors: Zong-Guo Li, Ming-Jing Zhao, Shao-Ming Fei, W. M. Liu
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81 (2010) 042312
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3355
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of the entanglement of assistance when one subsystem undergoes the action of local noisy channels. A general factorization law is presented for the evolution equation of entanglement of assistance. Our results demonstrate that the dynamics of the entanglement of assistance is determined by the action of a noisy channel on the pure maximally entangled state, in which the entanglement reduction turns out to be universal for all quantum states entering the channel. This single quantity will make it easy to characterize the entanglement dynamics of entanglement of assistance under unknown channels in the experimental process of producing entangled states by assisted entanglement.

id: 1005.3356
title: Bounds for multipartite concurrence
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 8 pages
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 65(2010)289-296
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3356
abstract: We study the entanglement of a multipartite quantum state. An inequality between the bipartite concurrence and the multipartite concurrence is obtained. More effective lower and upper bounds of the multipartite concurrence are obtained. By using the lower bound, the entanglement of more multipartite states are detected.

id: 1005.3374
title: Quantum Stabilizer Codes for Correlated and Asymmetric Depolarizing Errors
authors: Carlo Cafaro, Stefano Mancini
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A82, 012306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3374
abstract: We study the performance of common quantum stabilizer codes in the presence of asymmetric and correlated errors. Specifically, we consider the depolarizing noisy quantum memory channel and perform quantum error correction via the five and seven-qubit stabilizer codes. We characterize these codes by means of the entanglement fidelity as function of the error probability and the degree of memory. We show that their performances are lowered by the presence of correlations and we compute the error probability threshold values for codes effectiveness. Furthermore, we uncover that the asymmetry in the error probabilities does not affect the performance of the five-qubit code while it does affect the performance of the seven-qubit code which results less effective when considering correlated and symmetric depolarizing errors but more effective for correlated and asymmetric errors.

id: 1005.3380
title: Quantum Throughput: Quantifying quantum communication with homodyne measurements
authors: Nathan Killoran, Hauke H?seler, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. v2: minor modifications, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052331 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3380
abstract: Quantum communication relies on optical implementations of channels, memories and repeaters. In the absence of perfect devices, a minimum requirement on real-world devices is that they preserve quantum correlations, meaning that they have some thoughput of a quantum mechanical nature. Previous work has verified throughput in optical devices while using minimal resources. We extend this approach to the quantitative regime. Our method is illustrated in a setting where the input consists of two coherent states while the output is measured by two homodyne measurement settings.

id: 1005.3421
title: Quantum correlations in the temporal CHSH scenario
authors: Tobias Fritz
comments: corrected version
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 083055
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3421
abstract: We consider a temporal version of the CHSH scenario using projective measurements on a single quantum system. It is known that quantum correlations in this scenario are fundamentally more general than correlations obtainable with the assumptions of macroscopic realism and non-invasive measurements. In this work, we also educe some fundamental limitations of these quantum correlations. One result is that a set of correlators can appear in the temporal CHSH scenario if and only if it can appear in the usual spatial CHSH scenario. In particular, we derive the validity of the Tsirelson bound and the impossibility of PR-box behavior. The strength of possible signaling also turns out to be surprisingly limited, giving a maximal communication capacity of approximately 0.32 bits. We also find a temporal version of Hardy's nonlocality paradox with a maximal quantum value of 1/4.

id: 1005.3429
title: Spinor Slow-Light and Dirac particles with variable mass
authors: R.G. Unanyan, J. Otterbach, M. Fleischhauer, J. Ruseckas, V. Kudriasov, G. Juzeliunas
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 173603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3429
abstract: We consider the interaction of two weak probe fields of light with an atomic ensemble coherently driven by two pairs of standing wave laser fields in a tripod-type linkage scheme. The system is shown to exhibit a Dirac-like spectrum for light-matter quasi-particles with multiple dark-states, termed spinor slow-light polaritons (SSP). They posses an "effective speed of light" given by the group-velocity of slow-light, and can be made massive by inducing a small two-photon detuning. Control of the two-photon detuning can be used to locally vary the mass including a sign flip. This allows e.g. the implementation of the random-mass Dirac model for which localized zero-energy (mid-gap) states exist with unsual long-range correlations.

id: 1005.3435
title: Experimental violation of a Bell's inequality in time with weak measurement
authors: Agustin Palacios-Laloy, Fran?ois Mallet, Fran?ois Nguyen, Patrice Bertet, Denis Vion, Daniel Esteve, Alexander Korotkov
comments: 26 pages including 10 figures, preprint format
journal: Nature Physics 6, 442-447 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3435
abstract: The violation of J. Bell's inequality with two entangled and spatially separated quantum two- level systems (TLS) is often considered as the most prominent demonstration that nature does not obey ?local realism?. Under di?erent but related assumptions of ?macrorealism?, plausible for macroscopic systems, Leggett and Garg derived a similar inequality for a single degree of freedom undergoing coherent oscillations and being measured at successive times. Such a ?Bell's inequality in time?, which should be violated by a quantum TLS, is tested here. In this work, the TLS is a superconducting quantum circuit whose Rabi oscillations are continuously driven while it is continuously and weakly measured. The time correlations present at the detector output agree with quantum-mechanical predictions and violate the inequality by 5 standard deviations.

id: 1005.3436
title: Single-shot qubit readout in circuit Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Fran?ois Mallet, Florian R. Ong, Agustin Palacios-Laloy, Fran?ois Nguyen, Patrice Bertet, Denis Vion, Daniel Esteve
comments: 14 pages including 4 figures, preprint format
journal: Nature Physics 5, 791-795 (27 September 2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3436
abstract: The future development of quantum information using superconducting circuits requires Josephson qubits [1] with long coherence times combined to a high-fidelity readout. Major progress in the control of coherence has recently been achieved using circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) architectures [2, 3], where the qubit is embedded in a coplanar waveguide resonator (CPWR) which both provides a well controlled electromagnetic environment and serves as qubit readout. In particular a new qubit design, the transmon, yields reproducibly long coherence times [4, 5]. However, a high-fidelity single-shot readout of the transmon, highly desirable for running simple quantum algorithms or measur- ing quantum correlations in multi-qubit experiments, is still lacking. In this work, we demonstrate a new transmon circuit where the CPWR is turned into a sample-and-hold detector, namely a Josephson Bifurcation Amplifer (JBA) [6, 7], which allows both fast measurement and single-shot discrimination of the qubit states. We report Rabi oscillations with a high visibility of 94% together with dephasing and relaxation times longer than 0:5 \mu\s. By performing two subsequent measurements, we also demonstrate that this new readout does not induce extra qubit relaxation.

id: 1005.3449
title: Entanglement, intractability and no-signaling
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures (REVTeX 4)
journal: Physica Scripta 81 (2010) 065002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3449
abstract: We consider the problem of deriving the no-signaling condition from the assumption that, as seen from a complexity theoretic perspective, the universe is not an exponential place. A fact that disallows such a derivation is the existence of {\em polynomial superluminal} gates, hypothetical primitive operations that enable superluminal signaling but not the efficient solution of intractable problems. It therefore follows, if this assumption is a basic principle of physics, either that it must be supplemented with additional assumptions to prohibit such gates, or, improbably, that no-signaling is not a universal condition. Yet, a gate of this kind is possibly implicit, though not recognized as such, in a decade-old quantum optical experiment involving position-momentum entangled photons. Here we describe a feasible modified version of the experiment that appears to explicitly demonstrate the action of this gate. Some obvious counter-claims are shown to be invalid. We believe that the unexpected possibility of polynomial superluminal operations arises because some practically measured quantum optical quantities are not describable as standard quantum mechanical observables.

id: 1005.3456
title: Complementarity in atomic and oscillator systems
authors: R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3456
abstract: We develop a unified, information theoretic interpretation of the number-phase complementarity that is applicable both to finite-dimensional (atomic) and infinite-dimensional (oscillator) systems. The relevant uncertainty principle is obtained as a lower bound on {\it entropy excess}, the difference between number entropy and phase knowledge, the latter defined as the relative entropy with respect to the uniform distribution.

id: 1005.3485
title: Quantum Cloning for Absolute Radiometry
authors: Bruno Sanguinetti, Enrico Pomarico, Pavel Sekatski, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3485
abstract: In the quantum regime information can be copied with only a finite fidelity. This fidelity gradually increases to 1 as the system becomes classical. In this article we show how this fact can be used to directly measure the amount of radiated power. We demonstrate how these principles could be used to build a practical primary standard.

id: 1005.3568
title: Towards all-optical optomechanics: An optical spring mirror
authors: S. Singh, G. A. Phelps, D. S. Goldbaum, E. M. Wright, P. Meystre
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3568
abstract: The dominant hurdle to the operation of optomechanical systems in the quantum regime is the coupling of the vibrating element to a thermal reservoir via mechanical supports. Here we propose a scheme that uses an optical spring to replace the mechanical support. We show that the resolved-sideband regime of cooling can be reached in a configuration using a high-reflectivity disk mirror held by an optical tweezer as one of the end-mirrors of a Fabry-Perot cavity. We find a final phonon occupation number of the trapped mirror ${\bar n}$= 0.14 for reasonable parameters, well within the quantum regime. This demonstrates the promise of dielectric disks attached to optical springs for the observation of quantum effects in macroscopic objects.

id: 1005.3584
title: Quantum State Engineering using Single Nuclear Spin Qubit of Optically Manipulated Ytterbium Atom
authors: Atsushi Noguchi, Yujiro Eto, Masahito Ueda, Mikio Kozuma
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3584
abstract: A single Yb atom is loaded into a high-finesse optical cavity with a moving lattice, and its nuclear spin state is manipulated using a nuclear magnetic resonance technique. A highly reliable quantum state control with fidelity and purity greater than 0.98 and 0.96, respectively, is confirmed by the full quantum state tomography; a projective measurement with high speed (500us) and high efficiency (0.98) is accomplished using the cavity QED technique. Because a hyperfine coupling is induced only when the projective measurement is operational, the long coherence times (T_1 = 0.49 s and T_2 = 0.10 s) are maintained. Our technique can be applied for implementing a scalable one-way quantum computation with a cluster state in an optical lattice.

id: 1005.3595
title: Quantum-jumps and photon-statistic in fluorescent systems coupled to classically fluctuating reservoirs
authors: Adrian A. Budini
comments: 21 pages, 12 figures
journal: J.Phys. B: At. Mol. Phys 43, 115501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3595
abstract: In this paper, we develop a quantum-jump approach for describing the photon-emission process of single fluorophore systems coupled to complex classically fluctuating reservoirs. The formalism relies on an open quantum system approach where the dynamic of the system and the reservoir fluctuations are described through a density matrix whose evolution is defined by a Lindblad rate equation. For each realization of the photon measurement processes it is possible to define a conditional system state (stochastic density matrix) whose evolution depends on both the photon detection events and the fluctuations between the configurational states of the reservoir. In contrast to standard fluorescent systems the photon-to-photon emission process is not a renewal one, being defined by a (stochastic) waiting time distribution that in each recording event parametrically depends on the conditional state. The formalism allows calculating experimental observables such as the full hierarchy of joint probabilities associated to the time intervals between consecutive photon recording events. These results provide a powerful basis for characterizing different situations arising in single-molecule spectroscopy, such as spectral fluctuations, lifetime fluctuations, and light assisted processes.

id: 1005.3603
title: Dynamical behavior of the entanglement, purity and energy between atomic qubits in motion under the influence of thermal environment
authors: L. Tan, Y. Q. Zhang, Z. H. Zhu, L. W. Liu
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3603
abstract: The entanglement, purity and energy of two isolated two-level atoms which are initially prepared in Bell state and each interacts with a thermal cavity field are investigated by considering the atomic motion and the field-mode structure. We achieve the analytical solutions of the atomic qubits by using the algebraic dynamical approach and the influences of the field-mode structure parameter, the strength of the thermal field and the detuning on the entanglement, purity and energy are discussed. We also investigate the state evolution of the atomic qubits based on the entanglement-purity-energy diagrams. Our results show that the disentanglement process of the atomic qubits accompanies by excitations transferring from atomic subsystem to cavity field modes and atomic state from a pure state convert to the mixed states.

id: 1005.3614
title: High probability state transfer in spin-1/2 chains: Analytical and numerical approaches
authors: E.B. Fel'dman, E.I. Kuznetsova, A.I. Zenchuk
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A v.82 (2010) 022332
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3614
abstract: This article is devoted to the development of analytical and numerical approaches to the problem of the end-to-end quantum state transfer along the spin-1/2 chain using two methods: (a) a homogeneous spin chain with week end bonds and equal Larmor frequencies and (b) a homogeneous spin chain with end Larmor frequencies different from inner ones. A tridiagonal matrix representation of the XY Hamiltonian with nearest neighbor interactions relevant to the quantum state transfer is exactly diagonalized for a combination of the above two methods. In order to take into account interactions of the remote spins we used numerical simulations of the quantum state transfer in ten-node chains. We compare the state transfer times obtained using the two above methods for chains governed by the both XY and XXZ Hamiltonians and using both nearest neighbor and all node interactions.

id: 1005.3625
title: The failure of Ontological Excess Baggage as a Criterion of the Ontic Approaches to Quantum Theory
authors: Tung Ten Yong
comments: To be published in Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3625
abstract: This article presents a discussion of the notion of quantum ontological excess baggage, first proposed by Hardy. It is argued here that this idea does not have the significance as suggested in his paper. It is shown here that if this concept is properly analyzed, it fails to pose any threat to the ontic approaches of quantum theory in general.

id: 1005.3665
title: Experimental Quantum Imaging exploiting multi-mode spatial correlation of twin beams
authors: Giorgio Brida, Marco Genovese, Alice Meda, Ivano Ruo Berchera
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033811 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3665
abstract: Properties of quantum states have disclosed new and revolutionary technologies, ranging from quantum information to quantum imaging. This last field is addressed to overcome limits of classical imaging by exploiting specific properties of quantum states of light. One of the most interesting proposed scheme exploits spatial quantum correlations between twin beams for realizing sub-shot-noise imaging of the weak absorbing objects, leading ideally to a noise-free imaging. Here we discuss in detail the experimental realization of this scheme, showing its capability to reach a larger signal to noise ratio with respect to classical imaging methods and, therefore, its interest for future practical applications.

id: 1005.3675
title: Degree of separability of bipartite quantum states
authors: Guo Chuan Thiang
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012332 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3675
abstract: We investigate the problem of finding the optimal convex decomposition of a bipartite quantum state into a separable part and a positive remainder, in which the weight of the separable part is maximal. This weight is naturally identified with the degree of separability of the state. In a recent work, the problem was solved for two-qubit states using semidefinite programming. In this paper, we describe a procedure to obtain the optimal decomposition of a bipartite state of any finite dimension via a sequence of semidefinite relaxations. The sequence of decompositions thus obtained is shown to converge to the optimal one. This provides, for the first time, a systematic method to determine the so-called optimal Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition of any bipartite state. Numerical results are provided to illustrate this procedure, and the special case of rank-2 states is also discussed.

id: 1005.3676
title: Quantum search algorithms on a regular lattice
authors: Birgit Hein, Gregor Tanner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3676
abstract: Quantum algorithms for searching one or more marked items on a d-dimensional lattice provide an extension of Grover's search algorithm including a spatial component. We demonstrate that these lattice search algorithms can be viewed in terms of the level dynamics near an avoided crossing of a one-parameter family of quantum random walks. We give approximations for both the level-splitting at the avoided crossing and the effectively two-dimensional subspace of the full Hilbert space spanning the level crossing. This makes it possible to give the leading order behaviour for the search time and the localisation probability in the limit of large lattice size including the leading order coefficients. For d=2 and d=3, these coefficients are calculated explicitly. Closed form expressions are given for higher dimensions.

id: 1005.3688
title: Quantum dynamics and super-symmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Eric R. Bittner, Donald J. Kouri
comments: For CCP6 Workshop on "Dynamics of Open Quantum Systems", July 2010, Bangor, Wales
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3688
abstract: In my talk I will present an overview of our recent work involving the use of supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSY-QM). I begin by discussing the mathematical underpinnings of SUSY-QM and then discuss how we have used this for developing novel theoretical and numerical approaches suitable for studying molecular systems. I will conclude by discussing our attempt to extend SUSY-QM to multiple dimensions.

id: 1005.3691
title: Information Constraints on Quantum Measurements 1.Dynamics and Information Patterns
authors: S. Mayburov
comments: 19 pages, Submitted to Int. J. Quant. Inf; Talk given at 'Quantum Communications and Computations' conference, Rome, September 2009
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 9, 331 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3691
abstract: The quantum-mechanical constraints on the information transfer in the measuring devices and systems and their influence on measurement outcomes are studied. As the model example, the measurement of dichotomic observable A, describing the object S, is performed by the information system O during S,O interaction. The measurement of two S ensembles is considered, first one is the pure ensemble, in which S state is the superposition of A eigenstates |S1>,|S2> other one is their probabilistic mixture. It is shown that these information constraints induced by Heisenberg commutation relations bloke the transfer of information about the purity of S state; for the studied ensembles it is described by the expectation value of observable A', conjugated to A. Due to these restrictions, O can't discriminate the pure and mixed S ensembles with the same A expectation value. We demonstrate that this information losses result in the appearance of stochasticity in the measurement of such S pure ensemble, so that in the individual events O would detect the random 'pointer' values O1,O2, which describe the outcome for O measurement of incoming A eigenstates |S1,2>. The influence of O decoherence by its environment is studied, it's shown that the account of its effects doesn't change this results principally.

id: 1005.3706
title: Noise-Powered Probabilistic Concentration of Phase Information
authors: Mario A. Usuga, Christian R. Mueller, Christoffer Wittmann, Petr Marek, Radim Filip, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3706
abstract: Phase insensitive optical amplification of an unknown quantum state is known to be a fundamentally noisy operation that inevitably adds noise to the amplified state [1 - 5]. However, this fundamental noise penalty in amplification can be circumvented by resorting to a probabilistic scheme as recently proposed and demonstrated in refs [6 - 8]. These amplifiers are based on highly non-classical resources in a complex interferometer. Here we demonstrate a probabilistic quantum amplifier beating the fundamental quantum limit utilizing a thermal noise source and a photon number subtraction scheme [9]. The experiment shows, surprisingly, that the addition of incoherent noise leads to a noiselessly amplified output state with a phase uncertainty below the uncertainty of the state prior to amplification. This amplifier might become a valuable quantum tool in future quantum metrological schemes and quantum communication protocols.

id: 1005.3730
title: Obtaining the Quantum Fourier Transform from the Classical FFT with QR Decomposition
authors: F.L. Marquezino, R. Portugal, F.D. Sasse
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure (generated within LaTeX). To appear in Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics
journal: Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics, v. 235, p. 74-81, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3730
abstract: We present the detailed process of converting the classical Fourier Transform algorithm into the quantum one by using QR decomposition. This provides an example of a technique for building quantum algorithms using classical ones. The Quantum Fourier Transform is one of the most important quantum subroutines known at present, used in most algorithms that have exponential speed up compared to the classical ones. We briefly review Fast Fourier Transform and then make explicit all the steps that led to the quantum formulation of the algorithm, generalizing Coppersmith's work.

id: 1005.3767
title: A Potentiality and Conceptuality Interpretation of Quantum Physics
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: Philosophica, 83, pp. 15-52, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3767
abstract: We elaborate on a new interpretation of quantum mechanics which we introduced recently. The main hypothesis of this new interpretation is that quantum particles are entities interacting with matter conceptually, which means that pieces of matter function as interfaces for the conceptual content carried by the quantum particles. We explain how our interpretation was inspired by our earlier analysis of non-locality as non-spatiality and a specific interpretation of quantum potentiality, which we illustrate by means of the example of two interconnected vessels of water. We show by means of this example that philosophical realism is not in contradiction with the recent findings with respect to Leggett's inequalities and their violations. We explain our recent work on using the quantum formalism to model human concepts and their combinations and how this has given rise to the foundational ideas of our new quantum interpretation. We analyze the equivalence of meaning in the realm of human concepts and coherence in the realm of quantum particles, and how the duality of abstract and concrete leads naturally to a Heisenberg uncertainty relation. We illustrate the role played by interference and entanglement and show how the new interpretation explains the problems related to identity and individuality in quantum mechanics. We put forward a possible scenario for the emergence of the reality of macroscopic objects.

id: 1005.3781
title: Solving frustration-free spin systems
authors: N. de Beaudrap, M. Ohliger, T.J. Osborne, J. Eisert
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 060504 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3781
abstract: We identify a large class of quantum many-body systems that can be solved exactly: natural frustration-free spin-1/2 nearest-neighbor Hamiltonians on arbitrary lattices. We show that the entire ground state manifold of such models can be found exactly by a tensor network of isometries acting on a space locally isomorphic to the symmetric subspace. Thus, for this wide class of models real-space renormalization can be made exact. Our findings also imply that every such frustration-free spin model satisfies an area law for the entanglement entropy of the ground state, establishing a novel large class of models for which an area law is known. Finally, we show that our approach gives rise to an ansatz class useful for the simulation of almost frustration-free models in a simple fashion, outperforming mean field theory.

id: 1005.3782
title: Exact analysis of disentanglement for continuous variable systems and application to a two-body system at zero temperature in an arbitrary heat bath
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience 8, 331-337 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3782
abstract: We outline an exact approach to decoherence and entanglement problems for continuous variable systems. The method is based on a construction of quantum distribution functions introduced by Ford and Lewis \cite{ford86} in which a system in thermal equilibrium is placed in an initial state by a measurement and then sampled by subsequent measurements. With the Langevin equation describing quantum Brownian motion, this method has proved to be a powerful tool for discussing such problems. After reviewing our previous work on decoherence and our recent work on disentanglement, we apply the method to the problem of a pair of particles in a correlated Gaussian state. The initial state and its time development are explicitly exhibited. For a single relaxation time bath at zero temperature exact numerical results are given. The criterion of Duan et al. \cite{duan00} for such states is used to prove that the state is initially entangled and becomes separable after a finite time (entanglement sudden death).

id: 1005.3785
title: Entanglement generation in spatially separated systems using quantum walk
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar, Sandeep K. Goyal, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Journal of Quantum Information Sciences, Vol.2 No.2, pp. 15-22 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3785
abstract: We present a novel scheme to generate entanglement between two spatially separated systems. The scheme makes use of spatial entanglement generated by a single-particle quantum walk which is used to entangle two spatially separated, not necessarily correlated, systems. This scheme can be used to entangle any two systems which can interact with the spatial modes entangled during the quantum walk evolution. A notable feature is that we can control the quantum walk dynamics and its ability to localize leads to a substantial control and improvement in the entanglement output.

id: 1005.3818
title: Public and private resource trade-offs for a quantum channel
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures; v2 has minor corrections; v3 has correction regarding the optimization of the region. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1004.0458
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 1465-1501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3818
abstract: Collins and Popescu realized a powerful analogy between several resources in classical and quantum information theory. The Collins-Popescu analogy states that public classical communication, private classical communication, and secret key interact with one another somewhat similarly to the way that classical communication, quantum communication, and entanglement interact. This paper discusses the information-theoretic treatment of this analogy for the case of noisy quantum channels. We determine a capacity region for a quantum channel interacting with the noiseless resources of public classical communication, private classical communication, and secret key. We then compare this region with the classical-quantum-entanglement region from our prior efforts and explicitly observe the information-theoretic consequences of the strong correlations in entanglement and the lack of a super-dense coding protocol in the public-private-secret-key setting. The region simplifies for several realistic, physically-motivated channels such as entanglement-breaking channels, Hadamard channels, and quantum erasure channels, and we are able to compute and plot the region for several examples of these channels.

id: 1005.3837
title: Decay of Coherence and Entanglement of a Superposition State for a Continuous Variable System in an Arbitrary Heat Bath
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 8, 755-763 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3837
abstract: We consider the case of a pair of particles initially in a superposition state corresponding to a separated pair of wave packets. We calculate \emph{exactly} the time development of this non-Gaussian state due to interaction with an \emph{arbitrary} heat bath. We find that coherence decays continuously, as expected. We then investigate entanglement and find that at a finite time the system becomes separable (not entangled). Thus, we see that entanglement sudden death is also prevalent in continuous variable systems which should raise concern for the designers of entangled systems.

id: 1005.3839
title: Nonclassical phase-space trajectories for the damped harmonic quantum oscillator
authors: Leonardo A. Pachon, Gert-Ludwig Ingold, Thomas Dittrich
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Chemical Physics
journal: Chem. Phys. 375, 209-215 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3839
abstract: The phase-space path-integral approach to the damped harmonic oscillator is analyzed beyond the Markovian approximation. It is found that pairs of nonclassical trajectories contribute to the path-integral representation of the Wigner propagating function. Due to the linearity of the problem, the sum coordinate of a pair still satisfies the classical equation of motion. Furthermore, it is shown that the broadening of the Wigner propagating function of the damped oscillator arises due to the time-nonlocal interaction mediated by the heat bath.

id: 1005.3853
title: Cavity spin optodynamics
authors: N. Brahms, D.M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 041804(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3853
abstract: The dynamics of a large quantum spin coupled parametrically to an optical resonator is treated in analogy with the motion of a cantilever in cavity optomechanics. New spin optodynamic phenonmena are predicted, such as cavity-spin bistability, optodynamic spin-precession frequency shifts, coherent amplification and damping of spin, and the spin optodynamic squeezing of light.

id: 1005.3884
title: Quantum phase transition of nonlinear light in the finite size Dicke Hamiltonian
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, Ray-Kuang Lee
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 27, Issue 11, pp. 2443-2450 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3884
abstract: We study the quantum phase transition of a N two-level atomic ensemble interacting with an optical degenerate parametric process, which can be described by the finite size Dicke Hamiltonian plus counter-rotating and quadratic field terms. Analytical closed forms of the critical coupling value and their corresponding separable ground states are derived in the weak and strong coupling regimes. The existence of bipartite entanglement between the two-level-system ensemble and photon field as well as between ensemble components for moderate coupling is shown through numerical analysis. Given a finite size, our results also indicate the co-existence of squeezed fields and squeezed atomic ensembles.

id: 1005.3917
title: Geometric Quantum Gates, Composite Pulses, and Trotter-Suzuki Formulas
authors: Yasushi Kondo, Masamitsu Bando
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3917
abstract: We show that all geometric quantum gates (GQG's in short), which are quantum gates only with geometric phases, are robust against control field strength errors. As examples of this observation, we show (1) how robust composite rf-pulses in NMR are geometrically constructed and (2) a composite rf-pulse based on Trotter-Suzuki Formulas is a GQG.

id: 1005.3935
title: Quantum degrees of polarization
authors: G. Bjork, J. Soderholm, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, A. B. Klimov, I. Ghiu, P. Marian, T. A. Marian
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. v2: Minor corrections and improvements
journal: Opt. Commun. 283 (2010) 4440-4447
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3935
abstract: We discuss different proposals for the degree of polarization of quantum fields. The simplest approach, namely making a direct analogy with the classical description via the Stokes operators, is known to produce unsatisfactory results. Still, we argue that these operators and their properties should be basic for any measure of polarization. We compare alternative quantum degrees and put forth that they order various states differently. This is to be expected, since, despite being rooted in the Stokes operators, each of these measures only captures certain characteristics. Therefore, it is likely that several quantum degrees of polarization will coexist, each one having its specific domain of usefulness.

id: 1005.3971
title: The su(1,1) dynamical algebra from the Schr?dinger ladder operators for N-dimensional systems: hydrogen atom, Mie-type potential, harmonic oscillator and pseudo-harmonic oscillator
authors: D. Martinez, J. C. Flores-Urbina, R. D. Mota, V. D. Granados
comments: 10 pages
journal: J.Phys.A43:135201,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3971
abstract: We apply the Schr\"odinger factorization to construct the ladder operators for hydrogen atom, Mie-type potential, harmonic oscillator and pseudo-harmonic oscillator in arbitrary dimensions. By generalizing these operators we show that the dynamical algebra for these problems is the $su(1,1)$ Lie algebra.

id: 1005.3973
title: The su(1,1) Dynamical Algebra for the Generalized MICZ-Kepler Problem from the Schr?dinger Factorization
authors: M. Salazar-Ramirez, D. Martinez, V. D. Granados R. D. Mota
comments: 11 pages
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.49:967-973,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3973
abstract: We apply the Schr\"odinger factorization to construct the generators of the dynamical algebra $su(1,1)$ for the radial equation of the generalized MICZ-Kepler problem.

id: 1005.3974
title: Exact solution of the ion-laser interaction in all regimes
authors: A. Z¨²?iga-Segundo, J.M. Vargas-Mart¨ªnez, R. Ju¨¢rez-Amaro, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 
journal: Annalen der Physik 524, No. 2, 107-111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3974
abstract: We show that in the trapped ion-laser interaction all the regimes may be considered analytically. We may solve not only for different laser intensities, but also away from resonance and from the Lamb-Dicke regime. It is found a dispersive Hamiltonian for the high intensity regime, that, being diagonal, its evolution operator may be easily calculated.

id: 1005.4040
title: Correlation and dimensional effects of trions in carbon nanotubes
authors: Troels F. R?nnow, Thomas G. Pedersen, Horia D. Cornean
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4040
abstract: We study the binding energies of singlet trions, i.e. charged excitons, in carbon nanotubes. The problem is modeled, through the effective-mass model, as a three-particle complex on the surface of a cylinder, which we investigate using both one- and two-dimensional expansions of the wave function. The effects of dimensionality and correlation are studied in detail. We find that the Hartree-Fock approximation significantly underestimates the trion binding energy. Combined with band structures calculated using a non-orthogonal nearest neighbour tight binding model, the results from the cylinder model are used to compute physical binding energies for a wide selection of carbon nanotubes. In addition, the dependence on dielectric screening is examined. Our findings indicate that trions are detectable at room temperature in carbon nanotubes with radius below 8{\AA}.

id: 1005.4082
title: Momentum of electromagnetic fields, speed of light in moving media, and the photon mass
authors: Gianfranco Spavieri, George T. Gillies
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4082
abstract: In both the equations for matter and light wave propagation, the momentum of the electromagnetic fields Pe reflects the relevant em interaction. As a review of some applications of wave propagation properties, an optical experiment which tests the speed of light in moving rarefied gases is described. Moreover, Pe is also the link to the unitary vision of the quantum effects of the Aharonov-Bohm (AB) type, which provide a useful quantum approach for the limit of the photon mass mph. A bench-top experiment based on effects of the AB type that exploit new interferometric techniques, is foreseen to yield the limit mph = 10^-54 g, a value that improves upon the results achieved with other approaches.

id: 1005.4085
title: Tunable Cavity Optomechanics with Ultracold Atoms
authors: T.P. Purdy, D.W.C. Brooks, T. Botter, N. Brahms, Z.-Y. Ma, D.M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4085
abstract: We present an atom-chip-based realization of quantum cavity optomechanics with cold atoms localized within a Fabry-Perot cavity. Effective sub-wavelength positioning of the atomic ensemble allows for tuning the linear and quadratic optomechanical coupling parameters, varying the sensitivity to the displacement and strain of a compressible gaseous cantilever. We observe effects of such tuning on cavity optical nonlinearity and optomechanical frequency shifts, providing their first characterization in the quadratic-coupling regime.

id: 1005.4091
title: Symmetric informationally complete positive operator valued measure and probability representation of quantum mechanics
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX, partially presented at the Workshop "Nonlinearity and Coherence in Classical and Quantum Systems" held at the University "Federico II" in Naples, Italy on December 4, 2009 in honor of Prof. Margarita A. Man'ko in connection with her 70th birthday, minor misprints are corrected in the second version
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 31 (2010) 211-231
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4091
abstract: Symmetric informationally complete positive operator valued measures (SIC-POVMs) are studied within the framework of the probability representation of quantum mechanics. A SIC-POVM is shown to be a special case of the probability representation. The problem of SIC-POVM existence is formulated in terms of symbols of operators associated with a star-product quantization scheme. We show that SIC-POVMs (if they do exist) must obey general rules of the star product, and, starting from this fact, we derive new relations on SIC-projectors. The case of qubits is considered in detail, in particular, the relation between the SIC probability representation and other probability representations is established, the connection with mutually unbiased bases is discussed, and comments to the Lie algebraic structure of SIC-POVMs are presented.

id: 1005.4096
title: Quantization of the Damped Harmonic Oscillator Revisited
authors: M.C. Baldiotti, R. Fresneda, D.M. Gitman
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4096
abstract: We return to the description of the damped harmonic oscillator by means of a closed quantum theory with a general assessment of previous works, in particular the Bateman-Caldirola-Kanai model and a new model recently proposed by one of the authors. We show the local equivalence between the two models and argue that latter has better high energy behavior and is naturally connected to existing open-quantum-systems approaches.

id: 1005.4128
title: Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation for a Dirac-Pauli dyon and the Thomas-Bargmann-Michel-Telegdi equation
authors: Tsung-Wei Chen, Dah-Wei Chiou
comments: 18 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:012115,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4128
abstract: The classical dynamics for a charged point particle with intrinsic spin is governed by a relativistic Hamiltonian for the orbital motion and by the Thomas-Bargmann-Michel-Telegdi equation for the precession of the spin. It is natural to ask whether the classical Hamiltonian (with both the orbital and spin parts) is consistent with that in the relativistic quantum theory for a spin-1/2 charged particle, which is described by the Dirac equation. In the low-energy limit, up to terms of the 7th order in $1/E_g$ ($E_g=2mc^2$ and $m$ is the particle mass), we investigate the Foldy-Wouthuysen (FW) transformation of the Dirac Hamiltonian in the presence of homogeneous and static electromagnetic fields and show that it is indeed in agreement with the classical Hamiltonian with the gyromagnetic ratio being equal to 2. Through electromagnetic duality, this result can be generalized for a spin-1/2 dyon, which has both electric and magnetic charges and thus possesses both intrinsic electric and magnetic dipole moments. Furthermore, the relativistic quantum theory for a spin-1/2 dyon with arbitrary values of the gyromagnetic and gyroelectric ratios can be described by the Dirac-Pauli equation, which is the Dirac equation with augmentation for the anomalous electric and anomalous magnetic dipole moments. The FW transformation of the Dirac-Pauli Hamiltonian is shown, up to the 7th order again, to be also in accord with the classical Hamiltonian.

id: 1005.4160
title: Quantum Simulation and Phase Diagram of the Transverse Field Ising Model with Three Atomic Spins
authors: E. E. Edwards, S. Korenblit, K. Kim, R. Islam, M.-S. Chang, J. K. Freericks, G.-D. Lin, L.-M. Duan, C. Monroe
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. B 82, 060412(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4160
abstract: We perform a quantum simulation of the Ising model with a transverse field using a collection of three trapped atomic ion spins. By adiabatically manipulating the Hamiltonian, we directly probe the ground state for a wide range of fields and form of the Ising couplings, leading to a phase diagram of magnetic order in this microscopic system. The technique is scalable to much larger numbers of trapped ion spins, where phase transitions approaching the thermodynamic limit can be studied in cases where theory becomes intractable.

id: 1005.4176
title: Quantum interference and non-locality of independent photons from disparate sources
authors: R. Wiegner, J. von Zanthier, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 055501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4176
abstract: We quantitatively investigate the non-classicality and non-locality of a whole new class of mixed disparate quantum and semiquantum photon sources at the quantum-classical boundary. The latter include photon added thermal and photon added coherent sources, experimentally investigated recently by Zavatta et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 140406 (2009)]. The key quantity in our investigations is the visibility of the corresponding photon-photon correlation function. We present explicit results on the violations of the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality - which is a measure of nonclassicality - as well as of Bell-type inequalities.

id: 1005.4182
title: Non-locality from N > 2 Independent Single Photon Emitters
authors: C. Thiel, R. Wiegner, J. von Zanthier, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4182
abstract: We demonstrate that intensity correlations of second order in the fluorescence light of N > 2 single- photon emitters may violate locality while the visibility of the signal remains below 71%. For this, we derive a homogeneous Bell-Wigner-type inequality, which can be applied to a broad class of experimental setups. We trace the violation of this inequality back to path entanglement created by the process of detection.

id: 1005.4185
title: On quantum mechanical transport coefficients in nonequilibrium nuclear processes with application to heavy-ion collisions
authors: Yamen Hamdouni
comments: 29 pages, 10 figures
journal: J.Phys.G37:125106,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4185
abstract: The elements of the quantum mechanical diffusion matrix, leading to a Gibbs equilibrium state for a set of $N$ coupled quantum harmonic oscillators are derived within Lindblad's axiomatic approach. Consequences of the fundamental constraints on the quantum friction coefficients are discussed. We derive the equations of motion for the expectation values and variances, and we solve them analytically. We apply our results to the description of the charge and mass asymmetry coordinates in heavy-ion collisions, and we investigate the effect of dissipation on tunneling in sub-barrier processes.

id: 1005.4204
title: Amplification of quantum discord between two uncoupled qubits in a common environment by phase decoherence
authors: Ji-Bing Yuan, Jie-Qiao Liao, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4204
abstract: We study analytically the dynamic behaviors of quantum correlation measured by quantum discord between two uncoupled qubits, which are immersed in a common Ohmic environment. We show that the quantum discord of the two noninteracting qubits can be greatly amplified or protected for certain initially prepared $X$-type states in the time evolution. Especially, it is found that there does exist the stable amplification of the quantum discord for the case of two identical qubits, and the quantum discord can be protected for the case of two different qubits with a large detuning. It is also indicated that in general there does exist a sudden change of the quantum discord in the time evolution at a critic time point $t_c$, and the discord amplification and protection may occur only in the time interval $0<t\leq t_c$ for certain $X$-type states. This sheds new light on the creation and protection of quantum correlation.

id: 1005.4207
title: Quantum response of weakly chaotic systems
authors: Alexander Stotland, Louis M. Pecora, Doron Cohen
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, expanded improved version
journal: Europhys.Lett.92:20009,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4207
abstract: Chaotic systems, that have a small Lyapunov exponent, do not obey the common random matrix theory predictions within a wide "weak quantum chaos" regime. This leads to a novel prediction for the rate of heating for cold atoms in optical billiards with vibrating walls. The Hamiltonian matrix of the driven system does not look like one from a Gaussian ensemble, but rather it is very sparse. This sparsity can be characterized by parameters $s$ and $g$ that reflect the percentage of large elements, and their connectivity respectively. For $g$ we use a resistor network calculation that has direct relation to the semi-linear response characteristics of the system.

id: 1005.4217
title: Quantum Mechanical Operator of Time
authors: Slobodan Prvanovic
comments: 9 pages
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 126 (2011), 567-575
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4217
abstract: The self adjoint operator of time in non-relativistic quantum mechanics is found within the approach where the ordinary Hamiltonian is not taken to be conjugate to time. The operator version of the reexpressed Liouville equation with the total Hamiltonian, consisting of the part that is a conventional function of coordinate and momentum and the part that is conjugate to time, is considered. The von Neumann equation with quantized time is found and discussed from the point of view of exact time measurement.

id: 1005.4224
title: Quantum to classical transition and entanglement sudden death in Gaussian states under local heat bath dynamics
authors: Sandeep K Goyal, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: Published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82 042337 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4224
abstract: Entanglement sudden death in spatially separated two-mode Gaussian states coupled to local thermal and squeezed thermal baths is studied by mapping the problem to that of the quantum-to-classical transition. Using Simon's criterion concerning the characterisation of classicality in Gaussian states, the time to ESD is calculated by analysing the covariance matrices of the system. The results for the two-mode system at T=0 and T>0 for the two types of bath states are generalised to $n$-modes, and are shown to be similar in nature to the results for the general discrete $n$-qubit system.

id: 1005.4230
title: Rapid purification of quantum systems by measuring in a feedback-controlled unbiased basis
authors: Joshua Combes, Howard M. Wiseman, Kurt Jacobs, Anthony J. O'Connor
comments: v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022307 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4230
abstract: Rapid-purification by feedback --- specifically, reducing the mean impurity faster than by measurement alone --- can be achieved by making the eigenbasis of the density matrix to be unbiased relative to the measurement basis. Here we further examine the protocol introduced by Combes and Jacobs [Phys.Rev.Lett. {\bf 96}, 010504 (2006)] involving continuous measurement of the observable $J_z$ for a $D$-dimensional system. We rigorously re-derive the lower bound $(2/3)(D+1)$ on the achievable speed-up factor, and also an upper bound, namely $D^2/2$, for all feedback protocols that use measurements in unbiased bases. Finally we extend our results to $n$ independent measurements on a register of $n$ qubits, and derive an upper bound on the achievable speed-up factor that scales linearly with $n$.

id: 1005.4247
title: Generalized distillability conjecture and generalizations of Cauchy-Bunyakovsky-Schwarz inequality and Lagrange identity
authors: Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: Minor changes, new examples inserted, 19 pages
journal: Advances in Mathematics Research, vol. 15, ch. 9, pp. 251-272 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4247
abstract: Let rho_k, k=1,2,...,m, be the critical Werner state in a bipartite d_k by d_k quantum system, i.e., the one that separates the 1-distillable Werner states from those that are 1-indistillable. We propose a new conjecture (GDC) asserting that the tensor product of rho_k is 1-indistillable. This is much stronger than the familiar conjecture saying that a single critical Werner state is indistillable. We prove that GDC is true for arbitrary m provided that d_k is bigger than 2 for at most one index k. We reformulate GDC as an intriguing inequality for four arbitrary complex hypermatrices of type d_1 x ... x d_m. This hypermatrix inequality is just the special case n=2 of a more general conjecture (CBS conjecture) for 2n arbitrary complex hypermatrices of the same type. Surprisingly, the case n=1 turns out to be quite interesting as it provides hypermatrix generalization of the classical Lagrange identity. We also formulate the integral version of the CBS conjecture and derive the integral version of the hypermatrix Lagrange identity.

id: 1005.4294
title: Thermal Casimir effect for Drude metals in the plane-sphere geometry
authors: Antoine Canaguier-Durand, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, 82, 012511 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4294
abstract: We compute the Casimir interaction between a plane and a sphere, the configuration employed in the most precise experiments. The scattering formula is developed by taking a suitably chosen plane-wave and multipole basis and is valid for arbitrary values of the sphere radius, inter-plate distance, temperature and arbitrary dielectric functions for both sphere and plate. Our analytical and numerical results for metallic surfaces show a non-trivial interplay between the effects of curvature, temperature, finite conductivity and dissipation.

id: 1005.4307
title: The quantum measurement approach to particle oscillations
authors: C. Anastopoulos, N. Savvidou
comments: 56 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4307
abstract: The LSND and MiniBoone seeming anomalies in neutrino oscillations are usually attributed to physics beyond the Standard model. It is, however, possible that they may be an artefact of the theoretical treatment of particle oscillations that ignores fine points of quantum measurement theory relevant to the experiments. In this paper, we construct a rigorous measurement-theoretic framework for the description of particle oscillations, employing no assumptions extrinsic to quantum theory. The formalism leads to a non-standard oscillation formula; at low energy it predicts an `anomalous' oscillation wavelength, while at high energy it differs from the standard expression by a factor of 2. The key novelties in the formalism are the treatment of a particle's time of arrival at the detector as a genuine quantum observable, the theoretical precision in the definition of quantum probabilities, and the detailed modeling of the measurement process. The article also contains an extensive critical review of existing theoretical treatments of particle oscillations, identifying key problems and showing that these are overcome by the proposed formalism.

id: 1005.4348
title: Detecting Multipartite Classical States and their Resemblances
authors: Lin Chen, Eric Chitambar, Kavan Modi, Giovanni Vacanti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 020101 (Rapid Communication) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4348
abstract: We study various types of multipartite states lying near the quantum-classical boundary. The class of so-called classical states are precisely those in which each party can perform a projective measurement to identify a locally held state without disturbing the global state, a task known as non-disruptive local state identification (NDLID). We introduce a new class of states called generalized-classical states which allow for NDLID when the most general quantum measurements are permitted. A simple analytic method as well as a physical criterion are presented for detecting whether a multipartite state is classical. To decide whether a state is generalized-classical, we provide a semi-definite programming algorithm which can be adapted for use in other unrelated contexts such as signal processing.

id: 1005.4383
title: Steady state entanglement of two coupled qubits
authors: Elena del Valle
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 28, p. 228-235 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4383
abstract: The maximum entanglement between two coupled qubits in the steady state under two independent incoherent sources of excitation is reported. Asymmetric configurations where one qubit is excited while the other one dissipates the excitation are optimal for entanglement, reaching values three times larger than with thermal sources. The reason is the purification of the steady state mixture (that includes a Bell state) thanks to the saturation of the pumped qubit. Photon antibunching between the cross emission of the qubits can be used to experimentally evidence the large degrees of entanglement.

id: 1005.4428
title: Control and coherence of the optical transition of single defect centers in diamond
authors: Lucio Robledo, Hannes Bernien, Ilse van Weperen, Ronald Hanson
comments: 5 pages,4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 177403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4428
abstract: We demonstrate coherent control of the optical transition of single Nitrogen-Vacancy defect centers in diamond. On applying short resonant laser pulses, we observe optical Rabi oscillations with a half-period as short as 1 nanosecond, an order of magnitude shorter than the spontaneous emission time. By studying the decay of Rabi oscillations, we find that the decoherence is dominated by laser-induced spectral jumps. By using a low-power probe pulse as a detuning sensor and applying post-selection, we demonstrate that spectral diffusion can be overcome in this system to generate coherent photons.

id: 1005.4443
title: Collectively enhanced quantum measurements at the Heisenberg limit
authors: Daniel Braun, John Martin
comments: Replaced with final published version
journal: Nature Communications, 2, 223 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4443
abstract: Quantum-enhanced measurements use quantum mechanical effects in order to enhance the sensitivity of the measurement of classical quantities, such as the length of an optical cavity. The major goal is to beat the standard quantum limit (SQL), i.e. a uncertainty of order 1/\sqrt{N}, where N is the number of quantum resources (e.g. the number of photons or atoms used), and to achieve a scaling 1/N, known as the Heisenberg limit. So far very few experiments have demonstrated an improvement over the SQL. The required quantum states are generally highly entangled, difficult to produce, and very prone to decoherence. Here we show that Heisenberg limited measurements can be achieved without the use of entangled states by coupling the quantum resources to a common environment which can be measured at least in part. The method is robust under decoherence, and in fact the parameter dependence of collective decoherence itself can be used to reach a 1/N scaling.

id: 1005.4448
title: Application of entanglement conditions to spin systems
authors: Hongjun Zheng, Ho Trung Dung, Mark Hillery
comments: accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062311 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4448
abstract: There have been numerous studies of entanglement in spin systems. These have usually focussed on examining the entanglement between individual spins or determining whether the state of the system is completely separable. Here we present conditions that allow us to determine whether blocks of spins are entangled. We show that sometimes these conditions can detect entanglement better than conditions involving individual spins. We apply these conditions to study entanglement in spin wave states, both when there are only a few magnons present and also at finite temperature.

id: 1005.4453
title: Conditions for entanglement in multipartite systems
authors: Mark Hillery, Ho Trung Dung, Hongjun Zheng
comments: accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062322 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4453
abstract: We introduce two entanglement conditions that take the form of inequalities involving expectation values of operators. These conditions are sufficient conditions for entanglement, that is if they are satisfied the state is entangled, but if they are not, one can say nothing about the entanglement of the state. These conditions are quite flexible, because the operators in them are not specified, and they are particularly useful in detecting multipartite entanglement. We explore the range of utility of these conditions by considering a number of examples of entangled states, and seeing under what conditions entanglement in them can be detected by the inequalities presented here.

id: 1005.4464
title: Variations of the Lifshitz-van der Waals force between metals immersed in liquids
authors: R. Esquivel-Sirvent
comments: 2 figures, 1 table
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics, Vol. 132, Issue 19, May 21 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4464
abstract: We present a theoretical calculation of the Lifshitz-van der Waals force between two metallic slabs embedded in a fluid, taking into account the change of the Drude parameters of the metals when in contact with liquids of different index of refraction. For the three liquids considered in this work, water, $CCl_3F$ and $ CBr_3F$ the change in the Drude parameters of the metal imply a difference of up to 15% in the determination of the force at short separations. These variations in the force is bigger for liquids with a higher index of refraction.

id: 1005.4486
title: Unknown single oscillator coherent states do have statistical significance
authors: N.D. Hari Dass
comments: 4 pages in Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4486
abstract: It is shown, contrary to popular belief, that {\it single unknown} oscillator coherent states can be endowed with a {\em measurable statistical significance}.

id: 1005.4510
title: Experimental investigation of the non-Markovian dynamics of classical and quantum correlations
authors: Jin-Shi Xu, Chuan-Feng Li, Cheng-Jie Zhang, Xiao-Ye Xu, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: extended revision, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042328 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4510
abstract: We experimentally investigate the dynamics of classical and quantum correlations of a Bell diagonal state in a non-Markovian dephasing environment. The sudden transition from classical to quantum decoherence regime is observed during the dynamics of such kind of Bell diagonal state. Due to the refocusing effect of the overall relative phase, the quantum correlation revives from near zero and then decays again in the subsequent evolution. However, the non-Markovian effect is too weak to revive the classical correlation, which remains constant in the same evolution range. With the implementation of an optical $\sigma_{x}$ operation, the sudden transition from quantum to classical revival regime is obtained and correlation echoes are formed. Our method can be used to control the revival time of correlations, which would be important in quantum memory.

id: 1005.4542
title: A new form of the no-cloning theorem for harmonic oscillator coherent states
authors: N.D. Hari Dass
comments: 2 pages in Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4542
abstract: We give an alternative formulation of the no-cloning theorem that applies to harmonic oscillator coherent states. It says that {\em unknown} single harmonic oscillator coherent states can not be {\em amplified}. Conversely it says that {\em known} harmonic oscillator coherent states can be directly amplified through an universal unitary process. It is also shown that such a formulation is needed for the consistency of {\em information cloning} proposed by us long ago.

id: 1005.4545
title: The inverse eigenvalue problem for quantum channels
authors: Michael M. Wolf, David Perez-Garcia
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4545
abstract: Given a list of n complex numbers, when can it be the spectrum of a quantum channel, i.e., a completely positive trace preserving map? We provide an explicit solution for the n=4 case and show that in general the characterization of the non-zero part of the spectrum can essentially be given in terms of its classical counterpart - the non-zero spectrum of a stochastic matrix. A detailed comparison between the classical and quantum case is given. We discuss applications of our findings in the analysis of time-series and correlation functions and provide a general characterization of the peripheral spectrum, i.e., the set of eigenvalues of modulus one. We show that while the peripheral eigen-system has the same structure for all Schwarz maps, the constraints imposed on the rest of the spectrum change immediately if one departs from complete positivity.

id: 1005.4555
title: Analytical solutions for a two-level system driven by a class of chirped pulses
authors: Pankaj K. Jha, Yuri V. Rostovtsev
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 015801 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4555
abstract: We present analytical solutions for the problem of a two-level atom driven by a class of chirped pulses. The solutions are given in terms of Heun functions. Using appropriate chirping parameters an enhancement of four-orders of magnitudes in the population transfer is obtained.

id: 1005.4572
title: A tomographic approach to non-Markovian master equations
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Antonella De Pasquale, Giulia Gualdi, Ugo Marzolino
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 395303 (13pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4572
abstract: We propose a procedure based on symplectic tomography for reconstructing the unknown parameters of a convolutionless non-Markovian Gaussian noisy evolution. Whenever the time-dependent master equation coefficients are given as a function of some unknown time-independent parameters, we show that these parameters can be reconstructed by means of a finite number of tomograms. Two different approaches towards reconstruction, integral and differential, are presented and applied to a benchmark model made of a harmonic oscillator coupled to a bosonic bath. For this model the number of tomograms needed to retrieve the unknown parameters is explicitly computed.

id: 1005.4573
title: Continuous operation of high bit rate quantum key distribution
authors: A R Dixon, Z L Yuan, J F Dynes, A W Sharpe, A J Shields
comments: four pages, four figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 96, 161102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4573
abstract: We demonstrate a quantum key distribution with a secure bit rate exceeding 1 Mbit/s over 50 km fiber averaged over a continuous 36-hours period. Continuous operation of high bit rates is achieved using feedback systems to control path length difference and polarization in the interferometer and the timing of the detection windows. High bit rates and continuous operation allows finite key size effects to be strongly reduced, achieving a key extraction efficiency of 96% compared to keys of infinite lengths.

id: 1005.4650
title: Broadband squeezing of quantum noise in a Michelson interferometer with Twin-Signal-Recycling
authors: Andr¨¦ Th¨¹ring, Christian Gr?f, Henning Vahlbruch, Moritz Mehmet, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 34, Issue 6, pp. 824-826 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4650
abstract: Twin-Signal-Recycling (TSR) builds on the resonance doublet of two optically coupled cavities and efficiently enhances the sensitivity of an interferometer at a dedicated signal frequency. We report on the first experimental realization of a Twin-Signal-Recycling Michelson interferometer and also its broadband enhancement by squeezed light injection. The complete setup was stably locked and a broadband quantum noise reduction of the interferometers shot noise by a factor of up to 4\,dB was demonstrated. The system was characterized by measuring its quantum noise spectra for several tunings of the TSR cavities. We found good agreement between the experimental results and numerical simulations.

id: 1005.4656
title: Generalized X states of N qubits and their symmetries
authors: Sai Vinjanampathy, A. R. P. Rau
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032336 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4656
abstract: Several families of states such as Werner states, Bell-diagonal states and Dicke states are useful to understand multipartite entanglement. Here we present a [2^(N+1)-1]-parameter family of N-qubit "X states" that embrace all those families, generalizing previously defined states for two qubits. We also present the algebra of the operators that characterize the states and an iterative construction for this algebra, a sub-algebra of su(2^(N)). We show how a variety of entanglement witnesses can detect entanglement in such states. Connections are also made to structures in projective geometry.

id: 1005.4694
title: Quantum Information with Continuous Variable systems
authors: Carles Rod¨®
comments: PhD Thesis in Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona. Published by the Lambert Academic Publishing (LAP) on March 18, 2011. ISBN-13: 978-3-8443-1948-4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4694
abstract: This thesis deals with the study of quantum communication protocols with Continuous Variable (CV) systems. Continuous Variable systems are those described by canonical conjugated coordinates x and p endowed with infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces, thus involving a complex mathematical structure. A special class of CV states, are the so-called Gaussian states. With them, it has been possible to implement certain quantum tasks as quantum teleportation, quantum cryptography and quantum computation with fantastic experimental success. The importance of Gaussian states is two-fold; firstly, its structural mathematical description makes them much more amenable than any other CV system. Secondly, its production, manipulation and detection with current optical technology can be done with a very high degree of accuracy and control. Nevertheless, it is known that in spite of their exceptional role within the space of all Continuous Variable states, in fact, Gaussian states are not always the best candidates to perform quantum information tasks. Thus non-Gaussian states emerge as potentially good candidates for communication and computation purposes.

id: 1005.4720
title: Weak Value in Wave Function of Detector
authors: Kouji Nakamura
comments: 3 pages, no figures, Published in Journal of the Physical Society of Japan
journal: Journal of the Physical Society of Japan, vol.79 (2010), 125003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4720
abstract: A simple formula to read out the weak value from the wave function of the measuring device after the postselection with the initial Gaussian profile is proposed. We apply this formula for the weak value to the classical experiment of the realization of the weak measurement by the optical polarization and obtain the weak value for any pre- and post-selections. This formula automatically includes the interference e?ect which is necessary to yields the weak value as an outcome of the weak measurement.

id: 1005.4741
title: Uncertainty limits for quantum metrology obtained from the statistics of weak measurements
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 6 pages, final modifications for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022106 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4741
abstract: Quantum metrology uses small changes in the output probabilities of a quantum measurement to estimate the magnitude of a weak interaction with the system. The sensitivity of this procedure depends on the relation between the input state, the measurement results, and the generator observable describing the effect of the weak interaction on the system. This is similar to the situation in weak measurements, where the weak value of an observable exhibits a symmetric dependence on initial and final conditions. In this paper, it is shown that the phase sensitivity of a quantum measurement is in fact given by the variance of the imaginary parts of the weak values of the generator over the different measurement outcomes. It is then possible to include the limitations of a specific quantum measurement in the uncertainty bound for phase estimates by subtracting the variance of the real parts of the weak values from the initial generator uncertainty. This uncertainty relation can be interpreted as the time-symmetric formulation of the uncertainty limit of quantum metrology, where the real parts of the weak values represent the information about the generator observable in the final measurement result.

id: 1005.4756
title: The absolute position of a resonance peak
authors: Shachar Klaiman, Nimrod Moiseyev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4756
abstract: It is common practice in scattering theory to correlate between the position of a resonance peak in the cross section and the real part of a complex energy of a pole of the scattering amplitude. In this work we show that the resonance peak position appears at the absolute value of the pole's complex energy rather than its real part. We further demonstrate that a local theory of resonances can still be used even in cases previously thought impossible.

id: 1005.4758
title: Strengthened quantum Hamming bound
authors: Sixia Yu, C.H. Lai, C.H. Oh
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4758
abstract: We report two analytical bounds for quantum error-correcting codes that do not have preexisting classical counterparts. Firstly the quantum Hamming and Singleton bounds are combined into a single tighter bound, and then the combined bound is further strengthened via the well-known Lloyd's theorem in classical coding theory, which claims that perfect codes, codes attaining the Hamming bound, do not exist if the Lloyd's polynomial has some non-integer zeros. Our bound characterizes quantitatively the improvement over the Hamming bound via the non-integerness of the zeros of the Lloyd's polynomial. In the case of 1-error correcting codes our bound holds true for impure codes as well, which we conjecture to be always true, and for stabilizer codes there is a 1-logical-qudit improvement for an infinite family of lengths.

id: 1005.4759
title: On the First Order Asymptotic Theory of Quantum Estimation
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: dedicated to Prof. Masafumi Akahira
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4759
abstract: We give a rigorous treatment on the foundation of the first order asymptotic theory of quantum estimation, with tractable and reasonable regularity conditions. Different from past works, we do not use Fisher information nor MLE, and an optimal estimator is constructed based on locally unbiased estimators. Also, we treat state estimation by local operations and classical communications (LOCC), and estimation of quantum operations.

id: 1005.4776
title: Decoherence and Thermalization of Quantum Spin Systems
authors: Shengjun Yuan
comments: 24 pages, 23 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4776
abstract: In this review, we discuss the decoherence and thermalization of a quantum spin system interacting with a spin bath environment, by numerically solving the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation of the whole system. The effects of the topologic structure and the initial state of the environment on the decoherence of the two-spin and many-spin system are discussed. The role of different spin-spin coupling is considered. We show under which conditions the environment drives the reduced density matrix of the system to a fully decoherent state, and how the diagonal elements of the reduced density matrix approach those expected for the system in the microcanonical or canonical ensemble, depending on the character of the additional integrals of motion. Our demonstration does not rely on time-averaging of observables nor does it assume that the coupling between system and bath is weak. Our findings show that the microcanonical distribution (in each eigenenergy subspace) and canonical ensemble are states that may result from pure quantum dynamics, suggesting that quantum mechanics may be regarded as the foundation of quantum statistical mechanics. Furthermore, our numerical results show that a fully decoherent quantum system prefers to stay in an equilibrium state with a maximum entropy, indicating the validity of the second law of thermodynamics in the decoherence process.

id: 1005.4777
title: Relative Entropy of Entanglement for Two-Qubit State with $z$-directional Bloch Vectors
authors: DaeKil Park
comments: 12pages, no figure, will appear in IJQI
journal: International J. Quant. Inf. 8 (No. 5), 869 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4777
abstract: So far there is no closed formula for relative entropy of entanglement of arbitrary two-qubit states. In this paper we present a method, which guarantees the derivation of the relative entropy of entanglement for most states that have $z$-directional Bloch vectors. It is shown that the closest separable states for those states also have $z$-directional Bloch vectors though there are few exceptions.

id: 1005.4788
title: Computational costs of data definition at the quantum - classical interface
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4788
abstract: Model-independent semantic requirements for user specification and interpretation of data before and after quantum computations are characterized. Classical computational costs of assigning classical data values to quantum registers and to run-time parameters passed across a classical-to-quantum application programming interface are derived. It is shown that the classical computational costs of data definition equal or exceed the classical computational cost of solving the problem of interest for all applications of quantum computing except computations defined over the integers and the simulation of linear systems with linear boundary conditions.

id: 1005.4804
title: Diffraction and quasiclassical limit of the Aharonov--Bohm effect
authors: Yu.A.Sitenko, N.D.Vlasii
comments: 12 pages, minor changes, references updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4804
abstract: Since the Aharonov-Bohm effect is the purely quantum effect that has no analogues in classical physics, its persistence in the quasiclassical limit seems to be hardly possible. Nevertheless, we show that the scattering Aharonov-Bohm effect does persist in the quasiclassical limit owing to the diffraction, i.e. the Fraunhofer diffraction in the case when space outside the enclosed magnetic flux is Euclidean, and the Fresnel diffraction in the case when the outer space is conical. Hence, the enclosed magnetic flux can serve as a gate for the propagation of short-wavelength, almost classical, particles. In the case of conical space, this quasiclassical effect which is in principle detectable depends on the particle spin.

id: 1005.4837
title: Observation of single- and two-photon beating between independent Raman scattering
authors: Li-Qing Chen, Cheng-ling Bian, Guo-Wan Zhang, Z. Y. Ou, Weiping Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4837
abstract: By using spontaneous Raman processes in the high gain regime, we produce two independent Raman Stokes fields from an atomic ensemble. Temporal beating is observed between the two directly generated Stokes fields in a single realization. The beat frequency is found to be a result of an AC Stark frequency shift effect. However, due to the spontaneous nature of the process, the phases of the two Stokes fields change from one realization to another so that the beat signal disappears after average over many realizations. On the other hand, the beat signal is recovered in a two-photon correlation measurement, showing a two-photon interference effect. The two-photon beat signal enables us to obtain dephasing information in the Raman process. The dephasing effect is found to depend on the temperature of the atomic medium.

id: 1005.4863
title: Dynamics of thermalisation in small Hubbard-model systems
authors: S. Genway, A. F. Ho, D. K. K. Lee
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 260402 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4863
abstract: We study numerically the thermalisation and temporal evolution of the reduced density matrix for a two-site subsystem of a fermionic Hubbard model prepared far from equilibrium at a definite energy. Even for very small systems near quantum degeneracy, the subsystem can reach a steady state resembling equilibrium. This occurs for a non-perturbative coupling between the subsystem and the rest of the lattice where relaxation to equilibrium is Gaussian in time, in sharp contrast to perturbative results. We find similar results for random couplings, suggesting such behaviour is generic for small systems.

id: 1005.4865
title: Master equation approach for interacting slow- and stationary-light polaritons
authors: Martin Kiffner, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033813 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4865
abstract: A master equation approach for the description of dark-state polaritons in coherently driven atomic media is presented. This technique provides a description of light-matter interactions under conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) that is well suited for the treatment of polariton losses. The master equation approach allows us to describe general polariton-polariton interactions that may be conservative, dissipative or a mixture of both. In particular, it enables us to study dissipation-induced correlations as a means for the creation of strongly correlated polariton systems. Our technique reveals a loss mechanism for stationary-light polaritons that has not been discussed so far. We find that polariton losses in level configurations with non-degenerate ground states can be a multiple of those in level schemes with degenerate ground states.

id: 1005.4870
title: Limited Holism and Real-Vector-Space Quantum Theory
authors: Lucien Hardy, William K. Wootters
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4870
abstract: Quantum theory has the property of "local tomography": the state of any composite system can be reconstructed from the statistics of measurements on the individual components. In this respect the holism of quantum theory is limited. We consider in this paper a class of theories more holistic than quantum theory in that they are constrained only by "bilocal tomography": the state of any composite system is determined by the statistics of measurements on pairs of components. Under a few auxiliary assumptions, we derive certain general features of such theories. In particular, we show how the number of state parameters can depend on the number of perfectly distinguishable states. We also show that real-vector-space quantum theory, while not locally tomographic, is bilocally tomographic.

id: 1005.4932
title: Failure of Bell's Theorem and the Local Causality of the Entangled Photons
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 4 pages; Further elaborations may be found in arXiv:0904.4259, arXiv:quant-ph/0703179, arXiv:0707.1333, arXiv:0806.3078, and arXiv:quant-ph/0703244
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4932
abstract: A counterexample to Bell's theorem is presented which uses a pair of photons instead of spin-1/2 particles used in our previous counterexamples. A locally causal protocol is provided for Alice and Bob, which allows them to simulate observing photon polarizations at various angles, and record their results as A=+/-1 in S^3 and B=+/-1 in S^3, respectively. When these results are compared, the correlations are seen to be exactly those predicted by quantum mechanics; namely cos 2(alpha - beta), where alpha and beta are the angles of polarizers. The key ingredient in our counterexample is the topology of 3-sphere, which remains closed under multiplication, thus preserving the locality condition of Bell.

id: 1005.4966
title: A method for systematic construction of Bell-like inequalities and a proposal of a new type of test
authors: Tomohiro Isobe, Shogo Tanimura
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 124 (2010), 191-205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4966
abstract: The Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (BCHSH) inequality, which is proven in the context of the local hidden variable theory, has been used as a test to reveal failure of the hidden variable theory and to prove validity of the quantum theory. We note that violation of the BCHSH inequality is caused by noncommutativity of quantum observables and find a systematic method for constructing generalizations of the BCHSH inequality. This method is applied for inventing a new quantity which is defined in a two-qubit system and satisfies a new type of inequality. This provides a fair test of the quantum theory. Remaining problems are also discussed.

id: 1005.4974
title: Cavity opto-electromechanical system combining strong electrical actuation with ultrasensitive transduction
authors: Terry G. McRae, Kwan H. Lee, Glen I. Harris, Joachim Knittel, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 7 pages 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4974
abstract: A cavity opto-electromechanical system is reported which combines the ultrasensitive transduction of cavity optomechanical systems with the electrical actuation of nanoelectromechanical systems. Ultrasensitive mechanical transduction is achieved via opto-mechanical coupling. Electrical gradient forces as large as 0.40 $\mu$N are realized, facilitating strong actuation with ultralow dissipation. A scanning probe microscope is implemented, capable of characterizing the mechanical modes. The integration of electrical actuation into optomechanical devices is an enabling step towards the regime of quantum nonlinear dynamics, and provides new capabilities for quantum control of mechanical motion.

id: 1005.4991
title: Manufacturing time operators: covariance, selection criteria, and examples
authors: G. C. Hegerfeldt, J. G. Muga, J. Mu?oz
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 82, 012113 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4991
abstract: We provide the most general forms of covariant and normalized time operators and their probability densities, with applications to quantum clocks, the time of arrival, and Lyapunov quantum operators. Examples are discussed of the profusion of possible operators and their physical meaning. Criteria to define unique, optimal operators for specific cases are given.

id: 1005.5038
title: Heisenberg-limited interferometry with pair coherent states and parity measurements
authors: Christopher C. Gerry, Jihane Mimih
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5038
abstract: After reviewing parity measurement based interferometry with twin-Fock states, which allows for super-sensitivity (Heisenberg-limited) and super-resolution, we consider interferometry with two different superpositions of twin-Fock states, namely two-mode squeezed vacuum states and pair coherent states. This study is motivated by the experimental challenge of producing twin-Fock states on opposite sides of a beam splitter. We find that input two-mode squeezed states, while allowing for Heisenberg-limited sensitivity, do not yield super-resolutions, whereas we that find both are possible with input pair coherent states.

id: 1005.5057
title: Erlangen Programme at Large 3.1: Hypercomplex Representations of the Heisenberg Group and Mechanics
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: AMSLaTeX, 17 pages, 4 EPS pictures in two figures; v2, v3, v4, v5, v6: numerous small improvements
journal: Internat. J. Theoret. Phys., 2012, Volume 51, Number 3, Pages 964-984
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5057
abstract: In the spirit of geometric quantisation we consider representations of the Heisenberg(--Weyl) group induced by hypercomplex characters of its centre. This allows to gather under the same framework, called p-mechanics, the three principal cases: quantum mechanics (elliptic character), hyperbolic mechanics and classical mechanics (parabolic character). In each case we recover the corresponding dynamic equation as well as rules for addition of probabilities. Notably, we are able to obtain whole classical mechanics without any kind of semiclassical limit h->0. Keywords: Heisenberg group, Kirillov's method of orbits, geometric quantisation, quantum mechanics, classical mechanics, Planck constant, dual numbers, double numbers, hypercomplex, jet spaces, hyperbolic mechanics, interference, Segal--Bargmann representation, Schroedinger representation, dynamics equation, harmonic and unharmonic oscillator, contextual probability

id: 1005.5064
title: Correlation function and mutual information
authors: R.X. Dong, D.L. Zhou
comments: 4.2 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 445302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5064
abstract: Correlation function and mutual information are two powerful tools to characterize the correlations in a quantum state of a composite system, widely used in many-body physics and in quantum information science, respectively. We find that these two tools may give different conclusions about the order of the degrees of correlation in two specific two-qubit states. This result implies that the orderings of bipartite quantum states according to the degrees of correlation depend on which correlation measure we adopt.

id: 1005.5083
title: Cloning Entangled Qubits to Scales One Can See
authors: Pavel Sekatski, Bruno Sanguinetti, Enrico Pomarico, Nicolas Gisin, Christoph Simon
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5083
abstract: By amplifying photonic qubits it is possible to produce states that contain enough photons to be seen with a human eye, potentially bringing quantum effects to macroscopic scales [1]. In this paper we theoretically study quantum states obtained by amplifying one side of an entangled photon pair with different types of optical cloning machines for photonic qubits. We propose a detection scheme that involves lossy threshold detectors (such as human eye) on the amplified side and conventional photon detectors on the other side. We show that correlations obtained with such coarse-grained measurements prove the entanglement of the initial photon pair and do not prove the entanglement of the amplified state. We emphasize the importance of the detection loophole in Bell violation experiments by giving a simple preparation technique for separable states that violate a Bell inequality without closing this loophole. Finally we analyze the genuine entanglement of the amplified states and its robustness to losses before, during and after amplification.

id: 1005.5092
title: Null-Result Detection and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) Correlations
authors: Luiz Carlos Ryff
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure. Similar to the version published in Foundations of Physics with an appendix on superluminal signalling without causal paradox included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5092
abstract: It follows from Bell's theorem and quantum mechanics that the detection of a particle of an entangled pair can (somehow) "force" the other distant particle of the pair into a well-defined state (which is equivalente to a reduction of the state vector): no property previously shared by the particles can explain the predicted correlations. This result has been corroborated by experiment. However, it has not been experimantally proved-and it is far from obvious-that the absence of detection, as in null-result (NR) experiments could have the very same effect. In this paper a way to try to bridge this gap is suggested. As already shown for the case of EPR correlations, if NR detections cannot induce a reduction of the state vector, then faster-than-light (FTL) communication becomes possible, at least in pr\'inciple. But it will be demonstrated that-as entertained by Bohm-this does not necessarily lead to a causal paradox, or to the rejection of the Lorentz transformations.

id: 1005.5119
title: Heralding two- and four-photon path entanglement on chip
authors: Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Alberto Politi, Damien Bonneau, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 163602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5119
abstract: Generating quantum entanglement is not only an important scientific endeavor, but will be essential to realizing quantum-enhanced technologies, in particular, quantum-enhanced measurements with precision beyond classical limits. We investigate the heralded generation of multiphoton entanglement for quantum metrology using a reconfigurable integrated waveguide device in which projective measurement of auxiliary photons heralds the generation of path-entangled states. We use four and six-photon inputs, to analyze the heralding process of two- and four-photon NOON states-a superposition of N photons in two paths, capable of enabling phase supersensitive measurements at the Heisenberg limit. Realistic devices will include imperfections; as part of the heralded state preparation, we demonstrate phase superresolution within our chip with a state that is more robust to photon loss.

id: 1005.5164
title: A formalism-local framework for general probabilistic theories including quantum theory
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: 50 pages, over 50 pictures, includes a simple drawing package for LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5164
abstract: In this paper we consider general probabilistic theories that pertain to circuits which satisfy two very natural assumptions. We provide a formalism that is local in the following very specific sense: calculations pertaining to any region of spacetime employ only mathematical objects associated with that region. We call this "formalism locality". It incorporates the idea that space and time should be treated on an equal footing. Formulations that use a foliation of spacetime to evolve a state do not have this property nor do histories-based approaches. An operation (see figure on left) has inputs and outputs (through which systems travel). A circuit is built by wiring together operations such that we have no open inputs or outputs left over. A fragment (see figure on right) is a part of a circuit and may have open inputs and outputs. We show how each operation is associated with a certain mathematical object which we call a "duotensor" (this is like a tensor but with a bit more structure). In the figure on the left we show how a duotensor is represented graphically. We can link duotensors together such that black and white dots match up to get the duotensor corresponding to any fragment. The figure on the right is the duotensor for the above fragment. Links represent summing over the corresponding indices. We can use such duotensors to make probabilistic statements pertaining to fragments. Since fragments are the circuit equivalent of arbitrary spacetime regions we have formalism locality. The probability for a circuit is given by the corresponding duotensorial calculation (which is a scalar since there are no indices left over). We show how to put classical probability theory and quantum theory into this framework. [Note: the abstract in the paper has pictures.]

id: 1005.5173
title: No extension of quantum theory can have improved predictive power
authors: Roger Colbeck, Renato Renner
comments: 6 pages plus 7 of supplementary material, 3 figures. Title changed. Added discussion on Bell's notion of locality. FAQ answered at this http URL
journal: Nature Communications 2, 411 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5173
abstract: According to quantum theory, measurements generate random outcomes, in stark contrast with classical mechanics. This raises the question of whether there could exist an extension of the theory which removes this indeterminism, as suspected by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR). Although this has been shown to be impossible, existing results do not imply that the current theory is maximally informative. Here we ask the more general question of whether any improved predictions can be achieved by any extension of quantum theory. Under the assumption that measurements can be chosen freely, we answer this question in the negative: no extension of quantum theory can give more information about the outcomes of future measurements than quantum theory itself. Our result has significance for the foundations of quantum mechanics, as well as applications to tasks that exploit the inherent randomness in quantum theory, such as quantum cryptography.

id: 1005.5182
title: Exact reduced dynamics for a qubit in a precessing magnetic field and in the contact with a heat-bath
authors: Bartlomiej Gardas
comments: 11 pages, 0 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042115 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5182
abstract: The two-level quantum system (qubit) in a precessing magnetic field and in contact with a heat bath is investigated. The exact reduced dynamics for the qubit in question is obtained. We apply the approach based on the block operator matrices theory, in contrast with the standard methods provided by the theory of the open quantum systems. We also present the solution of the Riccati operator equation associated with the Hamiltonian of the system. Next, we study the adiabatic approximation for the system under consideration using quantum fidelity as a way to measure validity of the adiabatic theory. We find that in the weak coupling domain the standard condition that ensures adiabatic behavior of the spin in the magnetic field also guarantees its adiabatic evolution in the open system variant of this model. Therefore, we provide the explicit example of the open quantum system that satisfies the adiabatic approximation firstly formulated for the closed quantum systems.

id: 1005.5195
title: Exploiting translational invariance in Matrix Product State simulations of spin chains with periodic boundary conditions
authors: B. Pirvu, F. Verstraete, G. Vidal
comments: 17 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 125104 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5195
abstract: We present a matrix product state (MPS) algorithm to approximate ground states of translationally invariant systems with periodic boundary conditions. For a fixed value of the bond dimension D of the MPS, we discuss how to minimize the computational cost to obtain a seemingly optimal MPS approximation to the ground state. In a chain of N sites and correlation length \xi, the computational cost formally scales as g(D,\xi /N)D^3, where g(D,\xi /N) is a nontrivial function. For \xi << N, this scaling reduces to D^3, independent of the system size N, making our algorithm N times faster than previous proposals. We apply the method to obtain MPS approximations for the ground states of the critical quantum Ising and Heisenberg spin-1/2 models as well as for the noncritical Heisenberg spin-1 model. In the critical case, for any chain length N, we find a model-dependent bond dimension D(N) above which the polynomial decay of correlations is faithfully reproduced throughout the entire system.

id: 1005.5224
title: Quantum decoherence in a hybrid atom-optical system of a one-dimensional coupled-resonator waveguide and an atom
authors: Jing Lu, Lan Zhou, H. C. Fu, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 062111 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5224
abstract: Decoherence for a one-dimensional coupled-resonator waveguide with a two-level system inside one of resonators, induced by their interaction with corresponding environments, is investigated. Each environment is modeled as a continuum of harmonic oscillators. By finding the eigenstates of the hybrid system, which is the dressed state of the hybrid system, we calculate the lifetime of one excitation, which characterizes the existence of quantum coherence in such hybrid system and the basic quantum nature.

id: 1005.5236
title: Entanglement cost of two-qubit orthogonal measurements
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Ramij Rahaman, William K. Wootters
comments: Latex, 4 pages, minor changes
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 455303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5236
abstract: The "entanglement cost" of a bipartite measurement is the amount of shared entanglement two participants need to use up in order to carry out the given measurement by means of local operations and classical communication. Here we numerically investigate the entanglement cost of generic orthogonal measurements on two qubits. Our results strongly suggest that for almost all measurements of this kind, the entanglement cost is strictly greater than the average entanglement of the eigenstates associated with the measurements, implying that the nonseparability of a two-qubit orthogonal measurement is generically distinct from the nonseparability of its eigenstates.

id: 1005.5262
title: Constructing quantum games from symmetric non-factorizable joint probabilities
authors: James M. Chappell, Azhar Iqbal, Derek Abbott
comments: 20 pages, no figure, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 374, Issue 40, Pages 4104-4111 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5262
abstract: We construct quantum games from a table of non-factorizable joint probabilities, coupled with a symmetry constraint, requiring symmetrical payoffs between the players. We give the general result for a Nash equilibrium and payoff relations for a game based on non-factorizable joint probabilities, which embeds the classical game. We study a quantum version of Prisoners' Dilemma, Stag Hunt, and the Chicken game constructed from a given table of non-factorizable joint probabilities to find new outcomes in these games. We show that this approach provides a general framework for both classical and quantum games without recourse to the formalism of quantum mechanics.

id: 1005.5284
title: Generalized Hartree-Fock Theory for Interacting Fermions in Lattices: Numerical Methods
authors: Christina V. Kraus, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 16 pages, 22 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 113004 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5284
abstract: We present numerical methods to solve the Generalized Hartree-Fock theory for fermionic systems in lattices, both in thermal equilibrium and out of equilibrium. Specifically, we show how to determine the covariance matrix corresponding to the Fermionic Gaussian state that optimally approximates the quantum state of the fermions. The methods apply to relatively large systems, since their complexity only scales quadratically with the number of lattice sites. Moreover, they are specially suited to describe inhomogenous systems, as those typically found in recent experiments with atoms in optical lattices, at least in the weak interaction regime. As a benchmark, we have applied them to the two-dimensional Hubbard model on a 10x10 lattice with and without an external confinement.

id: 1005.5295
title: Local unitary equivalence and entanglement of multipartite pure states
authors: B. Kraus
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032121 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5295
abstract: The necessary and sufficient conditions for the equivalence of arbitrary n-qubit pure quantum states under Local Unitary (LU) operations derived in [B. Kraus Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 020504 (2010)] are used to determine the different LU-equivalence classes of up to five-qubit states. Due to this classification new parameters characterizing multipartite entanglement are found and their physical interpretation is given. Moreover, the method is used to derive examples of two n-qubit states (with n>2 arbitrary) which have the properties that all the entropies of any subsystem coincide, however, the states are neither LU-equivalent nor can be mapped into each other by general local operations and classical communication.

id: 1005.5328
title: Proof of the Standard Quantum Limit for Monitoring Free-Mass Position
authors: Seiji Kosugi
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5328
abstract: The measurement result of the moved distance for a free mass m during the time t between two position measurements cannot be predicted with uncertainty smaller than sqrt{hbar t/2m}. This is formulated as a standard quantum limit (SQL) and it has been proven to always hold for the following position measurement: a probe is set in a prescribed position before the measurement. Just after the interaction of the mass with the probe, the probe position is measured, and using this value, the measurement results of the pre-measurement and post-measurement positions are estimated.

id: 1005.5407
title: Exchange symmetry and global entanglement and full separability
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 054102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5407
abstract: Ichikawa et al. [Phys. Rev. A 78, 052105 (2008)] showed that exchange symmetry gives rise to simple characterization of whether multipartite pure quantum states being either globally entangled or fully separable. In this Brief Report, we provide a simple alternative approach and some extension to their conclusions.

id: 1005.5418
title: Fighting dephasing noise with robust optimal control
authors: Kevin C. Young, Dylan J Gorman, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5418
abstract: We address the experimentally relevant problem of robust mitigation of dephasing noise acting on a qubit. We first present an extension of a method for representing $1/\omega^{\alpha}$ noise developed by Kuopanportti et al. to the efficient representation of arbitrary Markovian noise. We then add qubit control pulses to enable the design of numerically optimized, two-dimensional control functions with bounded amplitude, that are capable of decoupling the qubit from the dephasing effects of a broad variety of Markovian noise spectral densities during arbitrary one qubit quantum operations. We illustrate the method with development of numerically optimized control pulse sequences that minimize decoherence due to a combination of $1/\omega$ and constant offset noise sources. Comparison with the performance of standard dynamical decoupling protocols shows that the numerically optimized pulse sequences are considerably more robust with respect to the noise offset, rendering them attractive for application to situations where homogeneous dephasing noise sources are accompanied by some extent of heterogeneous dephasing. Application to the mitigation of dephasing noise on spin qubits in silicon indicates that high fidelity single qubit gates are possible with current pulse generation technology.

id: 1005.5457
title: Local entanglement generation in the adiabatic regime
authors: Mathieu Cliche, Andrzej Veitia
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. v2: reference [14] added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5457
abstract: We study entanglement generation in a pair of qubits interacting with an initially correlated system. Using time independent perturbation theory and the adiabatic theorem, we show conditions under which the qubits become entangled as the joint system evolves into the ground state of the interacting theory. We then apply these results to the case of qubits interacting with a scalar quantum field. We study three different variations of this setup; a quantum field subject to Dirichlet boundary conditions, a quantum field interacting with a classical potential and a quantum field that starts in a thermal state.

id: 1005.5518
title: Quantum Optomechanics - throwing a glance
authors: Markus Aspelmeyer, Simon Groeblacher, Klemens Hammerer, Nikolai Kiesel
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, A189-A197 (2010) - JOSA B Feature Issue on Quantum Optical Information Technologies, P. Grangier, A. Jordan, G. Morigi (Eds.)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5518
abstract: Mechanical resonators are gradually becoming available as new quantum systems. Quantum optics in combination with optomechanical interactions (quantum optomechanics) provides a particularly helpful toolbox for generating and controlling mechanical quantum states. We highlight some of the current challenges in the field by discussing two of our recent experiments.

id: 1005.5531
title: The minimal entanglement of bipartite decompositions as a witness of strong entanglement in a quantum system
authors: A.I.Zenchuk
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5531
abstract: We {characterize the multipartite entanglement in a quantum system by the quantity} which vanishes if only the quantum system may be decomposed into two weakly entangled subsystems, unlike measures of multipartite entanglement introduced before. We refer to this {quantity} as the minimal entanglement of bipartite decompositions (MEBD). Big MEBD means that the system may not be decomposed into two weakly entangled subsystems. MEBD allows one to define, for instance, whether the given quantum system may be a candidate for a quantum register, where the above decomposition is undesirable. A method of lower estimation of MEBD is represented. Examples of big MEBD in spin-1/2 chains governed by the $H_{dz}$ Hamiltonian in the strong external magnetic field are given.

id: 1005.5545
title: Loss-resistant state teleportation and entanglement swapping using a quantum-dot spin in an optical microcavity
authors: C.Y. Hu, J.G. Rarity
comments: The manuscript is extended, including BSA fidelity, efficiency, and a compatible scheme for spin manipulations and spin echoes to prolong the spin coherence
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 115303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5545
abstract: We present a scheme for efficient state teleportation and entanglement swapping using a single quantum-dot spin in an optical microcavity based on giant circular birefringence. State teleportation or entanglement swapping is heralded by the sequential detection of two photons, and is finished after the spin measurement. The spin-cavity unit works as a complete Bell-state analyzer with a built-in spin memory allowing loss-resistant repeater operation. This device can work in both the weak coupling and the strong coupling regime, but high efficiencies and high fidelities are only achievable when the side leakage and cavity loss is low. We assess the feasibility of this device, and show it can be implemented with current technology. We also propose a spin manipulation method using single photons, which could be used to preserve the spin coherence via spin echo techniques.

id: 1005.5547
title: Observing the phase space trajectory of an entangled matter wave packet
authors: Ulrich Poschinger, Andreas Walther, Kilian Singer, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5547
abstract: We observe the phase space trajectory of an entangled wave packet of a trapped ion with high precision. The application of a spin dependent light force on a superposition of spin states allows for coherent splitting of the matter wave packet such that two distinct components in phase space emerge. We observe such motion with a precision of better than 9% of the wave packet extension in both momentum and position, corresponding to a 0.8 nm position resolution. We accurately study the effect of the initial ion temperature on the quantum entanglement dynamics. Furthermore, we map out the phonon distributions throughout the action of the displacement force. Our investigation shows corrections to simplified models of the system evolution. The precise knowledge of these dynamics may improve quantum gates for ion crystals and lead to entangled matter wave states with large displacements.

id: 1005.5607
title: Aspects of coherent states of nonlinear algebras
authors: T. Shreecharan, K. V. S. Shiv Chaitanya
comments: 22 Pages, 30 Figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51 (2010) 123511
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5607
abstract: Various aspects of coherent states of nonlinear $su(2)$ and $su(1,1)$ algebras are studied. It is shown that the nonlinear $su(1,1)$ Barut-Girardello and Perelomov coherent states are related by a Laplace transform. We then concentrate on the derivation and analysis of the statistical and geometrical properties of these states. The Berry's phase for the nonlinear coherent states is also derived.

id: 1005.5615
title: Single-shot qubit readout in circuit Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Fran?ois Mallet, Florian R. Ong, Agustin Palacios-Laloy, Fran?ois Nguyen, Patrice Bertet, Denis Vion, Daniel Esteve
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 5 (2009) 791
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5615
abstract: The future development of quantum information using superconducting circuits requires Josephson qubits with long coherence times combined to a high-delity readout. Major progress in the control of coherence has recently been achieved using circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) architectures, where the qubit is embedded in a coplanar waveguide resonator (CPWR) which both provides a well controlled electromagnetic environment and serves as qubit readout. In particular a new qubit design, the transmon, yields reproducibly long coherence times. However, a high-delity single-shot readout of the transmon, highly desirable for running simple quantum algorithms or measuring quantum correlations in multi-qubit experiments, is still lacking. In this work, we demonstrate a new transmon circuit where the CPWR is turned into a sample-and-hold detector, namely a Josephson Bifurcation Amplifer (JBA), which allows both fast measurement and single-shot discrimination of the qubit states. We report Rabi oscillations with a high visibility of 94% together with dephasing and relaxation times longer than 0.5 $\mu$s. By performing two subsequent measurements, we also demonstrate that this new readout does not induce extra qubit relaxation.

id: 1005.5659
title: Non-disturbing quantum measurements
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Michael M. Wolf
comments: Minor corrections in v2
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 092201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5659
abstract: We consider pairs of quantum observables (POVMs) and analyze the relation between the notions of non-disturbance, joint measurability and commutativity. We specify conditions under which these properties coincide or differ---depending for instance on the interplay between the number of outcomes and the Hilbert space dimension or on algebraic properties of the effect operators. We also show that (non-)disturbance is in general not a symmetric relation and that it can be decided and quantified by means of a semidefinite program.

id: 1005.5682
title: Emitting solitonized laser beams to boost the negative energy density of squeezed regions of the vacuum
authors: Mohammad Mansouryar
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5682
abstract: There are two main approaches to generate the negative energy density (NED) in the literature. The Casimir effect and the squeezed vacuum. The possibility of the latter approach is qualitatively reviewed in this paper. It is proposed that the soliton theory may give remarkable contributions to generate and separate the NED out of the quantum vacuum. By applying the wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM) method on the solitonized laser beams which give rise the squeezed regions of the vacuum, it is shown the solitons' properties can be useful to the chosen approach.

id: 1005.0001
title: Dynamics and decoherence in the central spin model using exact methods
authors: Michael Bortz, Sebastian Eggert, Christian Schneider, Robert Stubner, Joachim Stolze
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Published version. See also this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 161308(R) (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0001
abstract: The dynamics and decoherence of an electronic spin-1/2 qubit coupled to a bath of nuclear spins via hyperfine interactions in a quantum dot is studied. We show how exact results from the integrable solution can be used to understand the dynamic behavior of the qubit. It is possible to predict the main frequency contributions and their broadening for relatively general initial states analytically, leading to an estimate of the corresponding decay times. Furthermore, for a small bath polarization, a new low-frequency time scale is observed.

id: 1005.0018
title: Feedback Control of Quantum Transport
authors: Tobias Brandes
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 060602 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0018
abstract: The current through nanostructures like quantum dots can be stabilized by a feedback loop that continuously adjusts system parameters as a function of the number of tunnelled particles $n$. At large times, the feedback loop freezes the fluctuations of $n$ which leads to highly accurate, continuous single particle transfers. For the simplest case of feedback acting simultaneously on all system parameters, we show how to reconstruct the original full counting statistics from the frozen distribution.

id: 1005.0031
title: Local and Global Casimir Energies: Divergences, Renormalization, and the Coupling to Gravity
authors: Kimball A. Milton
comments: 53 pages, 1 figure, invited review paper to Lecture Notes in Physics volume in Casimir physics edited by Diego Dalvit, Peter Milonni, David Roberts, and Felipe da Rosa
journal: Lect.Notes Phys.834:39-95,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0031
abstract: From the beginning of the subject, calculations of quantum vacuum energies or Casimir energies have been plagued with two types of divergences: The total energy, which may be thought of as some sort of regularization of the zero-point energy, $\sum\frac12\hbar\omega$, seems manifestly divergent. And local energy densities, obtained from the vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor, $\langle T_{00}\rangle$, typically diverge near boundaries. The energy of interaction between distinct rigid bodies of whatever type is finite, corresponding to observable forces and torques between the bodies, which can be unambiguously calculated. The self-energy of a body is less well-defined, and suffers divergences which may or may not be removable. Some examples where a unique total self-stress may be evaluated include the perfectly conducting spherical shell first considered by Boyer, a perfectly conducting cylindrical shell, and dilute dielectric balls and cylinders. In these cases the finite part is unique, yet there are divergent contributions which may be subsumed in some sort of renormalization of physical parameters. The divergences that occur in the local energy-momentum tensor near surfaces are distinct from the divergences in the total energy, which are often associated with energy located exactly on the surfaces. However, the local energy-momentum tensor couples to gravity, so what is the significance of infinite quantities here? For the classic situation of parallel plates there are indications that the divergences in the local energy density are consistent with divergences in Einstein's equations; correspondingly, it has been shown that divergences in the total Casimir energy serve to precisely renormalize the masses of the plates, in accordance with the equivalence principle.

id: 1005.0067
title: Fiber Fabry-Perot cavity with high finesse
authors: David Hunger, Tilo Steinmetz, Yves Colombe, Christian Deutsch, Theodor W. H?nsch, Jakob Reichel
comments: Submitted to New J. Phys.
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 065038 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0067
abstract: We have realized a fiber-based Fabry-Perot cavity with CO2 laser-machined mirrors. It combines very small size, high finesse F>=130000, small waist and mode volume, and good mode matching between the fiber and cavity modes. This combination of features is a major advance for cavity quantum electrodynamics (CQED), as shown in recent CQED experiments with Bose-Einstein condensates enabled by this cavity [Y. Colombe et al., Nature 450, 272 (2007)]. It should also be suitable for a wide range of other applications, including coupling to solid-state emitters, gas detection at the single-particle level, fiber-coupled single-photon sources and high-resolution optical filters with large stopband.

id: 1005.0093
title: Mechanism of Tunneling in Interacting Open Ultracold Few-Boson Systems
authors: Axel U. J. Lode, Alexej I. Streltsov, Ofir E. Alon, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0093
abstract: We investigate the mechanism in the tunneling dynamics of open ultracold few-boson systems by numerically solving the time-dependent few-boson Schr\"{o}dinger equation exactly. By starting from a weakly repulsive, initially coherent two-boson system we demonstrate that the decay dynamics incorporate fragmentation. The wavefunction of the tunneling state exhibits a pronounced dynamically-stable pattern which we explain by an analytical model. By studying more bosons and stronger interactions we arrive to the conclusion that the decay by tunneling is not a coherent process and exhibits a wealth of phenomena depending on the interaction between the particles.

id: 1005.0096
title: Absence of decoherence in the complex potential approach to nuclear scattering
authors: Alexis Diaz-Torres
comments: Accepted as a Rapid Communication in PRC
journal: Phys.Rev.C81:041603,2010
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0096
abstract: Time-dependent density-matrix propagation is used to demonstrate, in a schematic model of an open quantum system, that the complex potential approach and the Lindblad dissipative dynamics are \emph{not} equivalent. While the former preserves coherence, it is destroyed in the Lindblad dissipative dynamics. Quantum decoherence is the key aspect that makes the difference between the two approaches, indicating that the complex potential model is inadequate for a consistent description of open quantum-system dynamics. It is suggested that quantum decoherence should always be explicitly included when modelling low-energy nuclear collision dynamics within a truncated model space of reaction channels.

id: 1005.0130
title: The Existence and Role of Quantum-state Noise
authors: Aleksandar Perisic
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Perisic, A. (2010). The Existence and Role of Quantum-state Noise. NeuroQuantology, 8(4). Retrieved September 12, 2011, from http://www.neuroquantology.com/index.php/journal/article/view/321/360
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0130
abstract: The key observation about the quantum reality is that it looks as if there is a moment when a probability of a quantum event or events becomes reality for us. However, after careful analysis, it looks plausible that what we believe is a definite state in our reality, observed as an outcome of a quantum experiment or experiments, is actually not a definite state. From there, we conclude that quantum world is an active world whose influence lies beyond statistical and permanent determination of reality as we know it.

id: 1005.0259
title: Dynamical exchange interaction between localized spins out of equilibrium
authors: J. Fransson
comments: 5 pages, one figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 82, 180411(R) (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0259
abstract: The electron mediated exchange interaction between local spins adsorbed on two-dimensional surface is studied under non-equilibrium conditions. The effective spin-spin interaction is found to depend both on the spin-polarization of the substrate and the excitation spectrum of the local spins. For spatially anisotropic spin-polarization of the substrate, the spatial dependence of the interaction comprise components decaying as sin(2k_FR)/(2k_FR) and sin(2k_FR)/(2k_FR)^2.

id: 1005.0273
title: Coherent spin manipulation in an exchange-only qubit
authors: E. A. Laird, J. M. Taylor, D. P. DiVincenzo, C. M. Marcus, M. P. Hanson, A. C. Gossard
comments: related work at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82 075403 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0273
abstract: Initialization, manipulation, and measurement of a three-spin qubit are demonstrated using a few-electron triple quantum dot, where all operations can be driven by tuning the nearest-neighbor exchange interaction. Multiplexed reflectometry, applied to two nearby charge sensors, allows for qubit readout. Decoherence is found to be consistent with predictions based on gate voltage noise with a uniform power spectrum. The theory of the exchange-only qubit is developed and it is shown that initialization of only two spins suffices for operation. Requirements for full multi-qubit control using only exchange and electrostatic interactions are outlined.

id: 1005.0302
title: Local observation of antibunching in a trapped Fermi gas
authors: Torben Mueller, Bruno Zimmermann, Jakob Meineke, Jean-Philippe Brantut, Tilman Esslinger, Henning Moritz
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 040401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0302
abstract: Local density fluctuations and density profiles of a Fermi gas are measured in-situ and analyzed. In the quantum degenerate regime, the weakly interacting $^6$Li gas shows a suppression of the density fluctuations compared to the non-degenerate case, where atomic shot noise is observed. This manifestation of antibunching is a direct result of the Pauli principle and constitutes a local probe of quantum degeneracy. We analyze our data using the predictions of the fluctuation-dissipation theorem and the local density approximation, demonstrating a fluctuation-based temperature measurement.

id: 1005.0353
title: A von Neumann algebra approach to quantum metrics
authors: Greg Kuperberg, Nik Weaver
comments: 68 pages; minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0353
abstract: We propose a new definition of quantum metric spaces, or W*-metric spaces, in the setting of von Neumann algebras. Our definition effectively reduces to the classical notion in the atomic abelian case, has both concrete and intrinsic characterizations, and admits a wide variety of tractable examples. A natural application and motivation of our theory is a mutual generalization of the standard models of classical and quantum error correction.

id: 1005.0401
title: Highly sensitive, photon number resolving detectors mediated by phonons using $¦Ä$-doped GaAs transistors
authors: Xiulai Xu, Hugh Baker, David A. Williams
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nano Lett., 2010, 10 (4), pp 1364-1368
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0401
abstract: We report a photon number resolving detector using two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) based transistors. When the photon pulses impinge on the absorption region, the generated phonons dissipate ballistically in the 2DEG toward the trench isolated nanowire transistors near the surface. The phonon-electron interaction induces a positive conductance in the transistors, resulting in a current increase. With this principle, we obtain an internal quantum efficiency for this type of detector of up to 85%.

id: 1005.0603
title: Spin squeezing of high-spin, spatially extended quantum fields
authors: Jay D. Sau, S. R. Leslie, Marvin L. Cohen, D. M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0603
abstract: Investigations of spin squeezing in ensembles of quantum particles have been limited primarily to a subspace of spin fluctuations and a single spatial mode in high-spin and spatially extended ensembles. Here, we show that a wider range of spin-squeezing is attainable in ensembles of high-spin atoms, characterized by sub-quantum-limited fluctuations in several independent planes of spin-fluctuation observables. Further, considering the quantum dynamics of an $f=1$ ferromagnetic spinor Bose-Einstein condensate, we demonstrate theoretically that a high degree of spin squeezing is attained in multiple spatial modes of a spatially extended quantum field, and that such squeezing can be extracted from spatially resolved measurements of magnetization and nematicity, i.e.\ the vector and quadrupole magnetic moments, of the quantum gas. Taking into account several experimental limitations, we predict that the variance of the atomic magnetization and nematicity may be reduced as far as 20 dB below the standard quantum limits.

id: 1005.0612
title: 2D Schrodinger Operator, (2+1) Systems and New Reductions. The 2D Burgers Hierarchy and Inverse Problem Data
authors: P. Grinevich, A. Mironov, S. Novikov
comments: LaTeX, 5 pages, The title and the abstract were corrected, a new reference was added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0612
abstract: The Theory of (2+1) Systems based on 2D Schrodinger Operator was started by S.Manakov, B.Dubrovin, I.Krichever and S.Novikov in 1976. The Analog of Lax Pairs introduced by Manakov, has a form $L_t=[L,H]-fL$ ("The $L,H,f$-triples") where $L=\partial_x\partial_y+G\partial_y+S$ and $H,f$-some linear PDEs. Their Algebro-Geometric Solutions and therefore the full higher order hierarchies were constructed by B.Dubrovin, I.Krichever and S.Novikov. The Theory of 2D Inverse Spectral Problems for the Elliptic Operator $L$ with $x,y$ replaced by $z,\bar{z}$, was started by B.Dubrovin, I.Krichever and S.Novikov: The Inverse Spectral Problem Data are taken from the complex "Fermi-Curve" consisting of all Bloch-Floquet Eigenfunctions $L\psi=const$. Many interesting systems were found later. However, specific properties of the very first system, offered by Manakov for the verification of new method only, were not studied more than 10 years until B.Konopelchenko found in 1988 analogs of Backund Transformations for it. He pointed out on the "Burgers-Type Reduction". Indeed, the present authors quite recently found very interesting extensions, reductions and applications of that system both in the theory of nonlinear evolution systems (The Self-Adjoint and 2D Burgers Hierarhies were invented, and corresponding reductions of Inverse Problem Data found) and in the Spectral Theory of Important Physical Operators ("The Purely Magnetic 2D Pauli Operators"). We call this system GKMMN by the names of authors who studied it.

id: 1005.0652
title: Exact solution for quantum dynamics of a periodically-driven two-level-system
authors: Anirban Gangopadhyay, Maxim Dzero, Victor Galitski
comments: 13 pages, 7 EPS figures
journal: Physical Review B 82, 024303 (2010)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0652
abstract: We present a family of exact analytic solutions for non-linear quantum dynamics of a two-level system (TLS) subject to a periodic-in-time external field. In constructing the exactly solvable models, we use a "reverse engineering" approach where the form of external perturbation is chosen to preserve an integrability constraint, which yields a single non-linear differential equation for the ac-field. A solution to this equation is expressed in terms of Jacobi elliptic functions with three independent parameters that allows one to choose the frequency, average value, and amplitude of the time-dependent field at will. This form of the ac-drive is especially relevant to the problem of dynamics of TLS charge defects that cause dielectric losses in superconducting qubits. We apply our exact results to analyze non-linear dielectric response of such TLSs and show that the position of the resonance peak in the spectrum of the relevant correlation function is determined by the quantum-mechanical phase accumulated by the TLS wave-function over a time evolution cycle. It is shown that in the non-linear regime, this resonance frequency may be shifted strongly from the value predicted by the canonical TLS model. We also analyze the "spin" survival probability in the regime of strong external drive and recover a coherent destruction of tunneling phenomenon within our family of exact solutions, which manifests itself as a strong suppression of "spin-flip" processes and suggests that such non-linear dynamics in LC-resonators may lead to lower losses.

id: 1005.0757
title: Statistical mechanics of Floquet systems with regular and chaotic states
authors: Roland Ketzmerick, Waltraut Wustmann
comments: 18 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 021114 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0757
abstract: We investigate the asymptotic state of time-periodic quantum systems with regular and chaotic Floquet states weakly coupled to a heat bath. The asymptotic occupation probabilities of these two types of states follow fundamentally different distributions. Among regular states the probability decreases from the state in the center of a regular island to the outermost state by orders of magnitude, while chaotic states have almost equal probabilities. We derive an analytical expression for the occupations of regular states of kicked systems, which depends on the winding numbers of the regular tori and the parameters temperature and driving frequency. For a constant winding number within a regular island it simplifies to Boltzmann-like weights $\exp(-\betaeff \Ereg_m)$, similar to time-independent systems. For this we introduce the regular energies $\Ereg_m$ of the quantizing tori and an effective winding-number-dependent temperature $1/\betaeff$, different from the actual bath temperature. Furthermore, the occupations of other typical Floquet states in a mixed phase space are studied, i.e. regular states on nonlinear resonances, beach states, and hierarchical states, giving rise to distinct features in the occupation distribution. Avoided crossings involving a regular state lead to drastic consequences for the entire set of occupations. We introduce a simplified rate model whose analytical solutions describe the occupations quite accurately.

id: 1005.0773
title: Multi-photon spectroscopy of a hybrid quantum system
authors: Pavel Bushev, Clemens M¨¹ller, J¨¹rgen Lisenfeld, Jared H. Cole, Alexander Lukashenko, Alexander Shnirman, Alexey V. Ustinov
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 134530 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0773
abstract: We report on experimental multi-photon spectroscopy of a hybrid quantum system consisting of a superconducting phase qubit coherently coupled to an intrinsic two-level defect. We directly probe hybridized states of the combined qubit-defect system in the strongly interacting regime, where both the qubit-defect coupling and the driving cannot be considered as weak perturbations. This regime is described by a theoretical model which incorporates anharmonic corrections, multi-photon processes and decoherence. We present a detailed comparison between experiment and theory and find excellent agreement over a wide range of parameters.

id: 1005.0787
title: Valence bond entanglement entropy of frustrated spin chains
authors: Fabien Alet, Ian P. McCulloch, Sylvain Capponi, Matthieu Mambrini
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 094452 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0787
abstract: We extend the definition of the recently introduced valence bond entanglement entropy to arbitrary SU(2) wave functions of S=1/2 spin systems. Thanks to a reformulation of this entanglement measure in terms of a projection, we are able to compute it with various numerical techniques for frustrated spin models. We provide extensive numerical data for the one-dimensional J1-J2 spin chain where we are able to locate the quantum phase transition by using the scaling of this entropy with the block size. We also systematically compare with the scaling of the von Neumann entanglement entropy. We finally underline that the valence-bond entropy definition does depend on the choice of bipartition so that, for frustrated models, a "good" bipartition should be chosen, for instance according to the Marshall sign.

id: 1005.0821
title: Definitions of entanglement entropy of spin systems in the valence-bond basis
authors: Yu-Cheng Lin, Anders W. Sandvik
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures. v2: significantly expanded
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 224414 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0821
abstract: The valence-bond structure of spin-1/2 Heisenberg antiferromagnets is closely related to quantum entanglement. We investigate measures of entanglement entropy based on transition graphs, which characterize state overlaps in the overcomplete valence-bond basis. The transition graphs can be generated using projector Monte Carlo simulations of ground states of specific hamiltonians or using importance-sampling of valence-bond configurations of amplitude-product states. We consider definitions of entanglement entropy based on the bonds or loops shared by two subsystems (bipartite entanglement). Results for the bond-based definition agrees with a previously studied definition using valence-bond wave functions (instead of the transition graphs, which involve two states). For the one dimensional Heisenberg chain, with uniform or random coupling constants, the prefactor of the logarithmic divergence with the size of the smaller subsystem agrees with exact results. For the ground state of the two-dimensional Heisenberg model (and also Neel-ordered amplitude-product states), there is a similar multiplicative violation of the area law. In contrast, the loop-based entropy obeys the area law in two dimensions, while still violating it in one dimension - both behaviors in accord with expectations for proper measures of entanglement entropy.

id: 1005.0861
title: Decoherence by electromagnetic fluctuations in double-quantum-dot charge qubits
authors: Diego C. B. Valente, Eduardo R. Mucciolo, F. K. Wilhelm
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 125302 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0861
abstract: We discuss decoherence due to electromagnetic fluctuations in charge qubits formed by two lateral quantum dots. We use an effective circuit model to evaluate correlations of voltage fluctuations in the qubit setup. These correlations allows us to estimate energy (T1) and phase (T2) relaxation times of the the qubit system. Our theoretical estimate of the quality factor due to dephasing by electromagnetic fluctuations yields values much higher than those found in recent experiments, indicating that other sources of decoherence play a dominant role.

id: 1005.0915
title: Disorder and interference: localization phenomena
authors: Cord A. M¨¹ller, Dominique Delande
comments: Notes of a lecture delivered at the Les Houches School of Physics on "Ultracold gases and quantum information" 2009 in Singapore. v2: corrected typos, updated references
journal: Chapter 9 in "Les Houches 2009 - Session XCI: Ultracold Gases and Quantum Information" edited by C. Miniatura et al. (Oxford University Press, 2011)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0915
abstract: The specific problem we address in these lectures is the problem of transport and localization in disordered systems, when interference is present, as characteristic for waves, with a focus on realizations with ultracold atoms.

id: 1005.1058
title: Elements of sub-quantum thermodynamics: quantum motion as ballistic diffusion
authors: Gerhard Groessing, Siegfried Fussy, Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Herbert Schwabl
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures; based on the talk at the Fifth International Workshop DICE2010, Castiglioncello (Tuscany), September 13--17, 2010
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. (2011) 306 012046
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1058
abstract: By modelling quantum systems as emerging from a (classical) sub-quantum thermodynamics, the quantum mechanical "decay of the wave packet" is shown to simply result from sub-quantum diffusion with a specific diffusion coefficient varying in time due to a particle's changing thermal environment. It is thereby proven that free quantum motion strictly equals ballistic diffusion. The exact quantum mechanical trajectory distributions and the velocity field of the Gaussian wave packet are thus derived solely from classical physics. Moreover, also quantum motion in a linear (e.g., gravitational) potential is shown to equal said ballistic diffusion. Quantitative statements on the trajectories' characteristic behaviours are obtained which provide a detailed "micro-causal" explanation in full accordance with momentum conservation.

id: 1005.1064
title: Quantum Hall Charge Sensor for Single-Donor Nuclear Spin Detection in Silicon
authors: D. Sleiter, N. Y. Kim, K. Nozawa, T. D. Ladd, M. L. W. Thewalt, Y. Yamamoto
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 093028 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1064
abstract: We propose a novel optical and electrical hybrid scheme for the measurement of nuclear spin qubits in silicon. By combining the environmental insensitivity of the integer quantum Hall effect with the optically distinguishable hyperfine states of phosphorus impurities in silicon, our system can simultaneously offer nuclear spin measurement and robustness against environmental defects. 31P donor spins in isotopically purified 28Si are often discussed as very promising quantum memory qubits due to their extremely long decoherence times, and our proposed device offers an effective implementation for such a quantum memory system.

id: 1005.1079
title: A probability-conserving dissipative Schr?dinger equation
authors: Michel van Veenendaal, Jun Chang, A. J. Fedro
comments: 5 papes, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1079
abstract: Dissipative effects on a microscopic level are included in the Schr\"odinger equation. When the decay between different local levels as a result of the coupling to a bath, the Schr\"odinger equation no longer conserves energy, but the probability of the states is conserved. The procedure is illustrated with several examples that include direct electronic decay and damping of local phonons (vibrational levels). This method significantly reduces the calculational effort compared to conventional density matrix techniques.

id: 1005.1103
title: Robustness of Charge-Qubit Cluster States to Double Quantum Point Contact Measurement
authors: Tetsufumi Tanamoto
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 49 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1103
abstract: We theoretically investigate the robustness of cluster states in charge qubit system based on quantum dot (QD) and double quantum point contact (DQPC). Trap state is modeled by an island structure in DQPC and represents a dynamical fluctuation. We found that the dynamical fluctuations affect the cluster states more than static fluctuation caused by QD size fluctuation.

id: 1005.1206
title: A Simple Approach to Error Reconciliation in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Richard P. Brent
comments: 19 pages. Presented at the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Australian Mathematical Society, Adelaide, Oct 1, 2009. See also this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1206
abstract: We discuss the error reconciliation phase in quantum key distribution (QKD) and analyse a simple scheme in which blocks with bad parity (that is, blocks containing an odd number of errors) are discarded. We predict the performance of this scheme and show, using a simulation, that the prediction is accurate.

id: 1005.1259
title: State-insensitive bichromatic optical trapping
authors: Bindiya Arora, M. S. Safronova, Charles W. Clark
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1259
abstract: We propose a scheme for state-insensitive trapping of neutral atoms by using light with two independent wavelengths. In particular, we describe the use of trapping and control lasers to minimize the variance of the potential experienced by a trapped Rb atom in ground and excited states. We present calculated values of wavelength pairs for which the 5s and 5p_{3/2} levels have the same ac Stark shifts in the presence of two laser fields.

id: 1005.1271
title: Exact solution for a diffusive nonequilibrium steady state of an open quantum chain
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 5 pages
journal: J. Stat. Mech. 2010, L05002 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1271
abstract: We calculate a nonequilibrium steady state of a quantum XX chain in the presence of dephasing and driving due to baths at chain ends. The obtained state is exact in the limit of weak driving while the expressions for one- and two-point correlations are exact for an arbitrary driving strength. In the steady state the magnetization profile and the spin current display diffusive behavior. Spin-spin correlation function on the other hand has long-range correlations which though decay to zero in either the thermodynamical limit or for equilibrium driving. At zero dephasing a nonequilibrium phase transition occurs from a ballistic transport having short-range correlations to a diffusive transport with long-range correlations.

id: 1005.1276
title: Multi-Component Quantum Gases in Spin-Dependent Hexagonal Lattices
authors: Parvis Soltan-Panahi, Julian Struck, Philipp Hauke, Andreas Bick, Wiebke Plenkers, Georg Meineke, Christoph Becker, Patrick Windpassinger, Maciej Lewenstein, Klaus Sengstock
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Physics 7, 434--440 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1276
abstract: Periodicity is one of the most fundamental structural characteristics of systems occurring in nature. The properties of these systems depend strongly on the symmetry of the underlying periodic structure. In solid state materials - for example - the static and transport properties as well as the magnetic and electronic characteristics are crucially influenced by the crystal symmetry. In this context, hexagonal structures play an extremely important role and lead to novel physics like that of carbon nanotubes or graphene. Here we report on the first realization of ultracold atoms in a spin-dependent optical lattice with hexagonal symmetry. We show how combined effects of the lattice and interactions between atoms lead to a forced antiferromagnetic N\'eel order when two spin-components localize at different lattice sites. We also demonstrate that the coexistence of two components - one Mott-insulating and the other one superfluid - leads to the formation of a forced supersolid. Our observations are consistent with theoretical predictions using Gutzwiller mean-field theory.

id: 1005.1279
title: Implementing optimal control pulse shaping for improved single-qubit gates
authors: J. M. Chow, L. DiCarlo, J. M. Gambetta, F. Motzoi, L. Frunzio, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 040305(R) (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1279
abstract: We employ pulse shaping to abate single-qubit gate errors arising from the weak anharmonicity of transmon superconducting qubits. By applying shaped pulses to both quadratures of rotation, a phase error induced by the presence of higher levels is corrected. Using a derivative of the control on the quadrature channel, we are able to remove the effect of the anharmonic levels for multiple qubits coupled to a microwave resonator. Randomized benchmarking is used to quantify the average error per gate, achieving a minimum of 0.007+/-0.005 using 4 ns-wide pulse.

id: 1005.1413
title: A class of singular logarithmic potentials in a box with variety of skin thickness and wall interaction
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables
journal: Phys. Scr. 82 (2010) 065008
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1413
abstract: We obtain an analytic solution for a three-parameter class of logarithmic potentials at zero energy. The potential terms are products of the inverse square and the inverse log to powers 2, 1 and 0. The configuration space is the one-dimensional box. Using point canonical transformation, we simplify the solution by mapping the problem into the oscillator problem. We also obtain an approximate analytic solution for non-zero energy when there is strong attraction to one side of the box. The wavefunction is written in terms of the confluent hypergeometric function. We also present a numerical scheme to calculate the energy spectrum for a general configuration and to any desired accuracy.

id: 1005.1425
title: Quantum Complexity: restrictions on algorithms and architectures
authors: Daniel James Shepherd
comments: 137 pages, 10 figs.
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1425
abstract: A dissertation submitted to the University of Bristol in accordance with the requirements of the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in the Faculty of Engineering, Department of Computer Science, July 2009.

id: 1005.1432
title: Non-geodesic Motion in General Relativity and Thermodynamics
authors: Paul O'Hara
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1432
abstract: In a previous article a relationship was established between the linearized metrics of General Relativity associated with geodesics and the Dirac Equation of quantum mechanics. In this paper the extension of that result to arbitrary curves is investigated. In the case of scalar fields, a relationship between mass and temperature is also worked out.

id: 1005.1501
title: Quantum phase transition and excitations of the Tavis-Cummings lattice model
authors: Michael Knap, Enrico Arrigoni, Wolfgang von der Linden
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, version as published
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 045126 (2010)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1501
abstract: The enormous progress in controlling quantum optical and atomic systems has prompted ideas for new experimental realizations of strongly correlated many-body systems operating with light. These systems consist of photons confined in optical cavities, which interact strongly with atoms or atomiclike structures. Due to the interaction between the two particle species optical nonlinearities appear, leading to a quantum phase transition from Mott to superfluid phase. Here, we address the Tavis-Cummings lattice model, which describes light-matter systems containing multiple atomiclike structures in each cavity. In particular, we investigate the phase boundary delimiting Mott from superfluid phase and the elementary excitations of the two-dimensional Tavis-Cummings lattice model in dependence of the number of atomiclike structures per cavity. In order to obtain the results we employ the variational cluster approach. We evaluate spectral functions and densities of states of both particle species, which allows us to characterize the fundamental excitations of light-matter systems. These excitations are termed polaritons and are superpositions of photons and atomic excitations. We introduce polariton quasiparticles as appropriate linear combinations of both particle species and analyze the weights of their constituents. Our results demonstrate the dependence of the quantum phase transition and the elementary excitations on the number of atomiclike structures per cavity and provide thus valuable insight into the physics of light-matter systems.

id: 1005.1540
title: Between a metal and an insulator: the critical state of the Anderson transition
authors: Gabriel Lemari¨¦, Hans Lignier, Dominique Delande, Pascal Szriftgiser, Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: Physical Review Letterss 105, 9 (2010) 090601
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1540
abstract: Using a three-frequency one-dimensional kicked rotor experimentally realized with a cold atomic gas, we study the transport properties at the critical point of the metal-insulator Anderson transition. We accurately measure the time-evolution of an initially localized wavepacket and show that it displays at the critical point a scaling invariance characteristic of this second-order phase transition. The shape of the momentum distribution at the critical point is found to be in excellent agreement with the analytical form deduced from self-consistent theory of localization.

id: 1005.1559
title: Observation of the Bloch-Siegert Shift in a Qubit-Oscillator System in the Ultrastrong Coupling Regime
authors: P. Forn-D¨ªaz, J. Lisenfeld, D. Marcos, J. J. Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, E. Solano, C. J. P. M. Harmans, J. E. Mooij
comments: Published version (4 pages, 4 figures), including supplementary material (2 pages, 4 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 237001 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1559
abstract: We measure the dispersive energy-level shift of an $LC$ resonator magnetically coupled to a superconducting qubit, which clearly shows that our system operates in the ultrastrong coupling regime. The large mutual kinetic inductance provides a coupling energy of $\approx0.82$~GHz, requiring the addition of counter-rotating-wave terms in the description of the Jaynes-Cummings model. We find a 50~MHz Bloch-Siegert shift when the qubit is in its symmetry point, fully consistent with our analytical model.

id: 1005.1580
title: Phonon induced Rabi frequency renormalization of optically driven single InGaAs/GaAs quantum dots
authors: A. J. Ramsay, T. M. Godden, S. J. Boyle, E. M. Gauger, A. Nazir, B. W. Lovett, A. M. Fox, M. S. Skolnick
comments: 4-pages, 2 figs, final version published in PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters 105 177402 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1580
abstract: We study optically driven Rabi rotations of a quantum dot exciton transition between 5 and 50 K, and for pulse-areas of up to $14\pi$. In a high driving field regime, the decay of the Rabi rotations is nonmonotonic, and the period decreases with pulse-area and increases with temperature. By comparing the experiments to a weak-coupling model of the exciton-phonon interaction, we demonstrate that the observed renormalization of the Rabi frequency is induced by fluctuations in the bath of longitudinal acoustic phonons, an effect that is a phonon analogy of the Lamb-shift.

id: 1005.1744
title: Binary Matroids and Quantum Probability Distributions
authors: Dan Shepherd
comments: 24 pages (inc appendix & refs)
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1744
abstract: We characterise the probability distributions that arise from quantum circuits all of whose gates commute, and show when these distributions can be classically simulated efficiently. We consider also marginal distributions and the computation of correlation coefficients, and draw connections between the simulation of stabiliser circuits and the combinatorics of representable matroids, as developed in the 1990s.

id: 1005.1772
title: Strongly localized polaritons in an array of trapped two-level atoms interacting with a light field
authors: A. P. Alodjants, I. O. Barinov, S. M. Arakelian
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. V.43 p.095502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1772
abstract: We propose a new type of spatially periodic structure, i.e. polaritonic crystal (PolC), to observe a "slow"/"stopped" light phenomenon due to coupled atom-field states (polaritons) in a lattice. Under the tightbinding approximation, such a system realizes an array of weakly coupled trapped two-component atomic ensembles interacting with optical field in a tunnel-coupled one dimensional cavity array. We have shown that the phase transition to the superfluid Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer state, a so-called (BCS)-type state of low branch polaritons, occurs under the strong coupling condition. Such a transition results in the appearance of a macroscopic polarization of the atomic medium at non-zero frequency. The principal result is that the group velocity of polaritons depends essentially on the order parameter of the system, i.e. on the average photon number in the cavity array.

id: 1005.1812
title: Absence of pairing in atomic Fermi gases
authors: J. J. Kinnunen
comments: The draft paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1812
abstract: Some thoughts regarding pairing in atomic Fermi gases were considered, meant for starting discussion on the topic.

id: 1005.1901
title: A spin quantum bit with ferromagnetic contacts for circuit QED
authors: Audrey Cottet, Takis Kontos
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:160502,2010
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1901
abstract: We theoretically propose a scheme for a spin quantum bit based on a double quantum dot contacted to ferromagnetic elements. Interface exchange effects enable an all electric manipulation of the spin and a switchable strong coupling to a superconducting coplanar waveguide cavity. Our setup does not rely on any specific band structure and can in principle be realized with many different types of nanoconductors. This allows to envision on-chip single spin manipulation and read-out using cavity QED techniques.

id: 1005.1962
title: Finite Temperature Casimir Effect in the Presence of Extra Dimensions
authors: L.P. Teo, K. Kirsten
comments: To appear in the proceedings of 9th Conference on Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT 09): Devoted to the Centenary of H. B. G. Casimir, Norman, Oklahoma, 21-25 Sep 2009
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1962
abstract: We consider the finite temperature Casimir force acting on two parallel plates in a closed cylinder with the same cross section of arbitrary shape in the presence of extra dimensions. Dirichlet boundary conditions are imposed on one plate and fractional Neumann conditions with order between zero (Dirichlet) and one (Neumann) are imposed on the other plate. Formulas for the Casimir force show that it is always attractive for Dirichlet boundary conditions, and is always repulsive when the fractional order is larger than 1/2. For some fractional orders less than 1/2, the Casimir force can be either attractive or repulsive depending on the size of the internal manifold and temperature.

id: 1005.1990
title: Beyond universality in three-body recombination: an Effective Field Theory treatment
authors: C. Ji, L. Platter, D. R. Phillips
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 92:13003,2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.1990
abstract: We discuss the impact of a finite effective range on three-body systems interacting through a large two-body scattering length. By employing a perturbative analysis in an effective field theory well suited to this scale hierarchy we find that an additional three-body parameter is required for consistent renormalization once range corrections are considered. This allows us to extend previously discussed universal relations between different observables in the recombination of cold atoms to account for the presence of a finite effective range. We show that such range corrections allow us to simultaneously describe the positive and negative scattering-length loss features observed in recombination with Lithium-7 atoms by the Bar-Ilan group. They do not, however, significantly reduce the disagreement between the universal relations and the data of the Rice group on Lithium-7 recombination at positive and negative scattering lengths.

id: 1005.2018
title: Nondiffracting beams for vortex tomography
authors: J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil, Z. Bouchal, A. B. Klimov, I. Rigas, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 3 pages. 2 eps figures. To appear in Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2018
abstract: We propose a reconstruction of vortex beams based on the implementation of quadratic transformations in the orbital angular momentum. The information is encoded in a superposition of Bessel-like nondiffracting beams. The measurement of the angular probability distribution at different positions allows for the reconstruction of the Wigner function.

id: 1005.2123
title: Entanglement spectra of quantum Heisenberg ladders
authors: Didier Poilblanc
comments: Revised version, 9 pages, 7 figures. "Supplementary material" showing additional results for **frustrated** ladders
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 077202 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2123
abstract: Bipartite entanglement measures are fantastic tools to investigate quantum phases of correlated electrons. Here, I analyze the entanglement spectrum of **gapped** two-leg quantum Heisenberg ladders on a periodic ribbon partitioned into two identical periodic chains. Comparison of various entanglement entropies proposed in the literature is given. The entanglement spectrum is shown to closely reflect the low-energy gapless spectrum of each individual edge, for any sign of the exchange coupling constants. This extends the conjecture initially drawn for Fractional Quantum Hall systems to the field of quantum magnetism, stating a direct correspondence between the low-energy entanglement spectrum of a partitioned system and the true spectrum of the "virtual edges". A mapping of the reduced density matrix to a thermodynamic density matrix is also proposed via the introduction of an effective temperature.

id: 1005.2172
title: Semitransparent pistons
authors: P. Morales, K. Kirsten
comments: To appear in the proceedings of 9th Conference on Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT 09): Devoted to the Centenary of H. B. G. Casimir, Norman, Oklahoma, 21-25 Sep 2009
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A25:2196-2200,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2172
abstract: We consider semitransparent pistons in the presence of extra dimensions. It is shown that the piston is always attracted to the closest wall irrespective of details of the geometry and topology of the extra dimensions and of the cross section of the piston. Furthermore, we evaluate the zeta regularized determinant for this configuration.

id: 1005.2226
title: Dephasing in an Aharonov-Bohm interferometer containing a lateral double quantum dot induced by coupling with a quantum dot charge sensor
authors: T. Kubo, Y. Tokura, S. Tarucha
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, to be published in Journal of Physics A
journal: Journal of Physics A 43, 354020 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2226
abstract: We theoretically investigated the dephasing in an Aharonov-Bohm interferometer containing a lateral double quantum dot induced by coupling with a quantum dot charge sensor. We employed the interpolative 2nd-order perturbation theory to include the charge sensing Coulomb interaction. It is shown that the visibility of the Aharonov-Bohm oscillation of the linear conductance decreases monotonically as the sensing Coulomb interaction increases. In particular, for a weak sensing interaction regime, the visibility decreases parabolically, and it behaves linearly for a strong sensing interaction regime.

id: 1005.2361
title: A possible mathematics for the unification of quantum mechanics and general relativity
authors: Alexey A. Kryukov
comments: 
journal: J.Math.Phys.51:022110,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2361
abstract: This paper summarizes and generalizes a recently proposed mathematical framework that unifies the standard formalisms of special relativity and quantum mechanics. The framework is based on Hilbert spaces H of functions of four space-time variables x,t, furnished with an additional indefinite inner product invariant under Poincar\'e transformations, and isomorphisms of these spaces that preserve the indefinite metric. The indefinite metric is responsible for breaking the symmetry between space and time variables and for selecting a family of Hilbert subspaces that are preserved under Galileo transformations. Within these subspaces the usual quantum mechanics with Schr\"odinger evolution and t as the evolution parameter is derived. Simultaneously, the Minkowski space-time is isometrically embedded into H, Poincar\'e transformations have unique extensions to isomorphisms of H and the embedding commutes with Poincar\'e transformations. The main new result is a proof that the framework accommodates arbitrary pseudo-Riemannian space-times furnished with the action of the diffeomorphism group.

id: 1005.2389
title: Basic zeta functions and some applications in physics
authors: Klaus Kirsten
comments: To appear in "A Window into Zeta and Modular Physics", Mathematical Sciences Research Institute Publications, Vol. 57, 2010, Cambridge University Press
journal: MSRI Publ.57:101-143,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2389
abstract: It is the aim of these lectures to introduce some basic zeta functions and their uses in the areas of the Casimir effect and Bose-Einstein condensation. A brief introduction into these areas is given in the respective sections. We will consider exclusively spectral zeta functions, that is zeta functions arising from the eigenvalue spectrum of suitable differential operators. There is a set of technical tools that are at the very heart of understanding analytical properties of essentially every spectral zeta function. Those tools are introduced using the well-studied examples of the Hurwitz, Epstein and Barnes zeta function. It is explained how these different examples of zeta functions can all be thought of as being generated by the same mechanism, namely they all result from eigenvalues of suitable (partial) differential operators. It is this relation with partial differential operators that provides the motivation for analyzing the zeta functions considered in these lectures. Motivations come for example from the questions "Can one hear the shape of a drum?" and "What does the Casimir effect know about a boundary?". Finally "What does a Bose gas know about its container?"

id: 1005.2427
title: Exact renormalization in quantum spin chains
authors: Hong-Hao Tu, Mikel Sanz
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, references added, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 104404 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2427
abstract: We introduce a real-space exact renormalization group method to find exactly solvable quantum spin chains and their ground states. This method allows us to provide a complete list for exact solutions within SU(2) symmetric quantum spin chains with $S\leq 4$ and nearest-neighbor interactions, as well as examples with S=5. We obtain two classes of solutions: One of them converges to the fixed points of renormalization group and the ground states are matrix product states. Another one does not have renormalization fixed points and the ground states are partially ferromagnetic states.

id: 1005.2493
title: Collective excitations of a dipolar Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: G. Bismut, B. Pasquiou, E. Mar¨¦chal, P. Pedri, L. Vernac, O. Gorceix, B. Laburthe-Tolra
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2493
abstract: We have measured the effect of dipole-dipole interactions on the frequency of a collective mode of a Bose-Einstein condensate. At relatively large numbers of atoms, the experimental measurements are in good agreement with zero temperature theoretical predictions based on the Thomas Fermi approach. Experimental results obtained for the dipolar shift of a collective mode show a larger dependency to both the trap geometry and the atom number than the ones obtained when measuring the modification of the condensate aspect ratio due to dipolar forces. These findings are in good agreement with simulations based on a gaussian ansatz.

id: 1005.2573
title: The effect of spin magnetization in the damping of electron plasma oscillations
authors: Pablo S. Moya, Felipe A. Asenjo
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2573
abstract: The effect of spin of particles in the propagation of plasma waves is studied using a semi-classical kinetic theory for a magnetized plasma. We focus in the simple damping effects for the electrostatic wave modes besides Landau damping. Without taking into account more quantum effects than spin contribution to Vlasov's equation, we show that spin produces a new damping or instability which is proportional to the zeroth order magnetization of the system. This correction depends on the electromagnetic part of the wave which is coupled with the spin vector.

id: 1005.2595
title: Functional determinants in higher dimensions using contour integrals
authors: Klaus Kirsten
comments: To appear in "A Window into Zeta and Modular Physics", Mathematical Sciences Research Institute Publications, Vol. 57, 2010, Cambridge University Press
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2595
abstract: In this contribution we first summarize how contour integration methods can be used to derive closed formulae for functional determinants of ordinary differential operators. We then generalize our considerations to partial differential operators. Examples are used to show that also in higher dimensions closed answers can be obtained as long as the eigenvalues of the differential operators are determined by transcendental equations. Examples considered comprise of the finite temperature Casimir effect on a ball and the functional determinant of the Laplacian on a two-dimensional torus.

id: 1005.2609
title: The 1/N Expansion in Noncommutative Quantum Mechanics
authors: A. F. Ferrari, M. Gomes, C. A. Stechhahn
comments: v2: resided version, to appear in PRD, 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:045009,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2609
abstract: We study the 1/N expansion in noncommutative quantum mechanics for the anharmonic and Coulombian potentials. The expansion for the anharmonic oscillator presented good convergence properties, but for the Coulombian potential, we found a divergent large N expansion when using the usual noncommutative generalization of the potential. We proposed a modified version of the noncommutative Coulombian potential which provides a well-behaved 1/N expansion.

id: 1005.2649
title: System size scaling of topological defect creation in a second-order dynamical quantum phase transition
authors: Michael Uhlmann, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 20 pages of IOP style, 6 figures; as published in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 12:095020,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2649
abstract: We investigate the system size scaling of the net defect number created by a rapid quench in a second-order quantum phase transition from an O(N) symmetric state to a phase of broken symmetry. Using a controlled mean-field expansion for large N, we find that the net defect number variance in convex volumina scales like the surface area of the sample for short-range correlations. This behaviour follows generally from spatial and internal symmetries. Conversely, if spatial isotropy is broken, e.g., by a lattice, and in addition long-range periodic correlations develop in the broken-symmetry phase, we get the rather counterintuitive result that the scaling strongly depends on the dimension being even or odd: For even dimensions, the net defect number variance scales like the surface area squared, with a prefactor oscillating with the system size, while for odd dimensions, it essentially vanishes.

id: 1005.2656
title: Warped Convolutions, Rieffel Deformations and the Construction of Quantum Field Theories
authors: Detlev Buchholz, Gandalf Lechner, Stephen J. Summers
comments: 34 pages
journal: Commun.Math.Phys.304:95-123,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2656
abstract: Warped convolutions of operators were recently introduced in the algebraic framework of quantum physics as a new constructive tool. It is shown here that these convolutions provide isometric representations of Rieffel's strict deformations of C*-dynamical systems with automorphic actions of R^n, whenever the latter are presented in a covariant representation. Moreover, the device can be used for the deformation of relativistic quantum field theories by adjusting the convolutions to the geometry of Minkowski space. The resulting deformed theories still comply with pertinent physical principles and their Tomita-Takesaki modular data coincide with those of the undeformed theory; but they are in general inequivalent to the undeformed theory and exhibit different physical interpretations.

id: 1005.2682
title: The connection between `emergence of time from quantum gravity' and `dynamical collapse of the wave-function in quantum mechanics'
authors: T. P. Singh
comments: 6 pages. References updated. To appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. D [special issue]
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D19:2265-2269,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2682
abstract: There are various reasons to believe that quantum theory could be an emergent phenomenon. Trace Dynamics is an underlying classical dynamics of non-commuting matrices, from which quantum theory and classical mechanics have been shown to emerge, in the thermodynamic approximation. However, the time that is used to describe evolution in quantum theory is an external classical time, and is in turn expected to be an emergent feature - a relic of an underlying theory of quantum gravity. In this essay we borrow ideas from Trace Dynamics to show that classical time is a thermodynamic approximation to an operator time in quantum gravitational physics. This prediction will be put to test by ongoing laboratory experiments attempting to construct superposed states of macroscopic objects.

id: 1005.2739
title: Quantum mechanics emerges from information theory applied to causal horizons
authors: Jae-Weon Lee
comments: REvtex4-1, 6pages, 2 figures, final version
journal: Found.Phys.41:744-753,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2739
abstract: It is suggested that quantum mechanics is not fundamental but emerges from classical information theory applied to causal horizons. The path integral quantization and quantum randomness can be derived by considering information loss of fields or particles crossing Rindler horizons for accelerating observers. This implies that information is one of the fundamental roots of all physical phenomena. The connection between this theory and Verlinde's entropic gravity theory is also investigated.

id: 1005.2751
title: Finite Temperature Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bai-Jun Zhang, Xiao-Jing Liu, Nuo Ba, Yi-Heng Wu, Qing-Cai Wang, Yan Wang
comments: 8 pages
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.50:2546-2551,2011
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2751
abstract: We know Schr\"{o}dinger equation describes the dynamics of quantum systems, which don't include temperature. In this paper, we propose finite temperature Schr\"{o}dinger equation, which can describe the quantum systems in an arbitrary temperature. When the temperature T=0, it become Shr\"{o}dinger equation.

id: 1005.2864
title: Turbulent superfluid as continuous vortex mixture
authors: V.I. Yukalov
comments: Latex file, 22 pages, one figure
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 7 (2010) 467-476
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2864
abstract: A statistical model is advanced for describing quantum turbulence in a superfluid system with Bose-Einstein condensate. Such a turbulent superfluid can be realized for trapped Bose atoms subject to either an alternating trapping potential or to an alternating magnetic field modulating the atomic scattering length by means of Feshbach resonance. The turbulent system is represented as a continuous mixture of states each of which is characterized by its own vorticity corresponding to a particular vortex.

id: 1005.2865
title: Quantum decoherence in noninertial frames
authors: Jieci Wang, Jiliang Jing
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:032324,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2865
abstract: Quantum decoherence, which appears when a system interacts with its environment in an irreversible way, plays a fundamental role in the description of quantum-to-classical transitions and has been successfully applied in some important experiments. Here, we study the decoherence in noninertial frames for the first time. It is shown that the decoherence and loss of the entanglement generated by the Unruh effect will influence each other remarkably. It is interesting to note that in the case of the total system under decoherence, the sudden death of entanglement may appear for any acceleration. However, in the case of only Rob's qubit underging decoherence sudden death may only occur when the acceleration parameter is greater than a "critical point."

id: 1005.2938
title: Correlation versus commensurability effects for finite bosonic systems in one-dimensional lattices
authors: Ioannis Brouzos, Sascha Z?llner, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 16 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 053613 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2938
abstract: We investigate few-boson systems in finite one-dimensional multi-well traps covering the full interaction crossover from uncorrelated to fermionized particles. Our treatment of the ground state properties is based on the numerically exact Multi-Configurational Time-Dependent Hartree method. For commensurate filling we trace the fingerprints of localisation, as the interaction strength increases, in several observables like reduced density matrices, fluctuations and momentum distribution. For filling factor larger than one we observe on-site repulsion effects in the densities and fragmentation of particles beyond the validity of the Bose-Hubbard model upon approaching the Tonks-Girardeau limit. The presence of an incommensurate fraction of particles induces incomplete localisation and spatial modulations of the density profiles, taking into account the finite size of the system.

id: 1005.2963
title: THz emission from a stacked coherent flux-flow oscillator: non-local radiative boundary conditions and the role of geometrical resonances
authors: V.M. Krasnov
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 134524 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2963
abstract: I derive simple non-local dynamic boundary conditions, suitable for modelling of radiation emission from stacked Josephson junctions, and employ them for analysis of flux-flow emission from intrinsic Josephson junctions in high-$T_c$ superconductors. It is shown that due to the lack of Lorenz contraction of fluxons in stacked junctions, high quality geometrical resonances are prerequisite for high power emission from the stack. This leads to a dual role of the radiative impedance: on the one hand, small impedance increases the efficiency of emission from the stack, on the other hand, enhanced radiative losses reduce the quality factor of geometrical resonances, which may decrease the total emission power. Therefore, the optimal conditions for the coherent flux-flow oscillator are achieved when radiative losses are comparable to resistive losses inside the stack.

id: 1005.2995
title: Long coherence of electron spins coupled to a nuclear spin bath
authors: Hendrik Bluhm, Sandra Foletti, Izhar Neder, Mark Rudner, Diana Mahalu, Vladimir Umansky, Amir Yacoby
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. See this http URL for supplementary document
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.2995
abstract: Qubits, the quantum mechanical bits required for quantum computing, must retain their fragile quantum states over long periods of time. In many types of electron spin qubits, the primary source of decoherence is the interaction between the electron spins and nuclear spins of the host lattice. For electrons in gate defined GaAs quantum dots, previous spin echo measurements have revealed coherence times of about 1 $\mu$s at low magnetic fields below 100 mT. Here, we show that coherence in such devices can actually survive to much longer times, and provide a detailed understanding of the measured nuclear spin induced decoherence. At fields above a few hundred millitesla, the coherence time measured using a single-pulse spin echo extends to 30 $\mu$s. At lower magnetic fields, the echo first collapses, but then revives at later times given by the period of the relative Larmor precession of different nuclear species. This behavior was recently predicted, and as we show can be quantitatively accounted for by a semi-classical model for the electron spin dynamics in the presence of a nuclear spin bath. Using a multiple-pulse Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill echo sequence, the decoherence time can be extended to more than 200 $\mu$s, which represents an improvement by two orders of magnitude compared to previous measurements. This demonstration of effective methods to mitigate nuclear spin induced decoherence puts the quantum error correction threshold within reach.

id: 1005.3035
title: Building up spacetime with quantum entanglement
authors: Mark Van Raamsdonk
comments: Gravity Research Foundation essay, 7 pages, LaTeX, 5 figures
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav.42:2323-2329,2010; Int.J.Mod.Phys.D19:2429-2435,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3035
abstract: In this essay, we argue that the emergence of classically connected spacetimes is intimately related to the quantum entanglement of degrees of freedom in a non-perturbative description of quantum gravity. Disentangling the degrees of freedom associated with two regions of spacetime results in these regions pulling apart and pinching off from each other in a way that can be quantified by standard measures of entanglement.

id: 1005.3068
title: Size-dependence of Strong-Coupling Between Nanomagnets and Photonic Cavities
authors: ?. O. Soykal, M. E. Flatt¨¦
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3068
abstract: The coherent dynamics of a coupled photonic cavity and a nanomagnet is explored as a function of nanomagnet size. For sufficiently strong coupling eigenstates involving highly entangled photon and spin states are found, which can be combined to create coherent states. As the size of the nanomagnet increases its coupling to the photonic mode also monotonically increases, as well as the number of photon and spin states involved in the system's eigenstates. For small nanomagnets the crystalline anisotropy of the magnet strongly localized the eigenstates in photon and spin number, quenching the potential for coherent states. For a sufficiently large nanomagnet the macrospin approximation breaks down and different domains of the nanomagnet may couple separately to the photonic mode. Thus the optimal nanomagnet size is just below the threshold for failure of the macrospin approximation.

id: 1005.3352
title: On the Casimir interaction between holes
authors: Daniel Kabat, Dimitra Karabali, V.P. Nair
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. v2: minor changes, version to appear in PRD
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:025014,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3352
abstract: We study the leading long-distance attractive force between two holes in a plate arising from a scalar field with Dirichlet boundary conditions on the plate. We use a formalism in which the interaction is governed by a non-local field theory which lives on the two holes. The interaction energy is proportional to Q_1 Q_2/r^7 at large separation r, where Q_1 and Q_2 are certain charges associated with the holes. We compute these charges for round and rectangular holes. We show that the 1/r^7 behavior is universal for separations large compared to the linear dimensions of the holes, irrespective of the spin or interactions of the bosonic field. We also study the interaction between two long thin slits, for which the energy falls off as 1/r^6.

id: 1005.3363
title: Numerical study of pi-junction using spin filtering barriers
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Yasuhiro Asano
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B 23 (2009) 4320-4328
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3363
abstract: We numerically investigate the Josephson transport through ferromagnetic insulators (FIs) by taking into account its band structure. By use of the recursive Green's function method, we found the formation of the pi junction in the case of the fully spin-polarized FI (FPFI), e.g., La$_2$BaCuO$_5$. Moreover, the 0-pi transition is induced by increasing the thickness of FPFI. On the other hand, Josephson current through the Eu chalcogenides shows the pi junction behavior in the case of the strong d-f hybridization between the conduction d and the localized f electrons of Eu. Such FI-based Josephson junctions may become a element in the architecture of future quantum information devices.

id: 1005.3366
title: Programmable unitary spatial modes manipulation
authors: J-F. Morizur, Lachlan Nicholls, Pu Jian, Seiji Armstrong, Nicolas Treps, Boris Hage, Magnus T. L. Hsu, Warwick P. Bowen, Jiri Janousek, Hans A. Bachor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3366
abstract: Free space propagation and conventional optical systems such as lenses and mirrors all perform spatial unitary transforms. However, the subset of transforms available through these conventional systems is limited in scope. We present here a unitary programmable mode converter (UPMC) capable of performing any spatial unitary transform of the light field. It is based on a succession of reflections on programmable deformable mirrors and free space propagation. We first show theoretically that a UPMC without limitations on resources can perform perfectly any transform. We then build an experimental implementation of the UPMC and show that, even when limited to three reflections on an array of 12 pixels, the UPMC is capable of performing single mode tranforms with an efficiency greater than 80% for the first 4 modes of the TEM basis.

id: 1005.3368
title: Discreteness of Space from GUP II: Relativistic Wave Equations
authors: Saurya Das, Elias C. Vagenas, Ahmed Farag Ali
comments: v1:8 pages, revtex4, no figures, to appear in Phys. Lett. B; v2: version to match published version in PLB, corrections in ERRATUM included
journal: Phys.Lett.B690:407-412,2010; Erratum-ibid.692:342,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3368
abstract: Various theories of Quantum Gravity predict modifications of the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle near the Planck scale to a so-called Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP). In some recent papers, we showed that the GUP gives rise to corrections to the Schrodinger equation, which in turn affect all quantum mechanical Hamiltonians. In particular, by applying it to a particle in a one dimensional box, we showed that the box length must be quantized in terms of a fundamental length (which could be the Planck length), which we interpreted as a signal of fundamental discreteness of space itself. In this paper, we extend the above results to a relativistic particle in a rectangular as well as a spherical box, by solving the GUP-corrected Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations, and for the latter, to two and three dimensions. We again arrive at quantization of box length, area and volume and an indication of the fundamentally grainy nature of space. We discuss possible implications.

id: 1005.3372
title: Nanometer-scale spatial modulation of an inter-atomic interaction in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Rekishu Yamazaki, Shintaro Taie, Seiji Sugawa, Yoshiro Takahashi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3372
abstract: We demonstrate nanometer-scale spatial control of inter-atomic interactions in a Bose-Einstein condensate of ytterbium(Yb). A pulsed optical standing wave, tuned near an optical Feshbach resonance varies the s-wave scattering length continuously across the standing wave pattern. The modulated mean-field energy with a spatial period of every 278 nm is monitored by a diffraction pattern in a time-of-flight image. We observe a wide scattering length control of up to 160 nm. The demonstrated spatial modulation of the scattering length proves that the high resolution control of atomic interactions is possible.

id: 1005.3408
title: Excitation of Quantized Longitudinal Electric Waves in a Degenerate Fermi Gas
authors: Levan N. Tsintsadze
comments: Submitted to Physical Review E
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3408
abstract: The system of electron beam - degenerate Fermi gas in a magnetic field is investigated. Instabilities of the quantized longitudinal electric waves are studied by a newly derived dispersion equation. Novel branches of longitudinal waves are found, which have no analogies without the Landau quantization. Growth rates of these new modes are obtained. The excitation of the zero sound by an electron beam is discussed and found that the quantization of the energy of electrons imposes a new condition. Furthermore, the excitation of Bogolyubov's type of spectrum by a strong electric field is considered.

id: 1005.3423
title: Anyonic interferometry without anyons: How a flux qubit can read out a topological qubit
authors: F. Hassler, A. R. Akhmerov, C.-Y. Hou, C. W. J. Beenakker
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures; Added an Appendix on parity-protected single-qubit rotations; problem with Figure 3 corrected
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 125002 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3423
abstract: Proposals to measure non-Abelian anyons in a superconductor by quantum interference of vortices suffer from the predominantly classical dynamics of the normal core of an Abrikosov vortex. We show how to avoid this obstruction using coreless Josephson vortices, for which the quantum dynamics has been demonstrated experimentally. The interferometer is a flux qubit in a Josephson junction circuit, which can nondestructively read out a topological qubit stored in a pair of anyons --- even though the Josephson vortices themselves are not anyons. The flux qubit does not couple to intra-vortex excitations, thereby removing the dominant restriction on the operating temperature of anyonic interferometry in superconductors.

id: 1005.3446
title: Stark effect and generalized Bloch-Siegert shift in a strongly driven two-level system
authors: Jani Tuorila, Matti Silveri, Mika Sillanpaa, Erkki Thuneberg, Yuriy Makhlin, Pertti Hakonen
comments: 4+ pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 257003 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3446
abstract: A superconducting qubit was driven in an ultrastrong fashion by an oscillatory microwave field, which was created by coupling via the nonlinear Josephson energy. The observed Stark shifts of the `atomic' levels are so pronounced that corrections even beyond the lowest-order Bloch-Siegert shift are needed to properly explain the measurements. The quasienergies of the dressed two-level system were probed by resonant absorption via a cavity, and the results are in agreement with a calculation based on the Floquet approach.

id: 1005.3541
title: Nonlinear resonant tunneling of Bose-Einstein condensates in tilted optical lattices
authors: K. Rapedius, C. Elsen, D. Witthaut, S. Wimberger, H. J. Korsch
comments: Revised and enlarged version, including 1 additional figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3541
abstract: We study the tunneling decay of a Bose-Einstein condensate out of tilted optical lattices within the mean-field approximation. We introduce a novel method to calculate also excited resonance eigenstates of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation, based on a grid relaxation procedure with complex absorbing potentials. This algorithm works efficiently in a wide range of parameters where established methods fail. It allows us to study the effects of the nonlinearity in detail in the regime of resonant tunneling, where the decay rate is enhanced by resonant coupling to excited unstable states.

id: 1005.3545
title: Fermionic transport in a homogeneous Hubbard model: Out-of-equilibrium dynamics with ultracold atoms
authors: Ulrich Schneider, Lucia Hackerm¨¹ller, Jens Philipp Ronzheimer, Sebastian Will, Simon Braun, Thorsten Best, Immanuel Bloch, Eugene Demler, Stephan Mandt, David Rasch, Achim Rosch
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures +supplementary information, shortened, published version
journal: Nature Physics 8, 213--218 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3545
abstract: Transport properties are among the defining characteristics of many important phases in condensed matter physics. In the presence of strong correlations they are difficult to predict even for model systems like the Hubbard model. In real materials they are in general obscured by additional complications including impurities, lattice defects or multi-band effects. Ultracold atoms in contrast offer the possibility to study transport and out-of-equilibrium phenomena in a clean and well-controlled environment and can therefore act as a quantum simulator for condensed matter systems. Here we studied the expansion of an initially confined fermionic quantum gas in the lowest band of a homogeneous optical lattice. While we observe ballistic transport for non-interacting atoms, even small interactions render the expansion almost bimodal with a dramatically reduced expansion velocity. The dynamics is independent of the sign of the interaction, revealing a novel, dynamic symmetry of the Hubbard model.

id: 1005.3621
title: On exact solutions of the Dirac equation in a homogeneous magnetic field in the Riemann spherical space
authors: E.M. Ovsiyuk, V.V. Kisel, V.M. Red'kov
comments: 7 pages, International Seminar NPCS-2010, 18-21 May, 2010, Minsk, Belarus
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3621
abstract: There are constructed exact solutions of the quantum-mechanical Dirac equation for a spin S=1/2 particle in the space of constant positive curvature, spherical Riemann space, in presence of an external magnetic field, analogue of the homogeneous magnetic field in the Minkowski space. A generalized formula for energy levels, describing quantization of the motion of the particle in magnetic field on the background of the Riemann space geometry, is obtained.

id: 1005.3660
title: Lieb-Liniger gas in a constant force potential
authors: D. Juki?, S. Gali?, R. Pezer, H. Buljan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 023606 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3660
abstract: We use Gaudin's Fermi-Bose mapping operator to calculate exact solutions for the Lieb-Liniger model in a linear (constant force) potential (the constructed exact stationary solutions are referred to as the Lieb-Liniger-Airy wave functions). The ground state properties of the gas in the wedge-like trapping potential are calculated in the strongly interacting regime by using Girardeau's Fermi-Bose mapping and the pseudopotential approach in the $1/c$-approximation ($c$ denotes the strength of the interaction). We point out that quantum dynamics of Lieb-Liniger wave packets in the linear potential can be calculated by employing an $N$-dimensional Fourier transform as in the case of free expansion.

id: 1005.3695
title: Isotopic Effect and Temperature Dependent Intramolecular Excitation Energy Transfer in a Model Donor-Acceptor Dyad
authors: Jaykrishna Singh, Eric R. Bittner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3695
abstract: We consider here the non-adiabatic energy transfer dynamics for a model bi-chromophore system consisting of a perylenediimide unit linked to a ladder-type poly-(para-phenylene) oligomer. Starting from a semi-empirical parameterization of a model electron/phonon Hamiltonian, we compute the golden-rule rate for energy transfer from the LPPP5 donor to the PDI acceptor. Our results indicate that the non-adiabatic transfer is promoted by the out-of-plane wagging modes of the C-H bonds even though theses modes give little or no contribution to the Franck Condon factors in this system. We also predict a kinetic isotope effect of $k^{(H)}/k^{(D)} = 1.7 - 2.5$ depending upon the temperature.

id: 1005.3697
title: Critical quench dynamics in confined systems
authors: Mario Collura, Dragi Karevski
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3697
abstract: We analyze the coherent quantum evolution of a many-particle system after slowly sweeping a power-law confining potential. The amplitude of the confining potential is varied in time along a power-law ramp such that the many-particle system finally reaches or crosses a critical point. Under this protocol we derive general scaling laws for the density of excitations created during the non-adiabatic sweep of the confining potential. It is found that the mean excitation density follows an algebraic law as a function of the sweeping rate with an exponent that depends on the space-time properties of the potential. We confirm our scaling laws by first order adiabatic calculation and exact results on the Ising quantum chain with a varying transverse field.

id: 1005.3763
title: Adiabatic dynamics of an inhomogeneous quantum phase transition: the case of z > 1 dynamical exponent
authors: Jacek Dziarmaga, Marek M. Rams
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, improved version accepted in NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 103002 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3763
abstract: We consider an inhomogeneous quantum phase transition across a multicritical point of the XY quantum spin chain. This is an example of a Lifshitz transition with a dynamical exponent z = 2. Just like in the case z = 1 considered in New J. Phys. 12, 055007 (2010) when a critical front propagates much faster than the maximal group velocity of quasiparticles vq, then the transition is effectively homogeneous: density of excitations obeys a generalized Kibble-Zurek mechanism and scales with the sixth root of the transition rate. However, unlike for z = 1, the inhomogeneous transition becomes adiabatic not below vq but a lower threshold velocity v', proportional to inhomogeneity of the transition, where the excitations are suppressed exponentially. Interestingly, the adiabatic threshold v' is nonzero despite vanishing minimal group velocity of low energy quasiparticles. In the adiabatic regime below v' the inhomogeneous transition can be used for efficient adiabatic quantum state preparation in a quantum simulator: the time required for the critical front to sweep across a chain of N spins adiabatically is merely linear in N, while the corresponding time for a homogeneous transition across the multicritical point scales with the sixth power of N. What is more, excitations after the adiabatic inhomogeneous transition, if any, are brushed away by the critical front to the end of the spin chain.

id: 1005.3776
title: Flux-qubit and the law of angular momentum conservation
authors: A.V. Nikulov
comments: 11 pages, 2 figure, Presented at the International Conference "Micro- and nanoelectronics - 2009", extended Session "Quantum Informatics", Zvenigorod, Moscow region, Russia, October 5-9, 2009
journal: Quantum Computers and Computing, V. 10, pp. 42-61 (2010)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3776
abstract: The confidence of many authors in the possibility to use superconducting loop interrupted by Josephson junctions as a basis for quantum bit, flux qubit, presumes the assumption on superposition of two macroscopically distinct quantum states with macroscopically different angular momentum. The contradiction of this assumption with macroscopic realism and the conservation law must call the numerous publications about flux qubit in question. These publications uncover misunderstanding by many modern physicists of the essence of the superposition principle. The Einstein - Podolsky - Rosen (EPR) correlation or entanglement, introduced in 1935 by opponents of the Copenhagen interpretation in order to reveal the contradiction of this principle with realism, has provided a basis of the idea of quantum computation. The problem of the EPR correlation has emerged thanks to philosophical controversy between the creators of the quantum theory about the subject of its description. Therefore it is impossible to solve correctly the problem of quantum computer creation without the insight into the essence of this philosophical controversy. The total neglect of the philosophical problems of quantum foundation results to concrete mistakes, the example of which are the publications about flux qubit. In order to prevent such mistakes in the future the philosophical questions about the essence of superposition and entanglement and about the subject of quantum description are considered.

id: 1005.3786
title: Quantum mechanics and classical trajectories
authors: Christoph N?lle
comments: 8 pages; v2 representation improved
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3786
abstract: The classical limit $\hbar$->0 of quantum mechanics is known to be delicate, in particular there seems to be no simple derivation of the classical Hamilton equation, starting from the Schr\"odinger equation. In this paper I elaborate on an idea of M. Reuter to represent wave functions by parallel sections of a flat vector bundle over phase space, using the connection of Fedosov's construction of deformation quantization. This generalizes the ordinary Schr\"odinger representation, and allows naturally for a description of quantum states in terms of a curve plus a wave function. Hamilton's equation arises in this context as a condition on the curve, ensuring the dynamics to split into a classical and a quantum part.

id: 1005.3846
title: Cold heteronuclear atom-ion collisions
authors: Christoph Zipkes, Stefan Palzer, Lothar Ratschbacher, Carlo Sias, Michael K?hl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 133201 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3846
abstract: We study cold heteronuclear atom ion collisions by immersing a trapped single ion into an ultracold atomic cloud. Using ultracold atoms as reaction targets, our measurement is sensitive to elastic collisions with extremely small energy transfer. The observed energy-dependent elastic atom-ion scattering rate deviates significantly from the prediction of Langevin but is in full agreement with the quantum mechanical cross section. Additionally, we characterize inelastic collisions leading to chemical reactions at the single particle level and measure the energy-dependent reaction rate constants. The reaction products are identified by in-trap mass spectrometry, revealing the branching ratio between radiative and non-radiative charge exchange processes.

id: 1005.3954
title: Comments on dihedral and supersymmetric extensions of a family of Hamiltonians on a plane
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 10 pages, no figure, acknowledgments added, references completed, published version
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A25:2373-2380,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3954
abstract: For any odd $k$, a connection is established between the dihedral and supersymmetric extensions of the Tremblay-Turbiner-Winternitz Hamiltonians $H_k$ on a plane. For this purpose, the elements of the dihedral group $D_{2k}$ are realized in terms of two independent pairs of fermionic creation and annihilation operators and some interesting trigonometric identities are demonstrated.

id: 1005.3968
title: A Scheme of Concatenated Quantum Code to Protect against both Computational Error and an Erasure
authors: G. O. Santos, F. M. Assis, A. F. Lima
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3968
abstract: We present a description of encoding/decoding for a concatenated quantum code that enables both protection against quantum computational errors and the occurrence of one quantum erasure. For this, it is presented how encoding and decoding for quantum graph codes are done, which will provide the protection against the occurrence of computational errors (external code). As internal code is used encoding and decoding via scheme of GHZ states for protection against the occurrence of one quantum erasure.

id: 1005.3972
title: Non-commutativity from coarse grained classical probabilities
authors: C. Wetterich
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3972
abstract: Non-commutative quantum physics at the atom scale can arise from coarse graining of a classical statistical ensemble at the Planck scale. Position and momentum of an isolated particle are classical observables which remain computable in terms of the coarse grained information. However, the commuting classical product of position and momentum observables is no longer defined in the coarse grained system, which is therefore described by incomplete statistics. The microphysical classical statistical ensemble at the Planck scale admits an alternative non-commuting product structure for position and momentum observables which is compatible with the coarse graining. Measurement correlations for isolated atoms are based on this non-commutative product structure. We present an explicit example for these ideas. It also realizes the discreteness of the spin observable within a microphysical classical statistical ensemble.

id: 1005.3977
title: Barotropic Magnetohydrodynamics as a Four Function Field Theory with Non-Trivial Topology and Aharonov-Bohm Effects
authors: Asher Yahalom
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, submitted to MMT 2010
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3977
abstract: Variational principles for magnetohydrodynamics were introduced by previous authors both in Lagrangian and Eulerian form. In previous works [1] Yahalom & Lynden-Bell and later Yahalom [2] introduced a simpler Eulerian variational principle from which all the relevant equations of Magnetohydrodynamics can be derived. The variational principles were given in terms of four independent functions for non-stationary flows and three independent functions for stationary flows. This is less than the seven variables which appear in the standard equations of magnetohydrodynamics which are the magnetic field, the velocity field and the density . In the case that the magnetohydrodynamic flow has a non trivial topology such as when the magnetic lines are knotted or magnetic and stream lines are knotted, some of the functions appearing in the Lagrangian are non-single valued. Those functions play the same rule as the phase in the Aharonov-Bohm celebrated effect [3].

id: 1005.4064
title: Long range order in non-equilibrium interacting quantum spin chains
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Marko Znidaric
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 060603 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4064
abstract: We conjecture that non-equilibrium boundary conditions generically trigger long range order in non-equilibrium steady states of locally interacting quantum chains. Our result is based on large scale density matrix renormalization group simulations of several models of quantum spin 1/2 chains which are driven far from equilibrium by coupling to a pair of unequal Lindblad reservoirs attached locally to the ends of the chain. In particular, we find a phase transition from exponentially decaying to long range spin-spin correlations in integrable Heisenberg XXZ chain by changing the anisotropy parameter. Long range order also typically emerges after breaking the integrability of the model.

id: 1005.4144
title: Ultrafast Gates for Single Atomic Qubits
authors: W. C. Campbell, J. Mizrahi, Q. Quraishi, C. Senko, D. Hayes, D. Hucul, D. N. Matsukevich, P. Maunz, C. Monroe
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 090502 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4144
abstract: We demonstrate single qubit operations on a trapped atom hyperfine qubit using a single ultrafast pulse from a mode-locked laser. We shape the pulse from the laser and perform a pi rotation of the qubit in less than 50 ps with a population transfer exceeding 99% and negligible effects from spontaneous emission or ac Stark shifts. The gate time is significantly shorter than the period of atomic motion in the trap (Rabi frequency / trap frequency > 10000), demonstrating that this interaction takes place deep within the strong excitation regime.

id: 1005.4183
title: Why do neutrinos with different masses interfere and oscillate? Why are states with different masses but same energy coherent? Overcoming barrier between particle & condensed matter physics
authors: Harry J. Lipkin
comments: 16 pages, no figures, new title and abstract clarification of previous version
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4183
abstract: Neutrino oscillations occur only if it is impossible to determine $\nu$ mass by using conservation laws on measurements of nucleon-lepton system absorbing $\nu$. No oscillations if $\nu$ detector is mass spectrometer. Beam is split into components with different masses entering different counters. For each event only one counter will click and determine $\nu$ mass. Condensed matter physics needed to describe the $\nu$ detector, show it is not a mass spectrometer and identify which properties of the incident $\nu$ are unobservable. Relativistic quantum field theory can only describe $\nu$ wave function entering detector but not large uncertain momentum transfers to detector nor associated energy-momentum asymmetry. Absorption of incident $\nu$'s with different momenta but same energy leaves no trace of initial $\nu$ momentum difference in finite-size $\nu$ detector with effectively infinite mass at rest in laboratory. Undetectable recoil-free momentum is transferred to the detector with negligible energy transfer. The Debye-Waller factor common in X-ray diffraction by crystals gives probability that absorbing $\nu$'s with different momenta produce same nucleon-charged-lepton final state. Oscillations in time described in textbooks as interference between $\nu$ states with different energies not observable in realistic experiments. Different energy $\nu$'s not coherent because energy can be determined by measurements on initial and final states. Experiments detecting $\nu$ produced by $\pi to \mu \nu$ decay observe no electrons even though $\nu$ mass eigenstates produce electrons. Electron amplitude canceled by interference between amplitudes from different $\nu$ mass eigenstates with same energy and different momenta entering massive detector.

id: 1005.4300
title: On generalized Clifford algebras and their physical applications
authors: R. Jagannathan
comments: 30 pages; Dedicated to the memory of Prof. Alladi Ramakrishnan; To appear in "The Legacy of Alladi Ramakrishnan in the Mathematical Sciences" (K. Alladi, J. Klauder, C. R. Rao, Editors) Springer, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4300
abstract: Generalized Clifford algebras (GCAs) and their physical applications were extensively studied for about a decade from 1967 by Alladi Ramakrishnan and his collaborators under the name of L-matrix theory. Some aspects of GCAs and their physical applications are outlined here. The topics dealt with include: GCAs and projective representations of finite abelian groups, Alladi Ramakrishnan's sigma operation approach to the representation theory of Clifford algebra and GCAs, Dirac's positive energy relativistic wave equation, Weyl-Schwinger unitary basis for matrix algebra and Alladi Ramakrishnan's matrix decomposition theorem, finite-dimensional Wigner function, finite-dimensional canonical transformations, magnetic Bloch functions, finite-dimensional quantum mechanics, and the relation between GCAs and quantum groups.

id: 1005.4359
title: Structural changes in quasi- 1D many-electron systems: from linear to zig-zag and beyond
authors: R. Cortes-Huerto M. Paternostro P. Ballone
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013623 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4359
abstract: Many-electron systems confined to a quasi-1D geometry by a cylindrical distribution of positive charge have been investigated by density functional computations in the unrestricted local spin density approximation. Our investigations have been focused on the low density regime, in which electrons are localised. The results reveal a wide variety of different charge and spin configurations, including linear and zig-zag chains, single and double-strand helices, and twisted chains of dimers. The spin-spin coupling turns from weakly anti-ferromagnetic at relatively high density, to weakly ferromagnetic at the lowest densities considered in our computations. The stability of linear chains of localised charge has been investigated by analysing the radial dependence of the self-consistent potential and by computing the dispersion relation of low-energy harmonic excitations.

id: 1005.4391
title: Cold atoms in rotating optical lattice with nearest neighbour interaction
authors: Rashi Sachdeva, Sonika Johri, Sankalpa Ghosh
comments: Slightly revised, Accepted in Physical Review A for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063617 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4391
abstract: Extended Bose Hubbard models with nearest neighbour interaction describe minimally the effect of long range interaction on ultra cold atoms in deep optical lattices. Rotation of such optical lattices subject such neutral cold atoms to the effect of an artificial magnetic field. The modification of the phase boundaries of the density wave and Mott Insulator phases due to this rotation are shown to be related to the edge spectrum of spinorial and scalar Harper equation. Corresponding profiles of the checkerboard vortex states with sublattice modulated superfluid order parameter near density wave phase boundary are calculated.

id: 1005.4483
title: Quasi-normal frequencies: Key analytic results
authors: Petarpa Boonserm, Matt Visser
comments: V1: 29 pages; V2: Reformatted, 31 pages. Title changed to reflect major additions and revisions. Now describes exact QNFs for the double-delta potential in terms of the Lambert W function. V3: Minor edits for clarity. Four references added. No physics changes. Still 31 pages
journal: JHEP 1103:073,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4483
abstract: The study of exact quasi-normal modes [QNMs], and their associated quasi-normal frequencies [QNFs], has had a long and convoluted history - replete with many rediscoveries of previously known results. In this article we shall collect and survey a number of known analytic results, and develop several new analytic results - specifically we shall provide several new QNF results and estimates, in a form amenable for comparison with the extant literature. Apart from their intrinsic interest, these exact and approximate results serve as a backdrop and a consistency check on ongoing efforts to find general model-independent estimates for QNFs, and general model-independent bounds on transmission probabilities. Our calculations also provide yet another physics application of the Lambert W function. These ideas have relevance to fields as diverse as black hole physics, (where they are related to the damped oscillations of astrophysical black holes, to greybody factors for the Hawking radiation, and to more speculative state-counting models for the Bekenstein entropy), to quantum field theory (where they are related to Casimir energies in unbounded systems), through to condensed matter physics, (where one may literally be interested in an electron tunelling through a physical barrier).

id: 1005.4495
title: Generalized Clausius inequality for nonequilibrium quantum processes
authors: Sebastian Deffner, Eric Lutz
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 (2010) 170402
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4495
abstract: We show that the nonequilibrium entropy production for a driven quantum system is larger than the Bures length, the geometric distance between its actual state and the corresponding equilibrium state. This universal lower bound generalizes the Clausius inequality to arbitrary nonequilibrium processes beyond linear response. We further derive a fundamental upper bound for the quantum entropy production rate and discuss its connection to the Bremermann-Bekenstein bound.

id: 1005.4514
title: Weak field magnetoresistance of narrow-gap semiconductors InSb
authors: R.Yang, G.L.Yu, Yanhui Zhang, P.P.Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4514
abstract: The magnetoresistance of InSb has been intensively investigated. The experiments we perform here focus on weak field magnetoresistance of InSb thin film. We investigate the magnetoresistance of InSb films in perpendicular, tilted as well as parallel magnetic field. Our results verify the previous observations concerning weak localization effect in InSb thin film. Moreover, we systematically study the anisotropy of magnetoresistance of InSb. We find that the existence of in-plane field can effectively suppress the weak localization effect of InSb film. We fit the experimental data with two types of models, the match between data and model is excellent. From the fitting procedure, we get information about phase coherence time, spin-orbit scattering time. The information about Zeeman effect and sample roughness are also extracted from the fitting procedure.

id: 1005.4515
title: Extreme Eigenvalues of Wishart Matrices: Application to Entangled Bipartite System
authors: Satya N. Majumdar
comments: to appear as a chapter in the book " Handbook of Random Matrix Theory" (ed. by G. Akemann, J. Baik and P. Di Francesco), to be published by the Oxford University Press
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4515
abstract: We discuss an application of the random matrix theory in the context of estimating the bipartite entanglement of a quantum system. We discuss how the Wishart ensemble (the earliest studied random matrix ensemble) appears in this quantum problem. The eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix of one of the subsystems have similar statistical properties as those of the Wishart matrices, except that their {\em trace is constrained to be unity}. We focus here on the smallest eigenvalue which serves as an important measure of entanglement between the two subsystems. In the hard edge case (when the two subsystems have equal sizes) one can fully characterize the probability distribution of the minimum eigenvalue for real, complex and quaternion matrices of all sizes. In particular, we discuss the important finite size effect due to the {\em fixed trace constraint}.

id: 1005.4676
title: Running Boundary Condition
authors: Satoshi Ohya, Makoto Sakamoto, Motoi Tachibana
comments: PTPTeX, 21 pages, 8 eps figures; typos corrected, references and an appendix added
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.125:225-245,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4676
abstract: In this paper we argue that boundary condition may run with energy scale. As an illustrative example, we consider one-dimensional quantum mechanics for a spinless particle that freely propagates in the bulk yet interacts only at the origin. In this setting we find the renormalization group flow of U(2) family of boundary conditions exactly. We show that the well-known scale-independent subfamily of boundary conditions are realized as fixed points. We also discuss the duality between two distinct boundary conditions from the renormalization group point of view. Generalizations to conformal mechanics and quantum graph are also discussed.

id: 1005.4790
title: Reduction of quantum noise and increase of amplification of gravitational waves signals in Michelson interferometer by the use of squeezed states
authors: Yacob Ben-Aryeh
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4790
abstract: It is shown in the present Letter that the quantum noise due to high laser intensities in Michelson interferometer for gravitational waves detection can be reduced by sending squeezed vacuum states to the 'dark' port of the interferometer. The experimental details of such physical system have been described in a recent article by Barak and Ben-Aryeh (JOSA-B, 25, 361(2008)). In another very recent article by Voronov and Weyrauch (Phys. Rev.A 81, 053816 (2010)) they have followed our methods for treating the same physical system, and have pointed out an error in the sign of one of our expressions thus claiming for the elimination of our physical results. I show here a method by which the expectation value for the photon number operator is increased and at the same time the standard deviation is reduced. Although due to the mistake in sign in our expression the physical method for obtaining such result is different from our original study [1], the main physical effect can remain .

id: 1005.4817
title: Deviation from the exponential decay law in relativistic quantum field theory: the example of strongly decaying particles
authors: Francesco Giacosa, Giuseppe Pagliara
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A26:2247-2259,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4817
abstract: We show that a short-time regime, in which a deviation from the exponential decay law occurs, exists also in the framework of a superrenormalizable relativistic quantum field theory. This, in turn, implies the possibility of a quantum Zeno effect also for elementary decays. The attention is then focused on the typical order of magnitude of strong decay rates of mesons: for these particles, strong deviations from the exponential decay law are present during a period of time comparable with their mean life time. As a concrete example, the case of the $\rho $ meson is studied.

id: 1005.4883
title: Disordered Topological Insulators via $C^*$-Algebras
authors: T. A. Loring, M. B. Hastings
comments: Added detail regarding the mapping of almost commuting unitary matrices to almost commuting Hermitian matrices that form an approximate representation of the sphere. 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters 92, 67004 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4883
abstract: The theory of almost commuting matrices can be used to quantify topological obstructions to the existence of localized Wannier functions with time-reversal symmetry in systems with time-reversal symmetry and strong spin-orbit coupling. We present a numerical procedure that calculates a Z_2 invariant using these techniques, and apply it to a model of HgTe. This numerical procedure allows us to access sizes significantly larger than procedures based on studying twisted boundary conditions. Our numerical results indicate the existence of a metallic phase in the presence of scattering between up and down spin components, while there is a sharp transition when the system decouples into two copies of the quantum Hall effect. In addition to the Z_2 invariant calculation in the case when up and down components are coupled, we also present a simple method of evaluating the integer invariant in the quantum Hall case where they are decoupled.

id: 1005.4915
title: Four-qubit entanglement from string theory
authors: L. Borsten, D. Dahanayake, M. J. Duff, A. Marrani, W. Rubens
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, 2 tables, revtex; minor corrections, references added
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:100507,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4915
abstract: We invoke the black hole/qubit correspondence to derive the classification of four-qubit entanglement. The U-duality orbits resulting from timelike reduction of string theory from D=4 to D=3 yield 31 entanglement families, which reduce to nine up to permutation of the four qubits.

id: 1005.5011
title: Correlated imaging through atmospheric turbulence
authors: Pengli Zhang, Wenlin Gong, Xia Shen, Shensheng Han
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5011
abstract: Correlated imaging through atmospheric turbulence is studied, and the analytical expressions describing turbulence effects on image resolution are derived. Compared with direct imaging, correlated imaging can reduce the influence of turbulence to a certain extent and reconstruct high-resolution images. The result is backed up by numerical simulations, in which turbulence-induced phase perturbations are simulated by random phase screens inserting propagation paths.

id: 1005.5059
title: Madelung Representation and Exactly Solvable Schrodinger-Burgers Equations with Variable Parameters
authors: Sirin A. Buyukasik, Oktay K. Pashaev
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, Third International Conference on Nonlinear Sciences and Complexity, (NSC10), 28-31 July, 2010, Cankaya University, Ankara, TUrkey
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5059
abstract: We construct a Madelung fluid model with specific time variable parameters as dissipative quantum fluid and linearize it in terms of Schrodinger equation with time dependent parameters. It allows us to find exact solutions of the nonlinear Madelung system in terms of solutions of the Schrodinger equation and the corresponding classical linear ODE with variable frequency and damping. For the complex velocity field the Madelung system takes the form of a nonlinear complex Schrodinger-Burgers equation, for which we obtain exact solutions using complex Cole-Hopf transformation. In particular, we discuss and give exact results for nonlinear Madelung systems related with Caldirola-Kanai type dissipative harmonic oscillator.

id: 1005.5103
title: Kitaev model and dimer coverings on the honeycomb lattice
authors: M. Kamfor, S. Dusuel, J. Vidal, K. P. Schmidt
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, published version
journal: J.Stat.Mech.1008:P08010,2010
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5103
abstract: We consider an extension of the Kitaev honeycomb model based on arbitrary dimer coverings satisfying matching rules. We focus on three different dimer coverings having the smallest unit cells for which we calculate the ground-state phase diagram. We also study one- and two-vortex properties for these coverings in the Abelian phases and show that vortex-vortex interactions can be attractive or repulsive. These qualitative differences are confirmed analytically by high-order perturbative expansions around the isolated-dimer limit. Similarities and differences with the original Kitaev honeycomb model are discussed.

id: 1005.5144
title: Ordered Measurements of Permutationally-Symmetric Qubit Strings
authors: Alexander Hentschel, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 13 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, vol. 44, 115301 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5144
abstract: We show that any sequence of measurements on a permutationally-symmetric (pure or mixed) multi-qubit string leaves the unmeasured qubit substring also permutationally-symmetric. In addition, we show that the measurement probabilities for an arbitrary sequence of single-qubit measurements are independent of how many unmeasured qubits have been lost prior to the measurement. Our results are valuable for quantum information processing of indistinguishable particles by post-selection, e.g. in cases where the results of an experiment are discarded conditioned upon the occurrence of a given event such as particle loss. Furthermore, our results are important for the design of adaptive-measurement strategies, e.g. a series of measurements where for each measurement instance, the measurement basis is chosen depending on prior measurement results.

id: 1005.5148
title: Entanglement Spectrum of a Disordered Topological Chern Insulator
authors: Emil Prodan, Taylor L. Hughes, B. Andrei Bernevig
comments: 4.2 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 105, 115501 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5148
abstract: How much information is stored in the ground-state of a system without \emph{any symmetry} and how can we extract it? This question is investigated by analyzing the behavior of a topological Chern Insulator (CI) in the presence of disorder, with a focus on its entanglement spectrum (EtS) constructed from the ground state. For systems with symmetries, the EtS was shown to contain explicit information revealed by sorting the EtS against the conserved quantum numbers. In the absence of any symmetry, we demonstrate that statistical methods such as the level statistics of the EtS can be equally insightful, allowing us to distinguish when an insulator is in a topological or trivial phase and to map the boundary between the two phases, where EtS becomes entirely delocalized. The phase diagram of a CI is explicitly computed as function of Fermi level ($E_F$) and disorder strength using the level statistics of the EtS and energy spectrum (EnS), together with a computation of the Chern number via an efficient real-space formula.

id: 1005.5178
title: Mesoscopic rings with Spin-Orbit interactions
authors: Bertrand Berche, Christophe Chatelain, Ernesto Medina
comments: 
journal: Eur. J. Phys.31:1267-1286, 2010
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5178
abstract: A didactic description of charge and spin equilibrium currents on mesoscopic rings in the presence of Spin-Orbit interaction is presented. Emphasis is made on the non trivial construction of the correct Hamiltonian in polar coordinates, the calculation of eigenvalues and eigenfunctions and the symmetries of the ground state properties. Spin currents are derived following an intuitive definition and then a more thorough derivation is built upon the canonical Lagrangian formulation that emphasizes the SU(2) gauge structure of the transport problem of spin 1/2 fermions in spin-orbit active media. The quantization conditions that follow from the constraint of single-valued Pauli spinors are also discussed. The targeted students are those of a graduate Condensed Matter Physics course.

id: 1005.5306
title: Feshbach resonances of harmonically trapped atoms
authors: Philipp-Immanuel Schneider, Yulian V. Vanne, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; revised version with extension to anisotropic traps and new paragraph on trap-induced molecules in excited bands
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5306
abstract: Employing a short-range two-channel description we derive an analytic model of atoms in isotropic and anisotropic harmonic traps at a Feshbach resonance. On this basis we obtain a new parameterization of the energy-dependent scattering length which differs from the one previously employed. We validate the model by comparison to full numerical calculations for Li-Rb and explain quantitatively the experimental observation of a resonance shift and trap-induced molecules in exited bands. Finally, we analyze the bound state admixture and Landau-Zener transition probabilities.

id: 1005.5463
title: Two simple systems with cold atoms: quantum chaos tests and nonequilibrium dynamics
authors: Cavan Stone, Yassine Ait El Aoud, Vladimir A Yurovsky, Maxim Olshanii
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 055022 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5463
abstract: This article is an attempt to provide a link between the quantum nonequilibrium dynamics of cold gases and fifty years of progress in the lowdimensional quantum chaos. We identify two atomic systems lying on the interface: two interacting atoms in a harmonic multimode waveguide and an interacting two-component Bose-Bose mixture in a double-well potential. In particular, we study the level spacing distribution, the wavefunction statistics, the eigenstate thermalization, and the ability to thermalize in a relaxation process as such.

id: 1005.5486
title: Translation invariance, topology, and protection of criticality in chains of interacting anyons
authors: Robert N. C. Pfeifer, Oliver Buerschaper, Simon Trebst, Andreas W. W. Ludwig, Matthias Troyer, Guifre Vidal
comments: 31 pages, 36 figures, 4 tables, RevTeX 4.1. File size 1.8Mb as a PDF. Published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86(15), 155111 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5486
abstract: Using finite size scaling arguments, the critical properties of a chain of interacting anyons can be extracted from the low energy spectrum of a finite system. In Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 160409 (2007), Feiguin et al. showed that an antiferromagnetic (AFM) chain of Fibonacci anyons on a torus is in the same universality class as the tricritical Ising model, and that criticality is protected by a topological symmetry. In the present paper we first review the graphical formalism for the study of anyons on the disc and demonstrate how this formalism may be consistently extended to the study of systems on surfaces of higher genus. We then employ this graphical formalism to study finite rings of interacting anyons on both the disc and the torus, and show that analysis on the disc necessarily yields an energy spectrum which is a subset of that which is obtained on the torus. For a critical Hamiltonian, one may extract from this subset the scaling dimensions of the local scaling operators which respect the topological symmetry of the system. Related considerations are also shown to apply for open chains.

id: 1005.5487
title: Cold Atom Qubits
authors: Dmitry Solenov, Dmitry Mozyrsky
comments: 
journal: J. Comput. Theor. Nanosci. 8, 481-489 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5487
abstract: We discuss a laser-trapped cold-atom superfluid qubit system. Each qubit is proposed as a macroscopic two-state system based on a set of Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) currents circulating in a ring, cut with a Josephson barrier. We review the effective low energy description of a single BEC ring. In particular, it is demonstrated that such system has a set of metastable current states which, for certain range of parameters, form an effective two-state system, or a qubit. We show how this qubit can be initialized and manipulated with currently available laser-trapping techniques. We also discuss mechanisms of coupling several such ring qubits as well as measuring individual qubit-ring systems.

id: 1005.5532
title: On description of bistochastic Kadison-Schwarz operators on M_2(C)
authors: Farrukh Mukhamedov, Abduaziz Abduganiev
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics Vol. 17, No. 3 (2010) 245-253
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5532
abstract: In this paper we describe bistochastic Kadison-Schawrz operators on $M_2(\mathbb{C})$. Such a description allows us to find positive, but not Kadison-Schwarz operators. Moreover, by means of that characterization we construct Kadison-Schawrz operators, which are not completely positive.

id: 1005.5703
title: Theory of fractional quantum Hall interferometers
authors: Ivan P. Levkivskyi, Juerg Froehlich, Eugene V. Sukhorukov
comments: The paper is entirely rewritten; 23 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 245105 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5703
abstract: Interference of fractionally charged quasi-particles is expected to lead to Aharonov-Bohm oscillations with periods larger than the flux quantum. However, according to the Byers-Yang theorem, observables of an electronic system are invariant under an adiabatic insertion of a quantum of singular flux. We resolve this seeming paradox by considering a microscopic model of electronic interferometers made from a quantum Hall liquid at filling factor 1/m. An approximate ground state of such interferometers is described by a Laughlin type wave function, and low-energy excitations are incompressible deformations of this state. We construct a low-energy effective theory by restricting the microscopic Hamiltonian of electrons to the space of incompressible deformations and show that the theory of the quantum Hall edge so obtained is a generalization of a chiral conformal field theory. In our theory, a quasi-particle tunneling operator is found to be a single-valued function of tunneling point coordinates, and its phase depends on the topology determined by the positions of Ohmic contacts. We describe strong coupling of the edge states to Ohmic contacts and the resulting quasi-particle current through the interferometer with the help of a master equation. We find that the coherent contribution to the average quasi-particle current through Mach-Zehnder interferometers does not vanish after summation over quasi-particle degrees of freedom. However, it acquires oscillations with the electronic period, in agreement with the Byers-Yang theorem. Importantly, our theory does not rely on any ad-hoc constructions, such as Klein factors, etc. When the magnetic flux through an FP interferometer is varied with a modulation gate, current oscillations have the quasi-particle periodicity, thus allowing for spectroscopy of quantum Hall edge states.

id: 1005.5681
title: Separation of variables for integrable spin-boson models
authors: Luigi Amico, Holger Frahm, Andreas Osterloh, Tobias Wirth
comments: 30 pages, revtex4. Minor changes
journal: Nucl.Phys.B839:604-626,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5681
abstract: We formulate the functional Bethe ansatz for bosonic (infinite dimensional) representations of the Yang-Baxter algebra. The main deviation from the standard approach consists in a half infinite 'Sklyanin lattice' made of the eigenvalues of the operator zeros of the Bethe annihilation operator. By a separation of variables, functional TQ equations are obtained for this half infinite lattice. They provide valuable information about the spectrum of a given Hamiltonian model. We apply this procedure to integrable spin-boson models subject to both twisted and open boundary conditions. In the case of general twisted and certain open boundary conditions polynomial solutions to these TQ equations are found and we compute the spectrum of both the full transfer matrix and its quasi-classical limit. For generic open boundaries we present a two-parameter family of Bethe equations, derived from TQ equations that are compatible with polynomial solutions for Q. A connection of these parameters to the boundary fields is still missing.

id: 1005.5644
title: The Gough-James Theory of Quantum Feedback Networks in the Belavkin Representation
authors: O.G. Smolyanov, A. Truman
comments: 8 pages, no figures To be submited Russian Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5644
abstract: The mathematical theory of quantum feedback networks has recently been developed by Gough and James \cite{QFN1} for general open quantum dynamical systems interacting with bosonic input fields. In this article we show, that their feedback reduction formula for the coefficients of the closed-loop quantum stochastic differential equation can be formulated in terms of Belavkin matrices. We show that the reduction formula leads to a non-commutative Mobius transformation based on Belavkin matrices, and establish a $\star$-unitary version of the Siegel identities.

id: 1005.4467
title: Dynamical Tunneling in Many-Dimensional Chaotic Systems
authors: Akiyuki Ishikawa, Atushi Tanaka, Akira Shudo
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 224102 (2010)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4467
abstract: We investigate dynamical tunneling in many dimensional systems using a quasi-periodically modulated kicked rotor, and find that the tunneling rate from the torus to the chaotic region is drastically enhanced when the chaotic states become delocalized as a result of the Anderson transition. This result strongly suggests that amphibious states, which were discovered for a one-dimensional kicked rotor with transporting islands [L. Hufnagel et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 154101 (2002)], quite commonly appear in many dimensional systems.

id: 1005.4366
title: The Ground State Energy of The Massless Spin-Boson Model
authors: Abdelmalek Abdesselam
comments: 32 pages, 4 figures, a remark and references added, typos corrected, minor computational errors corrected
journal: Annales Henri Poincare 12:1321-1347,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.4366
abstract: We provide an explicit combinatorial expansion for the ground state energy of the massless spin-Boson model as a power series in the coupling parameter. Our method uses the technique of cluster expansion in constructive quantum field theory and takes as a starting point the functional integral representation and its reduction to an Ising model on the real line with long range interactions. We prove the analyticity of our expansion and provide an explicit lower bound on the radius of convergence. We do not need multiscale nor renormalization group analysis. A connection to the loop-erased random walk is indicated.

id: 1005.5530
title: Constructing entanglement witnesses for infinite-dimensional systems
authors: Jinchuan Hou, Xiaofei Qi
comments: 15 pages
journal: Physical Review A 81, 062351 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5530
abstract: It is shown that, every entangled state in an infinite-dimensional composite system has a simple entanglement witness of the form $\alpha I+T$ with $\alpha$ a nonnegative number and $T$ a finite rank self-adjoint operator. We also provide two methods of constructing entanglement witness and apply them to obtain some entangled states that cannot be detected by the PPT criterion and the realignment criterion.

id: 1005.0215
title: Rubidium dimers in paraffin-coated cells
authors: V. M. Acosta, A. Jarmola, D. Windes, E. Corsini, M. P. Ledbetter, T. Karaulanov, M. Auzinsh, S. A. Rangwala, D. F. Jackson Kimball, D. Budker
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, edited intro and minor misprints. To appear in NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 083054
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0215
abstract: Measurements were made to determine the density of rubidium dimer vapor in paraffin-coated cells. The number density of dimers and atoms in similar paraffin-coated and uncoated cells was measured by optical spectroscopy. Due to the relatively low melting point of paraffin, a limited temperature range of 43-80 deg C was explored, with the lower end corresponding to a dimer density of less than 10^7 cm^(-3). With one-minute integration time, a sensitivity to dimer number density of better than 10^6 cm^(-3) was achieved. No significant difference in dimer density was observed between the cells.

id: 1005.0461
title: Super-Tonks-Girardeau gas of spin-1/2 interacting fermions
authors: Liming Guan, Shu Chen
comments: 4.1 pages, 5 figures, version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 175301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0461
abstract: Fermi gases confined in tight one-dimensional waveguides form two-particle bound states of atoms in the presence of a strongly attractive interaction. Based on the exact solution of the one-dimensional spin-1/2 interacting Fermi gas, we demonstrate that a stable excited state with no pairing between attractive fermionic atoms can be realized by a sudden switch of interaction from strongly repulsive regime to the strongly attractive regime. Such a state is an exact fermionic analog of the experimentally observed super-Tonks-Girardeau state of bosonic Cesium atoms [Science 325, 1224 (2009)] and should be possible to be observed by the experiment. The frequency of lowest breathing mode of the fermionic super-Tonks-Girardeau gas is calculated as a function of the interaction strength, which could be used as a detectable signature for the experimental observation.

id: 1005.5219
title: Terahertz radiation-induced conductivity, Kerr and Faraday angles, and spin textures in a two-dimensional electron gas with spin-orbit coupling subjected to a high magnetic field and periodic potential
authors: A.A. Perov, L.V. Solnyshkova, D.V. Khomitsky
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review B 82, 165328 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.5219
abstract: The terahertz radiation-induced conductivity and dielectric polarization tensors as well as the Faraday and Kerr rotation angles and the non-equilibrium spin textures are studied for two-dimensional electron gas with strong spin-orbit coupling subjected to high magnetic field and to tunable periodic potential of a two-dimensional gated superlattice. It is found that both real and imaginary parts of the frequency-dependent induced conductivity approach maximum values with sharp and detectable peaks at frequencies corresponding to the inter-subband transitions between spin-split magnetic subbands. The observed properties of the conductivity tensor frequency dependence are applied for the description of the Kerr and Faraday rotation angles which can be used as another experimental tool for describing the electron gas in periodic structures with significant spin-orbit coupling. The formation of radiation-induced spin textures is predicted having both in-plane and out-of-plane components with space distribution scale comparable to the superlattice cell size which can be observed experimentally.

id: 1005.3949
title: On the structure of positive maps; finite dimensional case
authors: Wladyslaw A. Majewski
comments: I would be grateful for any comment
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 023515(2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3949
abstract: A natural and intrinsic characterization of the structure of the set $\mathfrak{C}$ of positive unital maps is given, i.e. it is shown that $\mathfrak{C}$ is isometrically isomorphic to the subset $\gD$ of bp-positive density matrices endowed with the geometry given by the norm $\alpha$ dual to the Grothendieck projective norm $\pi$, the structure of $\gD$ is determined by the set of its exposed points, and finally a characterization of exposed points of $\gD$ in terms of convex analysis is presented. This seems to be an answer to an old open problem, characterization of the structure of the set of positive maps, studied both in Quantum Information and Operator Algebras. Our arguments are based on the concept of exposed points and links between tensor products and mapping spaces. It should be emphasized that the concept of exposed point depends strongly on the geometry, hence the role of the norm $\alpha$ is crucial.

id: 1005.0225
title: Graphene membranes and the Dirac-Born-Infeld action
authors: James Babington
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure; substantial rewrite in parts
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.0225
abstract: We propose the use of the Dirac-Born-Infeld action in the phenomenological description of graphene sheet dynamics and interactions. Both the electronic properties of the Dirac fermions and the overall dynamics can be incorporated into this model. Classical static configurations, as well as quantum fluctuations of the membrane degrees of freedom can be studied in this framework. This makes it an interesting tool for Casimir physics and novel QED processes.

