id: 1006.1283
title: Coined quantum walks on percolation graphs
authors: Godfrey Leung, Paul Knott, Joe Bailey, Viv Kendon
comments: 25 pages, 14 figures; v2 expanded and improved presentation after referee comments, added extra figure
journal: New J. Phys. 12 123018 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1283
abstract: Quantum walks, both discrete (coined) and continuous time, form the basis of several quantum algorithms and have been used to model processes such as transport in spin chains and quantum chemistry. The enhanced spreading and mixing properties of quantum walks compared with their classical counterparts have been well-studied on regular structures and also shown to be sensitive to defects and imperfections in the lattice. As a simple example of a disordered system, we consider percolation lattices, in which edges or sites are randomly missing, interrupting the progress of the quantum walk. We use numerical simulation to study the properties of coined quantum walks on these percolation lattices in one and two dimensions. In one dimension (the line) we introduce a simple notion of quantum tunneling and determine how this affects the properties of the quantum walk as it spreads. On two-dimensional percolation lattices, we show how the spreading rate varies from linear in the number of steps down to zero, as the percolation probability decreases to the critical point. This provides an example of fractional scaling in quantum walk dynamics.

id: 1006.1978
title: Disordered quantum walk-induced localization of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1978
abstract: We present an approach to induce localization of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a one-dimensional lattice under the influence of unitary quantum walk evolution using disordered quantum coin operation. We introduce a discrete-time quantum walk model in which the interference effect is modified to diffuse or strongly localize the probability distribution of the particle by assigning a different set of coin parameters picked randomly for each step of the walk, respectively. Spatial localization of the particle/state is explained by comparing the variance of the probability distribution of the quantum walk in position space using disordered coin operation to that of the walk using an identical coin operation for each step. Due to the high degree of control over quantum coin operation and most of the system parameters, ultracold atoms in an optical lattice offer opportunities to implement a disordered quantum walk that is unitary and induces localization. Here we present a scheme to use a Bose-Einstein condensate that can be evolved to the superposition of its internal states in an optical lattice and control the dynamics of atoms to observe localization. This approach can be adopted to any other physical system in which controlled disordered quantum walk can be implemented.

id: 1006.2405
title: Controllability of Quantum Walks on Graphs
authors: Francesca Albertini, Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2405
abstract: In this paper, we consider discrete time quantum walks on graphs with coin focusing on the decentralized model, where the coin operation is allowed to change with the vertex of the graph. When the coin operations can be modified at every time step, these systems can be looked at as control systems and techniques of geometric control theory can be applied. In particular, the set of states that one can achieve can be described by studying controllability. Extending previous results, we give a characterization of the set of reachable states in terms of an appropriate Lie algebra. We then prove general results and criteria relating controllability to the algebraic and topological properties of the walk. As a consequence of these results, we prove that if the degree of the underlying graph is larger than $\frac{N}{2}$, where $N$ is the number of nodes, the quantum walk is always completely controllable, i.e., it is possible to having it to evolve according to an arbitrary unitary evolution. Another result is that controllability for decentralized models only depends on the graph and not on the particular quantum walk defined on it. We also provide explicit algorithms for control and quantify the number of steps needed for an arbitrary state transfer. The results of the paper are of interest in quantum information theory where quantum walks are used and analyzed in the development of quantum algorithms.

id: 1006.3651
title: Quantum algorithms for formula evaluation
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 11 pages, survey for NATO ARW "Quantum Cryptography and Computing", Gdansk, September 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3651
abstract: We survey the recent sequence of algorithms for evaluating Boolean formulas consisting of NAND gates.

id: 1006.4014
title: New Developments in Quantum Algorithms
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, to appear as an invited survey talk at MFCS'2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4014
abstract: In this survey, we describe two recent developments in quantum algorithms. The first new development is a quantum algorithm for evaluating a Boolean formula consisting of AND and OR gates of size N in time O(\sqrt{N}). This provides quantum speedups for any problem that can be expressed via Boolean formulas. This result can be also extended to span problems, a generalization of Boolean formulas. This provides an optimal quantum algorithm for any Boolean function in the black-box query model. The second new development is a quantum algorithm for solving systems of linear equations. In contrast with traditional algorithms that run in time O(N^{2.37...}) where N is the size of the system, the quantum algorithm runs in time O(\log^c N). It outputs a quantum state describing the solution of the system.

id: 1006.4625
title: Mixing Times in Quantum Walks on Two-Dimensional Grids
authors: F.L. Marquezino, R. Portugal, G. Abal
comments: 11 pages
journal: Physical Review A, v. 82, p. 042341, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4625
abstract: Mixing properties of discrete-time quantum walks on two-dimensional grids with torus-like boundary conditions are analyzed, focusing on their connection to the complexity of the corresponding abstract search algorithm. In particular, an exact expression for the stationary distribution of the coherent walk over odd-sided lattices is obtained after solving the eigenproblem for the evolution operator for this particular graph. The limiting distribution and mixing time of a quantum walk with a coin operator modified as in the abstract search algorithm are obtained numerically. On the basis of these results, the relation between the mixing time of the modified walk and the running time of the corresponding abstract search algorithm is discussed.

id: 1006.4764
title: Quantum walks of correlated particles
authors: Alberto Peruzzo, Mirko Lobino, Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Nobuyuki Matsuda, Alberto Politi, Konstantinos Poulios, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Yoav Lahini, Nur Ismail, Kerstin W?rhoff, Yaron Bromberg, Yaron Silberberg, Mark G. Thompson, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Science, 329(5998):1500-1503, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4764
abstract: Quantum walks of correlated particles offer the possibility to study large-scale quantum interference, simulate biological, chemical and physical systems, and a route to universal quantum computation. Here we demonstrate quantum walks of two identical photons in an array of 21 continuously evanescently-coupled waveguides in a SiOxNy chip. We observe quantum correlations, violating a classical limit by 76 standard deviations, and find that they depend critically on the input state of the quantum walk. These results open the way to a powerful approach to quantum walks using correlated particles to encode information in an exponentially larger state space.

id: 1006.5556
title: Multi-walker discrete time quantum walks on arbitrary graphs, their properties, and their photonic implementation
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Andreas Schreiber, Martin Stefanak, Igor Jex, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 013001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5556
abstract: Quantum walks have emerged as an interesting alternative to the usual circuit model for quantum computing. While still universal for quantum computing, the quantum walk model has very different physical requirements, which lends itself more naturally to some physical implementations, such as linear optics. Numerous authors have considered walks with one or two walkers, on one dimensional graphs, and several experimental demonstrations have been performed. In this paper we discuss generalizing the model of discrete time quantum walks to the case of an arbitrary number of walkers acting on arbitrary graph structures. We present a formalism which allows for analysis of such situations, and several example scenarios for how our techniques can be applied. We consider the most important features of quantum walks -- measurement, distinguishability, characterization, and the distinction between classical and quantum interference. We also discuss the potential for physical implementation in the context of linear optics, which is of relevance to present day experiments.

id: 1006.2184
title: Shapiro Steps as a Direct Probe of $\pm s$-wave Symmetry in Multi-gap Superconducting Josephson Junctions
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Masahiko Machida, Tomio Koyama
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 140509(R) (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2184
abstract: We theoretically study the Shapiro steps in a hetero Josephson junction made of a single-gap superconductor and a two-gap one. We find that an anomalous DC Josephson current is induced by tuning the frequency of an applied microwave to the Josephson-Leggett mode frequency, which creates an extra step structure in the $I$-$V$ characteristics besides the conventional Shapiro steps. The step heights at the resonance voltages exhibit an alternate structure of a large and small value reflecting the gap symmetry of the two-gap superconductor. In the $\pm s-wave case in which the two gaps have opposite signs in the two-gap superconductor the steps with odd index are enhanced, whereas in the s-wave case the ones with even index have larger values. The existence of the fractional Shapiro steps is also predicted.

