id: 1006.0009
title: All-optical generation of states for "Encoding a qubit in an oscillator"
authors: Hilma Vasconcelos, Liliana Sanz, Scott Glancy
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Optics Letters
journal: Opt. Lett. 35, 3261-3263 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0009
abstract: Both discrete and continuous systems can be used to encode quantum information. Most quantum computation schemes propose encoding qubits in two-level systems, such as a two-level atom or an electron spin. Others exploit the use of an infinite-dimensional system, such as a harmonic oscillator. In "Encoding a qubit in an oscillator" [Phys. Rev. A 64 012310 (2001)], Gottesman, Kitaev, and Preskill (GKP) combined these approaches when they proposed a fault-tolerant quantum computation scheme in which a qubit is encoded in the continuous position and momentum degrees of freedom of an oscillator. One advantage of this scheme is that it can be performed by use of relatively simple linear optical devices, squeezing, and homodyne detection. However, we lack a practical method to prepare the initial GKP states. Here we propose the generation of an approximate GKP state by using superpositions of optical coherent states (sometimes called "Schr\"odinger cat states"), squeezing, linear optical devices, and homodyne detection.

id: 1006.0036
title: All Maximally Entangled Four Qubits States
authors: Gilad Gour, Nolan R. Wallach
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, Revised Version: many references added, an appendix added with a statement of the Kempf-Ness theorem
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 51(11): 112201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0036
abstract: We find an operational interpretation for the 4-tangle as a type of residual entanglement, somewhat similar to the interpretation of the 3-tangle. Using this remarkable interpretation, we are able to find the class of maximally entangled four-qubits states which is characterized by four real parameters. The states in the class are maximally entangled in the sense that their average bipartite entanglement with respect to all possible bi-partite cuts is maximal. We show that while all the states in the class maximize the average tangle, there are only few states in the class that maximize the average Tsillas or Renyi $\alpha$-entropy of entanglement. Quite remarkably, we find that up to local unitaries, there exists two unique states, one maximizing the average $\alpha$-Tsallis entropy of entanglement for all $\alpha\geq 2$, while the other maximizing it for all $0<\alpha\leq 2$ (including the von-Neumann case of $\alpha=1$). Furthermore, among the maximally entangled four qubits states, there are only 3 maximally entangled states that have the property that for 2, out of the 3 bipartite cuts consisting of 2-qubits verses 2-qubits, the entanglement is 2 ebits and for the remaining bipartite cut the entanglement between the two groups of two qubits is 1ebit. The unique 3 maximally entangled states are the 3 cluster states that are related by a swap operator. We also show that the cluster states are the only states (up to local unitaries) that maximize the average $\alpha$-Renyi entropy of entanglement for all $\alpha\geq 2$.

id: 1006.0050
title: Theory of cavity-enhanced spontaneous parametric downconversion
authors: Yasser Jeronimo-Moreno, Saul Rodriguez-Benavides, Alfred B. U'Ren
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Laser Physics, 2010, Vol. 20, No. 5, pp. 1221-1233
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0050
abstract: In this paper we study photon pairs generated in a nonlinear cavity, composed of a nonlinear crystal surrounded by mirrors, by the process of spontaneous parametric downconversion. We analyze two different regimes: singly-resonant cavities where the signal and idler modes are resonant, and doubly-resonant cavities where the pump mode is also resonant. We present analytic expressions for the joint spectral amplitude in these two cases, and study the reduction in emission bandwidth as the cavity coefficient finesse is increased. We also study the enhancement of the source brightness resulting from the presence of the cavity.

id: 1006.0052
title: Bidirectional swapping quantum controlled teleportation based on maximally entangled five-qubit state
authors: Zha Xin-Wei, Song Hai-Yang, Ma Gang-Long
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0052
abstract: A theoretical scheme for bidirectional swapping quantum controlled teleportation is presented using the entanglement property of maximally entangled five-qubit state, i.e., Alice wants to transmit a entangled state of particle a to Bob and Bob wants to transmit a entangled state of particle b to Alice via the control of the supervisor Charlie.

id: 1006.0061
title: Perfect coherent shift of bound pairs in strongly correlated systems
authors: L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0061
abstract: In the present work we extend the concept of coherent shift for the extended Bose-Hubbard model and Fermi-Hubbard model. We present two types of local bound pair (BP) for Bose system and one type for Fermi system. It is shown exactly that the perfect coherent shift can be achieved in such models. We find that for a Bose on-site BP, the perfect coherent shift condition depends on the nearest-neighbor interaction strength and the momentum of the incident single particle wavepacket, while for the other two types of BPs, it is independent of the initial state in the proposed systems.

id: 1006.0068
title: Controllable conditional quantum oscillations and synchronization in superconducting flux qubits
authors: Ai Min Chen, Sam Young Cho
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0068
abstract: Conditional quantum oscillations are investigated for quantum gate operations in superconducting flux qubits. We present an effective Hamiltonian which describes a conditional quantum oscillation in two-qubit systems. Rabi-type quantum oscillations are discussed in implementing conditional quantum oscillations to quantum gate operations. Two conditional quantum oscillations depending on the states of control qubit can be synchronized to perform controlled-gate operations by varying system parameters. It is shown that the conditional quantum oscillations with their frequency synchronization make it possible to operate the controlled-NOT and -U gates with a very accurate gate performance rate in interacting qubit systems. Further, this scheme can be applicable to realize a controlled multi-qubit operation in various solid-state qubit systems.

id: 1006.0084
title: A Generalized Master Equation for Janus Faced Coherent States
authors: K. V. S. Shiv Chaitanya, V. Srinivasan
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0084
abstract: A general master equation for eigenstates of Janus Faced commutation relations is constructed.

id: 1006.0093
title: Mutually Unbiased Bases and Semi-definite Programming
authors: Stephen Brierley, Stefan Weigert
comments: 11 pages,
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 254 012008 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0093
abstract: A complex Hilbert space of dimension six supports at least three but not more than seven mutually unbiased bases. Two computer-aided analytical methods to tighten these bounds are reviewed, based on a discretization of parameter space and on Grobner bases. A third algorithmic approach is presented: the non-existence of more than three mutually unbiased bases in composite dimensions can be decided by a global optimization method known as semidefinite programming. The method is used to confirm that the spectral matrix cannot be part of a complete set of seven mutually unbiased bases in dimension six.

id: 1006.0094
title: Non-equilibrium delocalization-localization transition of photons in circuit QED
authors: S. Schmidt, D. Gerace, A. A. Houck, G. Blatter, H. E. T¨¹reci
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 100507(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0094
abstract: We show that photons in two tunnel-coupled microwave resonators each containing a single superconduct- ing qubit undergo a sharp non-equilibrium delocalization-localization (self-trapping) transition due to strong photon-qubit coupling. We find that dissipation favors the self-trapped regime and leads to the possibility of observing the transition as a function of time without tuning any parameter of the system. Furthermore, we find that self-trapping of photons in one of the resonators (spatial localization) forces the qubit in the opposite resonator to remain in its initial state (energetic localization). This allows for an easy experimental observation of the transition by local read-out of the qubit state.

id: 1006.0107
title: Quantum interference and entanglement induced by multiple scattering of light
authors: J. R. Ott, N. A. Mortensen, P. Lodahl
comments: 5 pages including 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 090501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0107
abstract: We report on the effects of quantum interference induced by transmission of an arbitrary number of optical quantum states through a multiple scattering medium. We identify the role of quantum interference on the photon correlations and the degree of continuous variable entanglement between two output modes. It is shown that the effect of quantum interference survives averaging over all ensembles of disorder and manifests itself as increased photon correlations giving rise to photon anti-bunching. Finally, the existence of continuous variable entanglement correlations in a volume speckle pattern is predicted. Our results suggest that multiple scattering provides a promising way of coherently interfering many independent quantum states of light of potential use in quantum information processing.

id: 1006.0117
title: Quantum tunneling time of a Bose-Einstein condensate traversing through a laser-induced potential barrier
authors: Zhenglu Duan, Bixuan Fan, Chun-Hua Yuan, Jing Cheng, Shiyao Zhu, Weiping Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 055602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0117
abstract: We theoretically study the effect of atomic nonlinearity on the tunneling time in the case of an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) traversing the laser-induced potential barrier. The atomic nonlinearity is controlled to appear only in the region of the barrier by employing the Feshbach resonance technique to tune interatomic interaction in the tunneling process. Numerical simulation shows that the atomic nonlinear effect dramatically changes the tunneling behavior of the BEC matter wave packet, and results in the violation of Hartman effect and the occurrence of negative tunneling time.

id: 1006.0125
title: Nonsequential Two-Photon Double Ionization of Atoms: Identifying the Mechanism
authors: Morten F\orre, S\olve Selst?, Raymond Nepstad
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0125
abstract: We develop an approximate model for the process of direct (nonsequential) two-photon double ionization of atoms. Employing the model, we calculate (generalized) total cross sections as well as energy-resolved differential cross sections of helium for photon energies ranging from 39 to 54 eV. A comparison with results of \textit{ab initio} calculations reveals that the agreement is at a quantitative level. We thus demonstrate that this complex ionization process is fully described by the simple model, providing insight into the underlying physical mechanism. Finally, we use the model to calculate generalized cross sections for the two-photon double ionization of neon in the nonsequential regime.

id: 1006.0150
title: Generalized self-testing and the security of the 6-state protocol
authors: Matthew McKague, Michele Mosca
comments: To appear in proceedings of TQC 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0150
abstract: Self-tested quantum information processing provides a means for doing useful information processing with untrusted quantum apparatus. Previous work was limited to performing computations and protocols in real Hilbert spaces, which is not a serious obstacle if one is only interested in final measurement statistics being correct (for example, getting the correct factors of a large number after running Shor's factoring algorithm). This limitation was shown by McKague et al. to be fundamental, since there is no way to experimentally distinguish any quantum experiment from a special simulation using states and operators with only real coefficients. In this paper, we show that one can still do a meaningful self-test of quantum apparatus with complex amplitudes. In particular, we define a family of simulations of quantum experiments, based on complex conjugation, with two interesting properties. First, we are able to define a self-test which may be passed only by states and operators that are equivalent to simulations within the family. This extends work of Mayers and Yao and Magniez et al. in self-testing of quantum apparatus, and includes a complex measurement. Second, any of the simulations in the family may be used to implement a secure 6-state QKD protocol, which was previously not known to be implementable in a self-tested framework.

id: 1006.0174
title: Proposal for an interference experiment to test the applicability of quantum theory to event-based processes
authors: K. Michielsen, Th. Lippert, M. Richter, B. Barbara, S. Miyashita, H. De Raedt
comments: Accepted for publication in J. Phys. Soc. Jpn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0174
abstract: We analyze a single-particle Mach-Zehnder interferometer experiment in which the path length of one arm may change (randomly or systematically) according to the value of an external two-valued variable $x$, for each passage of a particle through the interferometer. Quantum theory predicts an interference pattern that is independent of the sequence of the values of $x$. On the other hand, corpuscular models that reproduce the results of quantum optics experiments carried out up to this date show a reduced visibility and a shift of the interference pattern depending on the details of the sequence of the values of $x$. The proposed experiment will show that: (1) it can be described by quantum theory, and thus not by the current corpuscular models, or (2) it cannot be described by quantum theory but can be described by the corpuscular models or variations thereof, or (3) it can neither be described by quantum theory nor by corpuscular models. Therefore, the proposed experiment can be used to determine to what extent quantum theory provides a description of observed events beyond the usual statistical level.

id: 1006.0214
title: Squeezing induced transition of long-time decay rate
authors: Shang-Bin Li
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, RevTex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0214
abstract: We investigate the nonclassicality of several kinds of nonclassical optical fields such as the pure or mixed single photon-added coherent states and the cat states in the photon-loss or the dephasing channels by exploring the entanglement potential as the measure. It is shown that the long-time decay of entanglement potentials of these states in photon loss channel is dependent of their initial quadrature squeezing properties. In the case of photon-loss, transition of long-time decay rate emerges at the boundary between the squeezing and non-squeezing initial non-gaussian states if log-negativity is adopted as the measure of entanglement potential. However, the transition behavior disappears if the concurrence is adopted as the measure of entanglement potential. For the case of the dephasing, distinct decay behaviors of the nonclassicality are also revealed.

id: 1006.0278
title: One-step implementation of multi-qubit conditional phase gating with nitrogen-vacancy centers coupled to a high-Q silica microsphere cavity
authors: Wan-li Yang, Zhang-qi Yin, Zhen-yu Xu, Mang Feng, Jiang-feng Du
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures, Accepted by Appl. Phys. Lett
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 96, 241113 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0278
abstract: The diamond nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center is an excellent candidate for quantum information processing, whereas entangling separate NV centers is still of great experimental challenge. We propose an one-step conditional phase flip with three NV centers coupled to a whispering-gallery mode cavity by virtue of the Raman transition and smart qubit encoding. As decoherence is much suppressed, our scheme could work for more qubits. The experimental feasibility is justified.

id: 1006.0300
title: On metric of quantum channel spaces
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0300
abstract: So far, there have been plenty of literatures on the metric in the space of probability distributions and quantum states. As for channels, however, only a little had been known. In this paper, we impose monotonicity by concatenation of channels before and after the given channel families, and invariance by tensoring identity channels. Under these axioms, we identify the largest and the smallest metrics. Also, we studied asymptotic theory of metric in parallel and adaptive repetition settings, and applied them to the study of channel estimation. First we express the achievable lower bound of the mean square error (MSE) of an estimate by a monotone channel metric, and show this equals O(1/n) for noisy channels, where n is the number of times of channel use. This result shows Heisenberg rate, or O(1/n^2)-rate of the MSE observed in case of estimation of unitary, collapses with very small arbitrary noise.

id: 1006.0302
title: Reverse test and quantum analogue of classical fidelity and generalized fidelity
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: A new proof of joint convexity of $D^R$ is added. Also, some technical correction, Title changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0302
abstract: The aim of the present paper is to give axiomatic characterization of quantum relative entropy utilizing resource conversion scenario. We consider two sets of axioms: non-asymptotic and asymptotic. In the former setting, we prove that the upperbound and the lowerbund of D^{Q}({\rho}||{\sigma}) is D^{R}({\rho}||{\sigma}):=tr{\rho}ln{\sigma}^{1/2}{\rho}^{-1}{\sigma}^{1/2} and D({\rho}||{\sigma}):= tr{\rho}(ln{\rho}-ln{\sigma}), respectively. In the latter setting, we prove uniqueness of quantum relative entropy, that is, D^{Q}({\rho}||{\sigma}) should equal a constant multiple of D({\rho}||{\sigma}). In the analysis, we define and use reverse test and asymptotic reverse test, which are natural inverse of hypothesis test.

id: 1006.0313
title: Ab initio calculation of H + He$^+$ charge transfer cross sections for plasma physics
authors: J. Loreau, K. Sodoga, D. Lauvergnat, M. Desouter-Lecomte, N. Vaeck
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012708 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0313
abstract: The charge transfer in low energy (0.25 to 150 eV/amu) H($nl$) + He$^+(1s)$ collisions is investigated using a quasi-molecular approach for the $n=2,3$ as well as the first two $n=4$ singlet states. The diabatic potential energy curves of the HeH$^+$ molecular ion are obtained from the adiabatic potential energy curves and the non-adiabatic radial coupling matrix elements using a two-by-two diabatization method, and a time-dependent wave-packet approach is used to calculate the state-to-state cross sections. We find a strong dependence of the charge transfer cross section in the principal and orbital quantum numbers $n$ and $l$ of the initial or final state. We estimate the effect of the non-adiabatic rotational couplings, which is found to be important even at energies below 1 eV/amu. However, the effect is small on the total cross sections at energies below 10 eV/amu. We observe that to calculate charge transfer cross sections in a $n$ manifold, it is only necessary to include states with $n^{\prime}\leq n$, and we discuss the limitations of our approach as the number of states increases.

id: 1006.0328
title: Symmetries of the finite Heisenberg group for composite systems
authors: M. Korbelar, J. Tolar
comments: Submitted to J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 375302 (15pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0328
abstract: Symmetries of the finite Heisenberg group represent an important tool for the study of deeper structure of finite-dimensional quantum mechanics. As is well known, these symmetries are properly expressed in terms of certain normalizer. This paper extends previous investigations to composite quantum systems consisting of two subsystems - qudits - with arbitrary dimensions n and m. In this paper we present detailed descriptions - in the group of inner automorphisms of GL(nm,C) - of the normalizer of the Abelian subgroup generated by tensor products of generalized Pauli matrices of orders n and m. The symmetry group is then given by the quotient group of the normalizer.

id: 1006.0338
title: Closed timelike curves, superluminal signals, and "free will" in universal quantum mechanics
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 8 pages, revised, accepted for publication in Advanced Science Letters
journal: Adv. Sci. Lett. 17, 271-274 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0338
abstract: We explore some implications of the hypothesis that quantum mechanics (QM) is universal, i.e., that QM does not merely describe information accessible to observers, but that it also describes the observers themselves. From that point of view, "free will" (FW) - the ability of experimentalists to make free choices of initial conditions - is merely an illusion. As a consequence, by entangling a part of brain (responsible for the illusion of FW) with a distant particle, one may create nonlocal correlations that can be interpreted as superluminal signals. In addition, if FW is an illusion, then QM on a closed timelike curve can be made consistent even without the Deutch nonlinear consistency constraint.

id: 1006.0339
title: Long-Time Coherence in Echo Spectroscopy with $¦Ð/2$--$¦Ð$--$¦Ð/2$ Pulse Sequence
authors: Arseni Goussev, Philippe Jacquod
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052114 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0339
abstract: Motivated by atom optics experiments, we investigate a new class of fidelity functions describing the reconstruction of quantum states by time-reversal operations as $M_{\mathrm{Da}}(t) = | <\psi | e^{i H_2 t / 2} e^{i H_1 t / 2} e^{-i H_2 t / 2} e^{-i H_1 t / 2} | \psi >|^2$. We show that the decay of $M_{\mathrm{Da}}$ is quartic in time at short times, and that it freezes well above the ergodic value at long times, when $H_2-H_1$ is not too large. The long-time saturation value of $M_{\mathrm{Da}}$ contains easily extractable information on the strength of decoherence in these systems.

id: 1006.0354
title: Quantum Public-Key Encryption with Information Theoretic Security
authors: Jiangyou Pan, Li Yang
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0354
abstract: We propose a definition for the information theoretic security of a quantum public-key encryption scheme, and present bit-oriented and two-bit-oriented encryption schemes satisfying our security definition via the introduction of a new public-key algorithm structure. We extend the scheme to a multi-bitoriented one, and conjecture that it is also information theoretically secure, depending directly on the structure of our new algorithm.

id: 1006.0364
title: Quantum frequency downconversion experiment
authors: Hiroki Takesue
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013833 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0364
abstract: We report the first quantum frequency downconversion experiment. Using the difference frequency generation process in a periodically poled lithium niobate waveguide, we successfully observed the phase-preserved frequency downconversion of a coherent pulse train with an average photon number per pulse of $<$1, from the 0.7-$\mu$m visible wavelength band to the 1.3-$\mu$m telecom band. We expect this technology to become an important tool for flexible photonic quantum networking, including the realization of quantum repeater systems over optical fiber using atom-photon entanglement sources for the visible wavelength bands.

id: 1006.0369
title: Elementary Excitations in Quantum Fermi Liquid
authors: Nodar L.Tsintsadze, Levan N.Tsintsadze
comments: Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0369
abstract: Landau's theory of Fermi liquids is generalized by incorporating the de Broglie waves diffraction. A newly derived kinetic equation of the Fermi particles is used to derive a general dispersion relation and the excitation of zero sound is studied. A new mode is found due to the quantum correction. It is shown that the zero sound can exist even in an ideal Fermi gas. We also disclose a new branch of frequency spectrum due to the weak interaction.

id: 1006.0370
title: The quantum state vector in phase space and Gabor's windowed Fourier transform
authors: A.J. Bracken, P. Watson
comments: 36 pages, 6 figures. Revised in light of referees' comments, and further references added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 395304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0370
abstract: Representations of quantum state vectors by complex phase space amplitudes, complementing the description of the density operator by the Wigner function, have been defined by applying the Weyl-Wigner transform to dyadic operators, linear in the state vector and anti-linear in a fixed `window state vector'. Here aspects of this construction are explored, with emphasis on the connection with Gabor's `windowed Fourier transform'. The amplitudes that arise for simple quantum states from various choices of window are presented as illustrations. Generalized Bargmann representations of the state vector appear as special cases, associated with Gaussian windows. For every choice of window, amplitudes lie in a corresponding linear subspace of square-integrable functions on phase space. A generalized Born interpretation of amplitudes is described, with both the Wigner function and a generalized Husimi function appearing as quantities linear in an amplitude and anti-linear in its complex conjugate. Schr\"odinger's time-dependent and time-independent equations are represented on phase space amplitudes, and their solutions described in simple cases.

id: 1006.0450
title: Coherence loss and revivals in atomic interferometry: A quantum-recoil analysis
authors: M. Davidovic, A. S. Sanz, M. Bozic, D. Arsenovic
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 165303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0450
abstract: The coherence effects induced by external photons coupled to matter waves inside a Mach-Zehnder three-grating interferometer are analyzed. Alternatively to atom-photon entanglement scenarios, the model considered here only relies on the atomic wave function and the momentum shift induced in it by the photon scattering events. A functional dependence is thus found between the observables, namely the fringe visibility and the phase shift, and the transversal momentum transfer distribution. A good quantitative agreement is found when comparing the results obtained from our model with the experimental data.

id: 1006.0461
title: Effects of dissipation in an adiabatic quantum search algorithm
authors: Ines de Vega, Mari Carmen Ba?uls, A. P¨¦rez
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0461
abstract: We consider the effect of two different environments on the performance of the quantum adiabatic search algorithm, a thermal bath at finite temperature, and a structured environment similar to the one encountered in systems coupled to the electromagnetic field that exists within a photonic crystal. While for all the parameter regimes explored here, the algorithm performance is worsened by the contact with a thermal environment, the picture appears to be different when considering a structured environment. In this case we show that, by tuning the environment parameters to certain regimes, the algorithm performance can actually be improved with respect to the closed system case. Additionally, the relevance of considering the dissipation rates as complex quantities is discussed in both cases. More particularly, we find that the imaginary part of the rates can not be neglected with the usual argument that it simply amounts to an energy shift, and in fact influences crucially the system dynamics.

id: 1006.0463
title: Tangled in entanglements
authors: Arto Annila, Tarja Kallio-Tamminen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0463
abstract: Two well-known conceptual conundrums of quantum mechanics referred to as instantaneous action-at-a-distance and inseparable wave-particle character are tackled using the principle of least action. Since any measurement is an action, it is reasoned that the spin of a particle just as the polarization of a photon remain indetermined for the observer until at least a quantum of action flows from the object to the observer. The detection places the quantity in question in the observer's frame of reference. This reference frame for one photon will instantaneously apply also to the polarization of the other photon provided that the two photons have not been perturbed ever since the correlated pair emerged from a radiative decay. The wave-particle duality of a single photon or an electron, that the double-slit experiment demonstrates, can also be understood in terms of actions. The energy density difference between the source of particles and their sink at the detector is a driving force that will cause flows of energy densities such as photons or electrons to propagate down along the paths of least action. Since no space is empty of energy density, the propagating particle as a flow of density will invariably perturb surrounding densities. When the driving density difference including the perturbation is leveling off via two or more paths, the ensuing flows of densities depend on each other. Therefore the flows through the two slits can never be separated from each other which will manifest as the inseparable particle-wave character. Keywords: action-at-a-distance; double slit experiment; energy dispersal; evolution; quantum paradoxes; the principle of least action

id: 1006.0468
title: Contextuality offers device-independent security
authors: Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki, Marcin Pawlowski, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: 12 pages, RevTex, substantially revised version of e-print arXive:1002.2410
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0468
abstract: The discovery of quantum key distribution by Bennett and Brassard (BB84) bases on the fundamental quantum feature: incompatibility of measurements of quantum non-commuting observables. In 1991 Ekert showed that cryptographic key can be generated at a distance with help of entangled (correlated) quantum particles. Recently Barrett, Hardy and Kent showed that the non-locality used by Ekert is itself a good resource of cryptographic key even beyond quantum mechanics. Their result paved the way to new generation of quantum cryptographic protocols - secure even if the devices are built by the very eavesdropper. However, there is a question, which is fundamental from both practical and philosophical point of view: does Nature offer security on operational level based on the original concept behind quantum cryptography - that information gain about one observable must cause disturbance to another, incompatible one? Here we resolve this problem by using another striking feature of quantum world - contextuality. It is a strong version of incompatibility manifested in the famous Kochen-Specker paradox. The crucial concept is the use of a new class of families of bipartite probability distributions . We show that if two persons share systems which locally exhibit the Kochen-Specker paradox and, in addition, exhibit perfect correlations, then they can extract secure key, even if they do not trust the quantum devices. This is the first operational protocol that directly implements the fundamental feature of Nature: the information gain vs. disturbance trade-off. For sake of proof we exhibit a new Bell's inequality which is interesting in itself. The security is proved not by exploiting strong violation of the inequality by quantum mechanics (as one usually proceeds), but rather by arguing, that quantum mechanics cannot violate it too much.

id: 1006.0499
title: Von Neumann's 'No Hidden Variables' Proof: A Re-Appraisal
authors: Jeffrey Bub
comments: 8 pages, no figures; for Peter Mittelstaedt Festschrift issue of Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0499
abstract: Since the analysis by John Bell in 1965, the consensus in the literature is that von Neumann's 'no hidden variables' proof fails to exclude any significant class of hidden variables. Bell raised the question whether it could be shown that any hidden variable theory would have to be nonlocal, and in this sense 'like Bohm's theory.' His seminal result provides a positive answer to the question. I argue that Bell's analysis misconstrues von Neumann's argument. What von Neumann proved was the impossibility of recovering the quantum probabilities from a hidden variable theory of dispersion free (deterministic) states in which the quantum observables are represented as the 'beables' of the theory, to use Bell's term. That is, the quantum probabilities could not reflect the distribution of pre-measurement values of beables, but would have to be derived in some other way, e.g., as in Bohm's theory, where the probabilities are an artefact of a dynamical process that is not in fact a measurement of any beable of the system.

id: 1006.0500
title: Contextuality in Quantum Mechanics: Testing the Klyachko Inequality
authors: Jeffrey Bub, Allen Stairs
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures; revised version adds acknowledgment of independent work on the 2-particle experiment, and clarifies remarks re the 1-particle experiment and the argument re the 2-particle experiment in section 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0500
abstract: The Klyachko inequality is an inequality for the probabiities of the values of five observables of a spin-1 particle, which is satisfied by any noncontextual assignment of values to this set of observables, but is violated by the probabilities defined by a certain quantum state. We describe an experiment between two entangled spin-1 particles to test contextuality via a related inequality. We point out that a test of contextuality by measurements on a single particle to confirm the Klyachko inequality requires an assumption of non-disturbance by the measuring instrument, which is avoided in the two-particle experiment.

id: 1006.0515
title: Analytical model of non-Markovian decoherence in donor-based charge quantum bits
authors: F Lastra, S Reyes, S Wallentowitz
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0515
abstract: We develop an analytical model for describing the dynamics of a donor-based charge quantum bit (qubit). As a result, the quantum decoherence of the qubit is analytically obtained and shown to reveal non-Markovian features: The decoherence rate varies with time and even attains negative values, generating a non-exponential decay of the electronic coherence and a later recoherence. The resulting coherence time is inversely proportional to the temperature, thus leading to low decoherence below a material dependent characteristic temperature.

id: 1006.0528
title: Mathematical vs Empirical Measurement
authors: Davide Bondoni
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0528
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. In this short paper I will put in evidence a problem nested in Ozawa's effort to block von Neumann's chains and in his attributing the wave-collapse to a interaction between systems. This suggests distinguishing sharply the mathematical world from the phenomenological one.

id: 1006.0573
title: Entanglement creation in semiconductor quantum dot charge qubit
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Andrea Bertoni
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, Proceedings of Quantum 2010:24-28, May, 2010 Torino
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Volume: 9, 111 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0573
abstract: We study theoretically the appearance of quantum correlations in two- and three-electron scattering in single and double dots. The key role played by transport resonances into entanglement formation between the single-particle states is shown. Both reflected and transmitted components of the scattered particle wavefunction are used to evaluate the quantum correlations between the incident carrier and the bound particle(s) in the dots. Our investigation provides a guideline for the analysis of decoherence effects due to the Coulomb scattering in semiconductor quantum dots structures.

id: 1006.0654
title: Entanglement evolution in multipartite cavity-reservoir systems under local unitary operations
authors: Wei Wen, Yan-Kui Bai, Heng Fan
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 64, 557 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0654
abstract: We analyze the entanglement evolution of two cavity photons being affected by the dissipation of two individual reservoirs. Under an arbitrary local unitary operation on the initial state, it is shown that there is only one parameter which changes the entanglement dynamics. For the bipartite subsystems, we show that the entanglement of the cavity photons is correlated with that of the reservoirs, although the local operation can delay the time at which the photon entanglement disappears and advance the time at which the reservoir entanglement appears. Furthermore, via a new defined four-qubit entanglement measure and two three-qubit entanglement measures, we study the multipartite entanglement evolution in the composite system, which allows us to analyze quantitatively both bipartite and multipartite entanglement within a unified framework. In addition, we also discuss the entanglement evolution with an arbitrary initial state.

id: 1006.0665
title: Photon correlations in positron annihilation
authors: Isabelle Gauthier, Margaret Hawton
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:062121,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0665
abstract: The two-photon positron annihilation density matrix is found to separate into a diagonal center of energy factor implying maximally entangled momenta, and a relative factor describing decay. For unknown positron injection time, the distribution of the difference in photon arrival times is a double exponential at the para-Ps decay rate, consistent with experiment (V. D. Irby, Meas. Sci. Technol. 15, 1799 (2004)).

id: 1006.0705
title: Comparison of the experimental data for the Casimir pressure with the Lifshitz theory at zero temperature
authors: B. Geyer, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures; Phys. Rev. B, to appear
journal: Phys.Rev.B81:245421,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0705
abstract: We perform detailed comparison of the experimental data of the experiment on the determination of the Casimir pressure between two parallel Au plates with the theoretical values computed using the Lifshitz formula at zero temperature. Computations are done using the optical data for the complex index of refraction of Au extrapolated to low frequencies by means of the Drude model with both most often used and other suggested Drude parameters. It is shown that the experimental data exclude the Lifshitz formula at zero temperature at a 70% confidence level if the Drude model with most often used values of the parameters is employed. If other values of the Drude parameters are used, the Lifshitz formula at zero frequency is experimentally excluded at a 95% confidence level. The Lifshitz formula at zero temperature combined with the generalized plasma-like model with most often used value of the plasma frequency is shown to be experimentally consistent. We propose a decisive experiment which will shed additional light on the role of relaxation properties of conduction electrons in the Casimir effect.

id: 1006.0726
title: Feasibility of quantum key distribution through dense wavelength division multiplexing network
authors: Bing Qi, Wen Zhu, Li Qian, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 103042
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0726
abstract: In this paper, we study the feasibility of conducting quantum key distribution (QKD) together with classical communication through the same optical fiber by employing dense-wavelength-division-multiplexing (DWDM) technology at telecom wavelength. The impact of the classical channels to the quantum channel has been investigated for both QKD based on single photon detection and QKD based on homodyne detection. Our studies show that the latter can tolerate a much higher level of contamination from the classical channels than the former. This is because the local oscillator used in the homodyne detector acts as a "mode selector" which can suppress noise photons effectively. We have performed simulations based on both the decoy BB84 QKD protocol and the Gaussian modulated coherent state (GMCS) QKD protocol. While the former cannot tolerate even one classical channel (with a power of 0dBm), the latter can be multiplexed with 38 classical channels (0dBm power each channel) and still has a secure distance around 10km. Preliminary experiment has been conducted based on a 100MHz bandwidth homodyne detector.

id: 1006.0734
title: Phase estimation without a priori knowledge in the presence of loss
authors: Jan Kolodynski, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, discussion on adaptive strategies added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053804 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0734
abstract: We find the optimal scheme for quantum phase estimation in the presence of loss when no a priori knowledge on the estimated phase is available. We prove analytically an explicit lower bound on estimation uncertainty, which shows that, as a function of number of probes, quantum precision enhancement amounts at most to a constant factor improvement over classical strategies

id: 1006.0750
title: Distribution and dynamics of entanglement in high-dimensional quantum systems using convex-roof extended negativity
authors: Soojoon Lee, Jeong San Kim, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 375(3): 411 - 414 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0750
abstract: We develop theories of entanglement distribution and of entanglement dynamics for qudit systems, which incorporate previous qubit formulations. Using convex-roof extended negativity, we generalize previous qubit results for entanglement distribution with isotropic states and for entanglement dynamics with the depolarizing channel, and we establish a relation between these two types of entanglement networks.

id: 1006.0786
title: Experimental Implementation of the Universal Transpose Operation
authors: Hyang-Tag Lim, Young-Sik Ra, Yong-Su Kim, Joonwoo Bae, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83 020301(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0786
abstract: The universal transpose of quantum states is an anti-unitary transformation that is not allowed in quantum theory. In this work, we investigate approximating the universal transpose of quantum states of two-level systems (qubits) using the method known as the structural physical approximation to positive maps. We also report its experimental implementation in linear optics. The scheme is optimal in that the maximal fidelity is attained and also practical as measurement and preparation of quantum states that are experimentally feasible within current technologies are solely applied.

id: 1006.0820
title: Interference of dissimilar photon sources
authors: A. J. Bennett, R. B. Patel, C. A. Nicoll, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Published as A. J. Bennett et al, Nature Physics 5, 715 - 717 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0820
abstract: If identical photons meet at a semi-transparent mirror they appear to leave in the same direction, an effect called "two-photon interference". It has been known for some time that this effect should occur for photons generated by dissimilar sources with no common history, provided the easurement cannot distinguish between the photons. Here we report a technique to observe such interference with isolated, unsynchronized sources whose coherence times differ by several orders of magnitude. In an experiment we interfere photons generated via different physical processes, with different photon statistics. One source is stimulated emission from a tuneable laser, which has Poissonian statistics and a nano-eV bandwidth. The other is spontaneous emission from a quantum dot in a p-i-n diode with a micro-eV linewidth. We develop a theory to explain the visibility of interference, which is primarily limited by the timing resolution of our detectors.

id: 1006.0837
title: Quantum characterization of bipartite Gaussian states
authors: D. Buono, G. Nocerino, V. D'Auria, A. Porzio, S. Olivares, M. G. A. Paris
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B Vol. 27, No. 6, pag.A110-A118 June 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0837
abstract: Gaussian bipartite states are basic tools for the realization of quantum information protocols with continuous variables. Their complete characterization is obtained by the reconstruction of the corresponding covariance matrix. Here we describe in details and experimentally demonstrate a robust and reliable method to fully characterize bipartite optical Gaussian states by means of a single homodyne detector. We have successfully applied our method to the bipartite states generated by a sub-threshold type-II optical parametric oscillator which produces a pair of thermal cross-polarized entangled CW frequency degenerate beams. The method provide a reliable reconstruction of the covariance matrix and allows to retrieve all the physical information about the state under investigation. These includes observable quantities, as energy and squeezing, as well as non observable ones as purity, entropy and entanglement. Our procedure also includes advanced tests for Gaussianity of the state and, overall, represents a powerful tool to study bipartite Gaussian state from the generation stage to the detection one.

id: 1006.0898
title: A Family of Norms With Applications In Quantum Information Theory II
authors: Nathaniel Johnston, David W. Kribs
comments: 19 pages, see also arXiv:0909.3907
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 11 1 & 2 (2011), 104-123
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0898
abstract: We consider the problem of computing the family of operator norms recently introduced in arXiv:0909.3907. We develop a family of semidefinite programs that can be used to exactly compute them in small dimensions and bound them in general. Some theoretical consequences follow from the duality theory of semidefinite programming, including a new constructive proof that there are non-positive partial transpose Werner states that are r-undistillable for arbitrary r. Several examples are considered via a MATLAB implementation of the semidefinite program, including the case of Werner states and randomly generated states via the Bures measure, and approximate distributions of the norms are provided. We extend these norms to arbitrary convex mapping cones and explore their implications with positive partial transpose states.

id: 1006.0905
title: Enhancement and suppression of tunneling by controlling symmetries of a potential barrier
authors: Denys I. Bondar, Wing-Ki Liu, Misha Yu. Ivanov
comments: 10 pages and 7 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:052112,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0905
abstract: We present a class of 2D systems which shows a counterintuitive property that contradicts a semi classical intuition: A 2D quantum particle "prefers" tunneling through a barrier rather than traveling above it. Viewing the one particle 2D system as the system of two 1D particles, it is demonstrated that this effect occurs due to a specific symmetry of the barrier that forces excitations of the interparticle degree of freedom that, in turn, leads to the appearance of an effective potential barrier even though there is no "real" barrier. This phenomenon cannot exist in 1D.

id: 1006.0947
title: Qubit-Initialisation and Readout with Finite Coherent Amplitudes in Cavity QED
authors: Ricardo Kennedy, Leonhard Horstmeyer, Andrzej Dragan, Terry Rudolph
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0947
abstract: We consider a unitary transfer of an arbitrary state of a two-level atomic qubit in a cavity to the finite amplitude coherent state cavity field. Such transfer can be used to either provide an effective readout measurement on the atom by a subsequent measurement on the light field or as a method for initializing a fixed atomic state - a so-called "attractor state", studied previously for the case of an infinitely strong cavity field. We show that with a suitable adjustment of the coherent amplitude and evolution time the qubit transfers all its information to the field, attaining a selected state of high purity irrespectively of the initial state.

id: 1006.1005
title: Coherent Quantum-Noise Cancellation for Optomechanical Sensors
authors: Mankei Tsang, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, v2: accepted by Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 105:123601,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1005
abstract: Using a flowchart representation of quantum optomechanical dynamics, we design coherent quantum-noise-cancellation schemes that can eliminate the back-action noise induced by radiation pressure at all frequencies and thus overcome the standard quantum limit of force sensing. The proposed schemes can be regarded as novel examples of coherent feedforward quantum control.

id: 1006.1010
title: Geometry of abstraction in quantum computation
authors: Dusko Pavlovic
comments: 28 pages, 42 figures; Clifford Lectures 2008 (main speaker Samson Abramsky)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1010
abstract: Quantum algorithms are sequences of abstract operations, performed on non-existent computers. They are in obvious need of categorical semantics. We present some steps in this direction, following earlier contributions of Abramsky, Coecke and Selinger. In particular, we analyze function abstraction in quantum computation, which turns out to characterize its classical interfaces. Some quantum algorithms provide feasible solutions of important hard problems, such as factoring and discrete log (which are the building blocks of modern cryptography). It is of a great practical interest to precisely characterize the computational resources needed to execute such quantum algorithms. There are many ideas how to build a quantum computer. Can we prove some necessary conditions? Categorical semantics help with such questions. We show how to implement an important family of quantum algorithms using just abelian groups and relations.

id: 1006.1011
title: Relating toy models of quantum computation: comprehension, complementarity and dagger mix autonomous categories
authors: Dusko Pavlovic
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures; Proceedings of Quantum Physics and Logic, Oxford 8-9 April 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1011
abstract: Toy models have been used to separate important features of quantum computation from the rich background of the standard Hilbert space model. Category theory, on the other hand, is a general tool to separate components of mathematical structures, and analyze one layer at a time. It seems natural to combine the two approaches, and several authors have already pursued this idea. We explore *categorical comprehension construction* as a tool for adding features to toy models. We use it to comprehend quantum propositions and probabilities within the basic model of finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. We also analyze complementary quantum observables over the category of sets and relations. This leads into the realm of *test spaces*, a well-studied model. We present one of many possible extensions of this model, enabled by the comprehension construction. Conspicuously, all models obtained in this way carry the same categorical structure, *extending* the familiar dagger compact framework with the complementation operations. We call the obtained structure *dagger mix autonomous*, because it extends mix autonomous categories, popular in computer science, in a similar way like dagger compact structure extends compact categories. Dagger mix autonomous categories seem to arise quite naturally in quantum computation, as soon as complementarity is viewed as a part of the global structure.

id: 1006.1042
title: Efficient quantum circuits for perfect and controlled teleportation of n-qubit non-maximally entangled states of generalized Bell-type
authors: Anirban Pathak, Anindita Banerjee
comments: 9 pages,
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1042
abstract: An efficient and economical scheme is proposed for the perfect quantum teleportation of n-qubit non-maximally entangled state of generalized Bell-type. A Bell state is used as the quantum channel in the proposed scheme. It is also shown that the controlled teleportation of this n-qubit state can be achieved by using a GHZ state or a GHZ-like state as quantum channel. The proposed schemes are economical because for the perfect and controlled teleportation of n-qubit non-maximally entangled state of generalized Bell-type we only need a Bell state and a tripartite entangled state respectively. It is also established that there exists a family of 12 orthogonal tripartite GHZ-like states which can be used as quantum channel for controlled teleportation. The proposed protocols are critically compared with the existing protocols.

id: 1006.1044
title: Quantum Cavitation
authors: Paola Zizzi, Eliano Pessa, Fabio Cardone
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1044
abstract: We consider the theoretical setting of a superfluid like 3He in a rotating container, which is set between the two layers of a type-II superconductor. We describe the superfluid vortices as a 2-dimensional Ising-like model on a triangular lattice in presence of local magnetic fields. The interaction term of the superfluid vortices with the Abrikosov vortices of the superconductor appears then as a symmetry breaking term in the free energy. Such a term gives a higher probability of quantum tunnelling across the potential barrier for bubbles nucleation, thus favouring quantum cavitation.

id: 1006.1121
title: A family of loss-tolerant quantum coin flipping protocols
authors: N. Aharon, S. Massar, J. Silman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052307 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1121
abstract: We present a family of loss-tolerant quantum strong coin flipping protocols; each protocol differing in the number of qubits employed. For a single qubit we obtain a bias of 0.4, reproducing the result of Berl\'{i}n et al. [Phys. Rev. A 80, 062321 (2009)], while for two qubits we obtain a bias of 0.3975. Numerical evidence based on semi-definite programming indicates that the bias continues to decrease as the number of qubits is increased but at a rapidly decreasing rate.

id: 1006.1137
title: On the Concept of Possibility in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Davide Bondoni
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1137
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. In this short paper I introduce a concept of possibility in order to vindicate Everett's Theory of many worlds. The main idea is that there is only one world: the real. After the wave-collapse, we have again only one world, but many possible worlds which have a different grade of possibility. In this sense 'possible' exclude the 'reality', opposing a long modal tradition.

id: 1006.1139
title: Some Notes on the Difference between Interaction and Measurement
authors: Davide Bondoni
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1139
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. In this paper I present some reasons to adopt an holistic point of wiev, eliminating a boundary subject/object in the measurement. I review shortly Everett's and Cramer's positions, casting light on their flaws, to introduce a logical motivation to thinking to an experiment as a totality in which everything is entangled.

id: 1006.1152
title: Evaluation of two different entanglement measures on a bound entangled state
authors: Cyril Branciard, Huangjun Zhu, Lin Chen, Valerio Scarani
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012327 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1152
abstract: We consider the mixed three-qubit bound entangled state defined as the normalized projector on the subspace that is complementary to an Unextendible Product Basis [C. H. Bennett et. al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 5385 (1999)]. Using the fact that no product state lies in the support of that state, we compute its entanglement by providing a basis of its subspace formed by "minimally-entangled" states. The approach is in principle applicable to any entanglement measure; here we provide explicit values for both the geometric measure of entanglement and a generalized concurrence.

id: 1006.1155
title: Entanglement, fidelity, and quantum phase transition in antiferromagnetic-ferromagnetic alternating Heisenberg chain
authors: Jie Re, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 50, 103-105 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1155
abstract: The fidelity and entanglement entropy in an antiferromagnetic-ferromagnetic alternating Heisenberg chain are investigated by using the method of density-matrix renormalization-group. The effect of anisotropy on fidelity and entanglement entropy are investigated. The relations between fidelity, entanglement entropy and quantum phase transition are analyzed. It is found that the quantum phase transition point can be well characterized by both the ground-state entropy and fidelity for large system.

id: 1006.1200
title: An interpretation of the infrared singularity of the effective electromagnetic field
authors: Kirill A. Kazakov, Vladimir V. Nikitin
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhys.Lett.92:61001,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1200
abstract: The problem of infrared divergence of the effective electromagnetic field produced by elementary particles is revisited using the non-equilibrium model of an electron interacting with low-temperature photons. It is argued that the infrared singularity of the effective field can be interpreted as a thermalization of the electron. It is shown that this thermalization is negligible in actual field measurements as it is completely dominated by the usual quantum spreading.

id: 1006.1217
title: Optimal dynamics for quantum-state and entanglement transfer through homogeneous quantum wires
authors: Leonardo Banchi, Tony John George Apollaro, Alessandro Cuccoli, Ruggero Vaia, Paola Verrucchi
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052321 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1217
abstract: It is shown that effective quantum-state and entanglement transfer can be obtained by inducing a coherent dynamics in quantum wires with homogeneous intrawire interactions. This goal is accomplished by tuning the coupling between the wire endpoints and the two qubits there attached, to an optimal value. A general procedure to determine such value is devised, and scaling laws between the optimal coupling and the length of the wire are found. The procedure is implemented in the case of a wire consisting of a spin-1/2 XY chain: results for the time dependence of the quantities which characterize quantum-state and entanglement transfer are found of extremely good quality and almost independent of the wire length. The present approach does not require `ad hoc' engineering of the intrawire interactions nor a specific initial pulse shaping, and can be applied to a vast class of quantum channels.

id: 1006.1233
title: Physically Realizable Entanglement by Local Continuous Measurements
authors: Eduardo Mascarenhas, Daniel Cavalcanti, Vlatko Vedral, Marcelo Franca Santos
comments: version 2; 5 pages, 1 figure; added references;
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022311 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1233
abstract: Quantum systems prepared in pure states evolve into mixtures under environmental action. Physically realizable ensembles are the pure state decompositions of those mixtures that can be generated in time through continuous measurements of the environment. Here, we define physically realizable entanglement as the average entanglement over realizable ensembles. We optimize the measurement strategy to maximize and minimize this quantity through local observations on the independent environments that cause two qubits to disentangle in time. We then compare it with the entanglement bounds for the unmonitored system. For some relevant noise sources the maximum realizable entanglement coincides with the upper bound, establishing the scheme as an alternative to locally protect entanglement. However, for local strategies, the lower bound of the unmonitored system is not reached.

id: 1006.1234
title: Entanglement and final state of a black hole under general unitary transformation
authors: Doyeol Ahn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1234
abstract: Final state of a black hole is studied by taking into account a general unitary evolution of a black hole matter state. It is found that the mixedness decreases under general unitary transformation when the initial matter state was in mixed state and the mean fidelity at the evaporation is smaller than the fidelity of the quantum teleportation by the factor of inverse square of the number of states of a black hole. The change of entanglement Alice-Bob pair at evaporation is also studied by calculating the entanglement fidelity and eigenvalues of the partial transposed block density matrix. We assumed that Alice fell onto the black hole when the hole was formed while Bob is maintaining the safe distance from the black hole. It is found that the entanglement fidelity is inversely proportional to the square of the Hilbert space dimension N and the entanglement can survive the evaporation process.

id: 1006.1250
title: Approximate Analytical Solutions of the Effective Mass Dirac Equation for the generalized Hulthen Potential with any kappa-Value
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever, Cevdet Tezcan
comments: 13 pages
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 8, 843(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1250
abstract: The Dirac equation, with position-dependent mass, is solved approximately for the generalized Hulth\'{e}n potential with any spin-orbit quantum number $\kappa$. Solutions are obtained by using an appropriate coordinate transformation, reducing the effective mass Dirac equation to a Schr\"{o}dinger-like differential equation. The Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used in the calculations to obtain energy eigenvalues and the corresponding wave functions. Numerical results are compared with those given in the literature. Analytical results are also obtained for the case of constant mass and the results are in good agreement with the literature.

id: 1006.1257
title: A balanced homodyne detector for high-rate Gaussian-modulated coherent-state quantum key distribution
authors: Yue-Meng Chi, Bing Qi, Wen Zhu, Li Qian, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Sun-Hyun Youn, A. I. Lvovsky, Liang Tian
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1257
abstract: We discuss excess noise contributions of a practical balanced homodyne detector in Gaussian-modulated coherent-state (GMCS) quantum key distribution (QKD). We point out the key generated from the original realistic model of GMCS QKD may not be secure. In our refined realistic model, we take into account excess noise due to the finite bandwidth of the homodyne detector and the fluctuation of the local oscillator. A high speed balanced homodyne detector suitable for GMCS QKD in the telecommunication wavelength region is built and experimentally tested. The 3dB bandwidth of the balanced homodyne detector is found to be 104MHz and its electronic noise level is 13dB below the shot noise at a local oscillator level of 8.5*10^8 photon per pulse. The secure key rate of a GMCS QKD experiment with this homodyne detector is expected to reach Mbits/s over a few kilometers.

id: 1006.1283
title: Coined quantum walks on percolation graphs
authors: Godfrey Leung, Paul Knott, Joe Bailey, Viv Kendon
comments: 25 pages, 14 figures; v2 expanded and improved presentation after referee comments, added extra figure
journal: New J. Phys. 12 123018 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1283
abstract: Quantum walks, both discrete (coined) and continuous time, form the basis of several quantum algorithms and have been used to model processes such as transport in spin chains and quantum chemistry. The enhanced spreading and mixing properties of quantum walks compared with their classical counterparts have been well-studied on regular structures and also shown to be sensitive to defects and imperfections in the lattice. As a simple example of a disordered system, we consider percolation lattices, in which edges or sites are randomly missing, interrupting the progress of the quantum walk. We use numerical simulation to study the properties of coined quantum walks on these percolation lattices in one and two dimensions. In one dimension (the line) we introduce a simple notion of quantum tunneling and determine how this affects the properties of the quantum walk as it spreads. On two-dimensional percolation lattices, we show how the spreading rate varies from linear in the number of steps down to zero, as the percolation probability decreases to the critical point. This provides an example of fractional scaling in quantum walk dynamics.

id: 1006.1290
title: 32 Bin Near-Infrared Time-Multiplexing Detector with Attojoule Single-Shot Energy Resolution
authors: Patrick Eraerds, Jun Zhang, Enrico Pomarico, Bruno Sanguinetti, Rob Thew, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1290
abstract: We present two implementations of photon counting time-multiplexing detectors for near-infrared wavelengths, based on Peltier cooled InGaAs/InP avalanche photo diodes (APDs). A first implementation is motivated by practical considerations using only commercially available components. It features 16 bins, pulse repetition rates of up to 22 kHz and a large range of applicable pulse widths of up to 100 ns. A second implementation is based on rapid gating detectors, permitting deadtimes below 10 ns. This allows one to realize a high dynamic-range 32 bin detector, able to process pulse repetition rates of up to 6 MHz for pulse width of up to 200 ps. Analysis of the detector response at 16.5% detection efficiency, reveals a single-shot energy resolution on the attojoule level.

id: 1006.1313
title: Discrimination strategies for inequivalent classes of multipartite entangled states
authors: S?nke Niekamp, Matthias Kleinmann, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures; published version, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022322 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1313
abstract: How can one discriminate different inequivalent classes of multiparticle entanglement experimentally? We present an approach for the discrimination of an experimentally prepared state from the equivalence class of another state. We consider two possible measures for the discrimination strength of an observable. The first measure is based on the difference of expectation values, the second on the relative entropy of the probability distributions of the measurement outcomes. The interpretation of these measures and their usefulness for experiments with limited resources are discussed. In the case of graph states, the stabilizer formalism is employed to compute these quantities and to find sets of observables that result in the most decisive discrimination.

id: 1006.1317
title: Average Entanglement for Markovian Quantum Trajectories
authors: Sylvain Vogelsberger, Dominique Spehner
comments: enlarged version, to be published in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1317
abstract: We study the evolution of the entanglement of noninteracting qubits coupled to reservoirs under monitoring of the reservoirs by means of continuous measurements. We calculate the average of the concurrence of the qubits wavefunction over all quantum trajectories. For two qubits coupled to independent baths subjected to local measurements, this average decays exponentially with a rate depending on the measurement scheme only. This contrasts with the known disappearance of entanglement after a finite time for the density matrix in the absence of measurements. For two qubits coupled to a common bath, the mean concurrence can vanish at discrete times. Our analysis applies to arbitrary quantum jump or quantum state diffusion dynamics in the Markov limit. We discuss the best measurement schemes to protect entanglement in specific examples.

id: 1006.1336
title: Generation and detection of NOON states in superconducting circuits
authors: Seth T. Merkel, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 15 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1336
abstract: NOON states, states between two modes of light of the form $|N,0\rangle+e^{i\phi}|0,N\rangle$ allow for super-resolution interformetry. We show how NOON states can be efficiently produced in circuit quntum electrodynamics using superconducting phase qubits and resonators. We propose a protocol where only one interaction between the two modes is required, creating all the necessary entanglement at the start of the procedure. This protocol makes active use of the first three states of the phase qubits. Additionally, we show how to efficiently verify the success of such an experiment, even for large NOON states, using randomly sampled measurements and semidefinite programming techniques.

id: 1006.1358
title: Information preserving structures: A general framework for quantum zero-error information
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout, Hui Khoon Ng, David Poulin, Lorenza Viola
comments: 29 pages, 19 examples. Contains complete proofs for all the theorems in arXiv:0705.4282
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82 062306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1358
abstract: Quantum systems carry information. Quantum theory supports at least two distinct kinds of information (classical and quantum), and a variety of different ways to encode and preserve information in physical systems. A system's ability to carry information is constrained and defined by the noise in its dynamics. This paper introduces an operational framework, using information-preserving structures to classify all the kinds of information that can be perfectly (i.e., with zero error) preserved by quantum dynamics. We prove that every perfectly preserved code has the same structure as a matrix algebra, and that preserved information can always be corrected. We also classify distinct operational criteria for preservation (e.g., "noiseless", "unitarily correctible", etc.) and introduce two new and natural criteria for measurement-stabilized and unconditionally preserved codes. Finally, for several of these operational critera, we present efficient (polynomial in the state-space dimension) algorithms to find all of a channel's information-preserving structures.

id: 1006.1362
title: A renormalization group decoding algorithm for topological quantum codes
authors: Guillaume Duclos-Cianci, David Poulin
comments: 
journal: Information Theory Workshop (ITW), 2010 IEEE , pp.1-5, Aug. 30 2010-Sept. 3 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1362
abstract: Topological quantum error-correcting codes are defined by geometrically local checks on a two-dimensional lattice of quantum bits (qubits), making them particularly well suited for fault-tolerant quantum information processing. Here, we present a decoding algorithm for topological codes that is faster than previously known algorithms and applies to a wider class of topological codes. Our algorithm makes use of two methods inspired from statistical physics: renormalization groups and mean-field approximations. First, the topological code is approximated by a concatenated block code that can be efficiently decoded. To improve this approximation, additional consistency conditions are imposed between the blocks, and are solved by a belief propagation algorithm.

id: 1006.1369
title: Effect of the Heterogeneity of Metamaterials on Casimir-Lifshitz Interaction
authors: Arash Azari, MirFaez Miri, Ramin Golestanian
comments: 9 pages, 13 figures. Rewriting equations (10) and (12) and increasing the size of the lettering/numeral in figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1369
abstract: The Casimir-Lifshitz interaction between metamaterials is studied using a model that takes into account the structural heterogeneity of the dielectric and magnetic properties of the bodies. A recently developed perturbation theory for the Casimir-Lifshitz interaction between arbitrary material bodies is generalized to include non-uniform magnetic permeability profiles, and used to study the interaction between the magneto-dielectric heterostructures within the leading order. The metamaterials are modeled as two dimensional arrays of domains with varying permittivity and permeability. In the case of two semi-infinite bodies with flat boundaries, the patterned structure of the material properties is found to cause the normal Casimir-Lifshitz force to develop an oscillatory behavior when the distance between the two bodies is comparable to the wavelength of the patterned features in the metamaterials. The non-uniformity also leads to the emergence of lateral Casimir-Lifshitz forces, which tend to strengthen as the gap size becomes smaller. Our results suggest that the recent studies on Casimir-Lifshitz forces between metamaterials, which have been performed with the aim of examining the possibility of observing the repulsive force, should be revisited to include the effect of the patterned structure at the wavelength of several hundred nanometers that coincides with the relevant gap size in the experiments.

id: 1006.1394
title: Unveiling quantum entanglement degradation near a Schwarzschild black hole
authors: E. Martin-Martinez, L.J. Garay, J. Leon
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures, revtex4. Added Journal reference
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:064006,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1394
abstract: We analyze the entanglement degradation provoked by the Hawking effect in a bipartite system Alice-Rob when Rob is in the proximities of a Schwarzschild black hole while Alice is free falling into it. We will obtain the limit in which the tools imported from the Unruh entanglement degradation phenomenon can be used properly, keeping control on the approximation. As a result, we will be able to determine the degree of entanglement as a function of the distance of Rob to the event horizon, the mass of the black hole, and the frequency of Rob's entangled modes. By means of this analysis we will show that all the interesting phenomena occur in the vicinity of the event horizon and that the presence of event horizons do not effectively degrade the entanglement when Rob is far off the black hole. The universality of the phenomenon is presented: There are not fundamental differences for different masses when working in the natural unit system adapted to each black hole. We also discuss some aspects of the localization of Alice and Rob states. All this study is done without using the single mode approximation.

id: 1006.1411
title: Unitary Noise and the Mermin-GHZ Game
authors: Ivan Fial¨ªk
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 25, 2010, pp. 188-198
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1411
abstract: Communication complexity is an area of classical computer science which studies how much communication is necessary to solve various distributed computational problems. Quantum information processing can be used to reduce the amount of communication required to carry out some distributed problems. We speak of pseudo-telepathy when it is able to completely eliminate the need for communication. Since it is generally very hard to perfectly implement a quantum winning strategy for a pseudo-telepathy game, quantum players are almost certain to make errors even though they use a winning strategy. After introducing a model for pseudo-telepathy games, we investigate the impact of erroneously performed unitary transformations on the quantum winning strategy for the Mermin-GHZ game. The question of how strong the unitary noise can be so that quantum players would still be better than classical ones is also dealt with.

id: 1006.1417
title: Quench Dynamics of Entanglement in an Opened Anisotropic Spin-1/2 Heisenberg Chain
authors: Jie Ren, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 014302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1417
abstract: The quantum entanglement dynamics of a one-dimensional spin-1/2 anisotropic XXZ model is studied using the method of the adaptive time-dependent density-matrix renormalization-group when two cases of quenches are performed in the system. An anisotropic interaction quench and the maximum number of domain walls of staggered magnetization quench are considered. The dynamics of pairwise entanglement between the nearest two qubits in the spin chain is investigated. The entanglement of the two-spin qubits can be created and oscillates in both cases of the quench. The anisotropic interaction has a strong influence on the oscillation frequency of entanglement.

id: 1006.1419
title: Understanding the Quantum Computational Speed-up via De-quantisation
authors: Alastair A. Abbott, Cristian S. Calude
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 26, 2010, pp. 1-12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1419
abstract: While it seems possible that quantum computers may allow for algorithms offering a computational speed-up over classical algorithms for some problems, the issue is poorly understood. We explore this computational speed-up by investigating the ability to de-quantise quantum algorithms into classical simulations of the algorithms which are as efficient in both time and space as the original quantum algorithms. The process of de-quantisation helps formulate conditions to determine if a quantum algorithm provides a real speed-up over classical algorithms. These conditions can be used to develop new quantum algorithms more effectively (by avoiding features that could allow the algorithm to be efficiently classically simulated), as well as providing the potential to create new classical algorithms (by using features which have proved valuable for quantum algorithms). Results on many different methods of de-quantisations are presented, as well as a general formal definition of de-quantisation. De-quantisations employing higher-dimensional classical bits, as well as those using matrix-simulations, put emphasis on entanglement in quantum algorithms; a key result is that any algorithm in which the entanglement is bounded is de-quantisable. These methods are contrasted with the stabiliser formalism de-quantisations due to the Gottesman-Knill Theorem, as well as those which take advantage of the topology of the circuit for a quantum algorithm. The benefits of the different methods are contrasted, and the importance of a range of techniques is emphasised. We further discuss some features of quantum algorithms which current de-quantisation methods do not cover.

id: 1006.1420
title: Landauer's principle in the quantum domain
authors: Janet Anders, Saroosh Shabbir, Stefanie Hilt, Eric Lutz
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 26, 2010, pp. 13-18
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1420
abstract: Recent papers discussing thermodynamic processes in strongly coupled quantum systems claim a violation of Landauer's principle and imply a violation of the second law of thermodynamics. If true, this would have powerful consequences. Perpetuum mobiles could be build as long as the operating temperature is brought close to zero. It would also have serious consequences on thermodynamic derivations of information theoretic results, such as the Holevo bound. Here we argue why these claims are erroneous. Correlations occurring in the strongly coupled, quantum domain require a rethink of how entropy, heat and work are calculated. It is shown that a consistent treatment solves the paradox.

id: 1006.1421
title: Quantum phase transition in easy-axis antiferromagnetic Heisenberg spin-1 chain
authors: Jie Ren, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 3 figures
journal: PhysRevA.79.034302(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1421
abstract: The fidelity and entropy in an easy-axis antiferromagnetic Heisenberg spin-1 chain are studied numerically. By using the method of density-matrix renormalization group, the effects of anisotropy on fidelity and entanglement entropy are investigated. Their relations with quantum phase transition are analyzed. It is found that the quantum phase transition from the Haldane spin liquid to N\'eel spin solid can be well characterized by the fidelity. The phase transition can be hardly detected by the entropy but it can be successfully detected by the first deviation of the entropy.

id: 1006.1422
title: Engineering Long Range Distance Independent Entanglement through Kondo Impurities in Spin Chains
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Pasquale Sodano, Sougato Bose
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 26, 2010, pp. 33-46
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1422
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of the Kondo spin chain when it is prepared in its ground state as well as its dynamics following a single bond quench. We show that a true measure of entanglement such as negativity enables to characterize the unique features of the gapless Kondo regime. We determine the spatial extent of the Kondo screening cloud and propose an ansatz for the ground state in the Kondo regime accessible to this spin chain; we also demonstrate that the impurity spin is indeed maximally entangled with the Kondo cloud. We exploit these features of the entanglement in the gapless Kondo regime to show that a single local quench at one end of a Kondo spin chain may always induce a fast and long lived oscillatory dynamics, which establishes a high quality entanglement between the individual spins at the opposite ends of the chain. This entanglement is a footprint of the presence of the Kondo cloud and may be engineered so as to attain - even for very large chains- a constant high value independent of the length; in addition, it is thermally robust. To better evidence the remarkable peculiarities of the Kondo regime, we carry a parallel analysis of the entanglement properties of the Kondo spin chain model in the gapped dimerised regime where these remarkable features are absent.

id: 1006.1423
title: Quantum algorithms for testing Boolean functions
authors: Dominik F. Floess, Erika Andersson, Mark Hillery
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 26, 2010, pp. 101-108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1423
abstract: We discuss quantum algorithms, based on the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm, for finding which variables a Boolean function depends on. There are 2^n possible linear Boolean functions of n variables; given a linear Boolean function, the Bernstein-Vazirani quantum algorithm can deterministically identify which one of these Boolean functions we are given using just one single function query. The same quantum algorithm can also be used to learn which input variables other types of Boolean functions depend on, with a success probability that depends on the form of the Boolean function that is tested, but does not depend on the total number of input variables. We also outline a procedure to futher amplify the success probability, based on another quantum algorithm, the Grover search.

id: 1006.1424
title: Measurement Based Quantum Computation on Fractal Lattices
authors: Damian Markham, Janet Anders, Michal Hajdu?ek, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 26, 2010, pp. 109-115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1424
abstract: In this article we extend on work which establishes an analology between one-way quantum computation and thermodynamics to see how the former can be performed on fractal lattices. We find fractals lattices of arbitrary dimension greater than one which do all act as good resources for one-way quantum computation, and sets of fractal lattices with dimension greater than one all of which do not. The difference is put down to other topological factors such as ramification and connectivity. This work adds confidence to the analogy and highlights new features to what we require for universal resources for one-way quantum computation.

id: 1006.1426
title: Classification of delocalization power of global unitary operations in terms of LOCC one-piece relocalization
authors: Akihito Soeda, Mio Murao
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 26, 2010, pp. 117-126
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1426
abstract: We study how two pieces of localized quantum information can be delocalized across a composite Hilbert space when a global unitary operation is applied. We classify the delocalization power of global unitary operations on quantum information by investigating the possibility of relocalizing one piece of the quantum information without using any global quantum resource. We show that one-piece relocalization is possible if and only if the global unitary operation is local unitary equivalent of a controlled-unitary operation. The delocalization power turns out to reveal different aspect of the non-local properties of global unitary operations characterized by their entangling power.

id: 1006.1447
title: Quantum Limits of Thermometry
authors: Thomas M. Stace
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1447
abstract: The precision of typical thermometers consisting of $N$ particles is shot noise limited, improving as $\sim1/\sqrt{N}$. For high precision thermometry and thermometric standards this presents an important theoretical noise floor. Here it is demonstrated that thermometry may be mapped onto the problem of phase estimation, and using techniques from optimal phase estimation, it follows that the scaling of the precision of a thermometer may in principle be improved to $\sim1/N$, representing a Heisenberg limit to thermometry.

id: 1006.1452
title: Entanglement dynamics in open two-qubit systems via diffusive quantum trajectories
authors: Carlos Viviescas, Ivonne Guevara, Andr¨¦ R. R. Carvalho, Marc Busse, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, changed title, abstract and fig. 2, corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 210502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1452
abstract: We use quantum diffusive trajectories to prove that the time evolution of two-qubit entanglement under spontaneous emission can be fully characterized by optimal continuous monitoring. We analytically determine this optimal unraveling and derive a deterministic evolution equation for the system's concurrence. Furthermore, we propose an experiment to monitor the entanglement dynamics in bipartite two-level systems and to determine the disentanglement time from a single trajectory.

id: 1006.1468
title: Geometric phase with nonunitary evolution in presence of a quantum critical bath
authors: F. M. Cucchietti, J.-F. Zhang, F. C. Lombardo, P.I. Villar, R. Laflamme
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 240406 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1468
abstract: Geometric phases, arising from cyclic evolutions in a curved parameter space, appear in a wealth of physical settings. Recently, and largely motivated by the need of an experimentally realistic definition for quantum computing applications, the quantum geometric phase was generalized to open systems. The definition takes a kinematical approach, with an initial state that is evolved cyclically but coupled to an environment --- leading to a correction of the geometric phase with respect to the uncoupled case. We obtain this correction by measuring the nonunitary evolution of the reduced density matrix of a spin one-half coupled to an environment. In particular, we consider a bath that can be tuned near a quantum phase transition, and demonstrate how the criticality information imprinted in the decoherence factor translates into the geometric phase. The experiments are done with a NMR quantum simulator, in which the critical environment is modeled using a one-qubit system.

id: 1006.1471
title: Quantum Szilard Engine
authors: Sang Wook Kim, Takahiro Sagawa, Simone De Liberato, Masahito Ueda
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures + supplementary information
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:070401,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1471
abstract: The Szilard engine (SZE) is the quintessence of Maxwell's demon, which can extract the work from a heat bath by utilizing information. We present the first complete quantum analysis of the SZE, and derive an analytic expression of the quantum-mechanical work performed by a quantum SZE containing an arbitrary number of molecules, where it is crucial to regard the process of insertion or removal of a wall as a legitimate thermodynamic process. We find that more (less) work can be extracted from the bosonic (fermionic) SZE due to the indistinguishability of identical particles.

id: 1006.1484
title: Interferometric distillation and determination of unknown two-qubit entanglement
authors: S.-S. B. Lee, H.-S. Sim
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052336 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1484
abstract: We propose a scheme for both distilling and quantifying entanglement, applicable to individual copies of an arbitrary unknown two-qubit state. It is realized in a usual two-qubit interferometry with local filtering. Proper filtering operation for the maximal distillation of the state is achieved, by erasing single-qubit interference, and then the concurrence of the state is determined directly from the visibilities of two-qubit interference. We compare the scheme with full state tomography.

id: 1006.1491
title: Construction of optimal witness for unknown two-qubit entanglement
authors: H. S. Park, S.-S. B. Lee, H. Kim, S.-K. Choi, H.-S. Sim
comments: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 230404 (2010); supplementary information (OWitness_sup.pdf) is included in source zip file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1491
abstract: Whether entanglement in a state can be detected, distilled, and quantified without full state reconstruction is a fundamental open problem. We demonstrate a new scheme encompassing these three tasks for arbitrary two-qubit entanglement, by constructing the optimal entanglement witness for polarization-entangled mixed-state photon pairs without full state reconstruction. With better efficiency than quantum state tomography, the entanglement is maximally distilled by newly developed tunable polarization filters, and quantified by the expectation value of the witness, which equals the concurrence. This scheme is extendible to multiqubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger entanglement.

id: 1006.1494
title: Detection of bound entanglement in continuous variable systems
authors: Cheng-Jie Zhang, Hyunchul Nha, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032323 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1494
abstract: We present several entanglement conditions in order to detect bound entangled states in continuous variable systems. Specifically, Werner and Wolf [Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 3658 (2001)] and Horodecki and Lewenstein [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2657 (2000)] have proposed examples of bound entangled Gaussian state and bound entangled non-Gaussian state, respectively, of which entanglement can be detected by using our entanglement conditions.

id: 1006.1513
title: Comment on Quantum teleportation via GHZ-like state
authors: Anindita Banerjee, Kamal Patel, Anirban Pathak
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1513
abstract: Recently Yang et al. [Int. J. Theo. Phys. 48 (2009) 516] have shown that an unknown qubit can be teleported by using a particular GHZ-like state as quantum channel. However, there are several errors in the calculation which lead to incorrect conclusions. The errors have been indicated and corrected. It is also noted that their scheme and the independently proposed teleportation scheme of Zhang et al. [Int. J. Theo. Phys. 48 (2009) 3331] uses quantum channel from the same family and any state of that family may be used for teleportation.

id: 1006.1533
title: Hierarchy of Separability Conditions for Bipartite Systems
authors: S. Sivakumar
comments: Withdrawn due to a serious error in derivation of the main result
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1533
abstract: A new hierarchy of separability conditions for bipartite states is obtained. All the conditions in the hierarchy are necessary for separability. The conditions are expressed in terms of higher powers of the density operator of the bipartite system and the reduced density operators of the subsystems. Violation of any of the conditions in the hierarchy implies entanglement. As a consequence of the hierarchy, another separability condition, expressed in terms of the eigenvalues of the density operators of the total system and subsystems, is obtained.

id: 1006.1569
title: A path integral for classical dynamics, entanglement, and Jaynes-Cummings model at the quantum-classical divide
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze, Giovanni Gambarotta, Fabio Vallone
comments: 22 pages; based on invited talk at Quantum 2010 - Advances in Foundations of Quantum mechanics and Quantum Information with Atoms and Photons (Torino, May 2010). To appear in Int. J. Qu. Info
journal: Int.J.Qu.Inf.(IJQI) 9 Suppl. 1 (2011) 203-224
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1569
abstract: The Liouville equation differs from the von Neumann equation 'only' by a characteristic superoperator. We demonstrate this for Hamiltonian dynamics, in general, and for the Jaynes-Cummings model, in particular. -- Employing superspace (instead of Hilbert space), we describe time evolution of density matrices in terms of path integrals which are formally identical for quantum and classical mechanics. They only differ by the interaction contributing to the action. This allows to import tools developed for Feynman path integrals, in order to deal with superoperators instead of quantum mechanical commutators in real time evolution. Perturbation theory is derived. Besides applications in classical statistical physics, the "classical path integral" and the parallel study of classical and quantum evolution indicate new aspects of (dynamically assisted) entanglement (generation). Our findings suggest to distinguish 'intra'- from 'inter-space' entanglement.

id: 1006.1584
title: Effective disentanglement of measured system and measurement apparatus
authors: S. Camalet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1584
abstract: We consider a multi-level system coupled to a bosonic measurement apparatus. We derive exact expressions for the time-dependent expectation values of a large class of physically relevant observables that depend on degrees of freedom of both sytems. We find that, for this class, though the two systems become entangled as a result of their interaction, they appear classically correlated for long enough times. The unique corresponding separable state is determined explicitly. To better understand the physical parameters that control the time scale of this effective disentanglement process, we study a one-dimensional measurement apparatus.

id: 1006.1594
title: Multiparticle covariance matrices and the impossibility of detecting graph state entanglement with two-particle correlations
authors: Oleg Gittsovich, Philipp Hyllus, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 82 032306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1594
abstract: We present a criterion for multiparticle entanglement based on covariance matrices. On the one hand, the criterion allows to detect bound entangled states which are not detected by other criteria; on the other hand, some strongly entangled pure states such as the GHZ states are not detected. We show, however, that this is a general phenomenon: No separability criterion based on two-particle correlations can recognize the entanglement in the family of graph states, to which the GHZ states belong.

id: 1006.1601
title: Protection of quantum systems by nested dynamical decoupling
authors: Zhen-Yu Wang, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 11 pages, fully rewritten from version 1, some corrections made from version 2
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022306 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1601
abstract: Based on a theorem we establish on dynamical decoupling of time-dependent systems, we present a scheme of nested Uhrig dynamical decoupling (NUDD) to protect multi-qubit systems in generic quantum baths to arbitrary decoupling orders, using only single-qubit operations. The number of control pulses in NUDD increases polynomially with the decoupling order. For general multi-level systems, this scheme can preserve a set of unitary Hermitian system operators which mutually either commute or anti-commute, and hence all operators in the Lie algebra generated from this set of operators, generating an effective symmetry group for the system up to a given order of precision. NUDD can be implemented with pulses of finite amplitude, up to an error in the second order of the pulse durations.

id: 1006.1615
title: Strange Weak Values
authors: Akio Hosoya, Yutaka Shikano
comments: 17 pages, 1 figures, to appear in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 385307 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1615
abstract: We develop a formal theory of the weak values with emphasis on the consistency conditions and a probabilistic interpretation in the counter-factual processes. We present the condition for the choice of the post-selected state to give a negative weak value of a given projection operator and strange values of an observable in general. The general framework is applied to Hardy's paradox and the spin $1/2$ system to explicitly address the issues of counter-factuality and strange weak values. The counter-factual arguments which characterize the paradox specifies the pre-selected state and a complete set of the post-selected states clarifies how the strange weak values emerge.

id: 1006.1637
title: An example of a violation of the spatial quantum inequality with a comment on the quantum interest conjecture
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Added an Appendix, 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1637
abstract: It is generally known that the energy density can be negative in quantum field theory. It is also believed that there are limits on this negative energy density. These limits are known as the quantum inequalities. In a recent paper [8] an example was provided of a system which violated the quantum inequalities. Here we will demonstrate a violation of the spatial quantum inequality for a scalar field with zero mass in 1-1 dimensional space-time. In addition we will show that the system presented here also violates the quantum interest conjecture.

id: 1006.1644
title: Simulating spin-charge separation with light
authors: Dimitris G. Angelakis, Mingxia Huo, Elica Kyoseva, Leong Chuan kwek
comments: 4 pages. Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev Lett. 106, 153601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1644
abstract: In this work we show that stationary light-matter excitations generated inside a hollow one-dimensional waveguide filled with atoms, can be made to generate a photonic two-component Lieb Liniger model. We explain how to prepare and drive the atomic system to a strongly interacting regime where spin-charge separation could be possible. We then proceed by explaining how to measure the corresponding effective spin and charge densities and velocities through standard optical methods based in measuring dynamically the emitted photon intensities or by analyzing the photon spectrum. The relevant interactions exhibit the necessary tunability both to generate and efficiently observe spin charge separation with current technology.

id: 1006.1645
title: Scaling laws for precision in quantum interferometry and bifurcation landscape of optimal state
authors: Sergey Knysh, Vadim N. Smelyanskiy, Gabriel A. Durkin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, v3 is modified in response to referee comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1645
abstract: Phase precision in optimal 2-channel quantum interferometry is studied in the limit of large photon number $N\gg 1$, for losses occurring in either one or both channels. For losses in one channel an optimal state undergoes an intriguing sequence of local bifurcations as the losses or the number of photons increase. We further show that fixing the loss paramater determines a scale for quantum metrology -- a crossover value of the photon number $N_c$ beyond which the supra-classical precision is progressively lost. For large losses the optimal state also has a different structure from those considered previously.

id: 1006.1680
title: Lasing oscillation in a three-dimensional photonic crystal nanocavity with a complete bandgap
authors: Aniwat Tandaechanurat, Satomi Ishida, Denis Guimard, Masahiro Nomura, Satoshi Iwamoto, Yasuhiko Arakawa
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1680
abstract: We demonstrate lasing oscillation in a three-dimensional photonic crystal nanocavity. The laser is realized by coupling a cavity mode, which is localized in a complete photonic bandgap and exhibits the highest quality factor of ~38,500, with high-quality semiconductor quantum dots. We show a systematic change in the laser characteristics, including the threshold and the spontaneous emission coupling factor by controlling the crystal size, which consequently changes the strength of photon confinement in the third dimension. This opens up many interesting possibilities for realizing future ultimate light sources and three-dimensional integrated photonic circuits and for more fundamental studies of physics in the field of cavity quantum electrodynamics.

id: 1006.1693
title: Decoy States and Two Way Quantum Key Distribution Schemes
authors: J.S. Shaari, Iskandar Bahari, Sellami Ali
comments: Much revised from original manuscript. Accepted for publication in Optics Communications (some variations may exist in some wordings in the text)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1693
abstract: We study the possible application of the decoy state method on a basic two way quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme to extend its distance. Noting the obvious advantage of such a QKD scheme in allowing for single as well as double photon contributions, we derive relevant lower-bounds on the corresponding gains in a practical decoy state implementation using two intensities for decoy states. We work with two different approaches in this vein and compare these with an ideal infinite decoy state case as well as the simulation of the original.

id: 1006.1728
title: Event-based Corpuscular Model for Quantum Optics Experiments
authors: K. Michielsen, F. Jin, H. De Raedt
comments: To appear in J. Comp. Theor. Nanoscience
journal: J. Comp. Theor. Nanosci. 8, 1052 - 1080 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1728
abstract: A corpuscular simulation model of optical phenomena that does not require the knowledge of the solution of a wave equation of the whole system and reproduces the results of Maxwell's theory by generating detection events one-by-one is presented. The event-based corpuscular model is shown to give a unified description of multiple-beam fringes of a plane parallel plate, single-photon Mach-Zehnder interferometer, Wheeler's delayed choice, photon tunneling, quantum erasers, two-beam interference, double-slit, and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm and Hanbury Brown-Twiss experiments.

id: 1006.1732
title: Entanglement Entropy in an Antiferromagnetic Heisenberg Spin Chain with Boundary Impurities
authors: Jie Ren, Shiqun Zhu, Xiang Hao
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 (2009) 015504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1732
abstract: The effects of boundary impurities on the entanglement entropy in an antiferromagnetic Heisenberg opened spin-$1/2$ chain are investigated. The method of density-matrix renormalization-group is used to obtain the bipartite entanglement. The entropy increases when the length of the subsystem increases. It will approach to a constant when system length is very large. With the same impurity interaction, qutrit impurities of spin-$1$ can increase the entanglement entropy.

id: 1006.1733
title: Non-Additivity of Minimum Output p-$\mathbf{R\acute{e}nyi}$ Entropy
authors: Nengkun Yu, Mingsheng Ying
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1733
abstract: Hastings disproved additivity conjecture for minimum output entropy by using random unitary channels. In this note, we employ his approach to show that minimum output $p-$R\'{e}nyi entropy is non-additive for $p\in(0,p_0)\cup(1-p_0,1)$ where $p_0\approx 0.2855$.

id: 1006.1734
title: Controlling Molecular Scattering by Laser-Induced Field-Free Alignment
authors: E. Gershnabel, I. Sh. Averbukh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1734
abstract: We consider deflection of polarizable molecules by inhomogeneous optical fields, and analyze the role of molecular orientation and rotation in the scattering process. It is shown that molecular rotation induces spectacular rainbow-like features in the distribution of the scattering angle. Moreover, by preshaping molecular angular distribution with the help of short and strong femtosecond laser pulses, one may efficiently control the scattering process, manipulate the average deflection angle and its distribution, and reduce substantially the angular dispersion of the deflected molecules. We provide quantum and classical treatment of the deflection process. The effects of strong deflecting field on the scattering of rotating molecules are considered by the means of the adiabatic invariants formalism. This new control scheme opens new ways for many applications involving molecular focusing, guiding and trapping by optical and static fields.

id: 1006.1780
title: Minimal computational-space implementation of multi-round quantum protocols
authors: A. Bisio, G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022325 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1780
abstract: A single-party strategy in a multi-round quantum protocol can be implemented by sequential networks of quantum operations connected by internal memories. Here provide the most efficient realization in terms of computational-space resources.

id: 1006.1805
title: Frozen discord in non-Markovian dephasing channels
authors: L. Mazzola, J. Piilo, S. Maniscalco
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 9, No. 3 (2011) 981-991
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1805
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of quantum and classical correlations in a system of two qubits under local colored-noise dephasing channels. The time evolution of a single qubit interacting with its own environment is described by a memory kernel non-Markovian master equation. The memory effects of the non-Markovian reservoirs introduce new features in the dynamics of quantum and classical correlations compared to the white noise Markovian case. Depending on the geometry of the initial state, the system can exhibit frozen discord and multiple sudden transitions between classical and quantum decoherence [L. Mazzola, J. Piilo and S. Maniscalco, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 (2010) 200401]. We provide a geometric interpretation of those phenomena in terms of the distance of the state under investigation to its closest classical state in the Hilbert space of the system.

id: 1006.1829
title: Search complexity and resource scaling for the quantum optimal control of unitary transformations
authors: Katharine W. Moore, Raj Chakrabarti, Gregory Riviello, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012326 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1829
abstract: The optimal control of unitary transformations is a fundamental problem in quantum control theory and quantum information processing. The feasibility of performing such optimizations is determined by the computational and control resources required, particularly for systems with large Hilbert spaces. Prior work on unitary transformation control indicates that (i) for controllable systems, local extrema in the search landscape for optimal control of quantum gates have null measure, facilitating the convergence of local search algorithms; but (ii) the required time for convergence to optimal controls can scale exponentially with Hilbert space dimension. Depending on the control system Hamiltonian, the landscape structure and scaling may vary. This work introduces methods for quantifying Hamiltonian-dependent and kinematic effects on control optimization dynamics in order to classify quantum systems according to the search effort and control resources required to implement arbitrary unitary transformations.

id: 1006.1856
title: A study of Quantum Correlations in Open Quantum Systems
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, Subhashish Banerjee, Nana Siddharth
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, Accepted for publication in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 11, 0541 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1856
abstract: In this work, we study quantum correlations in mixed states. The states studied are modeled by a two-qubit system interacting with its environment via a quantum non demolition (purely dephasing) as well as dissipative type of interaction. The entanglement dynamics of this two qubit system is analyzed. We make a comparative study of various measures of quantum correlations, like Concurrence, Bell's inequality, Discord and Teleportation fidelity, on these states, generated by the above evolutions. We classify these evoluted states on basis of various dynamical parameters like bath squeezing parameter $r$, inter-qubit spacing $r_{12}$, temperature $T$ and time of system-bath evolution $t$. In this study, in addition we report the existence of entangled states which do not violate Bell's inequality, but can still be useful as a potential resource for teleportation. Moreover we study the dynamics of quantum as well as classical correlation in presence of dissipative coherence.

id: 1006.1858
title: QKD in Standard Optical Telecommunications Networks
authors: D. Lancho, J. Martinez, D. Elkouss, M. Soto, V. Martin
comments: 
journal: Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering. Volume 36, pp 142-149. (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1858
abstract: To perform Quantum Key Distribution, the mastering of the extremely weak signals carried by the quantum channel is required. Transporting these signals without disturbance is customarily done by isolating the quantum channel from any noise sources using a dedicated physical channel. However, to really profit from this technology, a full integration with conventional network technologies would be highly desirable. Trying to use single photon signals with others that carry an average power many orders of magnitude bigger while sharing as much infrastructure with a conventional network as possible brings obvious problems. The purpose of the present paper is to report our efforts in researching the limits of the integration of QKD in modern optical networks scenarios. We have built a full metropolitan area network testbed comprising a backbone and an access network. The emphasis is put in using as much as possible the same industrial grade technology that is actually used in already installed networks, in order to understand the throughput, limits and cost of deploying QKD in a real network.

id: 1006.1862
title: Universal quantum computation with the Orbital Angular Momentum of a single photon
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: First version. Comments welcome
journal: Journal of Optics, Vol. 13, N.6, p. 064022, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1862
abstract: We prove that a single photon with quantum data encoded in its orbital angular momentum can be manipulated with simple optical elements to provide any desired quantum computation. We will show how to build any quantum unitary operator using beamsplitters, phase shifters, holograms and an extraction gate based on quantum interrogation. The advantages and challenges of these approach are then discussed, in particular the problem of the readout of the results.

id: 1006.1868
title: The quantum wave packet and the feynman de broglie bohm propagator of the linearized kostin equation along a classical trajetory
authors: J. M. F. Bassalo, P. T. S. Alencar, D. G. da Silva, A. B. Nassar, M. Cattani
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1868
abstract: In this paper we study the quantum wave packet and the Feynman_de Broglie_Bohm propagator of the linearized Kostin equation along a classical trajetory.

id: 1006.1896
title: Distilling entanglement from arbitrary resources
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Nilanjana Datta
comments: 24 pages, article class, no figure. v2: references added, published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 102201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1896
abstract: We obtain the general formula for the optimal rate at which singlets can be distilled from any given noisy and arbitrarily correlated entanglement resource, by means of local operations and classical communication (LOCC). Our formula, obtained by employing the quantum information spectrum method, reduces to that derived by Devetak and Winter, in the special case of an i.i.d. resource. The proofs rely on a one-shot version of the so-called "hashing bound," which in turn provides bounds on the one-shot distillable entanglement under general LOCC.

id: 1006.1931
title: Riccati equation and the problem of decoherence II: Symmetry and the solution of the Riccati equation
authors: Bartlomiej Gardas
comments: 17 pages, 0 figures, The quality of English used in the paper has been improved
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 042104 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1931
abstract: In this paper we revisit the problem of decoherence applying the block operator matrices analysis. Riccati algebraic equation associated with the Hamiltonian describing the process of decoherence is studied. We prove that if the environment responsible for decoherence is invariant with respect to the antylinear transformation then the antylinear operator solves Riccati equation in question. We also argue that this solution leads to neither linear nor antilinear operator similarity matrix. This fact deprives us the standard procedure for solving linear differential equation (e.g, Schrodinger equation). Furthermore, the explicit solution of the Riccati equation is found for the case where the environment operators commute with each other. We discuss the connection between our results and the standard description of decoherence (one that uses the Kraus representation). We show that reduced dynamics we obtain does not have the Kraus representation if the initial correlations between the system and its environment are present. However, for any initial state of the system (even when the correlations occur) reduced dynamics can be written in a manageable way.

id: 1006.1934
title: Quantum Steganography
authors: Bilal A. Shaw, Todd A. Brun
comments: 10 pages paper (double spaced) + 12 pages supporting material, including 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1934
abstract: Steganography is the process of hiding secret information by embedding it in an "innocent" message. We present protocols for hiding quantum information in a codeword of a quantum error-correcting code passing through a channel. Using either a shared classical secret key or shared entanglement the sender (Alice) disguises her information as errors in the channel. The receiver (Bob) can retrieve the hidden information, but an eavesdropper (Eve) with the power to monitor the channel, but without the secret key, cannot distinguish the message from channel noise. We analyze how difficult it is for Eve to detect the presence of secret messages, and estimate rates of steganographic communication and secret key consumption for certain protocols.

id: 1006.1937
title: Proceedings Sixth Workshop on Developments in Computational Models: Causality, Computation, and Physics
authors: S. Barry Cooper, Prakash Panangaden, Elham Kashefi
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 26, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1937
abstract: DCM 2010 provides a forum for ideas about new computing means and models, with a particular emphasis in 2010 on computational and causal models related to physics and biology. We believe that bringing together different approaches - in a community with the strong foundational background characteristic of FLoC - results in inspirational cross-boundary exchanges, and innovative further research. Day two of this pre-FLoC 2010 workshop is given over to physics and quantum related computation. The content of day one is more typical of previous DCM workshops - covering a full spectrum of topics related to the development of new computational models or new features for traditional computational models. DCM 2010 was designed to foster interactions, and provide a forum for presenting new ideas and work in progress. It is also intended to enable newcomers to learn about current research in this area.

id: 1006.1944
title: Magnetic operations: a little fuzzy physics?
authors: Bogdan Mielnik, Alejandra Ram¨ªrez
comments: 28 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1944
abstract: We examine the behaviour of charged particles in homogeneous, constant and/or oscillating magnetic fields in the non-relativistic approximation. A special role of the geometric center of the particle trajectory is elucidated. In quantum case it becomes a 'fuzzy point' with non-commuting coordinates, an element of non-commutative geometry which enters into the traditional control problems. We show that its application extends beyond the usually considered time independent magnetic fields of the quantum Hall effect. Some simple cases of magnetic control by oscillating fields lead to the stability maps differing from the traditional Strutt diagram.

id: 1006.1962
title: Noise Performance Comparison of 1.5 um Correlated Photon Pair Generation in Different Fibers
authors: Qiang Zhou, Wei Zhang, Jie-rong Cheng, Yi-dong Huang, Jiang-de Peng
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Express, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1962
abstract: In this paper, the noise performances of 1.5 um correlated photon pair generations based on spontaneous four wave-mixing in three types of fibers, i.e., dispersion shifted fiber, highly nonlinear fiber, and highly nonlinear microstructure fiber are investigated experimentally. Result of the comparison shows that highly nonlinear microstructure fiber has the lowest Raman noise photon generation rate among the three types of fibers while correlated photon pair generation rate is the same. Theoretical analysis shows that the noise performance is determined by the nonlinear index and Raman response of the material in fiber core. The Raman response raises with increasing doping level, however, the nonlinear index is almost unchanged with it. As a result, highly nonlinear microstructure fiber with pure silica core has the best noise performance and has great potential in practical sources of correlated photon pairs and heralded single photons.

id: 1006.1971
title: Hybrid Quantum System of a Nanofiber Mode Coupled to Two Chains of Optically Trapped Atoms
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 12, 103014 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1971
abstract: A tapered optical nanofiber simultaneously used to trap and optically interface of cold atoms through evanescent fields constitutes a new and well controllable hybrid quantum system. The atoms are trapped in two parallel 1D optical lattices generated by suitable far blue and red detuned evanescent field modes very close to opposite sides of the nanofiber surface. Collective electronic excitations (excitons) of each of the optical lattices are resonantly coupled to the second lattice forming symmetric and antisymmetric common excitons. In contrast to the inverse cube dependence of the individual atomic dipole-dipole interaction, we analytically find an exponentially decaying coupling strength with distance between the lattices. The resulting symmetric (bright) excitons strongly interact with the resonant nanofiber photons to form fiber polaritons, which can be observed through linear optical spectra. For large enough wave vectors the polariton decay rate to free space is strongly reduced, which should render this system ideal for the realization of long range quantum communication between atomic ensembles.

id: 1006.1978
title: Disordered quantum walk-induced localization of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1978
abstract: We present an approach to induce localization of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a one-dimensional lattice under the influence of unitary quantum walk evolution using disordered quantum coin operation. We introduce a discrete-time quantum walk model in which the interference effect is modified to diffuse or strongly localize the probability distribution of the particle by assigning a different set of coin parameters picked randomly for each step of the walk, respectively. Spatial localization of the particle/state is explained by comparing the variance of the probability distribution of the quantum walk in position space using disordered coin operation to that of the walk using an identical coin operation for each step. Due to the high degree of control over quantum coin operation and most of the system parameters, ultracold atoms in an optical lattice offer opportunities to implement a disordered quantum walk that is unitary and induces localization. Here we present a scheme to use a Bose-Einstein condensate that can be evolved to the superposition of its internal states in an optical lattice and control the dynamics of atoms to observe localization. This approach can be adopted to any other physical system in which controlled disordered quantum walk can be implemented.

id: 1006.1984
title: The role of final state correlation in double ionization of helium: a master equation approach
authors: S?lve Selst?, Tore Birkeland, Simen Kvaal, Raymond Nepstad, Morten F?rre
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1984
abstract: The process of nonsequential two-photon double ionization of helium is studied by two complementary numerical approaches. First, the time-dependent Schr{\"o}dinger equation is solved and the final wave function is analyzed in terms of projection onto eigenstates of the uncorrelated Hamiltonian, i.e., with no electron-electron interaction included in the final states. Then, the double ionization probability is found by means of a recently developed approach in which the concept of absorbing boundaries has been generalized to apply to systems consisting of more than one particle. This generalization is achieved through the Lindblad equation. A model of reduced dimensionality, which describes the process at a qualitative level, has been used. The agreement between the methods provides a strong indication that procedures using projections onto uncorrelated continuum states are adequate when extracting total cross sections for the direct double ionization process.

id: 1006.1988
title: Inertial and gravitational mass in quantum mechanics
authors: E. Kajari, N.L. Harshman, E.M. Rasel, S. Stenholm, G. S¨¹?mann, W.P. Schleich
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, accepted in Applied Physics B; v2 has minor text and figure corrections
journal: Appl Phys B (2010) 100: 43-60
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1988
abstract: We show that in complete agreement with classical mechanics, the dynamics of any quantum mechanical wave packet in a linear gravitational potential involves the gravitational and the inertial mass only as their ratio. In contrast, the spatial modulation of the corresponding energy wave function is determined by the third root of the product of the two masses. Moreover, the discrete energy spectrum of a particle constrained in its motion by a linear gravitational potential and an infinitely steep wall depends on the inertial as well as the gravitational mass with different fractional powers. This feature might open a new avenue in quantum tests of the universality of free fall.

id: 1006.2013
title: Qubit state monitoring by measurement of three complementary observables
authors: Rusko Ruskov, Alexander N. Korotkov, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 100506 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2013
abstract: We consider the evolution of a spin 1/2 (qubit) under the simultaneous continuous measurement of three non-commuting qubit operators sigma_x, sigma_y, sigma_z. For identical ideal detectors the qubit state evolves by approaching a pure state with a random direction in the Bloch vector space and by undergoing locally isotropic diffusion in the perpendicular directions. The quantum state conditioned on the complete detector record is used to assess the fidelity of classically inspired estimates based on running time averages and discrete time bin detector outputs.

id: 1006.2037
title: Wave-particle duality revisited
authors: Uwe Schilling, Joachim von Zanthier
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2037
abstract: We investigate wave-particle duality in a symmetric two-way interferometer with a which-way detector. We find that it is important to state wether the interfering object or the which-way detector is read out first. In case that the interfering object is read out first, we discover that it is possible to use the information about its state to increase the distinguishability to a value which violates the widely accepted bounds set by an inequality introduced by Jaeger et al. (PRA 51, 54) and Englert (PRL 77, 2154).

id: 1006.2051
title: Concatenation of Error Avoiding with Error Correcting Quantum Codes for Correlated Noise Models
authors: Carlo Cafaro, Stefano Mancini
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 9, 309-330 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2051
abstract: We study the performance of simple error correcting and error avoiding quantum codes together with their concatenation for correlated noise models. Specifically, we consider two error models: i) a bit-flip (phase-flip) noisy Markovian memory channel (model I); ii) a memory channel defined as a memory degree dependent linear combination of memoryless channels with Kraus decompositions expressed solely in terms of tensor products of X-Pauli (Z-Pauli) operators (model II). The performance of both the three-qubit bit flip (phase flip) and the error avoiding codes suitable for the considered error models is quantified in terms of the entanglement fidelity. We explicitly show that while none of the two codes is effective in the extreme limit when the other is, the three-qubit bit flip (phase flip) code still works for high enough correlations in the errors, whereas the error avoiding code does not work for small correlations. Finally, we consider the concatenation of such codes for both error models and show that it is particularly advantageous for model II in the regime of partial correlations.

id: 1006.2093
title: Strongly enhanced photon collection from diamond defect centres under micro-fabricated integrated solid immersion lenses
authors: J. P. Hadden, J. P. Harrison, A. C. Stanley-Clarke, L. Marseglia, Y-L. D. Ho, B. R. Patton, J. L. O'Brien, J. G. Rarity
comments: 5 Pages, 5 figures (4 subfigures) - corrected typo
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 97, 241901 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2093
abstract: The efficiency of collecting photons from optically active defect centres in bulk diamond is greatly reduced by refraction and reflection at the diamond-air interface. We report on the fabrication and measurement of a geometrical solution to the problem; integrated solid immersion lenses (SILs) etched directly into the surface of diamond. An increase of a factor of 10 was observed in the saturated count-rate from a single negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV-) within a 5um diameter SIL compared with NV-s under a planar surface in the same crystal. A factor of 3 reduction in background emission was also observed due to the reduced excitation volume with a SIL present. Such a system is potentially scalable and easily adaptable to other defect centres in bulk diamond.

id: 1006.2130
title: Defining the moving preferred basis
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin
comments: 36 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2130
abstract: There are many formalisms to describe quantum decoherence. However, many of them give a non general and ad hoc definition of "pointer basis" or "moving preferred basis", and this fact is a problem for the decoherence program. In this paper we will consider quantum systems under a general theoretical framework for decoherence and present a very general definition of the moving preferred basis. In addition, this definition is implemented in a well known model and the time of decoherence and the relaxation time are defined and compared with those of this model.

id: 1006.2133
title: Quantum Zeno effect with a superconducting qubit
authors: Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Shiro Saito, Kosuke Kakuyanagi, Kouichi Semba
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2133
abstract: Detailed schemes are investigated for experimental verification of Quantum Zeno effect with a superconducting qubit. A superconducting qubit is affected by a dephasing noise whose spectrum is 1/f, and so the decay process of a superconducting qubit shows a naturally non-exponential behavior due to an infinite correlation time of 1/f noise. Since projective measurements can easily influence the decay dynamics having such non-exponential feature, a superconducting qubit is a promising system to observe Quantum Zeno effect. We have studied how a sequence of projective measurements can change the dephasing process and also we have suggested experimental ways to observe Quantum Zeno effect with a superconducting qubit. It would be possible to demonstrate our prediction in the current technology.

id: 1006.2191
title: Interaction of light with a single atom in the strong focusing regime
authors: Syed Abdullah Aljunid, Brenda Chng, Martin Paesold, Gleb Maslennikov, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, followup of workshop "Single photon technologies" in Boulder, CO, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2191
abstract: We consider the near-resonant interaction between a single atom and a focused light mode, where a single atom localized at the focus of a lens can scatter a significant fraction of light. Complementary to previous experiments on extinction and phase shift effects of a single atom, we report here on the measurement of coherently backscattered light. The strength of the observed effect suggests combining strong focusing with the well-established methods of cavity QED. We consider theoretically a nearly concentric cavity, which should allow for a strongly focused optical mode. Simple estimates show that in a such case one can expect a significant single photon Rabi frequency. This opens new perspectives and a possibility to scale up the system consisting of many atom+cavity nodes for quantum networking due to a significant technical simplification of the atom--light interfaces.

id: 1006.2215
title: Composability in quantum cryptography
authors: Joern Mueller-Quade, Renato Renner
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics, 11, 085006, 2009 (Focus on Quantum Cryptography: Theory and Practice)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2215
abstract: In this article, we review several aspects of composability in the context of quantum cryptography. The first part is devoted to key distribution. We discuss the security criteria that a quantum key distribution protocol must fulfill to allow its safe use within a larger security application (e.g., for secure message transmission). To illustrate the practical use of composability, we show how to generate a continuous key stream by sequentially composing rounds of a quantum key distribution protocol. In a second part, we take a more general point of view, which is necessary for the study of cryptographic situations involving, for example, mutually distrustful parties. We explain the universal composability framework and state the composition theorem which guarantees that secure protocols can securely be composed to larger applications

id: 1006.2225
title: Demonstration of Cluster State Shaping and Quantum Erasure for Continuous Variables
authors: Yoshichika Miwa, Ryuji Ukai, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Radim Filip, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2225
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally how to remove an arbitrary node from a continuous-variable cluster state and how to shorten any quantum wires of such a state. These two basic operations, performed in an unconditional fashion, are a manifestation of quantum erasure and can be employed to obtain various graph states from an initial cluster state. Starting with a sufficiently large cluster, the resulting graph states can then be used for universal quantum information processing. In the experiment, all variations of this cluster-shaping are demonstrated on a four-mode linear cluster state through homodyne measurements and feedforward.

id: 1006.2250
title: On the efficiency of quantum lithography
authors: Christian Kothe, Gunnar Bj?rk, Shuichiro Inoue, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: 19 pages, extended version including a thorough mathematical derivation
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 043028 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2250
abstract: Quantum lithography promises, in principle, unlimited feature resolution, independent of wavelength. However, in the literature at least two different theoretical descriptions of quantum lithography exist. They differ in to which extent they predict that the photons retain spatial correlation from generation to the absorption, and while both predict the same feature size, they differ vastly in predicting how efficiently a quantum lithographic pattern can be exposed. Until recently, essentially all experiments reported have been performed in such a way that it is difficult to distinguish between the two theoretical explanations. However, last year an experiment was performed which gives different outcomes for the two theories. We comment on the experiment and show that the model that fits the data unfortunately indicates that the trade-off between resolution and efficiency in quantum lithography is very unfavourable.

id: 1006.2253
title: Can electron by Compton scattering be considered as a typical detector of the photon propagation
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Darko Kapor, Miodrag Krmar
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2253
abstract: In this work we consider a possibility that Compton scattering can be considered as a typical measurement (detection) procedure within which electron behaves as the measuring apparatus, i.e. detector (pointer) of the propagation of the photon as the measured object. It represents a realistic variant of the old gendanken (though) experiment (discussed by Einstein, Bohr, Dirac, Feynman) of the interaction between the single photon as the measured object and a movable mirror as the measuring apparatus, i.e. detector (pointer). Here collapse by measurement is successfully modeled by spontaneous (non-dynamical) unitary symmetry (superposition) breaking (effective hiding) representing an especial case of the spontaneous (non-dynamical) breaking (effective hiding) of the dynamical symmetries. All this is full agreement with all existing experimental data and represents the definitive solution of the old problem of "micro" theoretical foundation of measurement or old problem of the foundation of quantum mechanics as a local (luminal) physical theory.

id: 1006.2265
title: Multipartite non-locality in a thermalized Ising spin-chain
authors: Steve Campbell, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042324 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2265
abstract: We study multipartite correlations and non-locality in an isotropic Ising ring under transverse magnetic field at both zero and finite temperature. We highlight parity-induced differences between the multipartite Bell-like functions used in order to quantify the degree of non-locality within a ring state and reveal a mechanism for the passive protection of multipartite quantum correlations against thermal spoiling effects that is clearly related to the macroscopic properties of the ring model.

id: 1006.2270
title: Decay of nonlocality due to adiabatic and quantum noise in the solid state
authors: B. Bellomo, G. Compagno, A. D'Arrigo, G. Falci, R. Lo Franco, E. Paladino
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 9, 63 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2270
abstract: We study the decay of quantum nonlocality, identified by the violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) Bell inequality, for two noninteracting Josephson qubits subject to independent baths with broadband spectra typical of solid state nanodevices. The bath noise can be separated in an adiabatic (low-frequency) and in a quantum (high-frequency) part. We point out the qualitative different effects on quantum nonlocal correlations induced by adiabatic and quantum noise. A quantitaive analysis is performed for typical noise figures in Josephson systems. Finally we compare, for this system, the dynamics of nonlocal correlations and of entanglement.

id: 1006.2352
title: Quantum Information Processing with Adversarial Devices
authors: Matthew McKague
comments: PhD thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2352
abstract: We consider several applications in black-box quantum computation in which untrusted physical quantum devices are connected together to produce an experiment. By examining the outcome statistics of such an experiment, and comparing them against the desired experiment, we may hope to certify that the physical experiment is implementing the desired experiment. This is useful in order to verify that a calculation has been performed correctly, that measurement outcomes are secure, or that the devices are producing the desired state.

id: 1006.2405
title: Controllability of Quantum Walks on Graphs
authors: Francesca Albertini, Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2405
abstract: In this paper, we consider discrete time quantum walks on graphs with coin focusing on the decentralized model, where the coin operation is allowed to change with the vertex of the graph. When the coin operations can be modified at every time step, these systems can be looked at as control systems and techniques of geometric control theory can be applied. In particular, the set of states that one can achieve can be described by studying controllability. Extending previous results, we give a characterization of the set of reachable states in terms of an appropriate Lie algebra. We then prove general results and criteria relating controllability to the algebraic and topological properties of the walk. As a consequence of these results, we prove that if the degree of the underlying graph is larger than $\frac{N}{2}$, where $N$ is the number of nodes, the quantum walk is always completely controllable, i.e., it is possible to having it to evolve according to an arbitrary unitary evolution. Another result is that controllability for decentralized models only depends on the graph and not on the particular quantum walk defined on it. We also provide explicit algorithms for control and quantify the number of steps needed for an arbitrary state transfer. The results of the paper are of interest in quantum information theory where quantum walks are used and analyzed in the development of quantum algorithms.

id: 1006.2432
title: Universal behavior of the geometric entanglement measure of many-qubit W states
authors: Levon Tamaryan, Zaruhi Ohanyan, Sayatnova Tamaryan
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022309 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2432
abstract: We show that when N>>1 the geometric entanglement measure of general N-qubit W states, except maximally entangled W states, is a one-variable function and depends only on the Bloch vector with the minimal z component. Hence one can prepare a W state with the required maximal product overlap by altering the Bloch vector of a single qubit. Next we compute analytically the geometric measure of large-scale W states by describing these systems in terms of very few parameters. The final formula relates two quantities, namely the maximal product overlap and the Bloch vector, that can be easily estimated in experiments.

id: 1006.2460
title: Conservation law for distributed entanglement of formation and quantum discord
authors: F. F. Fanchini, M. F. Cornelio, M. C. de Oliveira, A. O. Caldeira
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012313 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2460
abstract: We present a direct relation, based upon a monogamic principle, between entanglement of formation (EOF) and quantum discord (QD), showing how they are distributed in an arbitrary tripartite pure system. By extending it to a paradigmatic situation of a bipartite system coupled to an environment, we demonstrate that the EOF and the QD obey a conservation relation. By means of this relation we show that in the deterministic quantum computer with one pure qubit the protocol has the ability to rearrange the EOF and the QD, which implies that quantum computation can be understood on a different basis as a coherent dynamics where quantum correlations are distributed between the qubits of the computer. Furthermore, for a tripartite mixed state we show that the balance between distributed EOF and QD results in a stronger version of the strong subadditivity of entropy.

id: 1006.2482
title: Heteronuclear Decoupling by Multiple Rotating Frame Technique
authors: Haribabu Arthanari, Gerhard Wagner, Navin Khaneja
comments: 18 pages , 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2482
abstract: The paper describes the multiple rotating frame technique for designing modulated rf-fields, that perform broadband heteronuclear decoupling in solution NMR spectroscopy. The decoupling is understood by performing a sequence of coordinate transformations, each of which demodulates a component of the Rf-field to a static component, that progressively averages the chemical shift and dipolar interaction. We show that by increasing the number of modulations in the decoupling field, the ratio of dispersion in the chemical shift to the strength of the rf-field is successively reduced in progressive frames. The known decoupling methods like continuous wave decoupling, TPPM etc, are special cases of this method and their performance improves by adding additional modulations in the decoupling field. The technique is also expected to find use in designing decoupling pulse sequences in Solid State NMR spectroscopy and design of various excitation, inversion and mixing sequences.

id: 1006.2485
title: The General Free Will Theorem
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2485
abstract: It is argued that the Strong Free Will Theorem (Conway-Kochen) does not prove nonlocal determinism wrong. This is done by the before-before (Suarez-Scarani) experiment, which is used here to prove the following General Free Will Theorem: If humans have a certain amount of free will, there are other free beings outside space-time producing nonlocal effects in our world, which are both random and lawful.

id: 1006.2497
title: Quantum analogues of Hardy's nonlocality paradox
authors: Tobias Fritz
comments: minor stylistic changes
journal: Found. Phys. 41(9), 1493-1501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2497
abstract: Hardy's nonlocality is a "nonlocality proof without inequalities": it exemplifies that quantum correlations can be qualitatively stronger than classical correlations. This paper introduces variants of Hardy's nonlocality in the CHSH scenario which are realized by the PR-box, but not by quantum correlations. Hence this new kind of Hardy-type nonlocality is a proof without inequalities showing that superquantum correlations can be qualitatively stronger than quantum correlations.

id: 1006.2502
title: Entanglement-annihilating and entanglement-breaking channels
authors: Lenka Morav?¨ªkov¨¢, Mario Ziman
comments: 2 figures, comments welcome
journal: J.Phys.A: Math. Theor. 43, 275306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2502
abstract: We introduce and investigate a family of entanglement-annihilating channels. These channels are capable of destroying any quantum entanglement within the system they act on. We show that they are not necessarily entanglement breaking. In order to achieve this result we analyze the subset of locally entanglement-annihilating channels. In this case, the same local noise applied on each subsystem individually is less entanglement annihilating (with respect to multi-partite entanglement) as the number of subsystems is increasing. Therefore, the bipartite case provides restrictions on the set of local entanglement-annihilating channels for the multipartite case. The introduced concepts are illustrated on the family of single-qubit depolarizing channels.

id: 1006.2528
title: Berry's Phases for Arbitrary Spins Non-Linearly Coupled to External Fields. Application to the Entanglement of N > 2 Non-Correlated One-Half Spins
authors: Marie-Anne Bouchiat, Claude Bouchiat
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures Somewhat condensed version with minor modifications to improve readability, misprints corrected. Accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A : Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 465302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2528
abstract: We derive the general formula giving the Berry phase for an arbitrary spin, having both magnetic-dipole and electric-quadrupole couplings with external time-dependent fields. We assume that the effective E and B fields remain orthogonal during the quantum cycles. This mild restriction has many advantages. It provides simple symmetries leading to selection rules and the Hamiltonian-parameter and density-matrix spaces coincide for S=1. This implies the identity of the Berry and Aharonov-Anandan phases, which is lost for S>1. We have found that new features of Berry phases emerge for integer spins>2. We provide explicit numerical results of Berry phases for S=2,3,4. We give a precise analysis of the non-adiabatic corrections. The accuracy for satisfying adiabaticity is greatly improved if one chooses for the time derivatives of the parameters a time-dependence having a Blackman pulse shape. This has the effect of taming the non-adiabatic oscillation corrections which could be generated by a linear ramping. For realistic experimental conditions, the non-adibatic corrections can be kept < 0.1%. For quantum cycles,involving as sole periodic parameter the precession angle of E around B, the corrections odd upon the reversal of the angular velocity can be cancelled exactly if the quadrupole to dipole coupling ratio takes a "magic" value. The even ones are cancelled by subtraction of the phases relative to opposite velocities. As a possible application of the results of this paper we suggest a route to holonomic entanglement of N non-correlated 1/2-spins by performing adiabatic cycles governed by a Hamiltonian which is a non-linear function of the total spin operator S defined as the sum of the N spin operators. The case N=4 and Sz=1 is treated explicitly and maximum entanglement is achieved.

id: 1006.2540
title: Photon generation in an electromagnetic cavity with a time-dependent boundary
authors: C.M. Wilson, T. Duty, M. Sandberg, F. Persson, V. Shumeiko, P. Delsing
comments: 5 pages, 3 Figures
journal: PRL 105, 233907 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2540
abstract: We report the observation of photon generation in a microwave cavity with a time-dependent boundary condition. Our system is a microfabricated quarter-wave coplanar waveguide cavity. The electrical length of the cavity is varied using the tunable inductance of a superconducting quantum interference device. It is measured in the quantum regime, where the temperature is significantly less than the resonance frequency (~ 5 GHz). When the length is modulated at approximately twice the static resonance frequency, spontaneous oscillations of the cavity field are observed. Time-resolved measurements of the dynamical state of the cavity show multiple stable states. The behavior is well described by theory. Connections to the dynamical Casimir effect are discussed.

id: 1006.2545
title: Correlated Multiphoton Holes
authors: Itai Afek, Oron Ambar, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett, 105, 093603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2545
abstract: We generate bipartite states of light which exhibit an absence of multiphoton coincidence events between two modes amid a constant background flux. These `correlated photon holes' are produced by mixing a coherent state and relatively weak spontaneous parametric down-conversion using a balanced beamsplitter. Correlated holes with arbitrarily high photon numbers may be obtained by adjusting the relative phase and amplitude of the inputs. We measure states of up to five photons and verify their nonclassicality. The scheme provides a route for observation of high-photon-number nonclassical correlations without requiring intense quantum resources.

id: 1006.2578
title: No Drama Quantum Theory?
authors: Andrey Akhmeteli
comments: 4 pages
journal: Int'l Journ. Quantum Information, Vol. 9, Suppl. (2011) 17-26
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2578
abstract: This work builds on the following result of a previous article (quant-ph/0509044): the matter field can be naturally eliminated from the equations of the scalar electrodynamics (the Klein-Gordon-Maxwell electrodynamics) in the unitary gauge. The resulting equations describe independent dynamics of the electromagnetic field (they form a closed system of partial differential equations). An improved derivation of this surprising result is offered in the current work. It is also shown that for this system of equations, a generalized Carleman linearization (Carleman embedding) procedure generates a system of linear equations in the Hilbert space, which looks like a second-quantized theory and is equivalent to the original nonlinear system on the set of solutions of the latter. Thus, the relevant local realistic model can be embedded into a quantum field theory. This model is equivalent to a well-established model - the scalar electrodynamics, so it correctly describes a large body of experimental data. Although it does not describe the electronic spin and possibly some other experimental facts, it may be of great interest as a "no drama quantum theory", as simple (in principle) as classical electrodynamics. Possible issues with the Bell theorem are discussed.

id: 1006.2593
title: Effects of initial coherence on distinguishability of pure/mixed states and chiral stability in an open chiral system
authors: Heekyung Han, David M. Wardlaw
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2593
abstract: We examine how initial coherences in open chiral systems affect distinguishability of pure versus mixed states and purity decay. Interaction between a system and an environment is modeled by a continuous position measurement and a two-level approximation is taken for the system. The resultant analytical solution is explored for various parameters, with emphasis on the interplay of initial coherences of the system and dephasing rate in determining the purity decay and differences in the time evolution of pure vs. mixed initial states. %the distinguishability and the decoherence process. Implications of the results on several fundamental problems are noted.

id: 1006.2616
title: Which graph states are useful for quantum information processing?
authors: Mehdi Mhalla, Mio Murao, Simon Perdrix, Masato Someya, Peter S. Turner
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2616
abstract: Graph states are an elegant and powerful quantum resource for measurement based quantum computation (MBQC). They are also used for many quantum protocols (error correction, secret sharing, etc.). The main focus of this paper is to provide a structural characterisation of the graph states that can be used for quantum information processing. The existence of a gflow (generalized flow) is known to be a requirement for open graphs (graph, input set and output set) to perform uniformly and strongly deterministic computations. We weaken the gflow conditions to define two new more general kinds of MBQC: uniform equiprobability and constant probability. These classes can be useful from a cryptographic and information point of view because even though we cannot do a deterministic computation in general we can preserve the information and transfer it perfectly from the inputs to the outputs. We derive simple graph characterisations for these classes and prove that the deterministic and uniform equiprobability classes collapse when the cardinalities of inputs and outputs are the same. We also prove the reversibility of gflow in that case. The new graphical characterisations allow us to go from open graphs to graphs in general and to consider this question: given a graph with no inputs or outputs fixed, which vertices can be chosen as input and output for quantum information processing? We present a characterisation of the sets of possible inputs and ouputs for the equiprobability class, which is also valid for deterministic computations with inputs and ouputs of the same cardinality.

id: 1006.2624
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of a microcavity coupled to a waveguide in photonic crystals
authors: Meng-Hsiu Wu, Chan U Lei, Wei-Min Zhang, Heng-Na Xiong
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt. Express, 18, 18407 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2624
abstract: In this paper, the non-Markovian dynamics of a microcavity coupled to a waveguide in photonic crystals is studied based on Fano-type tight binding model. Using the exact master equation, we solve analytically and numerically the temporal evolution of the cavity coherent state and the associated physical observables. A critical transition is revealed when the coupling increase between the cavity and the waveguide. In particular, the cavity field becomes dissipationless when the coupling strength goes beyond a critical value, as a manifestation of strong non-Markovian memory effect. The result also indicates that the cavity can maintain in a coherent state with arbitrary small number of photons when it strongly couples to the waveguide at very low temperature. These properties can be measured experimentally through the photon current flowing over the waveguide in photonic crystals.

id: 1006.2627
title: Local and Nonlocal Contents in N-qubit generalized GHZ states
authors: Chang-liang Ren, Mahn-soo Choi
comments: 4 pages; 1 figure; figure regenerated; upper bound added; a few more clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2627
abstract: We investigate local contents in $N$-qubit generalized Greenberger, Horne, and Zeilinger (GHZ) states. We suggest a decomposition for correlations in the GHZ states into a nonlocal and fully local part, and find a lower and upper bound on the local content. Our lower bound reproduces the previous result for N=2 [Scarani, Phys. Rev. A. 77, 042112 (2008)] and decreases rapidly with $N$.

id: 1006.2645
title: Macroscopic Rabi-Like Oscillations of Ultracold Atoms in an Asymmetrical Two-Dimensional Magnetic Lattice
authors: A. Abdelrahman, M. Vasiliev, K. Alameh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2645
abstract: We investigate the existence of the $macroscopic$ $quantum$ $phase$ in trapped ultracold quantum degenerate gases, such as Bose-Einstein condensate, in an asymmetrical two-dimensional magnetic lattice. We show the key to adiabatically control the tunneling in the new two-dimensional magnetic lattice by means of external magnetic bias fields. The macroscopic quantum phase signature is identified as a Rabi-like oscillation when solving the system of coupled time-dependent differential equations, described here by the Boson Josephson Junctions (BJJs). In solving the system of the BJJs we used an order parameter that includes both time-dependent variational parameters which are the fractional population at each lattice site and the phase difference. The BJJs solution presents a clear evidence for the macroscopic quantum coherence.

id: 1006.2670
title: Adding control to arbitrary unknown quantum operations
authors: Xiao-Qi Zhou, Timothy C. Ralph, Pruet Kalasuwan, Mian Zhang, Alberto Peruzzo, Benjamin P. Lanyon, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Nature Communications 2:413 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2670
abstract: While quantum computers promise significant advantages, the complexity of quantum algorithms remains a major technological obstacle. We have developed and demonstrated an architecture-independent technique that simplifies adding control qubits to arbitrary quantum operations-a requirement in many quantum algorithms, simulations and metrology. The technique is independent of how the operation is done, does not require knowledge of what the operation is, and largely separates the problems of how to implement a quantum operation in the laboratory and how to add a control. We demonstrate an entanglement-based version in a photonic system, realizing a range of different two-qubit gates with high fidelity.

id: 1006.2697
title: A lower bound for the velocity of quantum communications in the preferred frame
authors: Bruno Cocciaro, Sandro Faetti, Leone Fronzoni
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures; 1 figure deleted (previous fig 8). Changements in section 4 after referee comments
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011), pp. 379-384
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2697
abstract: An EPR experiment with polarized entangled photons is performed to test the Eberhard model. According to the Eberhard model, quantum correlations between space-like separated events are due to a superluminal communication signal propagating in a preferred frame. The coincidences between entangled photons passing through two polarizers aligned along a East-West axis are measured as a function of time during 21 sidereal days. No deviation from the predictions of the Quantum Theory is observed. Tacking into account for the experimental uncertainties, we infer that, if a preferred frame for superluminal signals exists which moves at velocity \vec{v} with respect to the Earth, the modulus of the velocity of quantum communications in this frame has to be greater than v_{t}~0.6*10^4 c for v<0.1 c and for any arbitrary direction of \vec{v}.

id: 1006.2733
title: Super revivals and sub-Planck scale structures of a slightly relativistic particle in a box
authors: Suranjana Ghosh, Irene Marzoli
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, Accepted in Int. J. Quantum Information
journal: Int. J. Quantum Information 9, 1519 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2733
abstract: The time evolution of a particle, caught in an infinitely deep square well, displays unexpected features, when one includes tiny relativistic effects. Indeed, even the smallest corrections to the non-relativistic quadratic spectrum manifest themselves in a dramatic way. Our theoretical analysis brings to light a completely new time scale, at which the system exhibits surprisingly perfect revivals. This longer time scale rules the system dynamics and replaces the original revival time of the unperturbed system. The early manifestation of such phenomenon is captured by the sensitivity of sub-Planck structures for different values of the relativistic corrections.

id: 1006.2744
title: Local hypothesis testing between a pure bipartite state and the white noise state
authors: Masaki Owari, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2744
abstract: In this paper, we treat a local discrimination problem in the framework of asymmetric hypothesis testing. We choose a known bipartite pure state $\ket{\Psi}$ as an alternative hypothesis, and the completely mixed state as a null hypothesis. As a result, we analytically derive an optimal type 2 error and an optimal POVM for one-way LOCC POVM and Separable POVM. For two-way LOCC POVM, we study a family of simple three-step LOCC protocols, and show that the best protocol in this family has strictly better performance than any one-way LOCC protocol in all the cases where there may exist difference between two-way LOCC POVM and one-way LOCC POVM.

id: 1006.2759
title: Bell inequality for pairs of particle-number-superselection-rule restricted states
authors: Libby Heaney, Seung-Woo Lee, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures; v2 is the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 82, 042116 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2759
abstract: Proposals for Bell inequality tests on systems restricted by superselection rules often require operations that are difficult to implement in practice. In this paper, we derive a new Bell inequality, where pairs of states are used to by-pass the superselection rule. In particular, we focus on mode entanglement of an arbitrary number of massive particles and show that our Bell inequality detects the entanglement in the pair when other inequalities fail. However, as the number of particles in the system increases, the violation of our Bell inequality decreases due to the restriction in the measurement space caused by the superselection rule. This Bell test can be implemented using techniques that are routinely used in current experiments.

id: 1006.2764
title: General form of quantum evolution
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2764
abstract: We propose a complete treatment of a local in time dynamics of open quantum systems. In this approach Markovian evolution turns out to be a special case of a general non-Markovian one. We provide a general representation of the local generator which generalizes well known Lindblad representation for the Markovian dynamics. It shows that the structure of non-Markovian generators is highly intricate and the problem of their classification is still open. Simple examples illustrate our approach.

id: 1006.2775
title: Quantum Discord and the Geometry of Bell-Diagonal States
authors: Matthias D. Lang, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; new title, added proof about POVM's
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2775
abstract: The set of Bell-diagonal states for two qubits can be depicted as a tetrahedron in three dimensions. We consider the level surfaces of entanglement and quantum discord for Bell-diagonal states. This provides a complete picture of the structure of entanglement and discord for this simple case and, in particular, of their nonanalytic behavior under decoherence. The pictorial approach also indicates how to show that discord is neither convex nor concave.

id: 1006.2794
title: Open system dynamics of simple collision models
authors: Mario Ziman, Vladim¨ªr Bu?ek
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures, lecture presented at 46 Karpacz Winter School of Theoretical Physics in Ladek Zdroj, Poland, 8 - 13 February 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2794
abstract: A simple collision model is employed to introduce elementary concepts of open system dynamics of quantum systems. In particular, within the framework of collision models we introduce the quantum analogue of thermalization process called quantum homogenization and simulate quantum decoherence processes. These dynamics are driven by partial swaps and controlled unitary collisions, respectively. We show that collision models can be used to prepare multipartite entangled states. Partial swap dynamics generates W-type of entanglement saturating the CKW inequalities, whereas the decoherence collision models creates GHZ-type of entangled states. The considered evolution of a system in a sequence of collisions is described by a discrete semigroup E_1,...,E_n. Interpolating this discrete points within the set of quantum channels we derive for both processes the corresponding Lindblad master equations. In particular, we argue that collision models can be used as simulators of arbitrary Markovian dynamics, however, the inverse is not true.

id: 1006.2913
title: Quantum anholonomies in time-dependent Aharonov-Bohm rings
authors: Atushi Tanaka, Taksu Cheon
comments: 6 pages. Fixed typo
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:022104,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2913
abstract: Anholonomies in eigenstates are studied through time-dependent variations of a magnetic flux in an Aharonov-Bohm ring. The anholonomies in the eigenenergy and the expectation values of eigenstates are shown to persist beyond the adiabatic regime. The choice of the gauge of the magnetic flux is shown to be crucial to clarify the relationship of these anholonomies to the eigenspace anholonomy, which is described by a non-Abelian connection in the adiabatic limit.

id: 1006.2930
title: Fermion Coherence Hamiltonians
authors: O. Cherbal, M. Drir, M. Maamache, D.A. Trifonov
comments: latex, 10 pages, no figures
journal: IJTP 49 (2010) 1324-1332
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2930
abstract: We have established that the most general form of Hamiltonian that preserves fermionic coherent states stable in time, is that of the nonstationary free fermionic oscillator. This is to be compared with the earlier result of boson coherence Hamiltonian, which is of the more general form of the nonstationary forced bosonic oscillator. If however one admits Grassmann variables as Hamiltonian parameters then the coherence Hamiltonian takes again the form of (Grassmannian fermionic) forced oscillator.

id: 1006.2948
title: Quantum entanglement: The unitary 8-vertex braid matrix with imaginary rapidity
authors: Amitabha Chakrabarti, Anirban Chakraborti, Aymen Jedidi
comments: 4 pages in REVTeX format, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2948
abstract: We study quantum entanglements induced on product states by the action of 8-vertex braid matrices, rendered unitary with purely imaginary spectral parameters (rapidity). The unitarity is displayed via the "canonical factorization" of the coefficients of the projectors spanning the basis. This adds one more new facet to the famous and fascinating features of the 8-vertex model. The double periodicity and the analytic properties of the elliptic functions involved lead to a rich structure of the 3-tangle quantifying the entanglement. We thus explore the complex relationship between topological and quantum entanglement.

id: 1006.2959
title: Casimir effect in the scattering approach: correlations between material properties, temperature and geometry
authors: Astrid Lambrecht, Antoine Canaguier-Durand, Romain Gu¨¦rout, Serge Reynaud
comments: 
journal: Casimir Physics (Springer-Verlag, 2011) p. 97-127, eds. D. Dalvit et al, Lecture Notes in Physics vol. 834
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2959
abstract: We present calculations of the quantum and thermal Casimir interaction between real mirrors in electromagnetic fields using the scattering approach. We begin with a pedagogical introduction of this approach in simple cases where the scattering is specular. We then discuss the more general case of stationary arbitrarily shaped mirrors and present in particular applications to two geometries of interest for experiments, that is corrugated plates and the plane-sphere geometry. The results nicely illustrate the rich correlations existing between material properties, temperature and geometry in the Casimir effect.

id: 1006.2990
title: On Rabi oscillations between Bloch bands
authors: Patrick Pl?tz
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2990
abstract: We study Rabi oscillations between the bands of an arbitrary biased superlattice in a tight-binding model. We reduce the problem to an equation of Whittaker--Hill type and, in absence of any known solutions in closed form, discuss different approximations to describe the oscillations between the Bloch bands. We identify regimes of weak and strong inter-band coupling and compare predictions for these Rabi oscillations to numerical results.

id: 1006.3008
title: Comparing cavity and ordinary laser cooling within the Lamb-Dicke regime
authors: Tony Blake, Andreas Kurcz, Almut Beige
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, final version accepted for publication
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 58:1317,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3008
abstract: Cavity-mediated cooling has the potential to become one of the most efficient techniques to cool molecular species down to very low temperatures. In this paper we analyse cavity cooling with single-laser driving for relatively large cavity decay rates kappa and relatively large phonon frequencies nu. It is shown that cavity cooling and ordinary laser cooling are essentially the same within the validity range of the Lamb-Dicke approximation. This is done by deriving a closed set of rate equations and calculating the corresponding stationary state phonon number and cooling rate. For example, when nu is either much larger or much smaller than kappa, the minimum stationary state phonon number scales as kappa^2/16 nu^2 (strong confinement regime) and as kappa / 4 nu (weak confinement regime), respectively.

id: 1006.3029
title: Universal Local symmetries and non-superposition in classical mechanics
authors: ennio gozzi, carlo pagani
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:150604,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3029
abstract: In the Hilbert space formulation of classical mechanics (CM), pioneered by Koopman and von Neumann (KvN), there are potentially more observables that in the standard approach to CM. In this paper we show that actually many of those extra observables are not invariant under a set of universal local symmetries which appear once the KvN is extended to include the evolution of differential forms. Because of their non-invariance, those extra observables have to be removed. This removal makes the superposition of states in KvN, and as a consequence also in CM, impossible.

id: 1006.3032
title: Maximal violation of the I3322 inequality using infinite dimensional quantum systems
authors: K.F. P¨¢l, T. V¨¦rtesi
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022116 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3032
abstract: The I3322 inequality is the simplest bipartite two-outcome Bell inequality beyond the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality, consisting of three two-outcome measurements per party. In case of the CHSH inequality the maximal quantum violation can already be attained with local two-dimensional quantum systems, however, there is no such evidence for the I3322 inequality. In this paper a family of measurement operators and states is given which enables us to attain the largest possible quantum value in an infinite dimensional Hilbert space. Further, it is conjectured that our construction is optimal in the sense that measuring finite dimensional quantum systems is not enough to achieve the true quantum maximum. We also describe an efficient iterative algorithm for computing quantum maximum of an arbitrary two-outcome Bell inequality in any given Hilbert space dimension. This algorithm played a key role to obtain our results for the I3322 inequality, and we also applied it to improve on our previous results concerning the maximum quantum violation of several bipartite two-outcome Bell inequalities with up to five settings per party.

id: 1006.3038
title: Creation of NOON states by double Fock-state/Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: W. J. Mullin \and F. Lalo?
comments: 8 pages 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3038
abstract: NOON states (states of the form $|N>_{a}|0>_{b}+|0>_{a}|N>_{b}$ where $a$ and $b$ are single particle states) have been used for predicting violations of hidden-variable theories (Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger violations) and are valuable in metrology for precision measurements of phase at the Heisenberg limit. We show theoretically how the use of two Fock state/Bose-Einstein condensates as sources in a modified Mach Zender interferometer can lead to the creation of the NOON state in which $a$ and $b$ refer to arms of the interferometer and $N$ is the total number of particles in the two condensates. The modification of the interferometer involves making conditional ``side'' measurements of a few particles near the sources. These measurements put the remaining particles in a superposition of two phase states, which are converted into NOON states by a beam splitter. The result is equivalent to the quantum experiment in which a large molecule passes through two slits. The NOON states are combined in a final beam splitter and show interference. Attempts to detect through which ``slit'' the condensates passed destroys the interference.

id: 1006.3059
title: Constructing optimal entanglement witnesses. II
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Justyna Pytel
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052310 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3059
abstract: We provide a class of optimal nondecomposable entanglement witnesses for 4N x 4N composite quantum systems or, equivalently, a new construction of nondecomposable positive maps in the algebra of 4N x 4N complex matrices. This construction provides natural generalization of the Robertson map. It is shown that their structural physical approximations give rise to entanglement breaking channels.

id: 1006.3067
title: Exact dynamics and decoherence of two cold bosons in a 1D harmonic trap
authors: Tomasz Sowinski, Miroslaw Brewczyk, Mariusz Gajda, Kazimierz Rzazewski
comments: 9 figures, 5 movies available on-line
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053631 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3067
abstract: We study dynamics of two interacting ultra cold Bose atoms in a harmonic oscillator potential in one spatial dimension. Making use of the exact solution of the eigenvalue problem of a particle in the delta-like potential we study time evolution of initially separable state of two particles. The corresponding time dependent single particle density matrix is obtained and diagonalized and single particle orbitals are found. This allows to study decoherence as well as creation of entanglement during the dynamics. The evolution of the orbital corresponding to the largest eigenvalue is then compared to the evolution according to the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. We show that if initially the center of mass and relative degrees of freedom are entangled then the Gross-Pitaevskii equation fails to reproduce the exact dynamics and entanglement is produced dynamically. We stress that predictions of our study can be verified experimentally in an optical lattice in the low-tunneling limit.

id: 1006.3077
title: Linking a distance measure of entanglement to its convex roof
authors: Alexander Streltsov, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 123004 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3077
abstract: An important problem in quantum information theory is the quantification of entanglement in multipartite mixed quantum states. In this work, a connection between the geometric measure of entanglement and a distance measure of entanglement is established. We present a new expression for the geometric measure of entanglement in terms of the maximal fidelity with a separable state. A direct application of this result provides a closed expression for the Bures measure of entanglement of two qubits. We also prove that the number of elements in an optimal decomposition w.r.t. the geometric measure of entanglement is bounded from above by the Caratheodory bound, and we find necessary conditions for the structure of an optimal decomposition.

id: 1006.3108
title: Entanglement Creation and Storage in Two Qubits Coupling to an Anisotropic Heisenberg Spin Chain
authors: Chunlei Zhang, Shiqun Zhu, Jie Ren
comments: 4figures,
journal: Phys Let A Volume 373, Issue 39, 21 September 2009, Pages 3522-3526
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3108
abstract: The time evolution of the entanglement of a pair of two spin qubits is investigated when the two qubits simultaneously couple to an environment of an anisotropic Heisenberg XXZ spin chain. The entanglement of the two spin qubits can be created and is a periodic function of the time if the magnetic ?eld is greater than a critical value. If the two spin qubits are in the Bell state, the entanglement can be stored with relatively large value even when the magnetic ?eld is large.

id: 1006.3123
title: Distinguishability and Chiral Stability: Effects of Decoherence and Intermolecular Interactions
authors: Heekyung Han, David M. Wardlaw
comments: 43 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3123
abstract: We examine the effect of decoherence and intermolecular interactions (chiral discrimination energies) on the chiral stability and the distinguishability of initially pure versus mixed states in an open chiral system. Under a two-level approximation for a system, intermolecular interactions are introduced by a mean-field theory, and interaction between a system and an environment is modeled by a continuous measurement of a population difference between the two chiral states. The resultant equations are explored for various parameters, with emphasis on the combined effects of the initial condition of the system, the chiral discrimination energy and the decoherence. We focus on factors affecting the distinguishability as measured by population difference between the initially pure and mixed states and on the chiral stability as measured by the purity decay.

id: 1006.3137
title: Klein tunneling through an oblique barrier in graphene ribbons
authors: J. H. Oh, D. Ahn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3137
abstract: We study a transmission coefficient of graphene nanoribbons with a top gate which acts as an oblique barrier. Using a Green function method based on the Dirac-like equation, scattering among transverse modes due to the oblique barrier is taken into account numerically. In contrast to the 2-dimensional graphene sheet, we find that the pattern of transmission in graphene ribbons depends strongly on the electronic structure in the region of the barrier. Consequently, irregular structures in the transmission coefficient are predicted while perfect transmission is still calculated in the case of metallic graphene independently of angle and length of the oblique barrier.

id: 1006.3152
title: Noisy entanglement evolution for graph states
authors: L. Aolita, D. Cavalcanti, R. Chaves, C. Dhara, L. Davidovich, A. Acin
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures. v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032317 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3152
abstract: A general method for the study of the entanglement evolution of graph states under the action of Pauli was recently proposed in [Cavalcanti, et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 030502 (2009)]. This method is based on lower and upper bounds on the entanglement of the entire state as a function only of the state of a considerably-smaller subsystem, which undergoes an effective noise process. This provides a huge simplification on the size of the matrices involved in the calculation of entanglement in these systems. In the present paper we elaborate on this method in details and generalize it to other natural situations not described by Pauli maps. Specifically, for Pauli maps we introduce an explicit formula for the characterization of the resulting effective noise. Beyond Pauli maps, we show that the same ideas can be applied to the case of thermal reservoirs at arbitrary temperature. In the latter case, we discuss how to optimize the bounds as a function of the noise strength. We illustrate our ideas with explicit exemplary results for several different graphs and particular decoherence processes. The limitations of the method are also discussed.

id: 1006.3192
title: Storing Small Photonic Cluster States in a Dephasing Environment
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, Gerald Gilbert
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, to be published J. Mod. Opt., 40th Winter Colloquium on the Physics of Quantum Electronics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 57, 1961 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3192
abstract: We consider the effects of decoherence on the entanglement of photonic cluster states. Large photonic cluster states can be built by fusing together smaller photonic cluster states via probabilistic fusion operations. For this construction process it is necessary to store these smaller cluster states in some way so as to have them available for attempted fusion operations. While in storage the photonic cluster states may undergo dephasing. The effects of dephasing on small, primitive cluster states is explored here with the aim of determining how to locally rotate the qubits of the cluster state so as to lose the least amount of entanglement due to the dephasing process.

id: 1006.3197
title: Double-slit and electromagnetic models to complete quantum mechanics
authors: Jayme De Luca
comments: 4 figures, marked in red a few post-publication typos over the published version of Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience
journal: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience vol. 8, 1040-1051 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3197
abstract: We analyze a realistic microscopic model for electronic scattering with the neutral differential delay equations of motion of point charges of the Wheeler-Feynman electrodynamics. We propose a microscopic model according to the electrodynamics of point charges, complex enough to describe the essential physics. Our microscopic model reaches a simple qualitative agreement with the experimental results as regards interference in double-slit scattering and in electronic scattering by crystals. We discuss our model in the light of existing experimental results, including a qualitative disagreement found for the double-slit experiment. We discuss an approximation for the complex neutral differential delay equations of our model using piecewise-defined (discontinuous) velocities for all charges and piecewise-constant-velocities for the scattered charge. Our approximation predicts the De Broglie wavelength as an inverse function of the incoming velocity and in the correct order of magnitude. We explain the scattering by crystals in the light of the same simplified modeling with Einstein-local interactions. We include a discussion of the qualitative properties of the neutral-delay-equations of electrodynamics to stimulate future experimental tests on the possibility to complete quantum mechanics with electromagnetic models.

id: 1006.3227
title: On the derivation of wave function reduction from Schr?dinger's equation: A model
authors: Roland Omn¨¨s
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3227
abstract: The possibility of consistency between the basic quantum principles and reduction (wave function reduction) is reexamined. The mathematical description of an organized macroscopic device is constructed explicitly as a convenient tool for this investigation. A derivation of reduction from quantum mechanics is proposed on a specific example, using standard methods of statistical physics. Although these methods are valid only "for all practical purposes", arguments are given to ascribe an emerging status to reduction (or the uniqueness of physical reality), similar to the status of classical physics. Examination of measurements of the particles in an EPR pair by two space-like separated apparatuses shows that the model is consistent with the non-separable character of quantum mechanics, although both measurements are local. Quantitative estimates are given.

id: 1006.3240
title: Hysteresis effects in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Andrea Sacchetti
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3240
abstract: Here, we consider damped two-components Bose-Einstein condensates with many-body interactions. We show that, when the external trapping potential has a double-well shape and when the nonlinear coupling factors are modulated in time, hysteresis effects may appear under some circumstances. Such hysteresis phenomena are a result of the joint contribution between the appearance of saddle node bifurcations and damping effect.

id: 1006.3247
title: Eigenvalue and Entropy Statistics for Products of Conjugate Random Quantum Channels
authors: Benoit Collins, Ion Nechita
comments: 
journal: Entropy 12 (2010), no. 6, 1612-1631
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3247
abstract: Using the graphical calculus and integration techniques introduced by the authors, we study the statistical properties of outputs of products of random quantum channels for entangled inputs. In particular, we revisit and generalize models of relevance for the recent counterexamples to the minimum output entropy additivity problems. Our main result is a classification of regimes for which the von Neumann entropy is lower on average than the elementary bounds that can be obtained with linear algebra techniques.

id: 1006.3258
title: Ultracold atoms in a cavity mediated double-well system
authors: Jonas Larson, Jani-Petri Martikainen
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033606 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3258
abstract: We study ground-state properties and dynamics of a dilute ultracold atomic gas in a double well potential. The Gaussian barrier separating the two wells derives from the interaction between the atoms and a quantized field of a driven Fabry-Perot cavity. Due to intrinsic atom-field nonlinearity, several novel phenomena arise being the focus of this work. For the ground state, there is a critical pumping amplitude in which the atoms self-organize and the intra cavity field amplitude drastically increases. In the dynamical analysis, we show that the Josephson oscillations depend strongly on the atomic density and may be greatly suppressed within certain regimes, reminiscent of self-trapping of Bose-Einstein condensates in double-well setups. This pseudo self-trapping effect is studied within a mean-field treatment valid for large atom numbers. For small numbers of atoms, we consider the analogous many-body problem and demonstrate a collapse-revival structure in the Josephson oscillations.

id: 1006.3262
title: Semiclassical Estimates of Electromagnetic Casimir Self-Energies of Spherical and Cylindrical Metallic Shells
authors: Martin Schaden
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3262
abstract: The leading semiclassical estimates of the electromagnetic Casimir stresses on a spherical and a cylindrical metallic shell are within 1% of the field theoretical values. The electromagnetic Casimir energy for both geometries is given by two decoupled massless scalars that satisfy conformally covariant boundary conditions. Surface contributions vanish for smooth metallic boundaries and the finite electromagnetic Casimir energy in leading semiclassical approximation is due to quadratic fluctuations about periodic rays in the interior of the cavity only. Semiclassically the non-vanishing Casimir energy of a metallic cylindrical shell is almost entirely due to Fresnel diffraction.

id: 1006.3282
title: Analysis of quantum coherence in bismuth-doped silicon: a system of strongly coupled spin qubits
authors: M. H. Mohammady, G. W. Morley, A. Nazir, T. S. Monteiro
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 094404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3282
abstract: There is growing interest in bismuth-doped silicon (Si:Bi) as an alternative to the well-studied proposals for silicon based quantum information processing (QIP) using phosphorus-doped silicon (Si:P). We focus here on the implications of its anomalously strong hyperfine coupling. In particular, we analyse in detail the regime where recent pulsed magnetic resonance experiments have demonstrated the potential for orders of magnitude speedup in quantum gates by exploiting transitions that are electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) forbidden at high fields. We also present calculations using a phenomenological Markovian master equation which models the decoherence of the electron spin due to Gaussian temporal magnetic field perturbations. The model quantifies the advantages of certain "optimal working points" identified as the $df/dB=0$ regions, where $f$ is the transition frequency, which come in the form of frequency minima and maxima. We show that at such regions, dephasing due to the interaction of the electron spin with a fluctuating magnetic field in the $z$ direction (usually adiabatic) is completely removed.

id: 1006.3308
title: Quantum Analogical Modeling with Homogeneous Pointers
authors: Royal Skousen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3308
abstract: Quantum Analogical Modeling (QAM) works under the assumption that the correct exemplar-based description for a system of behavior minimizes the overall uncertainty of the system. The measure used in QAM differs from the traditional logarithmic measure of uncertainty; instead QAM uses a quadratic measure of disagreement between pairs of exemplars. (This quadratic measure parallels the squaring function holding between the amplitude and the probability for a state function in quantum mechanics.) QAM eliminates all supracontexts (contextual groupings of exemplars) that fail to minimize the number of disagreements. The resulting system thus distinguishes between homogeneous and heterogeneous supracontexts and uses only exemplars in homogeneous supracontexts to predict behavior. This paper revises earlier work on QAM (in 2005) by showing that homogeneity for a supracontext can be most simply determined by discovering whether there are any heterogeneous pointers between any of the supracontext's exemplars. A pointer for a pair of exemplars is heterogeneous whenever those two exemplars are found in different subcontexts of the supracontext and take different outcomes.

id: 1006.3328
title: Stationary states of two-level open quantum systems
authors: Bartlomiej Gardas, Zbigniew Puchala
comments: 12 pages, 0 figures, revtex 4-1
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 215306 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3328
abstract: A problem of finding stationary states of open quantum systems is addressed. We focus our attention on a generic type of open system: a qubit coupled to its environment. We apply the theory of block operator matrices and find stationary states of two--level open quantum systems under certain conditions applied both on the qubit and the surrounding.

id: 1006.3332
title: Quantum correlations in spin chains at finite temperatures and quantum phase transitions
authors: T. Werlang, C.Trippe, G.A.P. Ribeiro, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, RevTex4-1; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 095702 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3332
abstract: We compute the quantum correlation (quantum discord (QD)) and the entanglement (EoF) between nearest neighbor qubits (spin-1/2) in an infinite chain described by the Heisenberg model (XXZ Hamiltonian) at finite temperatures. The chain is in the thermodynamic limit and thermalized with a reservoir at temperature T (canonical ensemble). We show that QD, in contrast to EoF and other thermodynamic quantities, spotlight the critical points associated to quantum phase transitions (QPT) for this model even at finite T. This remarkable property of QD may have important implications for experimental characterization of QPTs when one is unable to reach temperatures below which a QPT can be seen.

id: 1006.3352
title: On Close Relationship between Classical Time-Dependent Harmonic Oscillator and Non-Relativistic Quantum Mechanics in One Dimension
authors: Alexander Davydov
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures, 1 table, final version
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics (2011) 50: 1451-1467
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3352
abstract: In this paper, I present a mapping between representation of some quantum phenomena in one dimension and behavior of a classical time-dependent harmonic oscillator. For the first time, it is demonstrated that quantum tunneling can be described in terms of classical physics without invoking violations of the energy conservation law at any time instance. A formula is presented that generates a wide class of potential barrier shapes with the desirable reflection (transmission) coefficient and transmission phase shift along with the corresponding exact solutions of the time-independent Schr\"odinger's equation. These results, with support from numerical simulations, strongly suggest that two uncoupled classical harmonic oscillators, which initially have a 90\degree relative phase shift and then are simultaneously disturbed by the same parametric perturbation of a finite duration, manifest behavior which can be mapped to that of a single quantum particle, with classical 'range relations' analogous to the uncertainty relations of quantum physics.

id: 1006.3412
title: Operator-Schmidt decomposition and the geometrical edges of two-qubit gates
authors: S. Balakrishnan, R. Sankaranarayanan
comments: 15 Pages, 5 Figures, 2 Tables. Submitted for publication
journal: Quantum Information processing. 10(4), 449-461, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3412
abstract: Nonlocal two-qubit quantum gates are represented by canonical decomposition or equivalently by operator-Schmidt decomposition. The former decomposition results in geometrical representation such that all the two-qubit gates form tetrahedron within which perfect entanglers form a polyhedron. On the other hand, it is known from the later decomposition that Schmidt number of nonlocal gates can be either 2 or 4. In this work, some aspects of later decomposition are investigated. It is shown that two gates differing by local operations possess same set of Schmidt coefficients. Employing geometrical method, it is established that Schmidt number 2 corresponds to controlled unitary gates. Further, all the edges of tetrahedron and polyhedron are characterized using Schmidt strength, a measure of operator entanglement. It is found that one edge of the tetrahedron possesses the maximum Schmidt strength, implying that all the gates in the edge are maximally entangled.

id: 1006.3461
title: On the bosonic behavior of mean-field fluctuations in atomic ensembles
authors: Michael Keyl, Dirk-Michael Schlingemann, Zoltan Zimboras
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3461
abstract: The mean field fluctuations of large atomic ensembles can behave like bosonic modes, i.e. they induce a state on an appropriate system of bosonic modes. The most prominent example is that, if the atomic ensemble is in a homogenous product state, then the mean-field fluctuations are inducing a Gaussian state on a system of bosonic modes. In the present paper we show that for atomic ensemble states with exponentially decaying correlations (e.g. with respect to the distance of atoms) the mean-field fluctuations are inducing (possibly non-Gaussian) states on the on a system of bosonic modes. This result is true for a general lattice of atomic systems that is equipped with a reasonable distance function.

id: 1006.3502
title: A Note on Fully Entangled Fraction
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Zong-Guo Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A:Math. Theor. 43(2010)275203
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3502
abstract: We investigate the general characters of fully entangled fraction for quantum states. The fully entangled fraction of Isotropic states and Werner states are analytically computed.

id: 1006.3512
title: Truly random number generation via entropy amplification
authors: Yu Liu, Mingyi Zhu, Hong Guo
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3512
abstract: We present a simple setup to implement truly random number generator based on the measurement of the laser phase noise. From the entropy point of view, we estimate the number of truly random bits that can be extracted from the sampled Byte. With a simple method of adopting the $m$-least-significant-bit, we amplify the entropy of the original bit sequence and realize a truly random bit generation rate of $300$ Mbps.

id: 1006.3530
title: Optimal time-dependent lattice models for nonequilibrium dynamics
authors: Kaspar Sakmann, Alexej I. Streltsov, Ofir E. Alon, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 043003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3530
abstract: Lattice models are abundant in theoretical and condensed-matter physics. Generally, lattice models contain time-independent hopping and interaction parameters that are derived from the Wannier functions of the noninteracting problem. Here, we present a new concept based on time-dependent Wannier functions and the variational principle that leads to optimal time-dependent lattice models. As an application, we use the Bose-Hubbard model with time-dependent Wannier functions to study a quench scenario involving higher bands. We find a separation of times scales in the dynamics and show that under some circumstances the multi-band nonequilibrium dynamics of a quantum system can be obtained essentially at the cost of a single-band model.

id: 1006.3557
title: Gisin's Theorem for Arbitrary Dimensional Multipartite States
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 240502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3557
abstract: We present a set of Bell inequalities which are sufficient and necessary for separability of general pure multipartite quantum states in arbitrary dimensions. The relations between Bell inequalities and distillability are also studied. We show that any quantum states that violate one of these Bell inequalities are distillable.

id: 1006.3584
title: Transverse multi-mode effects on the performance of photon-photon gates
authors: Bing He, Andrew MacRae, Yang Han, A.I. Lvovsky, Christoph Simon
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022312 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3584
abstract: The multi-mode character of quantum fields imposes constraints on the implementation of high-fidelity quantum gates between individual photons. So far this has only been studied for the longitudinal degree of freedom. Here we show that effects due to the transverse degrees of freedom significantly affect quantum gate performance. We also discuss potential solutions, in particular separating the two photons in the transverse direction.

id: 1006.3602
title: Maximal violation of Bell inequality for any given two-qubit pure state
authors: Yang Xiang
comments: 3 pages, 1 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 27, 120301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3602
abstract: In the case of bipartite two qubits systems, we derive the analytical expression of bound of Bell operator for any given pure state. Our result not only manifest some properties of Bell inequality, for example which may be violated by any pure entangled state and only be maximally violated for a maximally entangled state, but also give the explicit values of maximal violation for any pure state. Finally we point out that for two qubits systems there is no mixed state which can produce maximal violation of Bell inequality.

id: 1006.3614
title: Metrics On Unitary Matrices And Their Application To Quantifying The Degree Of Non-Commutativity Between Unitary Matrices
authors: H. F. Chau
comments: 13 pages in RevTex 4.1, 2 figures, to appear in QIC. This replacement concentrates only on the more physics and quantum information aspects of the results reported in the original manuscript with a more detailed proof. The mathematical results involving the discovery of several matrix inequalities reported in the original version will be strengthened and rewritten in a separate posting
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3614
abstract: By studying the minimum resources required to perform a unitary transformation, families of metrics and pseudo-metrics on unitary matrices that are closely related to a recently reported quantum speed limit by the author are found. Interestingly, this family of metrics can be naturally converted into useful indicators of the degree of non-commutativity between two unitary matrices.

id: 1006.3629
title: Quantum-defect analysis of $np$ and $nd$ $\rm{H_3}$ Rydberg energy levels
authors: Jia Wang, Chris H. Greene
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022506 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3629
abstract: In this work, Rydberg energy levels of the triatomic hydrogen molecule ($\rm{H_3}$) are studied with multichannel quantum-defect theory. We extract the body-frame p-wave quantum defects from highly accurate \emph{ab initio} electronic potential surfaces and calculate the quantum defects of higher momentum states by using the long-range multipole potential model. To obtain laboratory-frame quantum defects, we perform a rovibrational-frame transformation with accurate rovibrational states of $\rm{H_3^+}$. Finally, we use the laboratory-frame quantum defects to calculate Rydberg energy levels for the fundamental neutral triatomic molecule $\rm{H_3}$.

id: 1006.3633
title: Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics with a Rydberg blocked atomic ensemble
authors: Christine Guerlin, Etienne Brion, Tilman Essslinger, Klaus Moelmer
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3633
abstract: We propose to implement the Jaynes-Cummings model by coupling a few-micrometer large atomic ensemble to a quantized cavity mode and classical laser fields. A two-photon transition resonantly couples the single-atom ground state |g> to a Rydberg state |e> via a non-resonant intermediate state |i>, but due to the interaction between Rydberg atoms only a single atom can be resonantly excited in the ensemble. This restricts the state space of the ensemble to the collective ground state |G> and the collectively excited state |E> with a single Rydberg excitation distributed evenly on all atoms. The collectively enhanced coupling of all atoms to the cavity field with coherent coupling strengths which are much larger than the decay rates in the system leads to the strong coupling regime of the resulting effective Jaynes-Cummings model. We use numerical simulations to show that the cavity transmission can be used to reveal detailed properties of the Jaynes-Cummings ladder of excited states, and that the atomic nonlinearity gives rise to highly non-trivial photon emission from the cavity. Finally, we suggest that the absence of interactions between remote Rydberg atoms may, due to a combinatorial effect, induce a cavity-assisted excitation blockade whose range is larger than the typical Rydberg dipole-dipole interaction length.

id: 1006.3644
title: Elementary gates for quantum information with superposed coherent states
authors: Petr Marek, Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 014304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3644
abstract: We propose a new way of implementing several elementary quantum gates for qubits in the coherent state basis. The operations are probabilistic and employ single photon subtractions as the driving force. Our schemes for single-qubit phase gate and two-qubit controlled phase gate are capable of achieving arbitrarily large phase shifts with currently available resources, which makes them suitable for the near-future tests of quantum information processing with superposed coherent states.

id: 1006.3647
title: Stochastic Schr?dinger equations and memory
authors: A. Barchielli, P. Di Tella, C. Pellegrini, F. Petruccione
comments: 18 pages
journal: QP-PQ series 27 (2011)52-67
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3647
abstract: By starting from the stochastic Schr\"odinger equation and quantum trajectory theory, we introduce memory effects by considering stochastic adapted coefficients. As an example of a natural non-Markovian extension of the theory of white noise quantum trajectories we use an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck coloured noise as the output driving process. Under certain conditions a random Hamiltonian evolution is recovered. Moreover, we show that our non-Markovian stochastic Schr\"odinger equations unravel some master equations with memory kernels.

id: 1006.3651
title: Quantum algorithms for formula evaluation
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 11 pages, survey for NATO ARW "Quantum Cryptography and Computing", Gdansk, September 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3651
abstract: We survey the recent sequence of algorithms for evaluating Boolean formulas consisting of NAND gates.

id: 1006.3671
title: Continuous history variable for programmable quantum processors
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX, 4 pages, 2 figures; v2: 5 pages, 5 figures, eq.3 corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Computer Science (cs.OH)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3671
abstract: In this brief note is discussed application of continuous quantum history ("trash") variable for simplification of scheme of programmable quantum processor. Similar scheme may be tested also in other models of the theory of quantum algorithms and complexity, because provides modification of a standard operation: quantum function evaluation.

id: 1006.3680
title: Complementary contributions of indeterminism and signalling to quantum correlations
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: 5.1 pages, restructured with expanded information-theoretic discussion and links to communication models, several refs added, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062117 (2010) (5pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3680
abstract: Simple quantitative measures of indeterminism and signalling, $I$ and $S$, are defined for models of statistical correlations. It is shown that any such model satisfies a generalised Bell-type inequality, with tight upper bound B(I,S). This upper bound explicitly quantifies the complementary contributions required from indeterminism and signalling, for modelling any given violation of the standard Bell-CHSH inequality. For example, all models of the maximum quantum violation must either assign no more than 80% probability of occurrence to some underlying event, and/or allow a nonlocal change of at least 60% in an underlying marginal probability of one observer in response to a change in measurement setting by a distant observer. The results yield a corresponding complementarity relation between the numbers of local random bits and nonlocal signalling bits required to model a given violation. A stronger relation is conjectured for simulations of singlet states. Signalling appears to be a useful resource only if a `gap' condition is satisfied, corresponding to being able to nonlocally flip some underlying marginal probability $p$ to its complementary value 1-p.

id: 1006.3702
title: Exploring Quantum Control Landscapes: Topology, Features, and Optimization Scaling
authors: Katharine W. Moore, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012109 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3702
abstract: Quantum optimal control experiments and simulations have successfully manipulated the dynamics of systems ranging from atoms to biomolecules. Surprisingly, these collective works indicate that the effort (i.e., the number of algorithmic iterations) required to find an optimal control field appears to be essentially invariant to the complexity of the system. The present work explores this matter in a series of systematic optimizations of the state-to-state transition probability on model quantum systems with the number of states $N$ ranging from 5 through 100. The optimizations occur over a landscape defined by the transition probability as a function of the control field. Previous theoretical studies on the topology of quantum control landscapes established that they should be free of sub-optimal traps under reasonable physical conditions. The simulations in this work include nearly 5000 individual optimization test cases, all of which confirm this prediction by fully achieving optimal population transfer of at least 99.9% upon careful attention to numerical procedures to ensure that the controls are free of constraints. Collectively, the simulation results additionally show invariance of required search effort to system dimension $N$. This behavior is rationalized in terms of the structural features of the underlying control landscape. The very attractive observed scaling with system complexity may be understood by considering the distance traveled on the control landscape during a search and the magnitude of the control landscape slope. Exceptions to this favorable scaling behavior can arise when the initial control field fluence is too large or when the target final state recedes from the initial state as $N$ increases.

id: 1006.3750
title: Doppler-free Yb Spectroscopy with Fluorescence Spot Technique
authors: Altaf H. Nizamani, James J. McLoughlin, Winfried K. Hensinger
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 82, 043408 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3750
abstract: We demonstrate a simple technique to measure the resonant frequency of the 398.9 nm 1S0 - 1P1 transition for the different Yb isotopes. The technique, that works by observing and aligning fluorescence spots, has enabled us to measure transition frequencies and isotope shifts with an accuracy of 60 MHz. We provide wavelength measurements for the transition that differ from previously published work. Our technique also allows for the determination of Doppler shifted transition frequencies for photoionisation experiments when the atomic beam and laser beam are not perpendicular and furthermore allows us to determine the average velocity of the atoms along the direction of atomic beam.

id: 1006.3775
title: Vibration-enhanced energy transfer in living molecules
authors: Vlatko Vedral, Tristan Farrow
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3775
abstract: The conversion of an absorbed photon from the exciton energy into the reaction centre in the photosynthetic complex has a near unit efficiency. It is becoming clear that any classical model, where the exciton hopping is modeled by a classical stochastic diffusion equation, cannot explain such a high degree of efficiency. A number of different quantum models have been proposed, ranging from a purely unitary model with long range exciton interactions to a noise-aided stochastic resonance models. Here we propose a very simple spin-boson model that captures all the features of the efficient part of energy transfer. We show how this model describes a scenario where a donor-acceptor system can be brought into resonance by a narrow band of vibrational modes so that the excitation transfer between the two can be made arbitrarily high. This is then extended to a seven exciton system such as the widely-studied FMO photosynthetic complex to show that a high efficiency is also achievable therein. Our model encodes a number of readily testable predictions and we discuss its generalisations to include the localisation in the reaction centre.

id: 1006.3814
title: Measuring photon-photon interactions via photon detection
authors: Mihai A. Macovei
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063815 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3814
abstract: The strong non-linearity plays a significant role in physics, particularly, in designing novel quantum sources of light and matter as well as in quantum chemistry or quantum biology. In simple systems, the photon-photon interaction can be determined analytically. However, it becomes challenging to obtain it for more compex systems. Therefore, we show here how to measure strong non-linearities via allowing the sample to interact with a weakly pumped quantized leaking optical mode. We found that the detected mean-photon number versus pump-field frequency shows several peaks. Interestingly, the interval between neighbour peaks equals the photon-photon interaction potential. Furthermore, the system exhibits sub-Poissonian photon statistics, entanglement and photon switching with less than one photon. Finally, we connect our study with existing related experiments.

id: 1006.3815
title: Broadband Homonuclear Decoupling
authors: Van Do, Navin Khaneja
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3815
abstract: We present a solution to the problem of broadband decoupling of a coupled homonuclear two-spin system. We describe a pulse sequence that creates an effective field perpendicular to the coupling interaction with a magnitude propotional to the chemical shift of the spins over a broad range of chemical shifts. When the chemical shift difference as imprinted on the perpendicular field is greater than the coupling between the spins, we get effective decoupling. The pulse sequence may be useful in various NMR applications.

id: 1006.3829
title: Slowing and stopping light using an optomechanical crystal array
authors: Darrick Chang, Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Mohammad Hafezi, Oskar Painter
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures, 5 appendices
journal: New J. Phys. 13 023003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3829
abstract: One of the major advances needed to realize all-optical information processing of light is the ability to delay or coherently store and retrieve optical information in a rapidly tunable manner. In the classical domain, this optical buffering is expected to be a key ingredient to managing the flow of information over complex optical networks. Such a system also has profound implications for quantum information processing, serving as a long-term memory that can store the full quantum information contained in an optical pulse. Here we suggest a novel approach to light storage involving an optical waveguide coupled to an optomechanical crystal array, where light in the waveguide can be dynamically and coherently transferred into long-lived mechanical vibrations of the array. Under realistic conditions, this system is capable of achieving large bandwidths and storage/delay times in a compact, on-chip platform.

id: 1006.3892
title: Quantum coherence in ion channels: Resonances, Transport and Verification
authors: A. Vaziri, M.B. Plenio
comments: Under review for New Jorunal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 085001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3892
abstract: Recently it was demonstrated that long-lived quantum coherence exists during excitation energy transport in photosynthesis. It is a valid question up to which length, time and mass scales quantum coherence may extend, how to one may detect this coherence and what if any role it plays for the dynamics of the system. Here we suggest that the selectivity filter of ion channels may exhibit quantum coherence which might be relevant for the process of ion selectivity and conduction. We show that quantum resonances could provide an alternative approch to ultrafast 2D spectroscopy to probe these quantum coherences. We demonstrate that the emergence of resonances in the conduction of ion channels that are modulated periodicallly by time dependent external electric fields can serve as signitures of quantum coherence in such a system. Assessments of experimental feasibility and specific paths towards the experimental realization of such experiments are presented. We show that this may be probed by direct 2-D spectroscopy or through the emergence of resonances in the conduction of ion channels that are modulated periodically by time dependent external electric fields.

id: 1006.3920
title: Outcome Independence of Entanglement in One-Way Computation
authors: Toshihiko Sasaki, Tsubasa Ichikawa, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 81 (2012) 064005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3920
abstract: We show that the various intermediate states appearing in the process of one-way computation at a given step of measurement are all equivalent modulo local unitary transformations. This implies, in particular, that all those intermediate states share the same entanglement irrespective of the measurement outcomes, indicating that the process of one-way computation is essentially unique with respect to local quantum operations.

id: 1006.3941
title: Quantum optical coherence can survive photon losses: a continuous-variable quantum erasure correcting code
authors: Mikael Lassen, Metin Sabuncu, Alexander Huck, Julien Niset, Gerd Leuchs, Nicolas J. Cerf, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 700 - 705 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3941
abstract: A fundamental requirement for enabling fault-tolerant quantum information processing is an efficient quantum error-correcting code (QECC) that robustly protects the involved fragile quantum states from their environment. Just as classical error-correcting codes are indispensible in today's information technologies, it is believed that QECC will play a similarly crucial role in tomorrow's quantum information systems. Here, we report on the first experimental demonstration of a quantum erasure-correcting code that overcomes the devastating effect of photon losses. Whereas {\it errors} translate, in an information theoretic language, the noise affecting a transmission line, {\it erasures} correspond to the in-line probabilistic loss of photons. Our quantum code protects a four-mode entangled mesoscopic state of light against erasures, and its associated encoding and decoding operations only require linear optics and Gaussian resources. Since in-line attenuation is generally the strongest limitation to quantum communication, much more than noise, such an erasure-correcting code provides a new tool for establishing quantum optical coherence over longer distances. We investigate two approaches for circumventing in-line losses using this code, and demonstrate that both approaches exhibit transmission fidelities beyond what is possible by classical means.

id: 1006.3943
title: Quantum Correlations in non-Markovian Environments
authors: Ferdi Altintas, Resul Eryigit
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010) pp. 4283-4296
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3943
abstract: We have studied the analytical Markovian and non-Markovian dynamics of quantum correlations, such as entanglement, quantum discord and Bell nonlocalities for three noisy qubits. Quantum correlation as measured by quantum discord is found to be immune to death contrary to entanglement and Bell nonlocality for initial GHZ- or W-type mixed states.

id: 1006.3971
title: Exact Solution of the Klein-Gordon Equation for the Hydrogen Atom Including Electron Spin
authors: Robert J. Ducharme
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3971
abstract: The term describing the coupling between total angular momentum and energy-momentum in the hydrogen atom is isolated from the radial Dirac equation and used to replace the corresponding orbital angular momentum coupling term in the radial K-G equation. The resulting spin-corrected K-G equation is a second order differential equation that contains no matrices. It is solved here to generate the same energy eigenvalues for the hydrogen atom as the Dirac equation.

id: 1006.3974
title: Graphical rule of transforming continuous-variable graph states by local homodyne detection
authors: Jing Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 034303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3974
abstract: Graphical rule, describing that any single-mode homodyne detection turns a given continuous-variable (CV) graph state into a new one, is presented. Employing two simple graphical rules: local complement operation and vertex deletion (single quadrature-amplitude $\hat{x}$ measurement), the graphical rule for any single-mode quadrature component measurement can be obtained. The shape of CV weighted graph state may be designed and constructed easily from a given larger graph state by applying this graphical rule.

id: 1006.3978
title: Elementary Proofs Of Two Theorems Involving Arguments Of Eigenvalues Of A Product Of Two Unitary Matrices
authors: H. F. Chau, Y. T. Lam
comments: 8 pages in Revtex 4.1 preprint format, to appear in Journal of Inequalities and Applications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3978
abstract: We give elementary proofs of two theorems concerning bounds on the maximum argument of the eigenvalues of a product of two unitary matrices --- one by Childs \emph{et al.} [J. Mod. Phys., \textbf{47}, 155 (2000)] and the other one by Chau [arXiv:1006.3614]. Our proofs have the advantages that the necessary and sufficient conditions for equalities are apparent and that they can be readily generalized to the case of infinite-dimensional unitary operators.

id: 1006.3987
title: A note on entropic uncertainty relations of position and momentum
authors: Thomas Sch¨¹rmann
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures, 2 references added
journal: T. Sch\"urmann, J. Russ. Laser Res., Vol. 33, p. 52 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3987
abstract: We consider two entropic uncertainty relations of position and momentum recently discussed in literature. By a suitable rescaling of one of them, we obtain a smooth interpolation of both for high-resolution and low-resolution measurements respectively. Because our interpolation has never been mentioned in literature before, we propose it as a candidate for an improved entropic uncertainty relation of position and momentum. Up to now, the author has neither been able to falsify nor prove the new inequality. In our opinion it is a challenge to do either one.

id: 1006.3989
title: De-quantisation of the Quantum Fourier Transform
authors: Alastair A. Abbott
comments: 13 pages. Selected for presentation at the International Workshop on Physics and Computation, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3989
abstract: The quantum Fourier transform (QFT) plays an important role in many known quantum algorithms such as Shor's algorithm for prime factorisation. In this paper we show that the QFT algorithm can, on a restricted set of input states, be de-quantised into a classical algorithm which is both more efficient and simpler than the quantum algorithm. By working directly with the algorithm instead of the circuit, we develop a simple classical version of the quantum basis-state algorithm. We formulate conditions for a separable state to remain separable after the QFT is performed, and use these conditions to extend the de-quantised algorithm to work on all such states without loss of efficiency. Our technique highlights the linearity of quantum mechanics as the fundamental feature accounting for the difference between quantum and de-quantised algorithms, and that it is this linearity which makes the QFT such a useful tool in quantum computation.

id: 1006.3998
title: Observation of Rabi oscillation of light assisted by atomic spin wave
authors: L. Q. Chen, Guo-Wan Zhang, Cheng-ling Bian, Chun-Hua Yuan, Z. Y. Ou, Weiping Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3998
abstract: Coherent conversion between a Raman pump field and its Stokes field is observed in a Raman process with a strong atomic spin wave initially prepared by another Raman process operated in the stimulated emission regime. The oscillatory behavior resembles the Rabi oscillation in atomic population in a two-level atomic system driven by a strong light field. The Rabi-like oscillation frequency is found to be related to the strength of the pre-built atomic spin wave. High conversion efficiency of 40% from the Raman pump field to the Stokes field is recorded and it is independent of the input Raman pump field. This process can act as a photon frequency multiplexer and may find wide applications in quantum information science.

id: 1006.4012
title: High-dimensional Bell test for a continuous variable state in phase space and its robustness to detection inefficiency
authors: Seung-Woo Lee, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures; title and abstract changed, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4012
abstract: We propose a scheme for testing high-dimensional Bell inequalities in phase space. High-dimensional Bell inequalities can be recast into the forms of a phase-space version using quasiprobability functions with the complex-valued order parameter. We investigate their violations for two-mode squeezed states while increasing the dimension of measurement outcomes, and finally show the robustness of high-dimensional tests to detection inefficiency.

id: 1006.4014
title: New Developments in Quantum Algorithms
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, to appear as an invited survey talk at MFCS'2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4014
abstract: In this survey, we describe two recent developments in quantum algorithms. The first new development is a quantum algorithm for evaluating a Boolean formula consisting of AND and OR gates of size N in time O(\sqrt{N}). This provides quantum speedups for any problem that can be expressed via Boolean formulas. This result can be also extended to span problems, a generalization of Boolean formulas. This provides an optimal quantum algorithm for any Boolean function in the black-box query model. The second new development is a quantum algorithm for solving systems of linear equations. In contrast with traditional algorithms that run in time O(N^{2.37...}) where N is the size of the system, the quantum algorithm runs in time O(\log^c N). It outputs a quantum state describing the solution of the system.

id: 1006.4027
title: Proposal for testing non-locality of single photons in cavities
authors: T. Pramanik, S. Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar, D. Home
comments: 8 pages, 4 eps figs, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4027
abstract: A scheme is formulated for testing nonlocality of single photons by considering the state of a single photon that could be located within one of two spatially separated cavities. The outcomes of four experiments on this state involving the resonant interactions of two-level atoms with these cavities and a couple of other auxiliary ones is shown to lead to a contradiction with the criterion of locality.

id: 1006.4036
title: Quantum entanglement of nanocantilevers
authors: C. Joshi, A. Hutter, F. E. Zimmer, M. Jonson, E. Andersson, P. Ohberg
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043846 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4036
abstract: We propose a scheme to entangle two mechanical nanocantilevers through indirect interactions mediated by a gas of ultra cold atoms. We envisage a system of nanocantilevers magnetically coupled to a Bose-Einstein condensate of atoms and focus on studying the dark states of the system. These dark states are entangled states of the two nanocantilevers, with no coupling to the atomic condensate. In the absence of dissipation, the degree of entanglement is found to oscillate with time, while if dissipation is included, the system is found to relax to a statistical mixture of dark states which remains time independent until the inevitable thermal dephasing destroys the nanocantilever coherence. This opens up the possibility of achieving long-lived entangled nanocantilever states.

id: 1006.4053
title: Quantum entanglement between the electron clouds of nucleic acids in DNA
authors: Elisabeth Rieper, Janet Anders, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, extended version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4053
abstract: We model the electron clouds of nucleic acids in DNA as a chain of coupled quantum harmonic oscillators with dipole-dipole interaction between nearest neighbours resulting in a van der Waals type bonding. Crucial parameters in our model are the distances between the acids and the coupling between them, which we estimate from numerical simulations [1]. We show that for realistic parameters nearest neighbour entanglement is present even at room temperature. We quantify the amount of entanglement in terms of negativity and single base von Neumann entropy. We find that the strength of the single base von Neumann entropy depends on the neighbouring sites, thus questioning the notion of treating single bases as logically independent units. We derive an analytical expression for the binding energy of the coupled chain in terms of entanglement and show the connection between entanglement and correlation energy, a quantity commonly used in quantum chemistry.

id: 1006.4087
title: Cooperative atom-light interaction in a blockaded Rydberg ensemble
authors: J. D. Pritchard, D. Maxwell, A. Gauguet, K. J. Weatherill, M. P. A. Jones, C. S. Adams
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 193603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4087
abstract: By coupling a probe transition to a Rydberg state using electro-magnetically induced transparency (EIT) we map the strong dipole-dipole interactions onto an optical field. We characterize the resulting cooperative optical non-linearity as a function of probe strength and density. We show that the effect of dipole blockade cannot be described using a mean-field but requires an $N$-atom cooperative model. Good quantitative agreement is obtained for three atoms per blockade with the $n=60$ Rydberg state. We place an upper-limit on the dephasing rate of the blockade spheres of $<110$ kHz.

id: 1006.4107
title: Quantum Defragmentation Algorithm
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 024302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4107
abstract: In this addendum of our paper [D. Burgarth and V. Giovannetti, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 100501 (2007)] we prove that during the transformation that allows one to enforce control by relaxation on a quantum system, the ancillary memory can be kept at a finite size, independently from the fidelity one wants to achieve. The result is obtained by introducing the quantum analog of defragmentation algorithms which are employed for efficiently reorganizing classical information in conventional hard-disks. Our result also implies that the reduced dynamics in any noisy system can be simulated with finitely many resources.

id: 1006.4147
title: Investigating the Performance of an Adiabatic Quantum Optimization Processor
authors: Kamran Karimi, Neil G. Dickson, Firas Hamze, M.H.S. Amin, Marshall Drew-Brook, Fabian A. Chudak, Paul I. Bunyk, William G. Macready, Geordie Rose
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4147
abstract: Adiabatic quantum optimization offers a new method for solving hard optimization problems. In this paper we calculate median adiabatic times (in seconds) determined by the minimum gap during the adiabatic quantum optimization for an NP-hard Ising spin glass instance class with up to 128 binary variables. Using parameters obtained from a realistic superconducting adiabatic quantum processor, we extract the minimum gap and matrix elements using high performance Quantum Monte Carlo simulations on a large-scale Internet-based computing platform. We compare the median adiabatic times with the median running times of two classical solvers and find that, for the considered problem sizes, the adiabatic times for the simulated processor architecture are about 4 and 6 orders of magnitude shorter than the two classical solvers' times. This shows that if the adiabatic time scale were to determine the computation time, adiabatic quantum optimization would be significantly superior to those classical solvers for median spin glass problems of at least up to 128 qubits. We also discuss important additional constraints that affect the performance of a realistic system.

id: 1006.4192
title: Imaging trapped ions with a microfabricated lens for quantum information processing
authors: Erik W. Streed, Benjamin G. Norton, Andreas Jechow, Till J. Weinhold, David Kielpinski
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 106 (2011) 010502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4192
abstract: Trapped ions are a leading system for realizing quantum information processing (QIP). Most of the technologies required for implementing large-scale trapped-ion QIP have been demonstrated, with one key exception: a massively parallel ion-photon interconnect. Arrays of microfabricated phase Fresnel lenses (PFL) are a promising interconnect solution that is readily integrated with ion trap arrays for large-scale QIP. Here we show the first imaging of trapped ions with a microfabricated in-vacuum PFL, demonstrating performance suitable for scalable QIP. A single ion fluorescence collection efficiency of 4.2 +/- 1.5% was observed, in agreement with the previously measured optical performance of the PFL. The contrast ratio between the ion signal and the background scatter was 23 +/- 4. The depth of focus for the imaging system was 19.4 +/- 2.4 {\mu}m and the field of view was 140 +/- 20 {\mu}m. Our approach also provides an integrated solution for high-efficiency optical coupling in neutral atom and solid state QIP architectures.

id: 1006.4202
title: Comment on the paper "Random Quantum Circuits are Approximate 2-designs"
authors: Igor Tuche Diniz, Daniel Jonathan
comments: 
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 304, 281--293 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4202
abstract: In [A.W. Harrow and R.A. Low, Commun. Math. Phys. 291, 257-302 (2009)], it was shown that a quantum circuit composed of random 2-qubit gates converges to an approximate quantum 2-design in polynomial time. We point out and correct a flaw in one of the paper's main arguments. Our alternative argument highlights the role played by transpositions induced by the random gates in achieving convergence.

id: 1006.4204
title: Joint remote preparation of a four-dimensional quantum state
authors: You-Bang Zhan
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4204
abstract: We propose various protocols for joint remotely prepare a four-dimensional quantum state by using two- and three-particle four-dimensional entangled state as the quantum channel. The single- and two-particle generalized projective measurement and the appropriate unitary operation are needed in our protocols. It is shown that the receiver can reconstruct the unknown original state only if two senders collaborate with each other.

id: 1006.4205
title: Other incarnations of the Gross-Pitaevskii dark soliton
authors: Indubala I Satija, Radha Balakrishnan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4205
abstract: We show that the dark soliton of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE) that describes the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) density of a system of weakly repulsive bosons, also describes that of a system of strongly repulsive hard core bosons at half filling. As a consequence of this, the GPE soliton gets related to the magnetic soliton in an easy-plane ferromagnet, where it describes the square of the in-plane magnetization of the system. These relationships are shown to be useful in understanding various characteristics of solitons in these distinct many-body systems.

id: 1006.4216
title: Continuous-variable Quantum Key Distribution protocols with eight-state discrete modulation
authors: A. Becir, F. A. A. El-Orany, M. R. B. Wahiddin
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4216
abstract: We propose a continuous variable quantum key distribution protocol based on discrete modulation of eight-state coherent states. We present a rigorous security proof against the collective attacks considering both of realistic lossy, noisy quantum channels, imperfect detector efficiency, and detector electronic noise. This protocol shows high tolerance against excess noise and it is promising to achieve hundreds distance long in optical fiber base.

id: 1006.4325
title: Entanglement criteria for microscopic-macroscopic systems
authors: Nicolo' Spagnolo, Chiara Vitelli, Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4325
abstract: We discuss the conclusions that can be drawn on a recent experimental micro-macro entanglement test [F. De Martini, F. Sciarrino, and C. Vitelli, Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 253601 (2008). The system under investigation is generated through optical parametric amplification of one photon belonging to an entangled pair. The adopted entanglement criterion makes it possible to infer the presence of entanglement before losses, that occur on the macrostate, under a specific assumption. In particular, an a priori knowledge of the system that generates the micro-macro pair is necessary to exclude a class of separable states that can reproduce the obtained experimental results. Finally, we discuss the feasibility of a micro-macro "genuine" entanglement test on the analyzed system by considering different strategies, which show that in principle a fraction epsilon, proportional to the number of photons that survive the lossy process, of the original entanglement persists in any losses regime.

id: 1006.4344
title: Entanglement generated by dissipation and steady state entanglement of two macroscopic objects
authors: Hanna Krauter, Christine A. Muschik, Kasper Jensen, Wojciech Wasilewski, Jonas M. Petersen, J. Ignacio Cirac, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: This is an update of the preprint from June 2010. It includes new results on the creation of steady state entanglement, which has been maintained up to one hour
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 080503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4344
abstract: Entanglement is a striking feature of quantum mechanics and an essential ingredient in most applications in quantum information. Typically, coupling of a system to an environment inhibits entanglement, particularly in macroscopic systems. Here we report on an experiment, where dissipation continuously generates entanglement between two macroscopic objects. This is achieved by engineering the dissipation using laser- and magnetic fields, and leads to robust event-ready entanglement maintained for 0.04s at room temperature. Our system consists of two ensembles containing about 10^{12} atoms and separated by 0.5m coupled to the environment composed of the vacuum modes of the electromagnetic field. By combining the dissipative mechanism with a continuous measurement, steady state entanglement is continuously generated and observed for up to an hour.

id: 1006.4350
title: Quantum Frequency Translation of Single-Photon States in Photonic Crystal Fiber
authors: H.J. McGuinness, M.G. Raymer, C.J. McKinstrie, S. Radic
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 105, 093604 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4350
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate frequency translation of a nonclassical optical field via the Bragg scattering four-wave mixing process in a photonic crystal fiber (PCF). The high nonlinearity and the ability to control dispersion in PCF enable efficient translation between photon channels within the visible to-near-infrared spectral range, useful in quantum networks. Heralded single photons at 683 nm were translated to 659 nm with an efficiency of $28.6 \pm 2.2$ percent. Second-order correlation measurements on the 683-nm and 659-nm fields yielded $g^{(2)}_{683}(0) = 0.21 \pm 0.02$ and $g^{(2)}_{659}(0) = 0.19 \pm 0.05$ respectively, showing the nonclassical nature of both fields.

id: 1006.4361
title: Opto-mechanical transducers for long-distance quantum communication
authors: K. Stannigel, P. Rabl, A. S. S?rensen, P. Zoller, M. D. Lukin
comments: Version as accepted by PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 220501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4361
abstract: We describe a new scheme to interconvert stationary and photonic qubits which is based on indirect qubit-light interactions mediated by a mechanical resonator. This approach does not rely on the specific optical response of the qubit and thereby enables optical quantum interfaces for a wide range of solid state spin and charge based systems. We discuss the implementation of quantum state transfer protocols between distant nodes of a large scale network and evaluate the effect of the main noise sources on the resulting state transfer fidelities. For the specific examples of electronic spin qubits and superconducting charge qubits we show that high fidelity quantum communication protocols can be implemented under realistic experimental conditions.

id: 1006.4366
title: Fisher information and multiparticle entanglement
authors: Philipp Hyllus, Wies?aw Laskowski, Roland Krischek, Christian Schwemmer, Witlef Wieczorek, Harald Weinfurter, Luca Pezz¨¦, Augusto Smerzi
comments: Published version. Notice also the following article [Phys. Rev. A 85, 022322 (2012), DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevA.85.022322] by Geza T\'oth on the same subject
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022321 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4366
abstract: The Fisher information $F$ gives a limit to the ultimate precision achievable in a phase estimation protocol. It has been shown recently that the Fisher information for a linear two-mode interferometer cannot exceed the number of particles if the input state is separable. As a direct consequence, with such input states the shot-noise limit is the ultimate limit of precision. In this work, we go a step further by deducing bounds on $F$ for several multiparticle entanglement classes. These bounds imply that genuine multiparticle entanglement is needed for reaching the highest sensitivities in quantum interferometry. We further compute similar bounds on the average Fisher information $\bar F$ for collective spin operators, where the average is performed over all possible spin directions. We show that these criteria detect different sets of states and illustrate their strengths by considering several examples, also using experimental data. In particular, the criterion based on $\bar F$ is able to detect certain bound entangled states.

id: 1006.4368
title: Multipartite entanglement and high precision metrology
authors: Geza Toth
comments: 10 pages including 3 figures, revtex4; v3: typos corrected, published version. An independent work by Philipp Hyllus and coworkers on the same subject can be found in Phys. Rev. A 85, 022321 (2012). See this http URL or this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022322 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4368
abstract: We present several entanglement criteria in terms of the quantum Fisher information that help to relate various forms of multipartite entanglement to the sensitivity of phase estimation. We show that genuine multipartite entanglement is necessary to reach the maximum sensitivity in some very general metrological tasks using a two-arm linear interferometer. We also show that it is needed to reach the maximum average sensitivity in a certain combination of such metrological tasks.

id: 1006.4402
title: Simulating Concordant Computations
authors: Bryan Eastin
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4402
abstract: A quantum state is called concordant if it has zero quantum discord with respect to any part. By extension, a concordant computation is one such that the state of the computer, at each time step, is concordant. In this paper, I describe a classical algorithm that, given a product state as input, permits the efficient simulation of any concordant quantum computation having a conventional form and composed of gates acting on two or fewer qubits. This shows that such a quantum computation must generate quantum discord if it is to efficiently solve a problem that requires super-polynomial time classically. While I employ the restriction to two-qubit gates sparingly, a crucial component of the simulation algorithm appears not to be extensible to gates acting on higher-dimensional systems.

id: 1006.4412
title: Dissipation Properties of Coupled Cavity Arrays
authors: ke liu, Lei Tan
comments: 4 pages 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4412
abstract: We propose an approach to analyze the dissipation properties of coupled cavity arrays. Employing a kind of quasi-boson, it is shown that the coupling to a bath renormalizes the localized mode and the interaction between cavities. By virtue of without having to mention the coordinates of bath, this approach would be great conceptual and, moreover, computation advantage. Based on the result, a single-photon transport in the array is examined, and the total transmission rate is presented. Besides, we also suggest a parameter to scale quality of the array.

id: 1006.4447
title: Curvature and torsion of quantum evolution
authors: V. M. Tkachuk
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4447
abstract: We study characteristics of quantum evolution which can be called curvature and torsion. The curvature shows a deviation of the state vector of the quantum evolution from the geodesic line and the torsion shows a deviation of state vector from the plane of evolution (a two-dimensional subspace) at a given time.

id: 1006.4481
title: Observation of Squeezing in Hidden Optical-Polarization States
authors: Ravi S. Singh, Gyaneshwar K. Gupta, Lallan Yadava
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Rom. Journ. Phys. 57, 694, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4481
abstract: The dynamic feature of monochromatic bi-modal chaotic optical field, enriched with orthogonally-polarized basis-modes propagating collinearly and undergoing Degenerate Parametric Amplification, is investigated to demonstrate Squeezing in Hidden Optical-Polarization states. The Variance (Noise) of Hidden Optical-Polarization Parameters showing squeezing therein is numerically studied by identifying a Squeezing - Function. This squeezing in HOPS is seen to depend critically on interaction time and an Onset-time responsible for the same is demarcated.

id: 1006.4507
title: Exact mapping between system-reservoir quantum models and semi-infinite discrete chains using orthogonal polynomials
authors: Alex W. Chin, ?ngel Rivas, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure, final version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 092109 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4507
abstract: By using the properties of orthogonal polynomials, we present an exact unitary transformation that maps the Hamiltonian of a quantum system coupled linearly to a continuum of bosonic or fermionic modes to a Hamiltonian that describes a one-dimensional chain with only nearest-neighbour interactions. This analytical transformation predicts a simple set of relations between the parameters of the chain and the recurrence coefficients of the orthogonal polynomials used in the transformation, and allows the chain parameters to be computed using numerically stable algorithms that have been developed to compute recurrence coefficients. We then prove some general properties of this chain system for a wide range of spectral functions, and give examples drawn from physical systems where exact analytic expressions for the chain properties can be obtained. Crucially, the short range interactions of the effective chain system permits these open quantum systems to be efficiently simulated by the density matrix renormalization group methods.

id: 1006.4516
title: Separability criteria for several classes of $n$-partite quantum states
authors: Ting Gao, Yan Hong
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 61, 765-771 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4516
abstract: In this paper, we mainly discuss the separability of $n$-partite quantum states from elements of density matrices. Practical separability criteria for different classes of $n$-qubit and $n$-qudit quantum states are obtained. Some of them are also sufficient conditions for genuine entanglement of $n$-partite quantum states. Moreover, one of the resulting criteria is also necessary and sufficient for a class of $n$-partite states.

id: 1006.4527
title: Jump-diffusion unravelling of a non Markovian generalized Lindblad master equation
authors: A. Barchielli, C. Pellegrini
comments: 23 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51 (2010) 112104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4527
abstract: The "correlated-projection technique" has been successfully applied to derive a large class of highly non Markovian dynamics, the so called non Markovian generalized Lindblad type equations or Lindblad rate equations. In this article, general unravellings are presented for these equations, described in terms of jump-diffusion stochastic differential equations for wave functions. We show also that the proposed unravelling can be interpreted in terms of measurements continuous in time, but with some conceptual restrictions. The main point in the measurement interpretation is that the structure itself of the underlying mathematical theory poses restrictions on what can be considered as observable and what is not; such restrictions can be seen as the effect of some kind of superselection rule. Finally, we develop a concrete example and we discuss possible effects on the heterodyne spectrum of a two-level system due to a structured thermal-like bath with memory.

id: 1006.4532
title: Optimized magnetic lattices for ultracold atomic ensembles
authors: Roman Schmied, Dietrich Leibfried, Robert J. C. Spreeuw, Shannon Whitlock
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 103029 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4532
abstract: We introduce a general method for designing tailored lattices of magnetic microtraps for ultracold atoms, on the basis of patterned permanently magnetized films. A fast numerical algorithm is used to automatically generate patterns which provide optimal atom confinement while respecting desired lattice symmetries and trap parameters. The algorithm can produce finite and infinite lattices of any plane symmetry; we focus specifically on square and triangular lattices which are of interest to future experiments. Typical trap parameters are discussed as well as the impact of realistic imperfections such as finite lithographic resolution and magnetic inhomogeneity. The presented designer lattices open new avenues for quantum simulation and quantum information processing with ultracold atoms on atom chips.

id: 1006.4533
title: Probing semi-macroscopic vacua by high fields of lasers
authors: Kensuke Homma, Dieter Habs, Toshiki Tajima
comments: 22 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4533
abstract: The invention of laser immediately enabled us to detect nonlinearities of photon interaction in matter, as manifested for example by Franken et al.'s detection of second harmonic generation and the excitation of the Brillouin forward scattering process. With the recent advancement in high power high energy laser and the examples of the nonlinearity study of laser-matter interaction by virtue of properly arranging laser and detectors, we envision the possibility of probing nonlinearities of photon interaction in vacuum over substantial spacetime scales compared with the microscopic scale provided by high energy accelerators. The hithertofore never detected Euler-Heisenberg nonlinearities in quantum electrodynamics (QED) in vacuum should come within our reach of detection using intense laser fields. Also our method should put us in a position with a far greater sensitivity of probing possible light-mass fields that have been postulated. With the availability of a large number of coherent photons our suggested measurement methods include the phase sensitive (contrast) imaging that avoids the pedestal noise and the scheme of second harmonic detection of photon nonlinearities in vacuum over a long co-propagating distance incurring resonance excitation. These methods carve out a substantial swath of new experimental parameter regimes of the exploration of photon nonlinearities in vacuum covering the force range from the electron mass scale to below neV.

id: 1006.4581
title: Analytical solution of thermal magnetization on memory stabilizer structures
authors: Yu Tomita, C. Ricardo Viteri, Kenneth R. Brown
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures, analytical solutions of problems studied numerically in arXiv:0907.0394v1 [quant-ph]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4581
abstract: We return to the question of how the choice of stabilizer generators affects the preservation of information on structures whose degenerate ground state encodes a classical redundancy code. Controlled-not gates are used to transform the stabilizer Hamiltonian into a Hamiltonian consisting of uncoupled single spins and/or pairs of spins. This transformation allows us to obtain an analytical partition function and derive closed form equations for the relative magnetization and susceptibility. These equations are in agreement with the numerical results presented in [arXiv:0907.0394v1] for finite size systems. Analytical solutions show that there is no finite critical temperature, Tc=0, for all of the memory structures in the thermodynamic limit. This is in contrast to the previously predicted finite critical temperatures based on extrapolation. The mismatch is a result of the infinite system being a poor approximation even for astronomically large finite size systems, where spontaneous magnetization still arises below an apparent finite critical temperature. We extend our analysis to the canonical stabilizer Hamiltonian. Interestingly, Hamiltonians with two-body interactions have a higher apparent critical temperature than the many-body Hamiltonian.

id: 1006.4585
title: Coherent frequency-down-conversion interface for quantum repeaters
authors: No¨¦ Curtz, Rob Thew, Christoph Simon, Nicolas Gisin, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express 18(21) 22099-22104 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4585
abstract: We report a coherence-preserving photon frequency down-conversion experiment based on difference-frequency generation in a periodically poled Lithium niobate waveguide, at the single-photon level. The coherence of the process has been demonstrated by measuring the phase coherence of pseudo single-photon time-bin qubits after frequency conversion with an interference visibility of > 96 %. This interface could be of interest for quantum repeater based hybrid networks.

id: 1006.4625
title: Mixing Times in Quantum Walks on Two-Dimensional Grids
authors: F.L. Marquezino, R. Portugal, G. Abal
comments: 11 pages
journal: Physical Review A, v. 82, p. 042341, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4625
abstract: Mixing properties of discrete-time quantum walks on two-dimensional grids with torus-like boundary conditions are analyzed, focusing on their connection to the complexity of the corresponding abstract search algorithm. In particular, an exact expression for the stationary distribution of the coherent walk over odd-sided lattices is obtained after solving the eigenproblem for the evolution operator for this particular graph. The limiting distribution and mixing time of a quantum walk with a coin operator modified as in the abstract search algorithm are obtained numerically. On the basis of these results, the relation between the mixing time of the modified walk and the running time of the corresponding abstract search algorithm is discussed.

id: 1006.4651
title: Preparing the bound instance of quantum entanglement
authors: J. DiGuglielmo, A. Samblowski, B. Hage, C. Pineda, J. Eisert, R. Schnabel
comments: The final version accounts for a recent comment in Nature Physics [24] clarifying that a previous claim of having generated bound entanglement [23] was not supported by the authors' data. We also extended our introduction and discussion and also added references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 240503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4651
abstract: Among the possibly most intriguing aspects of quantum entanglement is that it comes in "free" and "bound" instances. Bound entangled states require entangled states in preparation but, once realized, no free entanglement and therefore no pure maximally entangled pairs can be regained. Their existence hence certifies an intrinsic irreversibility of entanglement in nature and suggests a connection with thermodynamics. In this work, we present a first experimental unconditional preparation and detection of a bound entangled state of light. We consider continuous-variable entanglement, use convex optimization to identify regimes rendering its bound character well certifiable, and realize an experiment that continuously produced a distributed bound entangled state with an extraordinary and unprecedented significance of more than ten standard deviations away from both separability and distillability. Our results show that the approach chosen allows for the efficient and precise preparation of multimode entangled states of light with various applications in quantum information, quantum state engineering and high precision metrology.

id: 1006.4666
title: Markovian Master Equations: A Critical Study
authors: ?ngel Rivas, A. Douglas K. Plato, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 40 pages, 14 figures, final version
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 113032 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4666
abstract: We derive Markovian master equations of single and interacting harmonic systems in different scenarios, including strong internal coupling. By comparing the dynamics resulting from the corresponding Markovian master equations with exact numerical simulations of the evolution of the global system, we precisely delimit their validity regimes and assess the robustness of the assumptions usually made in the process of deriving the reduced dynamics. The proposed method is sufficiently general to suggest that the conclusions made here are widely applicable to a large class of settings involving interacting chains subject to a weak interaction with an environment.

id: 1006.4699
title: Entropic uncertainty relations for extremal unravelings of super-operators
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 8 pages, one figure. More explanations are given for Eq. (2.19) and Example III.5. One reference is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4699
abstract: A way to pose the entropic uncertainty principle for trace-preserving super-operators is presented. It is based on the notion of extremal unraveling of a super-operator. For given input state, different effects of each unraveling result in some probability distribution at the output. As it is shown, all Tsallis' entropies of positive order as well as some of Renyi's entropies of this distribution are minimized by the same unraveling of a super-operator. Entropic relations between a state ensemble and the generated density matrix are revisited in terms of both the adopted measures. Using Riesz's theorem, we obtain two uncertainty relations for any pair of generalized resolutions of the identity in terms of the Renyi and Tsallis entropies. The inequality with Renyi's entropies is an improvement of the previous one, whereas the inequality with Tsallis' entropies is a new relation of a general form. The latter formulation is explicitly shown for a pair of complementary observables in a $d$-level system and for the angle and the angular momentum. The derived general relations are immediately applied to extremal unravelings of two super-operators.

id: 1006.4727
title: Quantifying quantum discord and entanglement of formation via unified purifications
authors: Li-Xiang Cen, Xin-Qi Li, JiuShu Shao, YiJing Yan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 83, 054101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4727
abstract: We propose a scheme to evaluate the amount of quantum discord and entanglement of formation for mixed states, and reveal their ordering relation via an intrinsic relationship between the two quantities distributed in different partners of the associated purification. This approach enables us to achieve analytical expressions of the two measures for a sort of quantum states, such as an arbitrary two-qubit density matrix reduced from pure three-qubit states and a class of rank-2 mixed states of 4\times 2 systems. Moreover, we apply the scheme to characterize fully the dynamical behavior of quantum correlations for the specified physical systems under decoherence.

id: 1006.4743
title: Realization of a Knill-Laflamme-Milburn C-NOT gate -a photonic quantum circuit combining effective optical nonlinearities
authors: Ryo Okamoto, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Holger F. Hofmann, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 6pages, 3figures
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 108, 10067 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4743
abstract: Quantum information science addresses how uniquely quantum mechanical phenomena such as superposition and entanglement can enhance communication, information processing and precision measurement. Photons are appealing for their low noise, light-speed transmission and ease of manipulation using conventional optical components. However, the lack of highly efficient optical Kerr nonlinearities at single photon level was a major obstacle. In a breakthrough, Knill, Laflamme and Milburn (KLM) showed that such an efficient nonlinearity can be achieved using only linear optical elements, auxiliary photons, and measurement. They proposed a heralded controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate for scalable quantum computation using a photonic quantum circuit to combine two such nonlinear elements. Here we experimentally demonstrate a KLM CNOT gate. We developed a stable architecture to realize the required four-photon network of nested multiple interferometers based on a displaced-Sagnac interferometer and several partially polarizing beamsplitters. This result confirms the first step in the KLM `recipe' for all-optical quantum computation, and should be useful for on-demand entanglement generation and purification. Optical quantum circuits combining giant optical nonlinearities may find wide applications across telecommunications and sensing.

id: 1006.4764
title: Quantum walks of correlated particles
authors: Alberto Peruzzo, Mirko Lobino, Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Nobuyuki Matsuda, Alberto Politi, Konstantinos Poulios, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Yoav Lahini, Nur Ismail, Kerstin W?rhoff, Yaron Bromberg, Yaron Silberberg, Mark G. Thompson, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Science, 329(5998):1500-1503, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4764
abstract: Quantum walks of correlated particles offer the possibility to study large-scale quantum interference, simulate biological, chemical and physical systems, and a route to universal quantum computation. Here we demonstrate quantum walks of two identical photons in an array of 21 continuously evanescently-coupled waveguides in a SiOxNy chip. We observe quantum correlations, violating a classical limit by 76 standard deviations, and find that they depend critically on the input state of the quantum walk. These results open the way to a powerful approach to quantum walks using correlated particles to encode information in an exponentially larger state space.

id: 1006.4772
title: Quantum noise in optical interferometers
authors: Volodymyr G. Voronov, Michael Weyrauch
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A81:053816,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4772
abstract: We study the photon counting noise in optical interferometers used for gravitational wave detection. In order to reduce quantum noise a squeezed vacuum is injected into the usually unused input port. It is investigated under which conditions the gravitational wave signal may be amplified without increasing counting noise concurrently. Such a possibility was suggested as a consequence of the entanglement of the two output ports of a beam splitter. We find that amplification without concurrent increase of noise is not possible for reasonable squeezing parameters. Photon distributions for various beam splitter angles and squeezing parameters are calculated.

id: 1006.4788
title: On the Relationship Between Complex Potentials and Strings of Projection Operators
authors: J.J.Halliwell, J.M.Yearsley
comments: 29 pages, LaTex, 4 figures. Substantial revisions
journal: J Phys A-Math Theor 43, 445303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4788
abstract: It is of interest in a variety of contexts, and in particular in the arrival time problem, to consider the quantum state obtained through unitary evolution of an initial state regularly interspersed with periodic projections onto the positive $x$-axis (pulsed measurements). Echanobe, del Campo and Muga have given a compelling but heuristic argument that the state thus obtained is approximately equivalent to the state obtained by evolving in the presence of a certain complex potential of step-function form. In this paper, with the help of the path decomposition expansion of the associated propagators, we give a detailed derivation of this approximate equivalence. The propagator for the complex potential is known so the bulk of the derivation consists of an approximate evaluation of the propagator for the free particle interspersed with periodic position projections. This approximate equivalence may be used to show that to produce significant reflection, the projections must act at time spacing less than 1/E, where E is the energy scale of the initial state.

id: 1006.4790
title: Fluctuations, dissipation and the dynamical Casimir effect
authors: Diego A. R. Dalvit, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Francisco Diego Mazzitelli
comments: 39 pages, 4 figures. Review paper to appear in Lecture Notes in Physics, Volume on Casimir Physics, edited by Diego Dalvit, Peter Milonni, David Roberts, and Felipe da Rosa. Minor changes, a reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4790
abstract: Vacuum fluctuations provide a fundamental source of dissipation for systems coupled to quantum fields by radiation pressure. In the dynamical Casimir effect, accelerating neutral bodies in free space give rise to the emission of real photons while experiencing a damping force which plays the role of a radiation reaction force. Analog models where non-stationary conditions for the electromagnetic field simulate the presence of moving plates are currently under experimental investigation. A dissipative force might also appear in the case of uniform relative motion between two bodies, thus leading to a new kind of friction mechanism without mechanical contact. In this paper, we review recent advances on the dynamical Casimir and non-contact friction effects, highlighting their common physical origin.

id: 1006.4805
title: Dynamics of information in the presence of deformation
authors: Nasser Metwally
comments: 
journal: International Journal of quantum Information: Vol 9 No 3 (2011) 937-946
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4805
abstract: The entanglement of atomic system consists of two atoms interacts with a deformed cavity mode is quantified by the means of Bloch vectors and the cross dyadic of the travelling state inside the cavity. For large value of the deformation the amplitude of Bloch vectors decrease very fast and consequently the traveling state turns into mixed state quickly. The generated entangled state is used as quantum channel to implement quantum teleportation protocol. It is shown that both of the deformed parameter and the number of photons inside the cavity play a central role on controlling the fidelity of the transmitted information.

id: 1006.4859
title: Information theoretic treatment of tripartite systems and quantum channels
authors: Patrick J. Coles, Li Yu, Vlad Gheorghiu, Robert B. Griffiths
comments: 21 pages. An earlier version of this paper attempted to prove our main uncertainty relation, Theorem 5, using the achievability of the Holevo quantity in a coding task, an approach that ultimately failed because it did not account for locking of classical correlations, e.g. see [DiVincenzo et al. PRL. 92, 067902 (2004)]. In the latest version, we use a very different approach to prove Theorem 5
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 83, 062338 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4859
abstract: A Holevo measure is used to discuss how much information about a given POVM on system $a$ is present in another system $b$, and how this influences the presence or absence of information about a different POVM on $a$ in a third system $c$. The main goal is to extend information theorems for mutually unbiased bases or general bases to arbitrary POVMs, and especially to generalize "all-or-nothing" theorems about information located in tripartite systems to the case of \emph{partial information}, in the form of quantitative inequalities. Some of the inequalities can be viewed as entropic uncertainty relations that apply in the presence of quantum side information, as in recent work by Berta et al. [Nature Physics 6, 659 (2010)]. All of the results also apply to quantum channels: e.g., if $\EC$ accurately transmits certain POVMs, the complementary channel $\FC$ will necessarily be noisy for certain other POVMs. While the inequalities are valid for mixed states of tripartite systems, restricting to pure states leads to the basis-invariance of the difference between the information about $a$ contained in $b$ and $c$.

id: 1006.4866
title: Quantum State and Process Tomography of Energy Transfer Systems via Ultrafast Spectroscopy
authors: Joel Yuen-Zhou, Jacob J. Krich, Masoud Mohseni, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: IMPORTANT: Supporting information in PDF format can be downloaded from source folder
journal: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 2011 108 (43) 17615-17620
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4866
abstract: The description of excited state dynamics in multichromophoric systems constitutes both a theoretical and experimental challenge in modern physical chemistry. An experimental protocol which can systematically characterize both coherent and dissipative processes at the level of the evolving quantum state of the chromophores is desired. In this article, we show that a carefully chosen set of polarization controlled two-color heterodyned photon-echo experiments can be used to reconstruct the time-evolving density matrix of the one-exciton manifold of a heterodimer. This possibility in turn allows for a complete description of the excited state dynamics via quantum process tomography (QPT). Calculations on the dimer show that QPT can reveal rich information about system-bath interactions, which otherwise appear nontrivially hidden in the polarization monitored in standard four-wave mixing experiments. Our study presents a novel method for analyzing condensed phase experiments with a quantum information processing perspective.

id: 1006.4871
title: Topological order in an exactly solvable 3D spin model
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Bernhard Leemhuis, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 39 pages, 15 figures
journal: Ann. Phys., Vol. 326:4, page 839 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4871
abstract: We study a 3D generalization of the toric code model introduced recently by Chamon. This is an exactly solvable spin model with six-qubit nearest neighbor interactions on an FCC lattice whose ground space exhibits topological quantum order. The elementary excitations of this model which we call monopoles can be geometrically described as the corners of rectangular-shaped membranes. We prove that the creation of an isolated monopole separated from other monopoles by a distance R requires an operator acting on at least R^2 qubits. Composite particles that consist of two monopoles (dipoles) and four monopoles (quadrupoles) can be described as end-points of strings. The peculiar feature of the model is that dipole-type strings are rigid, that is, such strings must be aligned with face-diagonals of the lattice. For periodic boundary conditions the ground space can encode 4g qubits where g is the greatest common divisor of the lattice dimensions. We describe a complete set of logical operators acting on the encoded qubits in terms of closed strings and closed membranes.

id: 1006.4888
title: Separable Operations, Graph Codes and the Location of Quantum Information
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu
comments: 106 pages, LaTeX. Carnegie Mellon University PhD Thesis, Quantum Information Theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4888
abstract: In the first part of this Dissertation, I study the differences between LOCC (local operations and classical communication) and the more general class of separable operations. I show that the two classes coincide for the case of pure bipartite state input, and derive a set of important consequences. Using similar techniques I also generalize the no-cloning theorem when restricted to separable operations and show that cloning becomes much more restrictive, by providing necessary (and sometimes sufficient) conditions. In the second part I investigate graph states and graph codes with carrier qudits of arbitrary dimensionality, and extend the notion of stabilizer to any dimension, not necessarily prime. I further study how and where information is located in the various subsets of the qudit carriers of arbitrary additive graph codes, and provide efficient techniques that can be used in deciding what types of information a subset contains.

id: 1006.4902
title: The Hardy Experiment in the Transactional Interpretation
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: Revised for clarity; references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4902
abstract: The Hardy experiment is analyzed from the standpoint of the Transactional Interpretation (TI) in its possibilist variant, PTI. It is argued that PTI provides a natural and illuminating account of the associated phenomena, resolving the apparent paradox which arises from the mistaken notion that components of the state vector labeled by spacetime regions imply the actual presence of a corpuscle in that region.

id: 1006.4905
title: Experimental characterization of qutrits using SIC-POVMs
authors: Z. E. D. Medendorp, F. A. Torres-Ruiz, L. K. Shalm, G. N. M. Tabia, C. A. Fuchs, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 051801(R) (2011) [4 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4905
abstract: Generalized quantum measurements (also known as POVMs) are of great importance in quantum information and quantum foundations, but often difficult to perform. We present an experimental approach which can in principle be used to perform arbitrary POVMs in a linear-optical context. One of the most interesting POVMs, the SIC-POVM, is the most compact, set of measurements that can be used to fully describe a quantum state. We use our technique to carry out the first experimental characterization of the state of a qutrit using SIC-POVMs. Because of the highly symmetric nature of this measurement, such a representation has the unique property that it permits all other measurement outcomes to be predicted by a simple extension of the classical Bayesian sum rule, making no use of complex amplitudes or Hilbert-space operators. We demonstrate this approach on several qutrit states encoded in single photons.

id: 1006.4918
title: A Stepwise Planned Approach to the Solution of Hilbert's Sixth Problem. III : Measurements and von Neumann Projection/Collapse Rule
authors: Tulsi Dass
comments: 29 pages; one section and two references added; results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4918
abstract: Supmech, the universal mechanics developed in the previous two papers, accommodates both quantum and classical mechanics as subdisciplines (a brief outline is included for completeness); this feature facilitates, in a supmech based treatment of quantum measurements, an unambiguous treatment of the apparatus as a quantum system approximated well by a classical one. Taking explicitly into consideration the fact that observations on the apparatus are made when it has `settled down after the measurement interaction' and are restricted to macroscopically distinguishable pointer readings, the unwanted superpositions of (system + apparatus) states are shown to be suppressed; this provides a genuinely physics based justification for the (traditionally \emph{postulated}) von Neumann projection/collapse rule. The decoherence mechanism brought into play by the stated observational constraints is free from the objections against the traditional decoherence program.

id: 1006.4941
title: A note on threshold theorem of fault-tolerant quantum computation
authors: Min Liang, Li Yang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4941
abstract: Error-correction process has to be carried out periodically to prevent accumulation of errors in fault-tolerant quantum computation. It is believed that the best choice to get maximum threshold value is carrying out an error-correction process after each quantum gate operation. Result of this note shows that the optimal error-correction period depends on the value of k which is the level number of concatenated quantum error-correction code.

id: 1006.4958
title: Local Hamiltonians for Maximally Multipartite Entangled States
authors: P. Facchi, G. Florio, S. Pascazio, F. Pepe
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4958
abstract: We study the conditions for obtaining maximally multipartite entangled states (MMES) as non-degenerate eigenstates of Hamiltonians that involve only short-range interactions. We investigate small-size systems (with a number of qubits ranging from 3 to 5) and show some example Hamiltonians with MMES as eigenstates.

id: 1006.5054
title: Residual entanglement and sudden death: A direct connection
authors: J. G. Oliveira Junior, J. G. Peixoto de Faria, M. C. Nemes
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, to appear in PLA, DOI information: 10.1016/j.physleta.2011.10.020
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5054
abstract: We explore the results of [V. Coffman, et al., Phys. Rev. A 61 (2000) 052306] derived for general tripartite states in a dynamical context. We study a class of physically motivated tripartite systems. We show that whenever entanglement sudden death occurs in one of the partitions residual entanglement will appear. For fourpartite systems however, the appearance of residual entanglement is not conditioned by sudden death of entanglement. We can only say that if sudden death of entanglement occurs in some partition there will certainly be residual entanglement.

id: 1006.5116
title: Spectrally Resolved Quantum Tomography of Polarization Entangled States
authors: Dmitry A. Kalashnikov, Leonid A. Krivitsky
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 093040
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5116
abstract: We study broadband polarization entangled states generated within the line width of type-II Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion (SPDC). Applying a complete quantum polarization tomography protocol at arbitrary combination of frequency and angular sideband modes we reveal a complex structure of non-degenerate non-collinear polarization entangled states generated within the SPDC line width. It is demonstrated that simultaneous compensation of longitudinal and transverse walk off leads to homogenizing the structure of polarization entanglement.

id: 1006.5167
title: Demonstration of double EIT using coupled harmonic oscillators and RLC circuits
authors: Joshua Harden, Amitabh Joshi, Juan D. Serna
comments: REVTeX, 10 pages, 10 figures. Some text revision, added references
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 32 (2011) 541-558
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5167
abstract: Single and double electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in a medium, consisting of four-level atoms in the inverted-Y configuration, are discussed using mechanical and electrical analogies. A three coupled spring-mass system subject to damping and driven by an external force is used to represent the four-level atom mechanically. The equations of motion of this system are solved analytically, which revealed single and double EIT. On the other hand, three coupled RLC circuits are used, as the electrical analog, to explore and experimentally demonstrate single and double EIT. The simplicity of these two models makes this experiment appropriate for undergraduate students and easy to incorporate into a college physics laboratory.

id: 1006.5183
title: Reconstruction of Hamiltonians from given time evolutions
authors: J Bernatska, A Messina
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Scr. 85 (2012) 015001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5183
abstract: In this paper we propose a systematic method to solve the inverse dynamical problem for a quantum system governed by the von Neumann equation: to find a class of Hamiltonians reproducing a prescribed time evolution of a pure or mixed state of the system. Our approach exploits the equivalence between an action of the group of evolution operators over the state space and an adjoint action of the unitary group over Hermitian matrices. The method is illustrated by two examples involving a pure and a mixed state.

id: 1006.5197
title: Optimal Detection of Entanglement in GHZ States
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. v2: minor improvements. v3: negative sign corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 020303(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5197
abstract: We present a broad class of states which are diagonal in the basis of N-qubit GHZ states such that non-positivity under the partial transpose operation is necessary and sufficient for the presence of entanglement. This class includes many naturally arising instances such as dephased or depolarised GHZ states. Furthermore, our proof directly leads to an entanglement witness which saturates this bound. The witness is applied to thermal GHZ states to prove that the entanglement can be extremely robust to system imperfections.

id: 1006.5227
title: Pseudo-randomness and Learning in Quantum Computation
authors: Richard A. Low
comments: Contains results from 0802.1919 (with an alternative proof of the Markov chain mixing time bound), 0811.2597, 0903.5236 and 0907.2833. Also presents an introduction to k-designs, proving the relationships between different definitions. There is a review chapter on uses of k-designs
journal: PhD Thesis, University of Bristol, UK, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5227
abstract: This thesis discusses the young fields of quantum pseudo-randomness and quantum learning algorithms. We present techniques for derandomising algorithms to decrease randomness resource requirements and improve efficiency. One key object in doing this is a k-design, which is a distribution on the unitary group whose kth moments match those of the unitarily invariant Haar measure. We show that for a natural model of a random quantum circuit, the distribution of random circuits quickly converges to a 2-design. We then present an efficient unitary k-design construction for any k, provided the number of qubits n satisfies k = O(n/log n). In doing this, we provide an efficient construction of a quantum tensor product expander, which is a generalisation of a quantum expander which in turn generalises classical expanders. We then discuss applications of k-designs. We show that they can be used to improve the efficiency of many existing algorithms and protocols and also find new applications to derandomising large deviation bounds. In particular, we show that many large deviation bound results for Haar random unitaries carry over to k-designs for k = poly(n). In the second part of the thesis, we present some learning and testing algorithms for the Clifford group. We find an optimal algorithm for identifying an unknown Clifford operation. We also give an algorithm to test if an unknown operation is close to a Clifford or far from every Clifford.

id: 1006.5254
title: Classical and Non-Relativistic Limits of a Lorentz-Invariant Bohmian Model for a System of Spinless Particles
authors: Sergio Hernandez-Zapata, Ernesto Hernandez-Zapata
comments: 
journal: Found.Phys.40:532,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5254
abstract: A completely Lorentz-invariant Bohmian model has been proposed recently for the case of a system of non-interacting spinless particles, obeying Klein-Gordon equations. It is based on a multi-temporal formalism and on the idea of treating the squared norm of the wave function as a space-time probability density. The particle's configurations evolve in space-time in terms of a parameter {\sigma}, with dimensions of time. In this work this model is further analyzed and extended to the case of an interaction with an external electromagnetic field. The physical meaning of {\sigma} is explored. Two special situations are studied in depth: (1) the classical limit, where the Einsteinian Mechanics of Special Relativity is recovered and the parameter {\sigma} is shown to tend to the particle's proper time; and (2) the non-relativistic limit, where it is obtained a model very similar to the usual non-relativistic Bohmian Mechanics but with the time of the frame of reference replaced by {\sigma} as the dynamical temporal parameter.

id: 1006.5260
title: Clifford Gates by Code Deformation
authors: H. Bombin
comments: Extended version with more details
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 043005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5260
abstract: Topological subsystem color codes add to the advantages of topological codes an important feature: error tracking only involves measuring 2-local operators in a two dimensional setting. Unfortunately, known methods to compute with them were highly unpractical. We give a mechanism to implement all Clifford gates by code deformation in a planar setting. In particular, we use twist braiding and express its effects in terms of certain colored Majorana operators.

id: 1006.5312
title: Dynamics of pair correlations in the attractive Lieb-Liniger gas
authors: Dominik Muth, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 150403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5312
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a 1D Bose gas after a quench from the Tonks-Girardeau regime to the regime of strong attractive interactions applying analytical techniques and exact numerical simulations. After the quench the system is found to be predominantly in an excited gas-like state, the so-called super-Tonks gas, however with a small coherent admixture of two-particle bound states. Despite its small amplitude, the latter component leads to a rather pronounced oscillation of the local density-density correlation with a frequency corresponding to the binding energy of the pair, making two-particle bound states observable in an experiment. Contributions from bound states with larger particle numbers are found to be negligible.

id: 1006.5314
title: Photoassociation of a cold atom-molecule pair: long-range quadrupole-quadrupole interactions
authors: M. Lepers, O. Dulieu, V. Kokoouline
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5314
abstract: The general formalism of the multipolar expansion of electrostatic interactions is applied to the calculation the potential energy between an excited atom (without fine structure) and a ground state diatomic molecule at large separations. Both partners exhibit a permanent quadrupole moment, so that their mutual quadrupole-quadrupole long-range interaction is attractive enough to bind trimers. Numerical results are given for an excited Cs(6P) atom and a ground state Cs2 molecule. The prospects for achieving photoassociation of a cold atom/dimer pair is thus discussed and found promising. The formalism can be easily generalized to the long-range interaction between molecules to investigate the formation of cold tetramers.

id: 1006.5318
title: Tripartite probability distributions and communication complexity
authors: Carlos Palazuelos, David Perez-Garcia, Ignacio Villanueva
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. We believe the main result to be true, but the proof is not correct. We are at the moment trying to fix it
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5318
abstract: We show that every tripartite quantum correlation generated with a Schmidt state (in particular every correlation generated with the GHZ state) can be simulated with the sending of two bits of classical communication from Alice to Bob and Charlie plus the sending of two bits of classical communication from Bob to Charlie. This extends recent results which showed that the maximal violation of Bell inequalities attainable by these correlations is uniformly bounded. For simplicity, we state and prove the result for three parties, but the generalization to the case of $n$ parties follows easily. We also show that every $n$-partite probability distribution generated with local resources plus $c$-bits of local communication can violate a Bell inequality by at most a factor of $2^c$.

id: 1006.5406
title: Adiabatic Charge Control in a Single Donor Atom Transistor
authors: Enrico Prati, Matteo Belli, Simone Cocco, Guido Petretto, Marco Fanciulli
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5406
abstract: We charge an individual donor with electrons stored in a quantum dot in its proximity. A Silicon quantum device containing a single Arsenic donor and an electrostatic quantum dot in parallel is realized in a nanometric field effect transistor. The different coupling capacitances of the donor and the quantum dot with the control and the back gates are exploited to generate a relative rigid shift of their energy spectrum as a function of the back gate voltage, causing the crossing of the energy levels. We observe the sequential tunneling through the $D^{2-}$ and the $D^{3-}$ energy levels of the donor hybridized at the oxide interface at 4.2 K. Their respective states form an honeycomb pattern with the quantum dot states. It is therefore possible to control the exchange coupling of an electron of the quantum dot with the electrons bound to the donor, thus realizing a physical qubit for quantum information processing applications.

id: 1006.5407
title: Fundamental Quantum Limit to Waveform Estimation
authors: Mankei Tsang, Howard M. Wiseman, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 4 pages, v2: major update, added a figure, v3: accepted by PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters 106, 090401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5407
abstract: We derive a quantum Cram\'er-Rao bound (QCRB) on the error of estimating a time-changing signal. The QCRB provides a fundamental limit to the performance of general quantum sensors, such as gravitational-wave detectors, force sensors, and atomic magnetometers. We apply the QCRB to the problem of force estimation via continuous monitoring of the position of a harmonic oscillator, in which case the QCRB takes the form of a spectral uncertainty principle. The bound on the force-estimation error can be achieved by implementing quantum noise cancellation in the experimental setup and applying smoothing to the observations.

id: 1006.5474
title: Disappearance of entanglement: a topological point of view
authors: Dong Zhou, Robert Joynt
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Inf Process 11, 571-583 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5474
abstract: We give a topological classification of the evolution of entanglement, particularly the different ways the entanglement can disappear. Four categories exhaust all possibilities given the initial quantum state is entangled and the final one is not. Exponential decay of entanglement, entanglement sudden death and sudden birth can all be understood and visualized in the associated geometrical picture - the polarization vector representation. The entanglement evolution categories of any model are determined by the topology of the state space, the limiting state and the memory effect of the environment. Transitions between these types of behaviors as a function of physical parameters are also possible. These transitions are thus of topological nature. We illustrate the general concepts with a visualizable model.

id: 1006.5479
title: The Quantum Double Model with Boundary: Condensations and Symmetries
authors: Salman Beigi, Peter W. Shor, Daniel Whalen
comments: 31 pages, 7 figures, contains results of arXiv:1002.4930 and new stuff. v2: title changed, published version, v3: fixed a typo in eq (6)
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, Volume 306, Number 3, 663-694 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5479
abstract: Associated to every finite group, Kitaev has defined the quantum double model for every orientable surface without boundary. In this paper, we define boundaries for this model and characterize condensations; that is, we find all quasi-particle excitations (anyons) which disappear when they move to the boundary. We then consider two phases of the quantum double model corresponding to two groups with a domain wall between them, and study the tunneling of anyons from one phase to the other. Using this framework we discuss the necessary and sufficient conditions when two different groups give the same anyon types. As an application we show that in the quantum double model for S_3 (the permutation group over three letters) there is a chargeon and a fluxion which are not distinguishable. This group is indeed a special case of groups of the form of the semidirect product of the additive and multiplicative groups of a finite field, for all of which we prove a similar symmetry.

id: 1006.5489
title: Microstructure Effects for Casimir Forces in Chiral Metamaterials
authors: Alexander P. McCauley, Rongkuo Zhao, M. T. Homer Reid, Alejandro W. Rodriguez, Jiangfeng Zhou, F. S. S. Rosa, John D. Joannopoulos, D. A. R. Dalvit, Costas M. Soukoulis, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review B, vol. 82, p. 165108, October 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5489
abstract: We examine a recent prediction for the chirality-dependence of the Casimir force in chiral metamaterials by numerical computation of the forces between the exact microstructures, rather than homogeneous approximations. We compute the exact force for a chiral bent-cross pattern, as well as forces for an idealized "omega"-particle medium in the dilute approximation and identify the effects of structural inhomogeneity (i.e. proximity forces and anisotropy). We find that these microstructure effects dominate the force for separations where chirality was predicted to have a strong influence. To get observations of chirality free from microstructure effects, one must go to large separations where the effect of chirality is at most $\sim10^{-4}$ of the total force.

id: 1006.5517
title: Quantum Interference of Stored Coherent Spin-wave Excitations in a Two-channel Memory
authors: Hai Wang, Shujing Li, Zhongxiao Xu, Xingbo Zhao, Lijun Zhang, Jiahua Li, Yuelong Wu, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng, Min Xiao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5517
abstract: Quantum memories are essential elements in long-distance quantum networks and quantum computation. Significant advances have been achieved in demonstrating relative long-lived single-channel memory at single-photon level in cold atomic media. However, the qubit memory corresponding to store two-channel spin-wave excitations (SWEs) still faces challenges, including the limitations resulting from Larmor procession, fluctuating ambient magnetic field, and manipulation/measurement of the relative phase between the two channels. Here, we demonstrate a two-channel memory scheme in an ideal tripod atomic system, in which the total readout signal exhibits either constructive or destructive interference when the two-channel SWEs are retrieved by two reading beams with a controllable relative phase. Experimental result indicates quantum coherence between the stored SWEs. Based on such phase-sensitive storage/retrieval scheme, measurements of the relative phase between the two SWEs and Rabi oscillation, as well as elimination of the collapse and revival of the readout signal, are experimentally demonstrated.

id: 1006.5525
title: The experimental failure of macroscopic determinism: the case of an electrocardiogram
authors: Ramon Lapiedra, Francisco Montes
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5525
abstract: Even if never elucidated, the question of determinism is a standing question along the history of human thinking. A physical system evolves in a deterministic way if its future is completely determined once we have fixed some present characteristics of it, i.e., its initial conditions. The problem addressed in the present paper is to test determinism in the macroscopic domain. By imposing a very plausible ``separability'' assumption, we prove that determinism enters in contradiction with the recorded outcomes of a given electrocardiogram. The interest of this result comes from the fact such a basic idea as determinism has never been experimentally tested up to now in the macroscopic domain, and as far as we know not even in the quantum domain.

id: 1006.5544
title: Quantum computing by optical control of electron spins
authors: Ren-Bao Liu, Wang Yao, L. J. Sham
comments: 69 pages, 46 figures, to appear in Advances in Physics
journal: Advances in Physics Vol. 59, 703-802 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5544
abstract: We review the progress and main challenges in implementing large-scale quantum computing by optical control of electron spins in quantum dots (QDs). Relevant systems include self-assembled QDs of III-V or II-VI compound semiconductors (such as InGaAs and CdSe), monolayer fluctuation QDs in compound semiconductor quantum wells, and impurity centers in solids such as P-donors in silicon and nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. The decoherence of the electron spin qubits is discussed and various schemes for countering the decoherence problem are reviewed. We put forward designs of local nodes consisting of a few qubits which can be individually addressed and controlled. Remotely separated local nodes are connected by photonic structures (microcavities and waveguides) to form a large-scale distributed quantum system or a quantum network. The operation of the quantum network consists of optical control of a single electron spin, coupling of two spins in a local nodes, optically controlled quantum interfacing between stationary spin qubits in QDs and flying photon qubits in waveguides, rapid initialization of spin qubits, and qubit-specific single-shot non-demolition quantum measurement. The rapid qubit initialization may be realized by selectively enhancing certain entropy dumping channels via phonon or photon baths. The single-shot quantum measurement may be in-situ implemented through the integrated photonic network. The relevance of quantum non-demolition measurement to large-scale quantum computation is discussed. To illustrate the feasibility and demand, the resources are estimated for the benchmark problem of factorizing 15 with Shor's algorithm.

id: 1006.5556
title: Multi-walker discrete time quantum walks on arbitrary graphs, their properties, and their photonic implementation
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Andreas Schreiber, Martin Stefanak, Igor Jex, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 013001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5556
abstract: Quantum walks have emerged as an interesting alternative to the usual circuit model for quantum computing. While still universal for quantum computing, the quantum walk model has very different physical requirements, which lends itself more naturally to some physical implementations, such as linear optics. Numerous authors have considered walks with one or two walkers, on one dimensional graphs, and several experimental demonstrations have been performed. In this paper we discuss generalizing the model of discrete time quantum walks to the case of an arbitrary number of walkers acting on arbitrary graph structures. We present a formalism which allows for analysis of such situations, and several example scenarios for how our techniques can be applied. We consider the most important features of quantum walks -- measurement, distinguishability, characterization, and the distinction between classical and quantum interference. We also discuss the potential for physical implementation in the context of linear optics, which is of relevance to present day experiments.

id: 1006.5595
title: Dark resonances in the field of frequency shifted feedback laser radiation
authors: V. I. Romanenko, A. V. Romanenko, L. P. Yatsenko, G. A. Kazakov, A. N. Litvinov, B. G. Matisov, Yu. V. Rozhdestvensky
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 215402 (9pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5595
abstract: We present a theory of dark resonances in a fluorescence of a three-level atom gas interacting with a polychromatic field of a frequency shifted feedback (FSF) laser. We show that conditions for the resonance observation are optimal when the phase relations between the laser spectral components provide generation of a light pulses train. We study analytically the field broadening and the light shift of the resonances.

id: 1006.5615
title: Ultrafast sequential charge transfer in a double quantum dot
authors: A. Putaja, E. Rasanen
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5615
abstract: We use optimal control theory to construct external electric fields which coherently transfer the electronic charge in a double quantum-dot system. Without truncation of the eigenstates we operate on desired superpositions of the states in order to prepare the system to a localized state and to coherently transfer the charge from one well to another. Within a fixed time interval, the optimal processes are shown to occur through several excited states. The obtained yields are generally between 99% and 99.99% depending on the field constraints, and they are not dramatically affected by strict frequency filters which make the fields (e.g., laser pulses) closer to experimental realism. Finally we demonstrate that our scheme provides simple access to hundreds of sequential processes in charge localization while preserving the high fidelity.

id: 1006.5656
title: Trace formula for counting nodal domains on the boundaries of chaotic 2D billiards
authors: Amit Aronovitch, Uzy Smilansky
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5656
abstract: Given a Dirichlet eigenfunction of a 2D quantum billiard, the boundary domain count is the number of intersections of the nodal lines with the boundary. We study the integer sequence defined by these numbers, sorted according to the energies of the eigenfunctions. Based on a variant of Berry's random wave model, we derive a semi-classical trace formula for the sequence of boundary domain counts. The formula consists of a Weyl-like smooth part, and an oscillating part which depends on classical periodic orbits and their geometry. The predictions of this trace formula are supported by numerical data computed for the Africa billiard.

id: 1006.5664
title: Topological matter with collective encoding and Rydberg blockade
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052326 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5664
abstract: We propose to use a permutation symmetric sample of multi-level atoms to simulate the properties of topologically ordered states. The Rydberg blockade interaction is used to prepare states of the sample which are equivalent to resonating valence bond states, Laughlin states, and string-net condensates and to create and study the properties of their quasi-particle-like fundamental excitations.

id: 1006.5665
title: Information - Disturbance Tradeoff in the Estimation of a Unitary Transformation
authors: Alessandro Bisio, Giulio Chiribella, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5665
abstract: We address the problem of the information-disturbance trade-off associated to the estimation of a quantum transformation, and show how the extraction of information about the a black box causes a perturbation of the corresponding input-output evolution. In the case of a black box performing a unitary transformation, randomly distributed according to the invariant measure, we give a complete solution of the problem, deriving the optimal trade-off curve and presenting an explicit construction of the optimal quantum network.

id: 1006.5667
title: A bright, pulsed two-mode squeezer
authors: Andreas Eckstein, Andreas Christ, Peter J. Mosley, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 013603 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5667
abstract: We report the realization of a bright ultrafast two-mode squeezer based on type II parametric downconversion (PDC) in periodically poled $\mathrm{KTiOPO_4}$ (PP-KTP) waveguides. It produces a pulsed two-mode squeezed vacuum state: a photon-number entangled pair of truly single-mode pulses or, in terms of continuous variables quantum optics, a pulsed, single mode Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) state in the telecom regime. We prove the single mode character of our source by measuring its $g^{(2)}$ correlation function and demonstrate a mean photon number of up to 2.5 per pulse, equivalent to 11dB of two-mode squeezing.

id: 1006.5784
title: Quantum Dissension: Generalizing Quantum Discord for Three-Qubit States
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, Pankaj Agrawal, Arun K. Pati
comments: 9 pages 6 figures typo fixed and some arguments added
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 65 605-612 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5784
abstract: We introduce the notion of quantum dissension for a three-qubit system as a measure of quantum correlations. We use three equivalent expressions of three-variable mutual information. Their differences can be zero classically but not so in quantum domain. It generalizes the notion of quantum discord to a multipartite system. There can be multiple definitions of the dissension depending on the nature of projective measurements done on the subsystems. As an illustration, we explore the consequences of these multiple definitions and compare them for three-qubit pure and mixed GHZ and W states. We find that unlike discord, dissension can be negative. This is because measurement on a subsystem may enhance the correlations in the rest of the system. This approach can pave a way to generalize the notion of quantum correlations in the multiparticle setting.

id: 1006.5795
title: Realizing controllable noise in photonic quantum information channels
authors: A. Shaham, H.S. Eisenberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5795
abstract: Controlling the depolarization of light is a long-standing open problem. In recent years, many demonstrations have used the polarization of single photons to encode quantum information. The depolarization of these photons is equivalent to the decoherence of the quantum information they encode. We present schemes for building various depolarizing channels with controlled properties using birefringent crystals. Three such schemes are demonstrated and their effects on single photons are shown by quantum process tomography to be in good agreement with a theoretical model.

id: 1006.5854
title: Entanglement-based signature of nonlocal dispersion cancellation
authors: Tomasz Wasak, Piotr Szankowski, Wojciech Wasilewski, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 5 pages, 2 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052120 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5854
abstract: We derive an inequality bounding the strength of temporal correlations for a pair of light beams prepared in a separable state and propagating through dispersive media with opposite signs of group velocity dispersion. The presented inequality can be violated by entangled states of light, such as photon pairs produced in spontaneous parametric down-conversion. Because the class of separable states covers the entire category of classical fields as a particular case, this result provides an unambiguously quantum feature of nonlocal dispersion cancellation that cannot be reproduced within the classical theory of electromagnetic radiation.

id: 1006.5882
title: Characterizing Quantum Properties of a Measurement Apparatus: Insights from the Retrodictive Approach
authors: Taoufik Amri, Julien Laurat, Claude Fabre
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 106 (2011) 020502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5882
abstract: Using the retrodictive approach of quantum physics, we show that the state retrodicted from the response of a measurement apparatus is a convenient tool to fully characterize its quantum properties. We translate in terms of this state some interesting aspects of the quantum behavior of a detector, such as the non-classicality or the non-gaussian character of its measurements. We also introduce estimators - the projectivity, the ideality, the fidelity or the detectivity of measurements perfomed by the apparatus - which directly follow from the retrodictive approach. Beyond their fundamental significance for describing general quantum measurements, these properties are crucial in several protocols, in particular in the conditional preparation of non-classical states of light or in measurement-driven quantum information processing.

id: 1006.0047
title: Entanglement Renyi entropies in holographic theories
authors: Matthew Headrick
comments: 38 pages; v2: minor improvements to presentation; v3: corrections and improvements to presentation
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:126010,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0047
abstract: Ryu and Takayanagi conjectured a formula for the entanglement (von Neumann) entropy of an arbitrary spatial region in an arbitrary holographic field theory. The von Neumann entropy is a special case of a more general class of entropies called Renyi entropies. Using Euclidean gravity, Fursaev computed the entanglement Renyi entropies (EREs) of an arbitrary spatial region in an arbitrary holographic field theory, and thereby derived the RT formula. We point out, however, that his EREs are incorrect, since his putative saddle points do not in fact solve the Einstein equation. We remedy this situation in the case of two-dimensional CFTs, considering regions consisting of one or two intervals. For a single interval, the EREs are known for a general CFT; we reproduce them using gravity. For two intervals, the RT formula predicts a phase transition in the entanglement entropy as a function of their separation, and that the mutual information between the intervals vanishes for separations larger than the phase transition point. By computing EREs using gravity and CFT techniques, we find evidence supporting both predictions. We also find evidence that large-$N$ symmetric-product theories have the same EREs as holographic ones.

id: 1006.0088
title: Entangled random pure states with orthogonal symmetry: exact results
authors: Pierpaolo Vivo
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 405206
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0088
abstract: We compute analytically the density $\varrho_{N,M}(\lambda)$ of Schmidt eigenvalues, distributed according to a fixed-trace Wishart-Laguerre measure, and the average R\'enyi entropy $\langle\mathcal{S}_q\rangle$ for reduced density matrices of entangled random pure states with orthogonal symmetry $(\beta=1)$. The results are valid for arbitrary dimensions $N=2k,M$ of the corresponding Hilbert space partitions, and are in excellent agreement with numerical simulations.

id: 1006.0118
title: Density Functional Theory Based Understanding on the Reactivity of N2 Molecule on Aln (n = 2, 3, 13, 30 and 100) Clusters
authors: Bhakti S. Kulkarni, Sailaja Krishnamurty, Sourav Pal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0118
abstract: Reactivity of Aluminum Clusters has been found to exhibit size sensitive variations. This work is motivated by a recent report1 predicting higher reactivity of melted Aluminum clusters towards the N2 molecule as compared to the non-melted Al clusters. We attempt to understand the underlying electronic and structural factors influencing the adsorption of N2 molecule (a prerequisite for the reactivity) on ground state geometry (a non-melted structure) of various Al clusters. The results show that the adsorption energy is of the order of 8-10 kcal/mol and does not vary with respect to the cluster size and the electronic properties of the ground state geometry. The structural and electronic properties of high energy conformations of Al clusters (a melted cluster) are also analyzed to explain their higher reactivity towards N2 molecule.

id: 1006.0137
title: Spectrum of Dirichlet Laplacian in a conical layer
authors: Pavel Exner, Milo? Tater
comments: With some improvements and a broader range of numerical results, to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0137
abstract: We study spectral properties of Dirichlet Laplacian on the conical layer of the opening angle $\pi-2\theta$ and thickness equal to $\pi$. We demonstrate that below the continuum threshold which is equal to one there is an infinite sequence of isolated eigenvalues and analyze properties of these geometrically induced bound states. By numerical computation we find examples of the eigenfunctions.

id: 1006.0151
title: Effects of Quenched Randomness on Classical and Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Rafael L. Greenblatt
comments: 100 pages LaTeX (with included style files), 3 EPS figures. Doctoral dissertation
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0151
abstract: This dissertation describes the effect of quenched randomness on first order phase transitions in lattice systems, classical and quantum. It is proven that a large class of quantum lattice systems in low dimension (d <= 2 or, with suitable continuous symmetry, d <= 4) cannot exhibit first-order phase transitions in the presence of suitable ("direct") quenched disorder.

id: 1006.0187
title: The Problem of the Observer in Physics
authors: Davide Bondoni
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0187
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. In this short paper I present a new approach to the problem of measurement, based on the difference between language (reality) and meta-language (meta-reality). This way, it will be shown as the measurement is a meta-sentence on a real event. It is no longer necessary to split up the world into subject and object with a shifty boundary, but starting with an holistic event (the phenomenon) in which everything is entangled and make meta-assertion on this. This possible way out stops von Neumann's chain and explains the real meaning of the concept of measurement.

id: 1006.0198
title: An eccentrically perturbed Tonks-Girardeau gas
authors: J. Goold, M. Krych, Z. Idziaszek, T. Fogarty, Th. Busch
comments: Comments and suggestions are welcome
journal: New J. Phys. 12 093041 2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0198
abstract: We investigate the static and dynamic properties of a Tonks-Girardeau gas in a harmonic trap with an eccentric $\delta$-perturbation of variable strength. For this we first find the analytic eigensolution of the single particle problem and use this solution to calculate the spatial density and energy profiles of the many particle gas as a function of the strength and position of the perturbation. We find that the crystal nature of the Tonks state is reflected in both the lowest occupation number and momentum distribution of the gas. As a novel application of our model, we study the time evolution of the the spatial density after a sudden removal of the perturbation. The dynamics exhibits collapses and revivals of the original density distribution which occur in units of the trap frequency. This is reminiscent of the Talbot effect from classical optics.

id: 1006.0200
title: The 1958 Pekeris-Accad-WEIZAC Ground-Breaking Collaboration that Computed Ground States of Two-Electron Atoms (and its 2010 Redux)
authors: Christoph Koutschan, Doron Zeilberger
comments: 8 pages, 2 photos, final version as it appeared in the journal
journal: The Mathematical Intelligencer 33(2), pp. 52-57, 2011
subjects: Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0200
abstract: In order to appreciate how well off we mathematicians and scientists are today, with extremely fast hardware and lots and lots of memory, as well as with powerful software, both for numeric and symbolic computation, it may be a good idea to go back to the early days of electronic computers and compare how things went then. We have chosen, as a case study, a problem that was considered a huge challenge at the time. Namely, we looked at C.L. Pekeris's seminal 1958 work on the ground state energies of two-electron atoms. We went through all the computations ab initio with today's software and hardware, with a special emphasis on the symbolic computations which in 1958 had to be made by hand, and which nowadays can be automated and generalized.

id: 1006.0224
title: Fermionic vacuum polarization by a cosmic string in de Sitter spacetime
authors: E.R. Bezerra de Mello, A.A. Saharian
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures
journal: JHEP 1008:038,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0224
abstract: We investigate the fermionic condensate and the vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor for a massive spinor field in the geometry of a straight cosmic string on background of de Sitter spacetime. By using the Abel-Plana summation formula, we explicitly extract form the expectation values the contribution associated with purely de Sitter space, remaining the expectation values induced by the cosmic string. The latter presents information about de Sitter gravity as well. Because the investigation of the fermionic quantum fluctuations in de Sitter space have been investigated in literature, here we are mainly interested in the cosmic string-induced contributions. For a massless field, the fermionic condensate vanishes and the presence of the string does not break chiral symmetry of the massless theory. Unlike to the case of a scalar field, for a massive fermionic field the vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor is diagonal and the axial and radial stresses are equal to the energy density. At large distances from the string the behavior of the string-induced parts in the vacuum densities is damping oscillatory with the amplitude decaying as the inverse fourth power of the distance. This is in contrast to the case of flat spacetime, in which the string-induced vacuum densities for a massive field decay exponentially with distance from the string. In the limit of the large curvature radius of de Sitter space we recover the results for a cosmic string in flat spacetime.

id: 1006.0242
title: High cooperativity coupling of electron-spin ensembles to superconducting cavities
authors: D. I. Schuster, A. P. Sears, E. Ginossar, L. DiCarlo, L. Frunzio, J. J. L. Morton, H. Wu, G. A. D. Briggs, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 4pgs, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0242
abstract: Electron spins in solids are promising candidates for quantum memories for superconducting qubits because they can have long coherence times, large collective couplings, and many quantum bits can be encoded into the spin-waves of a single ensemble. We demonstrate the coupling of electron spin ensembles to a superconducting transmission-line resonator at coupling strengths greatly exceeding the cavity decay rate and comparable to spin linewidth. We also use the enhanced coupling afforded by the small cross-section of the transmission line to perform broadband spectroscopy of ruby at millikelvin temperatures at low powers. In addition, we observe hyperfine structure in diamond P1 centers and time domain saturation-relaxation of the spins.

id: 1006.0251
title: Strong Coupling of a Spin Ensemble to a Superconducting Resonator
authors: Y. Kubo, F. R. Ong, P. Bertet, D. Vion, V. Jacques, D. Zheng, A. Dr¨¦au, J.-F. Roch, A. Auffeves, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup, M.F. Barthe, P. Bergonzo, D. Esteve
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 140502 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0251
abstract: We report the realization of a quantum circuit in which an ensemble of electronic spins is coupled to a frequency tunable superconducting resonator. The spins are Nitrogen-Vacancy centers in a diamond crystal. The achievement of strong coupling is manifested by the appearance of a vacuum Rabi splitting in the transmission spectrum of the resonator when its frequency is tuned through the NV center electron spin resonance.

id: 1006.0261
title: Short-range force detection using optically-cooled levitated microspheres
authors: Andrew A. Geraci, Scott B. Papp, John Kitching
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, minor changes, Figs. 1 and 2 replaced
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0261
abstract: We propose an experiment using optically trapped and cooled dielectric microspheres for the detection of short-range forces. The center-of-mass motion of a microsphere trapped in vacuum can experience extremely low dissipation and quality factors of $10^{12}$, leading to yoctonewton force sensitivity. Trapping the sphere in an optical field enables positioning at less than 1 $\mu$m from a surface, a regime where exotic new forces may exist. We expect that the proposed system could advance the search for non-Newtonian gravity forces via an enhanced sensitivity of $10^5-10^7$ over current experiments at the 1 $\mu$m length scale. Moreover, our system may be useful for characterizing other short-range physics such as Casimir forces.

id: 1006.0282
title: SUSY transformations with complex factorization constants. Application to spectral singularities
authors: Boris F. Samsonov
comments: Thanks to A. Sokolov a number of inaccuracies are corrected
journal: J.Phys.A43:402006,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0282
abstract: Supersymmetric (SUSY) transformation operators corresponding to complex factorization constants are analyzed as operators acting in the Hilbert space of functions square integrable on the positive semiaxis. Obtained results are applied to Hamiltonians possessing spectral singularities which are non-Hermitian SUSY partners of selfadjoint operators. A new regularization procedure for the resolution of the identity operator in terms of continuous biorthonormal set of the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian eigenfunctions is proposed. It is also shown that the continuous spectrum eigenfunction has zero binorm (in the sense of distributions) at the singular point.

id: 1006.0345
title: Chaotic dephasing in a double-slit scattering experiment
authors: Zoran Levnaji?, Toma? Prosen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0345
abstract: We design a computational experiment in which a quantum particle tunnels into a billiard of variable shape and scatters out of it through a double-slit opening on the billiard's base. The interference patterns produced by the scattered probability currents for a range of energies are investigated in relation to the billiard's geometry which is connected to its classical integrability. Four billiards with hierarchical integrability levels are considered: integrable, pseudo-integrable, weak-mixing and strongly chaotic. In agreement with the earlier result by Casati and Prosen [1], we find the billiard's integrability to have a crucial influence on the properties of the interference patterns. In the integrable case most experiment outcomes are found to be consistent with the constructive interference occurring in the usual double-slit experiment. In contrast to this, non-integrable billiards typically display asymmetric interference patterns of smaller visibility characterized by weakly correlated wave function values at the two slits. Our findings indicate an intrinsic connection between the classical integrability and the quantum dephasing, responsible for the destruction of interference.

id: 1006.0410
title: Regularity of Eigenstates in Regular Mourre Theory
authors: Jacob S. Moeller, Matthias Westrich
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0410
abstract: The present paper gives an abstract method to prove that possibly embedded eigenstates of a self-adjoint operator $H$ lie in the domain of the $k^{th}$ power of a conjugate operator $A$. Conjugate means here that $H$ and $A$ have a positive commutator locally near the relevant eigenvalue in the sense of Mourre. The only requirement is $C^{k+1}(A)$ regularity of $H$. Regarding integer $k$, our result is optimal. Under a natural boundedness assumption of the multiple commutators we prove that the eigenstate 'dilated' by $\exp(i\theta A)$ is analytic in a strip around the real axis. In particular, the eigenstate is an analytic vector with respect to $A$. Natural applications are 'dilation analytic' systems satisfying a Mourre estimate, where our result can be viewed as an abstract version of a theorem due to Balslev and Combes. As a new application we consider the massive Spin-Boson Model.

id: 1006.0530
title: Geometrical Description of Quantum Mechanics - Transformations and Dynamics
authors: G. Marmo, G. F. Volkert
comments: 22 pages, to be published in Physica Scripta
journal: Phys.Scripta 82:038117,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0530
abstract: In this paper we review a proposed geometrical formulation of quantum mechanics. We argue that this geometrization makes available mathematical methods from classical mechanics to the quantum frame work. We apply this formulation to the study of separability and entanglement for states of composite quantum systems.

id: 1006.0682
title: Non-singular cloaks allow mimesis
authors: Andre Diatta, Sebastien Guenneau
comments: Version 2: 23 pages, 9 figures. More figures added. Misprints corrected. OCIS Codes: (000.3860) Mathematical methods in physics; (260.2110) Electromagnetic theory; (160.3918) Metamaterials; (160.1190) Anisotropic optical materials; (350.7420) Waves; (230.1040) Acousto-optical devices; (160.1050) Acousto-optical materials; (290.5839) Scattering,invisibility; (230.3205) Invisibility cloaks
journal: Journal of Optics 13 (2011), no.2, 024012-024022
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0682
abstract: We design non-singular cloaks enabling objects to scatter waves like objects with smaller size and very different shapes. We consider the Schrodinger equation which is valid e.g. in the contexts of geometrical and quantum optics. More precisely, we introduce a generalized non-singular transformation for star domains, and numerically demonstrate that an object of nearly any given shape surrounded by a given cloak scatters waves in exactly the same way as a smaller object of another shape. When a source is located inside the cloak, it scatters waves as if it would be located some distance away from a small object. Moreover, the invisibility region actually hosts almost-trapped eigenstates. Mimetism is numerically shown to break down for the quantified energies associated with confined modes. If we further allow for non-isomorphic transformations, our approach leads to the design of quantum super-scatterers: a small size object surrounded by a quantum cloak described by a negative anisotropic heterogeneous effective mass and a negative spatially varying potential scatters matter waves like a larger nano-object of different shape. Potential applications might be for instance in quantum dots probing.

id: 1006.0729
title: Localization and the effects of symmetries in the thermalization properties of one-dimensional quantum systems
authors: Lea F. Santos, Marcos Rigol
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures, as published (Fig.09 was corrected in this final version)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 031130 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0729
abstract: We study how the proximity to an integrable point or to localization as one approaches the atomic limit, as well as the mixing of symmetries in the chaotic domain, may affect the onset of thermalization in finite one-dimensional systems. We consider systems of hard-core bosons at half-filling with nearest neighbor hopping and interaction, and next-nearest neighbor interaction. The latter breaks integrability and induces a ground-state superfluid to insulator transition. By full exact diagonalization, we study chaos indicators and few-body observables. We show that when different symmetry sectors are mixed, chaos indicators associated with the eigenvectors, contrary to those related to the eigenvalues, capture the onset of chaos. The results for the complexity of the eigenvectors and for the expectation values of few-body observables confirm the validity of the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis in the chaotic regime, and therefore the occurrence of thermalization. We also study the properties of the off-diagonal matrix elements of few-body observables in relation to the transition from integrability to chaos and from chaos to localization.

id: 1006.0742
title: Dipole blockade in a cold Rydberg atomic sample
authors: Daniel Comparat, Pierre Pillet
comments: Similar (without Appendix) article have been published in JOSA B, 27, A208 (2010)
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 27, Issue 6, pp. A208-A232 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0742
abstract: We review here the studies performed about interactions in an assembly of cold Rydberg atoms. We focus more specially the review on the dipole-dipole interactions and on the effect of the dipole blockade in the laser Rydberg excitation, which offers attractive possibilities for quantum engineering. We present first the various interactions between Rydberg atoms. The laser Rydberg excitation of such an assembly is then described with the introduction of the dipole blockade phenomenon. We report recent experiments performed in this subject by starting with the case of a pair of atoms allowing the entanglement of the wave-functions of the atoms and opening a fascinating way for the realization of quantum bits and quantum gates. We consider then several works on the blockade effect in a large assembly of atoms for three different configurations: blockade through electric-field induced dipole, through F\"orster resonance and in van der Waals interaction. The properties of coherence and cooperativity are analyzed. Finally, we treat the role of dipole-dipole interactions between Rydberg atoms responsible for Penning ionization. The perturbation of the dipole blockade by ions and the evolution of the Rydberg towards an ultracold plasma are discussed.

id: 1006.0754
title: Probing the Superfluid to Mott Insulator Transition at the Single Atom Level
authors: Waseem S. Bakr, Amy Peng, M. Eric Tai, Ruichao Ma, Jonathan Simon, Jonathon I. Gillen, Simon Foelling, Lode Pollet, Markus Greiner
comments: 
journal: Science 329. no. 5991, pp. 547 - 550 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0754
abstract: Quantum gases in optical lattices offer an opportunity to experimentally realize and explore condensed matter models in a clean, tunable system. We investigate the Bose-Hubbard model on a microscopic level using single atom-single lattice site imaging; our technique enables space- and time-resolved characterization of the number statistics across the superfluid-Mott insulator quantum phase transition. Site-resolved probing of fluctuations provides us with a sensitive local thermometer, allows us to identify microscopic heterostructures of low entropy Mott domains, and enables us to measure local quantum dynamics, revealing surprisingly fast transition timescales. Our results may serve as a benchmark for theoretical studies of quantum dynamics, and may guide the engineering of low entropy phases in a lattice.

id: 1006.0897
title: Revealing molecular orbital gating by transition-voltage spectroscopy
authors: Ioan Baldea
comments: to appear in Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0897
abstract: Recently, Song et al [Nature 462, 1039 (2009)] employed transition-voltage spectroscopy to demonstrate that the energy $\varepsilon_H$ of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of single-molecule transistors can be controlled by a gate potential $V_G$. To demonstrate the linear dependence $\varepsilon_H-V_G$, the experimental data have been interpreted by modeling the molecule as an energy barrier spanning the spatial source-drain region of molecular junctions. Since, as shown in this work, that crude model cannot quantitatively describe the measured $I$-$V$-characteristics, it is important to get further support for the linear dependence of $\varepsilon_H$ on $V_G$. The results presented here, which have been obtained within a model of a point-like molecule, confirm this linear dependence. Because the two models rely upon complementary descriptions, the present results indicate that the interpretation of the experimental results as evidence for a gate controlled HOMO is sufficiently general.

id: 1006.0953
title: Quantum state preparation in semiconductor dots by adiabatic rapid passage
authors: Yanwen Wu, I.M. Piper, M. Ediger, P. Brereton, E. R. Schmidgall, M. Hugues, M. Hopkinson, R. T. Phillips
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0953
abstract: Preparation of a specific quantum state is a required step for a variety of proposed practical uses of quantum dynamics. We report an experimental demonstration of optical quantum state preparation in a semiconductor quantum dot with electrical readout, which contrasts with earlier work based on Rabi flopping in that the method is robust with respect to variation in the optical coupling. We use adiabatic rapid passage, which is capable of inverting single dots to a specified upper level. We demonstrate that when the pulse power exceeds a threshold for inversion, the final state is independent of power. This provides a new tool for preparing quantum states in semiconductor dots and has a wide range of potential uses.

id: 1006.0969
title: Techniques to measure quantum criticality in cold atoms
authors: Kaden R. A. Hazzard, Erich J. Mueller
comments: 12 double spaced pages (main text), 12 double spaced pages (supplementary information), 4 figures (10 panels)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 013604 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.0969
abstract: Attempts to understand zero temperature phase transitions have forced physicists to consider a regime where the standard paradigms of condensed matter physics break down [1-4]. These quantum critical systems lack a simple description in terms of weakly interacting quasiparticles, but over the past 20 years physicists have gained deep insights into their properties. Most dramatically, theory predicts that universal scaling relationships describe their finite temperature thermodynamics up to remarkably high temperatures. Unfortunately, these universal functions are hard to calculate: for example there are no reliable general techniques [4,5] to calculate the scaling functions for dynamics. Viewing a cold atom experiment as a quantum simulator [6], we show how to extract universal scaling functions from (non-universal) atomic density profiles or spectroscopic measurements. Such experiments can resolve important open questions about the Mott-Metal crossover [7,8] and the dynamics of the finite density O(2) rotor model [1,9], with direct impact on theories of, for example, high temperature superconducting cuprates [10,11], heavy fermion materials [12], and graphene [13].

id: 1006.1072
title: An Example of Quantum Anomaly in the Physics of Ultra-Cold Gases
authors: Maxim Olshanii, H¨¦l¨¨ne Perrin, Vincent Lorent
comments: Misprints corrected, a discussion on damping added, text is polished and shortened. 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 095302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1072
abstract: In this article, we propose an experimental scheme for observation of a quantum anomaly---quantum-mechanical symmetry breaking---in a two-dimensional harmonically trapped Bose gas. The anomaly manifests itself in a shift of the monopole excitation frequency away from the value dictated by the Pitaevskii-Rosch dynamical symmetry [L. P. Pitaevskii and A. Rosch, Phys. Rev. A, 55, R853 (1997)]. While the corresponding classical Gross-Pitaevskii equation and the derived from it hydrodynamic equations do exhibit this symmetry, it is---as we show in our paper---violated under quantization. The resulting frequency shift is of the order of 1% of the carrier, well in reach for modern experimental techniques. We propose using the dipole oscillations as a frequency gauge.

id: 1006.1088
title: On the quantum master equation for Bogoliubov-BCS quasiparticles
authors: Chun-Feng Huang, Keh-Ning Huang
comments: 16 pages. It is discussed bow to reduce the extended Bogloiubov-BCS quasiparticles for the DDW model
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1088
abstract: The quantum master equation is introduced for the density matrix representing Bogoliubov-BCS quasiparticles. A constraint to relate the loss and gain factors is taken into account to preserve the form of the density matrix. Such an equation can be reduced to the semiclassical equation, and can be extended for the coexistence of different order parameters.

id: 1006.1134
title: PT symmetry, Cartan decompositions, Lie triple systems and Krein space related Clifford algebras
authors: Uwe Guenther, Sergii Kuzhel
comments: 11 pages
journal: J.Phys.A43:392002,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1134
abstract: Gauged PT quantum mechanics (PTQM) and corresponding Krein space setups are studied. For models with constant non-Abelian gauge potentials and extended parity inversions compact and noncompact Lie group components are analyzed via Cartan decompositions. A Lie triple structure is found and an interpretation as PT-symmetrically generalized Jaynes-Cummings model is possible with close relation to recently studied cavity QED setups with transmon states in multilevel artificial atoms. For models with Abelian gauge potentials a hidden Clifford algebra structure is found and used to obtain the fundamental symmetry of Krein space related J-selfadjoint extensions for PTQM setups with ultra-localized potentials.

id: 1006.1143
title: Obtaining and Application of the Reduced Bloch Equations
authors: M.D. Zviadadze, N.D.Chachava, A.G. Kvirikadze, A.K. Pokleba
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1143
abstract: Well-known Bloch equations describe the spin systems (electronic and nuclear) for any scale of time, from transient processes to steady states. Usually in solids T_2 << T_1. The question arises: what are the approximations that should be made in order the "roughen" Bloch equations to describe the processes at the time T_2 < t < T_1? The answer to this question is given in this article. As an example, the saturation of magnetic resonance is considered under the conditions of harmonic modulation of a constant magnetic field.

id: 1006.1167
title: Weak antilocalization effect in LPE-grown p-Hg0.8Cd0.2Te thin film and the evidence of Te-precipitation
authors: R.Yang, L.M.Wei, G.L.Yu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1167
abstract: The weak antilocalization effect is observed in a p-type Hg0.8Cd0.2Te thin film with thickness ~10 micrometers. Based on the analysis of composition, carrier species and excellent fitting of data with a model concerning weak antilocalization effect in Te crystal, the most plausible explanation is that the observed weak antilocalization effect is caused by Te-precipitation.

id: 1006.1256
title: Localized spectral asymptotics for boundary value problems and correlation effects in the free Fermi gas in general domains
authors: Bernd Schmidt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1256
abstract: We rigorously derive explicit formulae for the pair correlation function of the ground state of the free Fermi gas in the thermodynamic limit for general geometries of the macroscopic regions occupied by the particles and arbitrary dimension. As a consequence we also establish the asymptotic validity of the local density approximation for the corresponding exchange energy. At constant density these formulae are universal and do not depend on the geometry of the underlying macroscopic domain. In order to identify the correlation effects in the thermodynamic limit, we prove a local Weyl law for the spectral asymptotics of the Laplacian for certain quantum observables which are themselves dependent on a small parameter under very general boundary conditions.

id: 1006.1263
title: Seeing a c-theorem with holography
authors: Robert C. Myers, Aninda Sinha
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, v2: minor changes
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:046006,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1263
abstract: There is no known model in holography exhibiting a $c$-theorem where the central charges of the dual CFT are distinct. We examine a holographic model of RG flows in a framework where the bulk gravity theory contains higher curvature terms. The latter allows us to distinguish the flow of the central charges $a$ and $c$ in the dual field theories in four dimensions. One finds that the flow of $a$ is naturally monotonic but that of $c$ is not. Extending the analysis of holographic RG flows to higher dimensions, we are led to formulate a novel c-theorem in arbitrary dimensions for a universal coefficient appearing in the entanglement entropy of the fixed point CFT's.

id: 1006.1295
title: Observation of a red-blue detuning asymmetry in matter-wave superradiance
authors: L.Deng, E. W. Hagley, Qiang Cao, Xiaorui Wang, Xinyu Luo, Ruquan Wang, Fan Yang, Xiaoji Zhou, Xuzong Chen, M. G. Payne, Mingsheng Zhan
comments: Accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1295
abstract: We report the first experimental observations of strong suppression of matter-wave superradiance using blue-detuned pump light and demonstrate a pump-laser detuning asymmetry in the collective atomic recoil motion. In contrast to all previous theoretical frameworks, which predict that the process should be symmetric with respect to the sign of the pump-laser detuning, we find that for condensates the symmetry is broken. With high condensate densities and red-detuned light, the familiar distinctive multi-order, matter-wave scattering pattern is clearly visible, whereas with blue-detuned light superradiance is strongly suppressed. In the limit of a dilute atomic gas, however, symmetry is restored.

id: 1006.1361
title: Universal Behavior of Entanglement in 2D Quantum Critical Dimer Models
authors: Benjamin Hsu, Eduardo Fradkin
comments: v2. Corrected the glueing condition for the boundary state, published version
journal: J.Stat.Mech.1009:P09004,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1361
abstract: We examine the scaling behavior of the entanglement entropy for the 2D quantum dimer model (QDM) at criticality and derive the universal finite sub-leading correction $\gamma_{QCP}$. We compute the value of $\gamma_{QCP}$ without approximation working directly with the wave function of a generalized 2D QDM at the Rokhsar-Kivelson QCP in the continuum limit. Using the replica approach, we construct the conformal boundary state corresponding to the cyclic identification of $n$-copies along the boundary of the observed region. We find that the universal finite term is $\gamma_{QCP}=\ln R-1/2$ where $R$ is the compactification radius of the bose field theory quantum Lifshitz model, the effective field theory of the 2D QDM at quantum criticality. We also demonstrated that the entanglement spectrum of the critical wave function on a large but finite region is described by the characters of the underlying conformal field theory. It is shown that this is formally related to the problems of quantum Brownian motion on $n$-dimensional lattices or equivalently a system of strings interacting with a brane containing a background electromagnetic field and can be written as an expectation value of a vertex operator.

id: 1006.1366
title: Exact solutions for a Maxwell-Kalb-Ramond action with dilaton: Localization of massless and massive modes in a sine-Gordon brane-world
authors: H. R. Christiansen, M. S. Cunha, M. O. Tahim
comments: 31 pages, 21 figures. Enlarged introduction and concluding sections. Several clarifying remarks added. Title corrected in sect.3. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:085023,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1366
abstract: We analytically find the exact propagation modes of the electromagnetic and the Kalb-Ramond fields together in a five-dimensional curved space-time. The existence and localization of gauge particles into our four-dimensional world (4D) is studied in detail on a brane-world scenario in which two gauge fields interact with a dilaton and a gravitational background. The coupling to the dilaton is different in each case causing the splitting between both gauge spectra. The gauge field zero-modes and an infinite tower of Kaluza-Klein massive states are analytically obtained. Relevant conditions on the dilaton coupling constant are found in order to identify with precision every finite tensor and vector eigenstate in the theory. An exact quantization condition on the whole mass spectrum, depending on the dilaton coupling constant and the bulk Planck mass, is inherited from the extra-dimension. This allows finding an exact rule to prevent tachyons in the theory and, by the same token, predicting a possible Kalb-Ramond tensor zero-mode in 4D world. We also show that KK massive-modes contributions onto 4D physics are strongly suppressed.

id: 1006.1446
title: High-energy asymptotics of the spectrum of a periodic square-lattice quantum graph
authors: Pavel Exner, Ondrej Turek
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure; minor improvements, to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1446
abstract: We investigate a periodic quantum graph in form of a square lattice with a general self-adjoint coupling at the vertices. We analyze the spectrum, in particular, its high-energy behaviour. Depending on the coupling type, bands and gaps have different asymptotics. Bands may be flat even if the edges are coupled, and non-flat band widths may behave as $\mathcal{O}(n^j),\, j=1,0,-1,-2,-3$, as the band index $n\to\infty$. The gaps may be of asymptotically constant width or linearly growing with the latter case being generic.

id: 1006.1542
title: Fluctuation theorems for continuously monitored quantum fluxes
authors: Michele Campisi, Peter Talkner, Peter H?nggi
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Accepted in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 140601 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1542
abstract: It is shown that quantum fluctuation theorems remain unaffected if measurements of any kind and number of observables are performed during the action of a force protocol. That is, although the backward and forward probabilities entering the fluctuation theorems are both altered by these measurements, their ratio remains unchanged. This observation allows to describe the measurement of fluxes through interfaces and, in this way, to bridge the gap between the current theory, based on only two measurements performed at the beginning and end of the protocol, and experiments that are based on continuous monitoring.

id: 1006.1549
title: Extending scientific computing system with structural quantum programming capabilities
authors: P. Gawron, J. Klamka, J. A. Miszczak, R. Winiarczyk
comments: 
journal: Bull. Pol. Acad. Sci., Technical Sciences, Vol. 58, No. 1 (2010)
subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1549
abstract: We present a basic high-level structures used for developing quantum programming languages. The presented structures are commonly used in many existing quantum programming languages and we use quantum pseudo-code based on QCL quantum programming language to describe them. We also present the implementation of introduced structures in GNU Octave language for scientific computing. Procedures used in the implementation are available as a package quantum-octave, providing a library of functions, which facilitates the simulation of quantum computing. This package allows also to incorporate high-level programming concepts into the simulation in GNU Octave and Matlab. As such it connects features unique for high-level quantum programming languages, with the full palette of efficient computational routines commonly available in modern scientific computing systems. To present the major features of the described package we provide the implementation of selected quantum algorithms. We also show how quantum errors can be taken into account during the simulation of quantum algorithms using quantum-octave package. This is possible thanks to the ability to operate on density matrices.

id: 1006.1634
title: Quantum Quenches, Thermalization and Many-Body Localization
authors: Elena Canovi, Davide Rossini, Rosario Fazio, Giuseppe E. Santoro, Alessandro Silva
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 094431 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1634
abstract: We conjecture that thermalization following a quantum quench in a strongly correlated quantum system is closely connected to many-body delocalization in the space of quasi-particles. This scenario is tested in the anisotropic Heisenberg spin chain with different types of integrability-breaking terms. We first quantify the deviations from integrability by analyzing the level spacing statistics and the inverse participation ratio of the system's eigenstates. We then focus on thermalization, by studying the dynamics after a sudden quench of the anisotropy parameter. Our numerical simulations clearly support the conjecture, as long as the integrability-breaking term acts homogeneously on the quasiparticle space, in such a way as to induce ergodicity over all the relevant Hilbert space.

id: 1006.1641
title: Convergence Characteristics of the Cumulant Expansion for Fourier Path Integrals
authors: Sharif D. Kunikeev, David L. Freeman, J.D. Doll
comments: 47 pages, 2 figures, submitted to PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E81:066707, 2010
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1641
abstract: The cumulant representation of the Fourier path integral method is examined to determine the asymptotic convergence characteristics of the imaginary-time density matrix with respect to the number of path variables $N$ included. It is proved that when the cumulant expansion is truncated at order $p$, the asymptotic convergence rate of the density matrix behaves like $N^{-(2p+1)}$. The complex algebra associated with the proof is simplified by introducing a diagrammatic representation of the contributing terms along with an associated linked-cluster theorem. The cumulant terms at each order are expanded in a series such that the the asymptotic convergence rate is maintained without the need to calculate the full cumulant at order $p$. Using this truncated expansion of each cumulant at order $p$, the numerical cost in developing Fourier path integral expressions having convergence order $N^{-(2p+1)}$ is shown to be approximately linear in the number of required potential energy evaluations making the method promising for actual numerical implementation.

id: 1006.1696
title: Quantum annealing: An introduction and new developments
authors: Masayuki Ohzeki, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, to appear in a Special Issue on Foundations of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience on Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1696
abstract: Quantum annealing is a generic algorithm using quantum-mechanical fluctuations to search for the solution of an optimization problem. The present paper first reviews the fundamentals of quantum annealing and then reports on preliminary results for an alternative method. The review part includes the relationship of quantum annealing with classical simulated annealing. We next propose a novel quantum algorithm which might be available for hard optimization problems by using a classical-quantum mapping as well as the Jarzynski equality introduced in nonequilibrium statistical physics.

id: 1006.1697
title: When different entanglement witnesses detect entangled states simultaneously
authors: Jinchuan Hou, Yu Guo
comments: 13 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 82.052301 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1697
abstract: The question under what conditions different witnesses may detect some entangled states simultaneously is answered for both finite- and infinite-dimensional bipartite systems. Finite many different witnesses can detect some entangled states simultaneously if and only if their convex combinations are still witnesses; they can not detect any entangled state simultaneously if and only if the set of their convex combinations contains a positive operator. For two witnesses $W_1$ and $W_2$, some more can be said: (1) $W_1$ and $W_2$ can detect the same set of entangled states if and only if they are linearly dependent; (2) $W_2$ can detect more entangled states than that $W_1$ can if and only if $W_1$ is a linear combination of $W_2$ and a positive operator. As an application, some characterizations of the optimal witnesses are given and some structure properties of the decomposable optimal witnesses are presented.

id: 1006.1700
title: Nonstationary electromagnetics of controllably dispersive media
authors: Douglas H. Bradshaw, Michael D. Di Rosa
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1700
abstract: Recent experiments have demonstrated that it is possible to alter the dispersion of a medium without significantly altering its absorption or refractive index and that this may be done while a wave propagates through the medium. This possibility opens up a new set of potential experiments to the field of nonstationary optics. We consider the basic kinetics of waves propagating through a medium whose group and phase velocities are a function of position and time. We compare the dynamics of waves propagating through two homogeneous media, one a nondispersive medium with a time dependent phase velocity, and one a dispersive medium with a time dependent group velocity and show that new dynamic effects accompany new kinetic ones.

id: 1006.1736
title: A solvable model of quantum random optimization problems
authors: Laura Foini, Guilhem Semerjian, Francesco Zamponi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 167204 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1736
abstract: We study the quantum version of a simplified model of optimization problems, where quantum fluctuations are introduced by a transverse field acting on the qubits. We find a complex low-energy spectrum of the quantum Hamiltonian, characterized by an abrupt condensation transition and a continuum of level crossings as a function of the transverse field. We expect this complex structure to have deep consequences on the behavior of quantum algorithms attempting to find solutions to these problems.

id: 1006.1754
title: Structural and Symmetry Analysis of Discrete Dynamical Systems
authors: Vladimir V. Kornyak
comments: 45 pages, v2: changed to match version published in: Cellular Automata, Ed. Thomas M.Li, 2010 Nova Science Publishers, Inc.; reference added, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Group Theory (math.GR); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1754
abstract: To study discrete dynamical systems of different types --- deterministic, statistical and quantum --- we develop various approaches. We introduce the concept of a system of discrete relations on an abstract simplicial complex and develop algorithms for analysis of compatibility and construction of canonical decompositions of such systems. To illustrate these techniques we describe their application to some cellular automata. Much attention is paid to study symmetries of the systems. In the case of deterministic systems, we reveale some important relations between symmetries and dynamics. We demonstrate that moving soliton-like structures arise inevitably in deterministic dynamical system whose symmetry group splits the set of states into a finite number of group orbits. We develop algorithms and programs exploiting discrete symmetries to study microcanonical ensembles and search phase transitions in mesoscopic lattice models. We propose an approach to quantization of discrete systems based on introduction of gauge connection with values in unitary representations of finite groups --- the elements of the connection are interpreted as amplitudes of quantum transitions. We discuss properties of a quantum description of finite systems. In particular, we demonstrate that a finite quantum system can be embedded into a larger classical system. Computer algebra and computational group theory methods were useful tools in our study.

id: 1006.1762
title: An approach toward the laboratory search for the scalar field as a candidate of Dark Energy
authors: Yasunori Fujii, Kensuke Homma
comments: 20 pages, 6 figure. Accepted by Progress of Theoretical Physics
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 126 (2011), 531-553
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1762
abstract: The observed accelerating universe indicates the presence of Dark Energy which is probably interpreted in terms of an extremely light gravitational scalar field. We suggest a way to probe this scalar field which contributes to optical light-by-light scattering through the resonance in the quasi-parallel collision geometry. As we find, the frequency-shifted photons with the specifically chosen polarization state can be a distinct signature of the scalar-field-exchange process in spite of the extremely narrow width due to the gravitationally weak coupling to photons. Main emphasis will be placed in formulating a prototype theoretical approach, then showing how the weak signals from the gravitational coupling are enhanced by other non-gravitational effects at work in laser experiments.

id: 1006.1801
title: Is there a no-go theorem for superradiant quantum phase transitions in cavity and circuit QED ?
authors: Pierre Nataf, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: Nat. Commun. 1:72 (2010) doi: 10.1038/ncomms1069
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1801
abstract: In cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED), the interaction between an atomic transition and the cavity field is measured by the vacuum Rabi frequency $\Omega_0$. The analogous term "circuit QED" has been introduced for Josephson junctions, because superconducting circuits behave as artificial atoms coupled to the bosonic field of a resonator. In the regime with $\Omega_0$ comparable to the two-level transition frequency, "superradiant" quantum phase transitions for the cavity vacuum have been predicted, e.g. within the Dicke model. Here, we prove that if the time-independent light-matter Hamiltonian is considered, a superradiant quantum critical point is forbidden for electric dipole atomic transitions due to the oscillator strength sum rule. In circuit QED, the capacitive coupling is analogous to the electric dipole one: yet, such no-go property can be circumvented by Cooper pair boxes capacitively coupled to a resonator, due to their peculiar Hilbert space topology and a violation of the corresponding sum rule.

id: 1006.1833
title: L¨¦vy-Schr?dinger wave packets
authors: Nicola Cufaro Petroni
comments: 41 pages, 13 figures; paper substantially shortened, while keeping intact examples and results; changed format from "report" to "article"; eliminated Appendices B, C, F (old names); shifted Chapters 4 and 5 (old numbers) from text to Appendices C, D (new names); introduced connection between Relativistic q.m. laws and Generalized Hyperbolic laws
journal: J. Phys. A 44 (2011) 165305
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1833
abstract: We analyze the time--dependent solutions of the pseudo--differential L\'evy--Schr\"odinger wave equation in the free case, and we compare them with the associated L\'evy processes. We list the principal laws used to describe the time evolutions of both the L\'evy process densities, and the L\'evy--Schr\"odinger wave packets. To have self--adjoint generators and unitary evolutions we will consider only absolutely continuous, infinitely divisible L\'evy noises with laws symmetric under change of sign of the independent variable. We then show several examples of the characteristic behavior of the L\'evy--Schr\"odinger wave packets, and in particular of the bi-modality arising in their evolutions: a feature at variance with the typical diffusive uni--modality of both the L\'evy process densities, and the usual Schr\"odinger wave functions.

id: 1006.1986
title: Superluminal velocities and nonlocality in relativistic mechanics with scalar potential
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 16 pages, Sec. 4.3 and Appendix revised
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.1986
abstract: Even though the usual form of relativistic mechanics does not allow superluminal particle velocities and nonlocal interactions, these features are not forbidden by relativity itself. To understand this on a deeper level, we study a generalized form of relativistic mechanics in which the particle is influenced not only by the usual tensor (gravitational) and vector (electromagnetic) potentials, but also by the scalar potential. The scalar potential promotes the mass squared M^2 to a dynamical quantity. Negative values of M^2, which lead to superluminal velocities, are allowed. The generalization to the many-particle case allows a nonlocal scalar potential, which makes nonlocal interactions compatible with relativity. Particle trajectories are parameterized by a scalar parameter analogous to the Newton absolute time. An example in which all these general features are explicitly realized is provided by relativistic Bohmian mechanics.

id: 1006.2017
title: Topological entanglement entropy relations for multi phase systems with interfaces
authors: F. A. Bais, J. K. Slingerland
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2017
abstract: We study the change in topological entanglement entropy that occurs when a two-dimensional system in a topologically ordered phase undergoes a transition to another such phase due to the formation of a Bose condensate. We also consider the topological entanglement entropy of systems with domains in different topological phases, and of phase boundaries between these domains. We calculate the topological entropy of these interfaces and derive two fundamental relations between the interface topological entropy and the bulk topological entropies on both sides of the interface.

id: 1006.2065
title: Minimal areas from q-deformed oscillator algebras
authors: Andreas Fring, Laure Gouba, Bijan Bagchi
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: J.Phys.A43:425202, 2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2065
abstract: We demonstrate that dynamical noncommutative space-time will give rise to deformed oscillator algebras. In turn, starting from some q-deformations of these algebras in a two dimensional space for which the entire deformed Fock space can be constructed explicitly, we derive the commutation relations for the dynamical variables in noncommutative space-time. We compute minimal areas resulting from these relations, i.e. finitely extended regions for which it is impossible to resolve any substructure in form of measurable knowledge. The size of the regions we find is determined by the noncommutative constant and the deformation parameter q. Any object in this type of space-time structure has to be of membrane type or in certain limits of string type.

id: 1006.2160
title: Many-Body Rate Limit on Photoassociation of a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Matt Mackie, Pierre Phou
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 59 references. v2: discussion added; to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2160
abstract: We briefly report on zero-temperature photoassociation of a Bose-Einstein condensate, focusing on the many-body rate limit for atom-molecule conversion. An upgraded model that explicitly includes spontaneous radiative decay leads to an unanticipated shift in the position of the photoassociation resonance, which affects whether the rate (constant) maximizes or saturates, as well as the limiting value itself. A simple analytical model agrees with numerical experiments, but only for high density. Finally, an explicit comparison with the two-body unitary limit, set by the size of the condensate, finds that the many-body rate limit is generally more strict.

id: 1006.2184
title: Shapiro Steps as a Direct Probe of $\pm s$-wave Symmetry in Multi-gap Superconducting Josephson Junctions
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Masahiko Machida, Tomio Koyama
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 140509(R) (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2184
abstract: We theoretically study the Shapiro steps in a hetero Josephson junction made of a single-gap superconductor and a two-gap one. We find that an anomalous DC Josephson current is induced by tuning the frequency of an applied microwave to the Josephson-Leggett mode frequency, which creates an extra step structure in the $I$-$V$ characteristics besides the conventional Shapiro steps. The step heights at the resonance voltages exhibit an alternate structure of a large and small value reflecting the gap symmetry of the two-gap superconductor. In the $\pm s-wave case in which the two gaps have opposite signs in the two-gap superconductor the steps with odd index are enhanced, whereas in the s-wave case the ones with even index have larger values. The existence of the fractional Shapiro steps is also predicted.

id: 1006.2198
title: Black hole state evolution and Hawking radiation
authors: Doyeol Ahn
comments: Version 3
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2198
abstract: The effect of a black hole state evolution on the Hawking radiation is studied using the final state boundary condition. It is found that theormodynamic or statistical mechanical properties of a black hole depend strongly on the unitary evolution operator $S$ which determines the black hole state evolution. When the operator $S~$ is random unitary or psudeo random unitary, a black hole emits thermal radiation as predicted by Hawking three decades ago. On the other hand, it is found that the emission of Hawking radiation could be suppressed when the evolution of a black hole state is given by the generaor of the coherent state.

id: 1006.2409
title: Applying the variational principle to (1+1)-dimensional quantum field theories
authors: Jutho Haegeman, J. Ignacio Cirac, Tobias J. Osborne, Henri Verschelde, Frank Verstraete
comments: Proceedings of "The many faces of QCD", 1-5 Nov 2010, Ghent, Belgium; 11 pages, 5 figures. See also Phys. Rev. Lett. 105:251601 (2010)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 251601 (2010)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2409
abstract: We extend the recently introduced continuous matrix product state (cMPS) variational class to the setting of (1+1)-dimensional relativistic quantum field theories. This allows one to overcome the difficulties highlighted by Feynman concerning the variational procedure applied to relativistic theories, and provides a new way to regularize quantum field theories. A fermionic version of the continuous matrix product state is introduced which is manifestly free from fermion doubling and sign problems. We illustrate the power of the formalism with the simulation of free massive Dirac fermions, the Gross-Neveu model, and the Casimir effect. We find that cMPS can capture chiral symmetry breaking with absolute scaling of the chiral parameter, and that boundary effects can be accommodated with modest computational effort.

id: 1006.2478
title: Anyonic entanglement renormalization
authors: Robert Koenig, Ersen Bilgin
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures, v2: extended, updated to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 125118 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2478
abstract: We introduce a family of variational ansatz states for chains of anyons which optimally exploits the structure of the anyonic Hilbert space. This ansatz is the natural analog of the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz for spin chains. In particular, it has the same interpretation as a coarse-graining procedure and is expected to accurately describe critical systems with algebraically decaying correlations. We numerically investigate the validity of this ansatz using the anyonic golden chain and its relatives as a testbed. This demonstrates the power of entanglement renormalization in a setting with non-abelian exchange statistics, extending previous work on qudits, bosons and fermions in two dimensions.

id: 1006.2522
title: Finite temperature fidelity susceptibility for one-dimensional quantum systems
authors: J. Sirker
comments: typo in Eq. (9) corrected, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 117203 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2522
abstract: We calculate the fidelity susceptibility chi_f for the Luttinger model and show that there is a universal contribution linear in temperature T (or inverse length 1/L). Furthermore, we develop an algorithm - based on a lattice path integral approach - to calculate the fidelity F(T) in the thermodynamic limit for one-dimensional quantum systems. We check the Luttinger model predictions by calculating chi_f(T) analytically for free spinless fermions and numerically for the XXZ chain. Finally, we study chi_f at the two phase transitions in this model.

id: 1006.2556
title: Dynamical studies of macroscopic superposition states: Phase engineering of controlled entangled number states of Bose-Einstein condensate in multiple wells
authors: Mary Ann Leung, Khan W. Mahmud, William P. Reinhardt
comments: 13 pages, 14 figures
journal: Molecular Physics 110, 801 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2556
abstract: We provide a scheme for the generation of entangled number states of Bose-Einstein condensates in multiple wells with cyclic pairwise connectivity. The condensate ground state in a multiple well trap can self-evolve, when phase engineered with specific initial phase differences between the neighboring wells, to a macroscopic superposition state with controllable entanglement -- to multiple well generalization of double well NOON states. We demonstrate through numerical simulations the creation of entangled states in three and four wells and then explore the creation of "larger" entangled states where there are either a larger number of particles in each well or a larger number of wells. The type of entanglement produced as the particle numbers, or interaction strength, increases changes in a novel and initially unexpected manner.

id: 1006.2639
title: Dynamical simulations of classical stochastic systems using matrix product states
authors: T. H. Johnson, S. R. Clark, D. Jaksch
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 036702 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2639
abstract: We adapt the time-evolving block decimation (TEBD) algorithm, originally devised to simulate the dynamics of 1D quantum systems, to simulate the time-evolution of non-equilibrium stochastic systems. We describe this method in detail; a system's probability distribution is represented by a matrix product state (MPS) of finite dimension and then its time-evolution is efficiently simulated by repeatedly updating and approximately re-factorizing this representation. We examine the use of MPS as an approximation method, looking at parallels between the interpretations of applying it to quantum state vectors and probability distributions. In the context of stochastic systems we consider two types of factorization for use in the TEBD algorithm: non-negative matrix factorization (NMF), which ensures that the approximate probability distribution is manifestly non-negative, and the singular value decomposition (SVD). Comparing these factorizations we find the accuracy of the SVD to be substantially greater than current NMF algorithms. We then apply TEBD to simulate the totally asymmetric simple exclusion process (TASEP) for systems of up to hundreds of lattice sites in size. Using exact analytic results for the TASEP steady state, we find that TEBD reproduces this state such that the error in calculating expectation values can be made negligible, even when severely compressing the description of the system by restricting the dimension of the MPS to be very small. Out of the steady state we show for specific observables that expectation values converge as the dimension of the MPS is increased to a moderate size.

id: 1006.2646
title: Crossover in the Efimov spectrum
authors: Ludovic Pricoupenko
comments: 
journal: Phys Rev A 82 (2010) 043633
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2646
abstract: A filtering method is introduced for solving the zero-range three-boson problem. This scheme permits to solve the original Skorniakov Ter-Martirosian integral equation for an arbitrary large Ultra-Violet cut-off and to avoid the Thomas collapse of the three particles. The method is applied to a more general zero-range model including a finite background two-body scattering length and the effective range. A cross-over in the Efimov spectrum is found in such systems and a specific regime emerges where Efimov states are long-lived.

id: 1006.2652
title: Scaling Relation for Excitation Energy Under Hyperbolic Deformation
authors: Hiroshi Ueda, Hiroki Nakano, Koichi Kusakabe, Tomotoshi Nishino
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 124 (2010), 389-398
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2652
abstract: We introduce a one-parameter deformation for one-dimensional (1D) quantum lattice models, the hyperbolic deformation, where the scale of the local energy is proportional to cosh lambda j at the j-th site. Corresponding to a 2D classical system, the deformation does not strongly modify the ground state. In this situation, the effective Hamiltonian of the quantum system shows that the quasi particle is weakly bounded around the center of the system. By analyzing this binding effect, we derive scaling relations for the mean-square width <w^2> of confinement, the energy correction with respect to the excitation gap \Delta, and the deformation parameter $\lambda$. This finite-size scaling allows us to investigate excitation gap of 1D non-deformed bulk quantum systems.

id: 1006.2657
title: Weak Equivalence Principle and Propagation of the Wave Function in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Clovis Jacinto de Matos
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2657
abstract: The propagation of the wave function of a particle is characterised by a group and a phase velocity. The group velocity is associated with the particle's classical velocity, which is always smaller than the speed of light, and the phase velocity is associated with the propagation speed of the wave function phase and is treated as being unphysical, since its value is always greater than the speed of light. Here we show, using Sciama's Machian formulation of rest mass energy, that this physical interpretation, for the group and the phase velocity of the wave function, is only valid if the weak equivalence principle strictly holds for the propagating particle, except for the photon. In case this constraint is released the phase velocity of the wave function could acquire a physical meaning in quantum condensates.

id: 1006.2705
title: Secure communication in the twin paradox
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: Second version. Errata corrected. New figures and extensive appendices with proofs and useful expressions added. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2705
abstract: The channel capacity between two users is affected by relativistic effects. Under the presence of a fixed noise at the receiver, there appears an asymmetry between "slowly aging" and "fast aging" observers which can be used to have private communication transmission. We discuss some models for users inside gravitational wells and in the twin paradox scenario.

id: 1006.2892
title: Novel Isotope Effects on the Pairing Pseudogap in High-$T_{c}$ Cuprates: Evidences for Polaronic Metal and Precursor BCS-Like Pairing of Large Polarons
authors: S. Dzhumanov, O.K. Ganiev, Sh.S. Djumanov
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2892
abstract: We have studied the novel isotope effects on the pairing pseudogap in underdoped and optimally doped cuprates within the large-polaron model and two non-standard BCS-like approaches. We have shown that in the intermediate-coupling regime the precursor pairing of large polarons occurs at a mean-field temperature $T^{\ast}>T_{c}$ and the near-absent, sizable and very large oxygen and copper isotope effects on $T^{\ast}$ exist in cuprates with small and large Fermi surfaces. Our results for $T^{\ast}$, isotope shifts and exponents in slightly underdoped and optimally doped cuprates are in quantitative agreement with existing experiments and explain the discrepancy between various experiments.

id: 1006.2935
title: Bose-Hubbard dynamics of polaritons in a chain of circuit QED cavities
authors: Martin Leib, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 
journal: Martin Leib and Michael J Hartmann 2010 New J. Phys. 12 093031
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2935
abstract: We investigate a chain of superconducting stripline resonators, each interacting with a transmon qubit, that are capacitively coupled in a row. We show that the dynamics of this system can be described by a Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian with attractive interactions for polaritons, superpositions of photons and qubit excitations. This setup we envisage constitutes one of the first platforms where all technological components that are needed to experimentally study chains of strongly interacting polaritons have already been realized. By driving the first stripline resonator with a microwave source and detecting the output field of the last stripline resonator one can spectroscopically probe properties of the system in the driven dissipative regime. We calculate the stationary polariton density and density-density correlations $g^{(2)}$ for the last cavity which can be measured via the output field. Our results display a transition from a coherent to a quantum field as the ratio of on site interactions to driving strength is increased.

id: 1006.2954
title: Particle-Localized Ground State of Atom-Molecule Bose-Einstein Condensates in a Double-Well Potential
authors: Atsushi Motohashi, Tetsuro Nikuni
comments: 34 pages,10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2954
abstract: We study the effect of atom-molecule internal tunneling on the ground state of atom-molecule Bose-Einstein condensates in a double-well potential. In the absence of internal tunneling between atomic and molecular states, the ground state is symmetric, which has equal-particle populations in two wells. From the linear stability analysis, we show that the symmetric stationary state becomes dynamically unstable at a certain value of the atom-molecule internal tunneling strength. Above the critical value of the internal tunneling strength, the ground state bifurcates to the particle-localized ground states. The origin of this transition can be attributed to the effective attractive inter-atomic interaction induced by the atom-molecule internal tunneling. This effective interaction is similar to that familiar in the context of BCS-BEC crossover in a Fermi gas with Feshbach resonance. Furthermore, we point out the possibility of reentrant transition in the case of the large detuning between the atomic and molecular states.

id: 1006.2975
title: Cold atom simulation of interacting relativistic quantum field theories
authors: J. Ignacio Cirac, Paolo Maraner, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 5 pages, 3 figues, Phys. Rev. Lett. version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:190403,2010
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2975
abstract: We demonstrate that Dirac fermions self-interacting or coupled to dynamic scalar fields can emerge in the low energy sector of designed bosonic and fermionic cold atom systems. We illustrate this with two examples defined in two spacetime dimensions. The first one is the self-interacting Thirring model. The second one is a model of Dirac fermions coupled to a dynamic scalar field that gives rise to the Gross-Neveu model. The proposed cold atom experiments can be used to probe spectral or correlation properties of interacting quantum field theories thereby presenting an alternative to lattice gauge theory simulations.

id: 1006.3001
title: On the location of spectral edges in $\mathbb{Z}$-periodic media
authors: Pavel Exner, Peter Kuchment, Brian Winn
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3001
abstract: Periodic $2$nd order ordinary differential operators on $\R$ are known to have the edges of their spectra to occur only at the spectra of periodic and antiperiodic boundary value problems. The multi-dimensional analog of this property is false, as was shown in a 2007 paper by some of the authors of this article. However, one sometimes encounters the claims that in the case of a single periodicity (i.e., with respect to the lattice $\mathbb{Z}$), the $1D$ property still holds, and spectral edges occur at the periodic and anti-periodic spectra only. In this work we show that even in the simplest case of quantum graphs this is not true. It is shown that this is true if the graph consists of a $1D$ chain of finite graphs connected by single edges, while if the connections are formed by at least two edges, the spectral edges can already occur away from the periodic and anti-periodic spectra.

id: 1006.3063
title: Non-classical Rotational Inertia in a Two-dimensional Bosonic Solid Containing Grain Boundaries
authors: Chandan Dasgupta, Oriol T. Valls
comments: Ten pages, including figures
journal: Phys. Rev B 82, 024523 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3063
abstract: We study the occurrence of non-classical rotational inertia (NCRI) arising from superfluidity along grain boundaries in a two-dimensional bosonic system. We make use of a standard mapping between the zero-temperature properties of this system and the statistical mechanics of interacting vortex lines in the mixed phase of a type-II superconductor. In the mapping, the liquid phase of the vortex system corresponds to the superfluid bosonic phase. We consider numerically obtained polycrystalline configurations of the vortex lines in which the microcrystals are separated by liquid-like grain boundary regions which widen as the vortex system temperature increases. The NCRI of the corresponding zero-temperature bosonic systems can then be numerically evaluated by solving the equations of superfluid hydrodynamics in the channels near the grain boundaries. We find that the NCRI increases very abruptly as the liquid regions in the vortex system (equivalently, superfluid regions in the bosonic system) form a connected, system-spannig structure with one or more closed loops. The implications of these results for experimentally observed supersolid phenomena are discussed.

id: 1006.3095
title: Simulating Strongly Correlated Quantum Systems with Tree Tensor Networks
authors: Valentin Murg, ?rs Legeza, Reinhard M. Noack, Frank Verstraete
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 205105 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3095
abstract: We present a tree-tensor-network-based method to study strongly correlated systems with nonlocal interactions in higher dimensions. Although the momentum-space and quantum-chemistry versions of the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) method have long been applied to such systems, the spatial topology of DMRG-based methods allows efficient optimizations to be carried out with respect to one spatial dimension only. Extending the matrix-product-state picture, we formulate a more general approach by allowing the local sites to be coupled to more than two neighboring auxiliary subspaces. Following Shi. et. al. [Phys. Rev. A, 74, 022320 (2006)], we treat a tree-like network ansatz with arbitrary coordination number z, where the z=2 case corresponds to the one-dimensional scheme. For this ansatz, the long-range correlation deviates from the mean-field value polynomially with distance, in contrast to the matrix-product ansatz, which deviates exponentially. The computational cost of the tree-tensor-network method is significantly smaller than that of previous DMRG-based attempts, which renormalize several blocks into a single block. In addition, we investigate the effect of unitary transformations on the local basis states and present a method for optimizing such transformations. For the 1-d interacting spinless fermion model, the optimized transformation interpolates smoothly between real space and momentum space. Calculations carried out on small quantum chemical systems support our approach.

id: 1006.3114
title: Spin Path Integrals and Generations
authors: C. A. Brannen
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures, accepted at Foundations of Physics
journal: Found.Phys.40:1681-1699,2010
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3114
abstract: The spin of a free electron is stable but its position is not. Recent quantum information research by G. Svetlichny, J. Tolar, and G. Chadzitaskos have shown that the Feynman \emph{position} path integral can be mathematically defined as a product of incompatible states; that is, as a product of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs). Since the more common use of MUBs is in finite dimensional Hilbert spaces, this raises the question "what happens when \emph{spin} path integrals are computed over products of MUBs?" Such an assumption makes spin no longer stable. We show that the usual spin-1/2 is obtained in the long-time limit in three orthogonal solutions that we associate with the three elementary particle generations. We give applications to the masses of the elementary leptons.

id: 1006.3212
title: Interactions Between Rydberg-Dressed Atoms
authors: J. E. Johnson, S. L. Rolston
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures; Accepted to Phys. Rev. A, 18 Aug. 2010
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3212
abstract: We examine interactions between atoms continuously and coherently driven between the ground state and a Rydberg state, producing "Rydberg-dressed atoms." Because of the large dipolar coupling between two Rydberg atoms, a small admixture of Rydberg character into a ground state can produce an atom with a dipole moment of a few Debye, the appropriate size to observe interesting dipolar physics effects in cold atom systems. We have calculated the interaction energies for atoms that interact via the dipole-dipole interaction and find that due to blockade effects, the R-dependent two-atom interaction terms are limited in size, and can be R-independent up until the dipolar energy is equal to the detuning. This produces R-dependent interactions different from the expected 1/R^3 dipolar form, which have no direct analogy in condensed matter physics, and could lead to new quantum phases in trapped Rydberg systems.

id: 1006.3233
title: An $su(1,1)$ algebraic approach for the relativistic Kepler-Coulomb problem
authors: M. Salazar-Ram¨ªrez, D. Mart¨ªnez, R. D. Mota, V. D. Granados
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A43:445203,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3233
abstract: We apply the Schr\"odinger factorization method to the radial second-order equation for the relativistic Kepler-Coulomb problem. From these operators we construct two sets of one-variable radial operators which are realizations for the $su(1,1)$ Lie algebra. We use this algebraic structure to obtain the energy spectrum and the supersymmetric ground state for this system.

id: 1006.3250
title: Observation of collective atomic recoil motion in a momentum-squeezed, ultra-cold, degenerate fermion gas
authors: Pengjun Wang, L. Deng, E.W. Hagley, Zhengkun Fu, Shijie Chai, Jing Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3250
abstract: We demonstrate clear collective atomic recoil motion in a dilute, momentum-squeezed, ultra-cold degenerate fermion gas by circumventing the effects of Pauli blocking. Although gain from bosonic stimulation is necessarily absent because the quantum gas obeys Fermi-Dirac statistics, collective atomic recoil motion from the underlying wave-mixing process is clearly visible. With a single pump pulse of the proper polarization, we observe two mutually-perpendicular wave-mixing processes occurring simultaneously. Our experiments also indicate that the red-blue pump detuning asymmetry observed with Bose-Einstein condensates does not occur with fermions.

id: 1006.3351
title: Analysis of a tuneable coupler for superconducting phase qubits
authors: Ricardo A. Pinto, Alexander N. Korotkov, Michael R. Geller, Vitaly S. Shumeiko, John M. Martinis
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 104522 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3351
abstract: This paper presents a theoretical analysis of the recently realized tuneable coupler for superconducting phase qubits (R. C. Bialczak et al., Ref.\ \protect\onlinecite{Bialczak}). The coupling can be turned off by compensating a negative mutual inductance with a tuneable Josephson inductance. The main coupling in this system is of the $XX$ type and can be zeroed exactly, while there is also a small undesired contribution of the $ZZ$ type. We calculate both couplings as functions of the tuning parameter (bias current) and focus on the residual coupling in the OFF regime. In particular, we show that for typical experimental parameters the coupling OFF/ON ratio is few times $10^{-3}$, and it may be zeroed by proper choice of parameters. The remaining errors due to physical presence of the coupler are on the order of $10^{-6}$.

id: 1006.3362
title: The Degenerate Parametric Oscillator and Ince's Equation
authors: Ricardo Cordero-Soto, Sergei K. Suslov
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3362
abstract: We construct Green's function for the quantum degenerate parametric oscillator in terms of standard solutions of Ince's equation in a framework of a general approach to harmonic oscillators. Exact time-dependent wave functions and their connections with dynamical invariants and SU(1,1) group are also discussed.

id: 1006.3420
title: Universal corrections to scaling for block entanglement in spin-1/2 XX chains
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, Fabian H.L. Essler
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2010) P08029
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3420
abstract: We consider the R\'enyi entropies $S_n(\ell)$ in the one dimensional spin-1/2 Heisenberg XX chain in a magnetic field. The case n=1 corresponds to the von Neumann ``entanglement'' entropy. Using a combination of methods based on the generalized Fisher-Hartwig conjecture and a recurrence relation connected to the Painlev\'e VI differential equation we obtain the asymptotic behaviour, accurate to order ${\cal O}(\ell^{-3})$, of the R\'enyi entropies $S_n(\ell)$ for large block lengths $\ell$. For n=1,2,3,10 this constitutes the 3,6,10,48 leading terms respectively. The o(1) contributions are found to exhibit a rich structure of oscillatory behaviour, which we analyze in some detail both for finite $n$ and in the limit $n\to\infty$.

id: 1006.3466
title: Collective atomic recoil motion in short-pulse multi-matter-optical wave mixing
authors: L. Deng, E.W. Hagley
comments: This manuscript was submitted for publication in Nov., 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3466
abstract: An analytical perturbation theory of short-pulse, matter-wave superradiant scatterings is presented. We show that Bragg resonant enhancement is incapacitated and both positive and negative order scatterings contribute equally. We further show that propagation gain is small and scattering events primarily occur at the end of the condensate where the generated field has maximum strength, thereby explaining the apparent ``asymmetry" in the scattered components with respect to the condensate center. In addition, the generated field travels near the speed of light in a vacuum, resulting in significant spontaneous emission when the one-photon detuning is not sufficiently large. Finally, we show that when the excitation rate increases, the generated-field front-edge-steepening and peak forward-shifting effects are due to depletion of the ground state matter wave.

id: 1006.3509
title: Chaotically spiking attractors in suspended mirror optical cavities
authors: Francesco Marino, Francesco Marin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 015202(R) (2011)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3509
abstract: A high-finesse suspended mirror Fabry-Perot cavity is experimentally studied in a regime where radiation pressure and photothermal effect are both relevant. The competition between these phenomena, operating at different time scales, produces unobserved dynamical scenarios where an initial Hopf instability is followed by the birth of small-amplitude chaotic attractors which erratically but deterministically trigger optical spikes. The observed dynamical regimes are well reproduced by a detailed physical model of the system.

id: 1006.3532
title: Simulation of anyons with tensor network algorithms
authors: Robert N. C. Pfeifer, Philippe Corboz, Oliver Buerschaper, Miguel Aguado, Matthias Troyer, Guifre Vidal
comments: Fixed typos, matches published version. 16 pages, 21 figures, 4 tables, RevTeX 4-1. For a related work, see arXiv:1006.2478
journal: Physical Review B 82, 115126 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3532
abstract: Interacting systems of anyons pose a unique challenge to condensed matter simulations due to their non-trivial exchange statistics. These systems are of great interest as they have the potential for robust universal quantum computation, but numerical tools for studying them are as yet limited. We show how existing tensor network algorithms may be adapted for use with systems of anyons, and demonstrate this process for the 1-D Multi-scale Entanglement Renormalisation Ansatz (MERA). We apply the MERA to infinite chains of interacting Fibonacci anyons, computing their scaling dimensions and local scaling operators. The scaling dimensions obtained are seen to be in agreement with conformal field theory. The techniques developed are applicable to any tensor network algorithm, and the ability to adapt these ansaetze for use on anyonic systems opens the door for numerical simulation of large systems of free and interacting anyons in one and two dimensions.

id: 1006.3658
title: Effective spin chains for fractional quantum Hall states
authors: Emil J. Bergholtz, Masaaki Nakamura, Juha Suorsa
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. Written for a Special Issue on Foundations of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience in Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience (proceedings for nanoPHYS'09 in Tokyo)
journal: Physica E 43, 755 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3658
abstract: Fractional quantum Hall (FQH) states are topologically ordered which indicates that their essential properties are insensitive to smooth deformations of the manifold on which they are studied. Their microscopic Hamiltonian description, however, strongly depends on geometrical details. Recent work has shown how this dependence can be exploited to generate effective models that are both interesting in their own right and also provide further insight into the quantum Hall system. We review and expand on recent efforts to understand the FQH system close to the solvable thin-torus limit in terms of effective spin chains. In particular, we clarify how the difference between the bosonic and fermionic FQH states, which is not apparent in the thin-torus limit, can be seen at this level. Additionally, we discuss the relation of the Haldane-Shastry chain to the so-called QH circle limit and comment on its significance to recent entanglement studies.

id: 1006.3663
title: Non-invasive vibrational mode spectroscopy of ion Coulomb crystals through resonant collective coupling to an optical cavity field
authors: A. Dantan, J. P. Marler, M. Albert, D. Gu¨¦not, M. Drewsen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 103001 (2010)
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3663
abstract: We report on a novel non-invasive method to determine the normal mode frequencies of ion Coulomb crystals in traps based on the resonance enhanced collective coupling between the electronic states of the ions and an optical cavity field at the single photon level. Excitations of the normal modes are observed through a Doppler broadening of the resonance. An excellent agreement with the predictions of a zero-temperature uniformly charged liquid plasma model is found. The technique opens up for investigations of the heating and damping of cold plasma modes, as well as the coupling between them.

id: 1006.3705
title: Solitary waves of Bose-Einstein condensed atoms confined in finite rings
authors: J. Smyrnakis, M. Magiropoulos, G. M. Kavoulakis, A. D. Jackson
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82 (2010) 023604
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3705
abstract: Motivated by recent progress in trapping Bose-Einstein condensed atoms in toroidal potentials, we examine solitary-wave solutions of the nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation subject to periodic boundary conditions. When the circumference of the ring is much larger than the size of the wave, the density profile is well approximated by that of an infinite ring, however the density and the velocity of propagation cannot vanish simultaneously. When the size of the ring becomes comparable to the size of the wave, the density variation becomes sinusoidal and the velocity of propagation saturates to a constant value.

id: 1006.3774
title: Levitated Spinning Graphene
authors: B. E. Kane
comments: 23 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3774
abstract: A method is described for levitating micron-sized few layer graphene flakes in a quadrupole ion trap. Starting from a liquid suspension containing graphene, charged flakes are injected into the trap using the electrospray ionization technique and are probed optically. At micro-torr pressures, torques from circularly polarized light cause the levitated particles to rotate at frequencies >1 MHz, which can be inferred from modulation of light scattering off the rotating flake when an electric field resonant with the rotation rate is applied. Possible applications of these techniques will be presented, both to fundamental measurements of the mechanical and electronic properties of graphene and to new approaches to graphene crystal growth, modification and manipulation.

id: 1006.3799
title: Single-Atom Resolved Fluorescence Imaging of an Atomic Mott Insulator
authors: Jacob F. Sherson, Christof Weitenberg, Manuel Endres, Marc Cheneau, Immanuel Bloch, Stefan Kuhr
comments: 
journal: Nature 467, 68 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3799
abstract: The reliable detection of single quantum particles has revolutionized the field of quantum optics and quantum information processing. For several years, researchers have aspired to extend such detection possibilities to larger scale strongly correlated quantum systems, in order to record in-situ images of a quantum fluid in which each underlying quantum particle is detected. Here we report on fluorescence imaging of strongly interacting bosonic Mott insulators in an optical lattice with single-atom and single-site resolution. From our images, we fully reconstruct the atom distribution on the lattice and identify individual excitations with high fidelity. A comparison of the radial density and variance distributions with theory provides a precise in-situ temperature and entropy measurement from single images. We observe Mott-insulating plateaus with near zero entropy and clearly resolve the high entropy rings separating them although their width is of the order of only a single lattice site. Furthermore, we show how a Mott insulator melts for increasing temperatures due to a proliferation of local defects. Our experiments open a new avenue for the manipulation and analysis of strongly interacting quantum gases on a lattice, as well as for quantum information processing with ultracold atoms. Using the high spatial resolution, it is now possible to directly address individual lattice sites. One could, e.g., introduce local perturbations or access regions of high entropy, a crucial requirement for the implementation of novel cooling schemes for atoms on a lattice.

id: 1006.3803
title: Disappearance of Quantum Chaos in Coupled Chaotic Quantum Dots
authors: Igor Filikhin, Sergei Matinyan, Branislav Vlahovic
comments: 4 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375 (2011) 620
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3803
abstract: Statistical properties of the single electron levels confined in the semiconductor (InAs/GaAs, Si/SiO2) double quantum dots (DQDs) are considered. We demonstrate that in the electronically coupled chaotic quantum dots the chaos with its level repulsion disappears and the nearest neighbor level statistics becomes Poissonian. This result is discussed in the light of the recently predicted "huge conductance peak" by R.S. Whitney at al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 102}, 186802 (2009)) in the mirror symmetric DQDs.

id: 1006.3837
title: Consistent Probabilities in Wheeler-DeWitt Quantum Cosmology
authors: David A. Craig, Parampreet Singh
comments: 27 pages, 4 figures. Minor revisions and updated references. Matches published version
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:123526,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3837
abstract: We give an explicit, rigorous framework for calculating quantum probabilities in a model theory of quantum gravity. Specifically, we construct the decoherence functional for the Wheeler-DeWitt quantization of a flat Friedmann-Robertson-Walker cosmology with a free, massless, minimally coupled scalar field, thus providing a complete decoherent histories formulation for this quantum cosmological model. The decoherence functional is applied to study predictions concerning the model's Dirac (relational) observables; the behavior of semiclassical states and superpositions of such states; and to study the singular behavior of quantum Wheeler-DeWitt universes. Within this framework, rigorous formulae are given for calculating the corresponding probabilities from the wave function when those probabilities may be consistently defined, thus replacing earlier heuristics for interpreting the wave function of the universe with explicit constructions. It is shown according to a rigorously formulated standard, and in a quantum-mechanically consistent way, that in this quantization these models are generically singular. Independent of the choice of state we show that the probability for these Wheeler-DeWitt quantum universes to ever encounter a singularity is unity. In addition, the relation between histories formulations of quantum theory and relational Dirac observables is clarified.

id: 1006.3876
title: Angular Momenta and Spin-Orbit Interaction of Nonparaxial Light in Free Space
authors: K. Y. Bliokh, M. A. Alonso, E. A. Ostrovskaya, A. Aiello
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:063825,2010
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3876
abstract: We give an exact self-consistent operator description of the spin and orbital angular momenta, position, and spin-orbit interactions of nonparaxial light in free space. Both quantum-operator formalism and classical energy-flow approach are presented. We apply the general theory to symmetric and asymmetric Bessel beams exhibiting spin- and orbital-dependent intensity profiles. The exact wave solutions are clearly interpreted in terms of the Berry phases, quantization of caustics, and Hall effects of light, which can be readily observed experimentally.

id: 1006.3882
title: Schwinger Vacuum Pair Production in Chirped Laser Pulses
authors: Cesim K. Dumlu
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:045007,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3882
abstract: The recent developments of high intensity ultra-short laser pulses have raised the hopes of observing Schwinger vacuum pair production which is one of the important non-perturbative phenomena in Quantum electrodynamics (QED). The quantitative analysis of realistic high intensity laser pulses is vital for understanding the effect of the field parameters on the momentum spectrum of the produced particles. In this study, we analyze chirped laser pulses with a sub-cycle structure, and investigate the effects of the chirp parameter on the momentum spectrum of the produced particles. The combined effect of the chirp and carrier phase of the laser pulse is also analyzed. These effects are qualitatively explained by investigating the turning point structure of the potential within the framework of the complex WKB scattering approach to pair production.

id: 1006.3942
title: Bright, Coherent, Ultrafast Soft X-Ray Harmonics Spanning the Water Window from a Tabletop Light Source
authors: M.C. Chen, P. Arpin, T. Popmintchev, M. Gerrity, B. Zhang, M. Seaberg, M.M. Murnane, H.C. Kapteyn
comments: 4 figures, 18 pages. Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3942
abstract: We demonstrate fully phase matched high-order harmonic generation with emission spanning the water window spectral region important for bio- and nano-imaging and a breadth of materials and molecular dynamics studies. We also generate the broadest bright coherent bandwidth (~300eV) to date obtained from any light source, small or large. The harmonic photon flux at 0.5 keV is 10^3 higher than demonstrated previously, making it possible for the first time to demonstrate spatial coherence in the water window. The continuum emission is consistent with a single attosecond burst, that extends bright attosecond pulses into the soft x-ray region.

id: 1006.3951
title: Repulsive Casimir Force: Sufficient Conditions
authors: Luigi Rosa, Astrid Lambrecht
comments: 11 pages. 3 figures. Misprints corrected in Eq. (4)
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:065025,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3951
abstract: In this paper the Casimir energy of two parallel plates made by materials of different penetration depth and no medium in between is derived. We study the Casimir force density and derive analytical constraints on the two penetration depths which are sufficient conditions to ensure repulsion. Compared to other methods our approach needs no specific model for dielectric or magnetic material properties and constitutes a complementary analysis.

id: 1006.4031
title: Effects of the electron spin on the nonlinear generation of quasi-static magnetic fields in a plasma
authors: M. Stefan, G. Brodin, F. Haas, M. Marklund
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4031
abstract: Through an extended kinetic model, we study the nonlinear generation of quasi-static magnetic fields by high-frequency fields in a plasma, taking into account the effects of the electron spin. It is found that although the largest part of the nonlinear current in a moderate density, moderate temperature plasma is due to the classical terms, the spin may still give a significant contribution to the magnetic field generation mechanism. Applications of our results are discussed.

id: 1006.4090
title: Holographic Evolution of Entanglement Entropy
authors: Javier Abajo-Arrastia, Joao Aparicio, Esperanza Lopez
comments: 26 pages, 10 figures
journal: JHEP 1011:149,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4090
abstract: We study the evolution of entanglement entropy in a 2-dimensional equilibration process that has a holographic description in terms of a Vaidya geometry. It models a unitary evolution in which the field theory starts in a pure state, its vacuum, and undergoes a perturbation that brings it far from equilibrium. The entanglement entropy in this set up provides a measurement of the quantum entanglement in the system. Using holographic techniques we recover the same result obtained before from the study of processes triggered by a sudden change in a parameter of the hamiltonian, known as quantum quenches. Namely, entanglement in 2-dimensional conformal field theories propagates with velocity v^2=1. Both in quantum quenches and in the Vaidya model equilibration is only achieved at the local level. Remarkably, the holographic derivation of this last fact requires information from behind the apparent horizon generated in the process of gravitational collapse described by the Vaidya geometry. In the early stages of the evolution the apparent horizon seems however to play no relevant role with regard to the entanglement entropy. We speculate on the possibility of deriving a thermalization time for occupation numbers from our analysis.

id: 1006.4091
title: Statistical distribution of quantum entanglement for a random bipartite state
authors: Celine Nadal, Satya N Majumdar, Massimo Vergassola
comments: 7 figures
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics, Volume 142, Number 2, 403-438 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4091
abstract: We compute analytically the statistics of the Renyi and von Neumann entropies (standard measures of entanglement), for a random pure state in a large bipartite quantum system. The full probability distribution is computed by first mapping the problem to a random matrix model and then using a Coulomb gas method. We identify three different regimes in the entropy distribution, which correspond to two phase transitions in the associated Coulomb gas. The two critical points correspond to sudden changes in the shape of the Coulomb charge density: the appearance of an integrable singularity at the origin for the first critical point, and the detachement of the rightmost charge (largest eigenvalue) from the sea of the other charges at the second critical point. Analytical results are verified by Monte Carlo numerical simulations. A short account of some of these results appeared recently in Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 104}, 110501 (2010).

id: 1006.4155
title: Continuity condition for concave functions on convex $¦Ì$-compact sets and its applications in quantum physics
authors: M.E.Shirokov
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4155
abstract: A method of proving local continuity of concave functions on convex set possessing the $\mu$-compactness property is presented. This method is based on a special approximation of these functions. The class of $\mu$-compact sets can be considered as a natural extension of the class of compact metrizable subsets of locally convex spaces, to which particular results well known for compact sets can be generalized. Applications of the obtained continuity conditions to analysis of different entropic characteristics of quantum systems and channels are considered.

id: 1006.4174
title: On the Bandstructure Velocity and Ballistic Current of Ultra Narrow Silicon Nanowire Transistors as a Function of Cross Section Size, Orientation and Bias
authors: Neophytos Neophytou, Sung Geun Kim, Gerhard Klimeck, Hans Kosina
comments: 31 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: Journal of Applied Physics, vol. 107, p. 113701, 2010
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4174
abstract: A 20 band sp3d5s* spin-orbit-coupled, semi-empirical, atomistic tight-binding (TB) model is used with a semi-classical, ballistic, field-effect-transistor (FET) model, to theoretically examine the bandstructure carrier velocity and ballistic current in silicon nanowire (NW) transistors. Infinitely long, uniform, cylindrical and rectangular NWs, of cross sectional diameters/sides ranging from 3nm to 12nm are considered. For a comprehensive analysis, n-type and p-type metal-oxide-semiconductor (NMOS and PMOS) NWs in [100], [110] and [111] transport orientations are examined. In general, physical cross section reduction increases velocities, either by lifting the heavy mass valleys, or significantly changing the curvature of the bands. The carrier velocities of PMOS [110] and [111] NWs are a strong function of diameter, with the narrower D=3nm wires having twice the velocities of the D=12nm NWs. The velocity in the rest of the NW categories shows only minor diameter dependence. This behavior is explained through features in the electronic structure of the silicon host material. The ballistic current, on the other hand, shows the least sensitivity with cross section in the cases where the velocity has large variations. Since the carrier velocity is a measure of the effective mass and reflects on the channel mobility, these results can provide insight into the design of NW devices with enhanced performance and performance tolerant to structure geometry variations. In the case of ballistic transport in high performance devices, the [110] NWs are the ones with both high NMOS and PMOS performance, as well as low on-current variations with cross section geometry variations.

id: 1006.4219
title: Coherence of Nitrogen-Vacancy Electronic Spin Ensembles in Diamond
authors: P.L. Stanwix, L.M. Pham, J.R. Maze, D. Le Sage, T.K. Yeung, P. Cappellaro, P.R. Hemmer, A. Yacoby, M.D. Lukin, R.L. Walsworth
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; v2 minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4219
abstract: We present an experimental and theoretical study of electronic spin decoherence in ensembles of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers in bulk high-purity diamond at room temperature. Under appropriate conditions, we find ensemble NV spin coherence times (T_2) comparable to that of single NVs, with T_2 > 600 microseconds for a sample with natural abundance of 13C and paramagnetic impurity density ~10^15 cm^(-3). We also observe a sharp decrease of the coherence time with misalignment of the static magnetic field relative to the NV electronic spin axis, consistent with theoretical modeling of NV coupling to a 13C nuclear spin bath. The long coherence times and increased signal-to-noise provided by room-temperature NV ensembles will aid many applications of NV centers in precision magnetometry and quantum information.

id: 1006.4236
title: Interpretation of the Dispersion of the Electron States of High-$T_{c}$ Cuprate Superconductors Based on the Theory of Topological Resonance
authors: W. Winkler
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4236
abstract: The unusual dispersion of electron states in antinodal direction for $n_{h}\simeq\frac{1}{8}$ holes/copper is explained. In photoelectron excitations, transformations of the $\mathbf{k}$ space as a consequence of symmetry breaking proves to be an exceptional phenomenon distinctly reflected by the experiments. Paired photoelectron emissions are predicted that enable a new energetic upward shift termed as \emph{pair shake-up effect} which explains the experimentally observed sharp transition between non-dispersive and dispersive behaviour. The disappearance of antinodal states for $\mathbf{k}_{||}\epsilon[0,\pm \pi/2]$ is explained.

id: 1006.4254
title: Fermions from classical statistics
authors: C. Wetterich
comments: extended version with two new sections on symmetries 25 pages
journal: Annals Phys.325:2750-2786,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4254
abstract: We describe fermions in terms of a classical statistical ensemble. The states $\tau$ of this ensemble are characterized by a sequence of values one or zero or a corresponding set of two-level observables. Every classical probability distribution can be associated to a quantum state for fermions. If the time evolution of the classical probabilities $p_\tau$ amounts to a rotation of the wave function $q_\tau(t)=\pm \sqrt{p_\tau(t)}$, we infer the unitary time evolution of a quantum system of fermions according to a Schr\"odinger equation. We establish how such classical statistical ensembles can be mapped to Grassmann functional integrals. Quantum field theories for fermions arise for a suitable time evolution of classical probabilities for generalized Ising models.

id: 1006.4314
title: Multi-well potentials and extended supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: V.P. Berezovoj
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4314
abstract: Using the formalism of extended $N=4$ supersymmetric quantum mechanics we consider the procedure of the construction of multi--well potentials. We demostrate the form--invariance of Hamiltonians entering the supermultiplet, using the presented relation for integrals, which contain fundamental solutions. The possibility of partial $N=4$ supersymmetry breaking is determined. We also obtain exact forms of multi--well potentials, both symmetric and asymmetric, using the Hamiltonian of harmonic oscillator as initial. The modification of the shape of potentials due to variation of parameters is also discussed, as well as application of the obtained results to the study of tunneling processes.

id: 1006.4323
title: The size of exponential sums on intervals of the real line
authors: Tam¨¢s Erd¨¦lyi, Kaveh Khodjasteh, Lorenza Viola
comments: Fixed minor problems and added a new remark
journal: 
subjects: Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4323
abstract: We prove that there is a constant $c > 0$ depending only on $M \geq 1$ and $\mu \geq 0$ such that $$\int_y^{y+a}{|g(t)| \, dt} \geq \exp (-c/(a\delta))\,, a \in (0,\pi]\,,$$ for every $g$ of the form $$g(t) = \sum_{j=0}^n{a_j e^{i\lambda_jt}}, a_j \in {\Bbb C}, \enskip |a_j| \leq Mj^\mu\,, \enskip |a_0|=1\,, \enskip n \in {\Bbb N} \,,$$ where the exponents $\lambda_j \in {\Bbb C}$ satisfy $$\text{\rm Re}(\lambda_0) = 0\,, \qquad \text{\rm Re}(\lambda_j) \geq j\delta > 0\,, j=1,2,\ldots\,,$$ and for every subinterval $[y,y+a]$ of the real line. Establishing inequalities of this variety is motivated by problems in physics.

id: 1006.4388
title: Making Classical Ground State Spin Computing Fault-Tolerant
authors: Elizabeth Crosson, Dave Bacon, Kenneth R. Brown
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review E, 82(3), 031106 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4388
abstract: We examine a model of classical deterministic computing in which the ground state of the classical system is a spatial history of the computation. This model is relevant to quantum dot cellular automata as well as to recent universal adiabatic quantum computing constructions. In its most primitive form, systems constructed in this model cannot compute in an error free manner when working at non-zero temperature. However, by exploiting a mapping between the partition function for this model and probabilistic classical circuits we are able to show that it is possible to make this model effectively error free. We achieve this by using techniques in fault-tolerant classical computing and the result is that the system can compute effectively error free if the temperature is below a critical temperature. We further link this model to computational complexity and show that a certain problem concerning finite temperature classical spin systems is complete for the complexity class Merlin-Arthur. This provides an interesting connection between the physical behavior of certain many-body spin systems and computational complexity.

id: 1006.4520
title: Renormalized Vacuum Polarization on the Horizon of a Schwarzschild Black Hole Threaded by a Cosmic String
authors: Adrian Ottewill, Peter Taylor
comments: Corrected reference
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4520
abstract: We obtain an analytic expression for the vacuum polarization on the horizon of the Schwarzschild black hole threaded by an infinite cosmic string. This calculation relies on a generalized Heine identity for Legendre functions which we derive without using specific properties of the Legendre functions themselves.

id: 1006.4579
title: Dynamics of a quantum quench in an ultra-cold atomic BCS superfluid
authors: Chih-Chun Chien, Bogdan Damski
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063616 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4579
abstract: We study dynamics of an ultra-cold atomic BCS superfluid driven towards the BCS superfluid-Fermi liquid quantum critical point by a gradual decrease of the pairing interaction. We analyze how the BCS superfluid falls out of equilibrium and show that the non-equilibrium gap and Cooper pair size reflect critical properties of the transition. We observe three stages of evolution: adiabatic where the Cooper pair size is inversely proportional to the equilibrium gap, weakly non-equilibrium where it is inversely proportional to the non-equilibrium gap, and strongly non-equilibrium where it decouples from both equilibrium and non-equilibrium gap. These phenomena should stimulate future experimental characterization of non-equilibrium ultra-cold atomic BCS superfluids.

id: 1006.4610
title: P.A.M. Dirac and the Discovery of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Kurt Gottfried
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4610
abstract: Dirac's contributions to the discovery of non-relativistic quantum mechanics and quantum electrodynamics, prior to his discovery of the relativistic wave equation, are described.

id: 1006.4619
title: Origin of nonlinear optical processes in matter-wave superradiance
authors: L. Deng, E.W. Hagley
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4619
abstract: We study a highly efficient, matter-wave amplification mechanism in a longitudinally-excited, Bose-Einstein condensate and reveal a very large enhancement due to nonlinear gain from a sixmatter- optical, wave-mixing process involving four photons. Under suitable conditions this opticallydegenerate, four-photon process can be stronger than the usual two-photon inelastic light scattering mechanism, leading to nonlinear growth of the observed matter-wave scattering independent of any enhancement from bosonic stimulation. Our theoretical framework can be extended to encompass even higher-order, nonlinear superradiant processes that result in higher-order momentum transfer.

id: 1006.4798
title: Variational calculations on multilayer stacks of dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Andrej Junginger, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 023602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4798
abstract: We investigate a multilayer stack of dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates in terms of a simple Gaussian variational ansatz and demonstrate that this arrangement is characterized by the existence several stationary states. Using a Hamiltonian picture we show that in an excited stack there is a coupled motion of the individual condensates by which they exchange energy. We find that for high excitations the interaction between the single condensates can induce the collapse of one of them. We furthermore demonstrate that one collapse in the stack can force other collapses, too. We discuss the possibility of experimentally observing the coupled motion and the relevance of the variational results found to full numerical investigations.

id: 1006.4950
title: Mean-field regime of trapped dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates in one and two dimensions
authors: Yongyong Cai, Matthias Rosenkranz, Zhen Lei, Weizhu Bao
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures. Updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043623 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4950
abstract: We derive rigorous one- and two-dimensional mean-field equations for cigar- and pancake-shaped dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates with arbitrary polarization angle. We show how the dipolar interaction modifies the contact interaction of the strongly confined atoms. In addition, our equations introduce a nonlocal potential, which is anisotropic for pancake-shaped condensates. We propose to observe this anisotropy via measurement of the condensate aspect ratio. We also derive analytically approximate density profiles from our equations. Both the numerical solutions of our reduced mean-field equations and the analytical density profiles agree well with numerical solutions of the full Gross-Pitaevskii equation while being more efficient to compute.

id: 1006.4983
title: Different types of integrability and their relation to decoherence in central spin models
authors: B. Erbe, J. Schliemann
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 177602 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4983
abstract: We investigate the relation between integrability and decoherence in central spin models with more than one central spin. We show that there is a transition between integrability ensured by the Bethe ansatz and integrability ensured by complete sets of commuting operators. This has a significant impact on the decoherence properties of the system, suggesting that it is not necessarily integrability or nonintegrability which is related to decoherence, but rather its type or a change from integrability to nonintegrability.

id: 1006.4991
title: Proposal for a cumulant-based Bell test for mesoscopic junctions
authors: Adam Bednorz, Wolfgang Belzig
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, detailed proof of weak positivity and Bell-type inequality
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 125304 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4991
abstract: The creation and detection of entanglement in solid state electronics is of fundamental importance for quantum information processing. We prove that second-order quantum correlations can be always interpreted classically and propose a general test of entanglement based on the violation of a classically derived inequality for continuous variables by fourth-order quantum correlation functions. Our scheme provides a way to prove the existence of entanglement in a mesoscopic transport setup by measuring higher order cumulants without requiring the additional assumption of a single charge detection

id: 1006.5114
title: Entropy and Entropy Production in Some Applications
authors: Yong-Jun Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5114
abstract: By using entropy and entropy production, we calculate the steady flux of some phenomena. The method we use is a competition method, $S_S/\tau+\sigma={\it maximum}$, where $S_S$ is system entropy, $\sigma$ is entropy production and $\tau$ is microscopic interaction time. System entropy is calculated from the equilibrium state by studying the flux fluctuations. The phenomena we study include ionic conduction, atomic diffusion, thermal conduction and viscosity of a dilute gas.

id: 1006.5211
title: Construction of the phase operator using logarithm of the annihilation operator
authors: Aleksandar Petrovic
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5211
abstract: We investigate a lema that excludes existence of the phase operator and present a condition to avoid the lema. A method for construction of an analytic function 'f' of the annihilation operator 'a' is given. f(z) is analytic on some compact domain that does not separate the complex plane. Using these results we obtain ln a. Since [N ,-i ln a]=i, we can use ln a to construct an operator $\Phi$, which satisfies the definition of the phase operator.

id: 1006.5270
title: Creating artificial magnetic fields for cold atoms by photon-assisted tunneling
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky
comments: EPL-style, 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 93, 20003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5270
abstract: This paper proposes a simple setup for introducing an artificial magnetic field for neutral atoms in 2D optical lattices. This setup is based on the phenomenon of photon-assisted tunneling and involves a low-frequency periodic driving of the optical lattice. This low-frequency driving does not affect the electronic structure of the atom and can be easily realized by the same means which employed to create the lattice. We also address the problem of detecting this effective magnetic field. In particular, we study the center of mass wave-packet dynamics, which is shown to exhibit certain features of cyclotron dynamics of a classical charged particle.

id: 1006.5368
title: A matrix product solution for a nonequilibrium steady state of an XX chain
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 11 pages
journal: J.Phys.A: Math. Theor. 43 415004, (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5368
abstract: A one dimensional XX spin chain of finite length coupled to reservoirs at both ends is solved exactly in terms of a matrix product state ansatz. An explicit representation of matrices of fixed dimension 4 independent of the chain length is found. Expectations of all observables are evaluated, showing that all connected correlations, apart from nearest neighbor z-z, are zero.

id: 1006.5380
title: Competition between the Modulation Instability and Stimulated Brillouin Scattering in a Broadband Slow Light Device
authors: Yunhui Zhu, E. Cabrera-Granado, Oscar G. Calderon, Sonia Melle, Yoshitomo Okawachi, Alexander L. Gaeta, and Daniel J. Gauthier
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5380
abstract: We observe competition between the modulation instability (MI) and stimulated Brillouin scattering (SBS) in a 9.2-GHz broadband SBS slow light device, in which a standard 20-km-long single-mode LEAF fibre is used as the SBS medium. We find that MI is dominant and depletes most of the pump power when we use an intense pump beam at ~1.55 {\mu}m, where the LEAF fibre is anomalously dispersive. The dominance of the MI in the LEAF-fibre-based system suppresses the SBS gain, degrading the SBS slow light delay and limiting the SBS gain-bandwidth to 126 dB \cdot GHz. In a dispersion-shifted highly nonlinear fibre, the SBS slow light delay is improved due to the suppression of the MI, resulting in a gain-bandwidth product of 344 dB \cdot GHz, limited by our available pump power of 0.82 W.

id: 1006.5648
title: Deterministic Quantization by Dynamical Boundary Conditions
authors: Donatello Dolce
comments: 4 pages. Based on the talk given at Frontiers Of Fundamental And Computational Physics: 10th International Symposium
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.1246:178-181,2010
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5648
abstract: We propose an unexplored quantization method. It is based on the assumption of dynamical space-time intrinsic periodicities for relativistic fields, which in turn can be regarded as dual to extra-dimensional fields. As a consequence we obtain a unified and consistent interpretation of Special Relativity and Quantum Mechanics in terms of Deterministic Geometrodynamics.

id: 1006.5733
title: Integrating Random Matrix Theory Predictions with Short-Time Dynamical Effects in Chaotic Systems
authors: A. Matthew Smith, Lev Kaplan
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 016214 (2010)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5733
abstract: We discuss a modification to Random Matrix Theory eigenstate statistics, that systematically takes into account the non-universal short-time behavior of chaotic systems. The method avoids diagonalization of the Hamiltonian, instead requiring only a knowledge of short-time dynamics for a chaotic system or ensemble of similar systems. Standard Random Matrix Theory and semiclassical predictions are recovered in the limits of zero Ehrenfest time and infinite Heisenberg time, respectively. As examples, we discuss wave function autocorrelations and cross-correlations, and show that significant improvement in accuracy is obtained for simple chaotic systems where comparison can be made with brute-force diagonalization. The accuracy of the method persists even when the short-time dynamics of the system or ensemble is known only in a classical approximation. Further improvement in the rate of convergence is obtained when the method is combined with the correlation function bootstrapping approach introduced previously.

id: 1006.5767
title: Superconductor-Insulator transition and energy localization
authors: M.V. Feigel'man, L.B. Ioffe, M. M¨¦zard
comments: 59 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5767
abstract: We develop an analytical theory for generic disorder-driven quantum phase transitions. We apply this formalism to the superconductor-insulator transition and we briefly discuss the applications to the order-disorder transition in quantum magnets. The effective spin-1/2 models for these transitions are solved in the cavity approximation which becomes exact on a Bethe lattice with large branching number K >> 1 and weak dimensionless coupling g << 1. The characteristic features of the low temperature phase is a large self-formed inhomogeneity of the order-parameter distribution near the critical point K_{c}(g) where the critical temperature T_{c} of the ordering transition vanishes. Near the quantum critical point, the typical value of the order parameter vanishes exponentially, B_{0}\propto e^{-C/(K-K_{c}(g))}. In the disordered regime, realized at K<K_{c}(g) we find actually two distinct phases characterized by different behavior of relaxation rates. The first phase exists in an intermediate range of K^{*}(g)<K<K_{c}(g). It has two regimes of energies: at low excitation energies, \omega<\omega_{d}(K,g), the many-body spectrum of the model is discrete, with zero level widths, while at \omega>\omega_{d} the level acquire a non-zero width which is self-generated by the many-body interactions. In this phase the spin model provides by itself an intrinsic thermal bath. Another phase is obtained at smaller K<K^{*}(g), where all the eigenstates are discrete, corresponding to full many-body localization. These results provide an explanation for the activated behavior of the resistivity in amorphous materials on the insulating side near the SI transition and a semi-quantitative description of the scanning tunneling data on its superconductive side.

id: 1006.5774
title: Towards a Discrete Spacetime
authors: Sudipta Das, Subir Ghosh
comments: 7 pages, Latex, Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5774
abstract: A formalism is proposed to generate (the first step of) a discrete spacetime: spacetime with an inbuilt length scale. We follow the celebrated Landau theory of liquid - solid phase transition induced by Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking by a condensate whose Fourier transform has support at a {\it{non-zero}} momentum. The latter requirement is essential for breaking the translation symmetry. This, in turn, compels us to generalize Einstein action to higher derivative terms.

id: 1006.5823
title: Electric-magnetic duality of lattice systems with topological order
authors: Oliver Buerschaper, Matthias Christandl, Liang Kong, Miguel Aguado
comments: v2: material added, 24 pages, 7 figures
journal: Nuclear Physics B 876 [FS] (2013) 619-636
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5823
abstract: We investigate the duality structure of quantum lattice systems with topological order, a collective order also appearing in fractional quantum Hall systems. We define electromagnetic (EM) duality for all of Kitaev's quantum double models based on discrete gauge theories with Abelian and non-Abelian groups, and identify its natural habitat as a new class of topological models based on Hopf algebras. We interpret these as extended string-net models, whereupon Levin and Wen's string-nets, which describe all intrinsic topological orders on the lattice with parity and time-reversal invariance, arise as magnetic and electric projections of the extended models. We conjecture that all string-net models can be extended in an analogous way, using more general algebraic and tensor-categorical structures, such that EM duality continues to hold. We also identify this EM duality with an invertible domain wall. Physical applications include topology measurements in the form of pairs of dual tensor networks.

id: 1006.5848
title: Weyl's principle, cosmic time and quantum fundamentalism
authors: Svend E. Rugh, Henrik Zinkernagel
comments: To appear in the section on "Physical and philosophical perspectives on probability and time" in S. Hartmann et al. (eds.) "Explanation, Prediction and Confirmation", Springer's The Philosophy of Science in a European Perspective book series
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5848
abstract: We examine the necessary physical underpinnings for setting up the cosmological standard model with a global cosmic time parameter. In particular, we discuss the role of Weyl's principle which asserts that cosmic matter moves according to certain regularity requirements. After a brief historical introduction to Weyl's principle we argue that although the principle is often not explicitly mentioned in modern standard texts on cosmology, it is implicitly assumed and is, in fact, necessary for a physically well-defined notion of cosmic time. We finally point out that Weyl's principle might be in conflict with the wide-spread idea that the universe at some very early stage can be described exclusively in terms of quantum theory.

id: 1006.5852
title: Fulop-Tsutsui interactions on quantum graphs
authors: Taksu Cheon, Ondrej Turek
comments: 14 pages elsevier format, new references added
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:4212-4221,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5852
abstract: We examine scale invariant Fulop-Tsutsui couplings in a quantum vertex of a general degree $n$. We demonstrate that essentially same scattering amplitudes as for the free coupling can be achieved for two $(n-1)$-parameter Fulop-Tsutsui subfamilies if $n$ is odd, and for three $(n-1)$-parameter Fulop-Tsutsui subfamilies if $n$ is even. We also work up an approximation scheme for a general Fulop-Tsutsui vertex, using only $n$ $\delta$ function potentials.

id: 1006.5917
title: Multi-Well Potentials in Quantum Mechanics and Stochastic Processes
authors: Victor P. Berezovoj, Glib I. Ivashkevych, Mikhail I. Konchatnij
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 6:098,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5917
abstract: Using the formalism of extended N=4 supersymmetric quantum mechanics we consider the procedure of the construction of multi-well potentials. We demonstrate the form-invariance of Hamiltonians entering the supermultiplet, using the presented relation for integrals, which contain fundamental solutions. The possibility of partial N=4 supersymmetry breaking is determined. We also obtain exact forms of multi-well potentials, both symmetric and asymmetric, using the Hamiltonian of harmonic oscillator as initial. The modification of the shape of potentials due to variation of parameters is also discussed, as well as application of the obtained results to the study of tunneling processes. We consider the case of exact, as well as partially broken N=4 supersymmetry. The distinctive feature of obtained probability densities and potentials is a parametric freedom, which allows to substantially modify their shape. We obtain the expressions for probability densities under the generalization of the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process.

id: 1006.5935
title: Comment on " Topological phase in two flavor neutrino oscillations"
authors: Rajendra Bhandari
comments: This revised comment, submitted to Phys. Rev. D, reflects the author's improved understanding of the commented paper resulting from publication of the reply comment arXiv 1008.4543v1
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5935
abstract: We critically analyze the claims with regard to the relevance of topological phases in the physics of neutrino oscillation made in a recent paper [Phys. Rev. D 79, 096013 (2009)] and point out some inappropriate exaggerations and misleading statements. We find that the $\pi$ phase described in this paper, while interesting, is an artefact of two major approximations made in the paper. We point out a more robust and more familiar $\pi$ phase in the neutrino oscillation formulae which can be interpreted as a pure Pancharatnam phase. We also make some relevant remarks on the distinction between the geometric and the topological phase made in the commented paper.

id: 1006.5937
title: Spontaneous nucleation of structural defects in inhomogeneous ion chains
authors: Gabriele De Chiara, Adolfo del Campo, Giovanna Morigi, Martin B. Plenio, Alex Retzker
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 115003 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5937
abstract: Structural defects in ion crystals can be formed during a linear quench of the transverse trapping frequency across the mechanical instability from a linear chain to the zigzag structure. The density of defects after the sweep can be conveniently described by the Kibble-Zurek mechanism. In particular, the number of kinks in the zigzag ordering can be derived from a time-dependent Ginzburg-Landau equation for the order parameter, here the zigzag transverse size, under the assumption that the ions are continuously laser cooled. In a linear Paul trap the transition becomes inhomogeneous, being the charge density larger in the center and more rarefied at the edges. During the linear quench the mechanical instability is first crossed in the center of the chain, and a front, at which the mechanical instability is crossed during the quench, is identified which propagates along the chain from the center to the edges. If the velocity of this front is smaller than the sound velocity, the dynamics becomes adiabatic even in the thermodynamic limit and no defect is produced. Otherwise, the nucleation of kinks is reduced with respect to the case in which the charges are homogeneously distributed, leading to a new scaling of the density of kinks with the quenching rate. The analytical predictions are verified numerically by integrating the Langevin equations of motion of the ions, in presence of a time-dependent transverse confinement. We argue that the non-equilibrium dynamics of an ion chain in a Paul trap constitutes an ideal scenario to test the inhomogeneous extension of the Kibble-Zurek mechanism, which lacks experimental evidence to date.

id: 1006.5584
title: Geometric entanglement of one-dimensional systems: bounds and scalings in the thermodynamic limit
authors: Roman Orus, Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, revised version. Accepted for publication in QIC
journal: Quantum Information and Computation Vol. 11, No. 7&8 (2011) pp. 0563 - 0573
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5584
abstract: In this paper the geometric entanglement (GE) of systems in one spatial dimension (1D) and in the thermodynamic limit is analyzed focusing on two aspects. First, we reexamine the calculation of the GE for translation-invariant matrix product states (MPSs) in the limit of infinite system size. We obtain a lower bound to the GE which collapses to an equality under certain sufficient conditions that are fulfilled by many physical systems, such as those having unbroken space (P) or space-time (PT) inversion symmetry. Our analysis justifies the validity of several derivations carried out in previous works. Second, we derive scaling laws for the GE per site of infinite-size 1D systems with correlation length $\xi \gg 1$. In the case of MPSs, we combine this with the theory of finite-entanglement scaling, allowing to understand the scaling of the GE per site with the MPS bond dimension at conformally invariant quantum critical points.

id: 1006.3343
title: Adiabatic multicritical quantum quenches: Continuously varying exponents depending on the direction of quenching
authors: Victor Mukherjee, Amit Dutta
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: EPL 92, 37004 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.3343
abstract: We study adiabatic quantum quenches across a quantum multicritical point (MCP) using a quenching scheme that enables the system to hit the MCP along different paths. We show that the power-law scaling of the defect density with the rate of driving depends non-trivially on the path, i.e., the exponent varies continuously with the parameter $\alpha$ that defines the path, up to a critical value $\alpha= \alpha_c$; on the other hand for $\alpha \geq \alpha_c$, the scaling exponent saturates to a constant value. We show that dynamically generated and {\it path($\alpha$)-dependent} effective critical exponents associated with the quasicritical points lying close to the MCP (on the ferromagnetic side), where the energy-gap is minimum, lead to this continuously varying exponent. The scaling relations are established using the integrable transverse XY spin chain and generalized to a MCP associated with a $d$-dimensional quantum many-body systems (not reducible to two-level systems) using adiabatic perturbation theory. We also calculate the effective {\it path-dependent} dimensional shift $d_0(\alpha)$ (or the shift in center of the impulse region) that appears in the scaling relation for special paths lying entirely in the paramagnetic phase. Numerically obtained results are in good agreement with analytical predictions.

id: 1006.4120
title: Ladder operators, Fock-spaces, irreducibility and group gradings for the Relative Parabose Set algebra
authors: K. Kanakoglou, A. Herrera-Aguilar
comments: 14 pages, Work done during postdoctoral stay of the first author, at IFM, UMSNH, Morelia, Michoacan, Mexico. v2 contains detailed proofs for some intermediate formulas and corrections of some typos in the theorem of section 2 and in some formulas of section 3 as well. v3 corresponds to the final form accepted for publication at the International Journal of Algebra. To appear at spring-summer 2011
journal: Int.J.Alg. 5:413-428,2011
subjects: Representation Theory (math.RT); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.4120
abstract: The Fock-like representations of the Relative Parabose Set (\textsc{Rpbs}) algebra in a single parabosonic and a single parafermionic degree of freedom are investigated. It is shown that there is an infinite family (parametrized by the values of a positive integer $p$) of infinite dimensional, non-equivalent, irreducible representations. For each one of them, explicit expressions are computed for the action of the generators and they are shown to be ladder operators (creation-annihilation operators) on the specified Fock-spaces. It is proved that each one of these inf. dim. Fock-spaces is irreducible under the action of the whole algebra or in other words that it is a simple module over the \textsc{Rpbs} algebra. Finally, $(\mathbb{Z}_{2} \times \mathbb{Z}_{2})$-gradings are introduced for both the algebra $P_{BF}^{(1,1)}$ and the Fock-spaces, the constructed representations are shown to be $(\mathbb{Z}_{2} \times \mathbb{Z}_{2})$-graded, $P_{BF}^{(1,1)}$-modules and the relation between our present approach and similar works in the literature is briefly discussed.

id: 1006.5943
title: Suppression of Decoherence and Disentanglement by the Exchange Interaction
authors: Amrit De, Alex Lang, Dong Zhou, Robert Joynt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5943
abstract: Entangled qubit pairs can serve as a quantum memory or as a resource for quantum communication. The utility of such pairs is measured by how long they take to disentangle or decohere. To answer the question of whether qubit-qubit interactions can prolong entanglement, we calculate the dissipative dynamics of a pair of qubits coupled via the exchange interaction in the presence of random telegraph noise and $1/f$ noise. We show that for maximally entangled (Bell) states, the exchange interaction generally suppresses decoherence and disentanglement. This suppression is more apparent for random telegraph noise if the noise is non-Markovian, whereas for $1/f$ noise the exchange interaction should be comparable in magnitude to strongest noise source. The entangled singlet-triplet superposition state of 2 qubits ($\psi_{\pm}$ Bell state) can be protected by the interaction, while for the triplet-triplet state ($\phi_{\pm}$ Bell state), it is less effective. Thus the former is more suitable for encoding quantum information.

id: 1006.5919
title: Quantum adiabatic theorem for chemical reactions and systems with time-dependent orthogonalization
authors: Andrew Das Arulsamy
comments: To be published in Prog. Theor. Phys. (Kyoto)
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 126 (2011), 577-595
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.5919
abstract: A general quantum adiabatic theorem with and without the time-dependent orthogonalization is proven, which can be applied to understand the origin of activation energies in chemical reactions. Further proofs are also developed for the oscillating Schwinger Hamiltonian to establish the relationship between the internal (due to time-dependent eigenfunctions) and external (due to time-dependent Hamiltonian) time scales. We prove that this relationship needs to be taken as an independent quantum adiabatic approximation criterion. We give four examples, including logical expositions based on the spin-1/2 two-level system to address the gapped and gapless (due to energy level crossings) systems, as well as to understand how does this theorem allows one to study dynamical systems such as chemical reactions.

