id: 1007.0041
title: Local quenches in frustrated quantum spin chains: global vs. subsystem equilibration
authors: Mathias Diez, Nicholas Chancellor, Stephan Haas, Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032113 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0041
abstract: We study the equilibration behavior following local quenches, using frustrated quantum spin chains as an example of interacting closed quantum systems. Specifically, we examine the statistics of the time series of the Loschmidt echo, the trace distance of the time-evolved local density matrix to its average state, and the local magnetization. Depending on the quench parameters, the equilibration statistics of these quantities show features of good or poor equilibration, indicated by Gaussian, exponential or bistable distribution functions. These universal functions provide valuable tools to characterize the various time-evolution responses and give insight into the plethora of equilibration phenomena in complex quantum systems.

id: 1007.0059
title: Suppression of collisional shifts in a strongly interacting lattice clock
authors: Matthew D. Swallows, Michael Bishof, Yige Lin, Sebastian Blatt, Michael J. Martin, Ana Maria Rey, Jun Ye
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Science 331, 1043 - 1046 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0059
abstract: Optical lattice clocks have the potential for extremely high frequency stability owing to the simultaneous interrogation of many atoms, but this precision may come at the cost of systematic inaccuracy due to atomic interactions. Density-dependent frequency shifts can occur even in a clock that uses fermionic atoms if they are subject to inhomogeneous optical excitation [1, 2]. Here we present a seemingly paradoxical solution to this problem. By dramatically increasing the strength of atomic interactions, we suppress collisional shifts in lattice sites containing $N$ > 1 atoms; strong interactions introduce an energy splitting into the system, and evolution into a many-particle state in which collisions occur is inhibited. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach with the JILA Sr lattice clock by reducing both the collisional frequency shift and its uncertainty by more than a factor of ten [3], to the level of $10^{-17}$. This result eliminates the compromise between precision and accuracy in a many-particle system, since both will continue to improve as the particle number increases.

id: 1007.0068
title: Residual effect on the robustness of multiqubit entanglement
authors: Bao-Kui Zhao, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; A figure is added, compared with the version published in Phys. Rev. A 82, 014301 (2010)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 014301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0068
abstract: We investigate the relation between the entanglement and the robustness of a multipartite system to a depolarization noise. We find that the robustness of a two-qubit system in an arbitrary pure state depends completely on its entanglement. However, this is not always true in a three-qubit system. There is a residual effect on the robustness of a three-qubit system in an arbitrary superposition of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state and W state. Its entanglement determines the trend of its robustness. However, there is a splitting on its robustness under the same entanglement. Its robustness not only has the same periodicity as its three-tangle but also alters with its three-tangle synchronously. There is also a splitting on the robustness of an $n$-qubit ($n>3$) system although it is more complicated.

id: 1007.0072
title: The relation between Hardy's non-locality and violation of Bell inequality
authors: Yang Xiang
comments: 4 pages, no figure, minor change
journal: Chin. Phys. B 20, 060301(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0072
abstract: We give a analytic quantitative relation between Hardy's non-locality and Bell operator. We find that Hardy's non-locality is a sufficient condition for violation of Bell inequality, the upper bound of Hardy's non-locality allowed by information causality just correspond to Tsirelson bound of Bell inequality, and the upper bound of Hardy's non-locality allowed by the principle of no-signaling just correspond to the algebraic maximum of Bell operator. Then we study the Cabello's argument of Hardy's non-locality (a generalization of Hardy's argument) and find a similar relation between it and violation of Bell inequality. Finally, we give a simple derivation of the bound of Hardy's non-locality under the constraint of information causality with the aid of above derived relation between Hardy's non-locality and Bell operator, this bound is the main result of a recent work of Ahanj \emph{et al.} [Phys. Rev. A {\bf81}, 032103(2010)].

id: 1007.0095
title: Optical Probe of Quantum Shot Noise Reduction at a Single-Atom Contact
authors: Natalia L. Schneider, Guillaume Schull, Richard Berndt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0095
abstract: Visible and infra-red light emitted at a Ag-Ag(111) junction has been investigated from tunneling to single atom contact conditions with a scanning tunneling microscope. The light intensity varies in a highly nonlinear fashion with the conductance of the junction and exhibits a minimum at conductances close to the conductance quantum. The data are interpreted in terms of current noise at optical frequencies, which is characteristic of partially open transport channels.

id: 1007.0111
title: Quantum state engineering with flux-biased Josephson phase qubits by Stark-chirped rapid adiabatic passages
authors: W. Nie, J. S. Huang, X. Shi, L. F. Wei
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0111
abstract: In this paper, the scheme of quantum computing based on Stark chirped rapid adiabatic passage (SCRAP) technique [L. F. Wei et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 113601 (2008)] is extensively applied to implement the quantum-state manipulations in the flux-biased Josephson phase qubits. The broken-parity symmetries of bound states in flux-biased Josephson junctions are utilized to conveniently generate the desirable Stark-shifts. Then, assisted by various transition pulses universal quantum logic gates as well as arbitrary quantum-state preparations could be implemented. Compared with the usual PI-pulses operations widely used in the experiments, the adiabatic population passage proposed here is insensitive the details of the applied pulses and thus the desirable population transfers could be satisfyingly implemented. The experimental feasibility of the proposal is also discussed.

id: 1007.0116
title: Cavity QED with an ultracold ensemble on a chip: prospects for strong magnetic coupling at finite temperatures
authors: Kathrin Henschel, Johannes Majer, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 20 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033810 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0116
abstract: We study the nonlinear dynamics of an ensemble of cold trapped atoms with a hyperfine transition magnetically coupled to a resonant microwave cavity mode. Despite the minute single atom coupling one obtains strong coupling between collective hyperfine qubits and microwave photons enabling coherent transfer of an excitation between the long lived atomic qubit state and the mode. Evidence of strong coupling can be obtained from the cavity transmission spectrum even at finite thermal photon number. The system makes it possible to study further prominent collective phenomena such as superradiant decay of an inverted ensemble or the building of a narrowband stripline micromaser locked to an atomic hyperfine transition.

id: 1007.0163
title: Local unitary invariants for multipartite quantum systems
authors: Peter Vrana
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0163
abstract: A method is presented to obtain local unitary invariants for multipartite quantum systems consisting of fermions or distinguishable particles. The invariants are organized into infinite families, in particular, the generalization to higher dimensional single particle Hilbert spaces is straightforward. Many well-known invariants and their generalizations are also included.

id: 1007.0228
title: Entanglement irreversibility from quantum discord and quantum deficit
authors: Marcio F. Cornelio, Marcos C. de Oliveira, Felipe F. Fanchini
comments: Typos corrected. Improved figures. To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107 020502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0228
abstract: We relate the problem of irreversibility of entanglement with the recently defined measures of quantum correlation - quantum discord and one-way quantum deficit. We show that the entanglement of formation is always strictly larger than the coherent information and the entanglement cost is also larger in most cases. We prove irreversibility of entanglement under LOCC for a family of entangled states. This family is a generalization of the maximally correlated states for which we also give an analytic expression for the distillable entanglement, the relative entropy of entanglement, the distillable secret key and the quantum discord.

id: 1007.0314
title: Reversing Quantum Nondemolition Interaction as Quantum Erasing
authors: Yoshichika Miwa, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Ryuji Ukai, Radim Filip, Akira Furusawa
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0314
abstract: We reverse a quantum nondemolition (QND) interaction and restore the signal quantum state by measurement and feedforward. This operation corresponds to quantum erasing for continuous variables (CVs). CV quantum eraser restores the coherence of the signal quantum state by erasing the signal information leaking to another system, where the information leaking is induced by the QND interaction. We employ a homodyne measurement for erasing of the information. Then, by performing a feedforward displacement operation, we restore the initial quantum state together with its coherence. For verification, we use a coherent state and a squeezed vacuum state as inputs, and then restore one of them or the other, whichever we choose. Experimental results are shown as Wigner functions, average fidelity, change in coherence, and trade-off between leakage information and coherence.

id: 1007.0323
title: What is the sign of $\hbar$ ?
authors: Massimo Testa
comments: 7 pages
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 31:969,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0323
abstract: We present an elementary argument showing that the sign of $\hbar$ in the basic formulation of Quantum Mechanics can be changed without incurring in any physical consequences.

id: 1007.0335
title: Carnot's theorem for nonthermal stationary reservoirs
authors: Simone De Liberato, Masahito Ueda
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 051122 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0335
abstract: Carnot's theorem poses a fundamental limit on the maximum efficiency achievable from an engine that works between two reservoirs at thermal equilibrium. We extend this result to the case of arbitrary nonthermal stationary reservoirs, even with quantum coherence. In order to do this we prove that a single nonthermal reservoir is formally equivalent to multiple equilibrium ones. Finally, we discuss the possibility of realizing an engine that works at unit efficiency by exploiting quantum coherence present in the reservoir.

id: 1007.0371
title: Multiphoton resonance in a three-level system with nearly degenerate excited states
authors: Michal Berent, Ryszard Parzy¨½ski
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures,submitted to Phys. Rev. A, comments welcome
journal: Physical Review A 82, 023804 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0371
abstract: An analytic study is presented of the efficient multiphoton excitation and strong harmonic generation in three-level systems specified by a pair of nearly degenerate, strongly dipole-coupled excited states. Such systems are physically formed by the three lowest states in, e.g., the hydrogen atom or evenly charged homonuclear diatomic molecular ions under reasonably chosen laser intensities. As a detailed analytic result, we found that the laser pulse of photon energy $2{.}05\text{eV}$, duration $0{.}23\text{ps}$ and intensity $5\cdot 10^{13}\,\frac{\text{W}}{\text{cm}^2}$ is able to produce complete inversion of the initial population in the hydrogen atom through the 5-photon excitation. At the same photon energy, the pulse of duration $0{.}41\text{ps}$ and intensity $3{.}44\cdot 10^{14}\,\frac{\text{W}}{\text{cm}^2}$ was found to produce the same effect in the molecular ion but through the 9-photon excitation. We show that the accompanying scattering of light has very rich spectrum differing substantially from that of the two-level system.

id: 1007.0389
title: Optimal quantum estimation of the Unruh-Hawking effect
authors: Mariona Aspachs, Gerardo Adesso, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Close to published version. (I.F. previously published as Fuentes-Guridi and Fuentes-Schuller)
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:151301,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0389
abstract: We address on general quantum-statistical grounds the problem of optimal detection of the Unruh-Hawking effect. We show that the effect signatures are magnified up to potentially observable levels if the scalar field to be probed has high mean energy from an inertial perspective: The Unruh-Hawking effect acts like an amplification channel. We prove that a field in a Fock inertial state, probed via photon counting by a non-inertial detector, realizes the optimal strategy attaining the ultimate sensitivity allowed by quantum mechanics for the observation of the effect. We define the parameter regime in which the effect can be reliably revealed in laboratory experiments, regardless of the specific implementation.

id: 1007.0397
title: Deterministic entanglement of two neutral atoms via Rydberg blockade
authors: X. L. Zhang, L. Isenhower, A. T. Gill, T. G. Walker, M. Saffman
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 030306(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0397
abstract: We demonstrate the first deterministic entanglement of two individually addressed neutral atoms using a Rydberg blockade mediated controlled-NOT gate. Parity oscillation measurements reveal an entanglement fidelity of $F=0.58\pm0.04$, which is above the entanglement threshold of $F=0.5$, without any correction for atom loss, and $F=0.71\pm0.05$ after correcting for background collisional losses. The fidelity results are shown to be in good agreement with a detailed error model.

id: 1007.0403
title: A continuous-variable formalism for the Faraday atom-light interface
authors: Julia Stasi¨½ska, Simone Paganelli, Carles Rod¨®, Anna Sanpera
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0403
abstract: Quantum interfaces between polarized atomic ensembles and coherent states of light, applied recently to manipulate bipartite and multipartite entanglement, are revisited by means of a continuous-variable formalism. The explicit use of the continuous-variable formalism facilitates significantly the analysis of entanglement between different modes, reducing it to the study of the properties of a final covariance matrix which can be found analytically. Furthermore, it allows to study matter-light interfaces for mixed states, adapting the formalism to the experimental situations in which the initial prepared Gaussian states are, unavoidably, affected by a certain amount of noise. A multipartite scenario, leading to the generation of macroscopic cluster states is presented and analyzed in detail within this formalism.

id: 1007.0434
title: Fisher information and asymptotic normality in system identification for quantum Markov chains
authors: Madalin Guta
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 83, 062324, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0434
abstract: This paper deals with the problem of estimating the coupling constant $\theta$ of a mixing quantum Markov chain. For a repeated measurement on the chain's output we show that the outcomes' time average has an asymptotically normal (Gaussian) distribution, and we give the explicit expressions of its mean and variance. In particular we obtain a simple estimator of $\theta$ whose classical Fisher information can be optimized over different choices of measured observables. We then show that the quantum state of the output together with the system, is itself asymptotically Gaussian and compute its quantum Fisher information which sets an absolute bound to the estimation error. The classical and quantum Fisher informations are compared in a simple example. In the vicinity of $\theta=0$ we find that the quantum Fisher information has a quadratic rather than linear scaling in output size, and asymptotically the Fisher information is localised in the system, while the output is independent of the parameter.

id: 1007.0446
title: Conditional measurements on multimode pairwise entangled states from spontaneous parametric downconversion
authors: A. Allevi, A. Andreoni, M. Bondani, F. A. Beduini, M. G. Genoni, S. Olivares, M. G. A. Paris
comments: 
journal: EPL 92 20007 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0446
abstract: We address the intrinsic multimode nature of the quantum state of light obtained by pulsed spontaneous parametric downconversion and develop a theoretical model based only on experimentally accessible quantities. We exploit the pairwise entanglement as a resource for conditional multimode measurements and derive closed formulas for the detection probability and the density matrix of the conditional states. We present a set of experiments performed to validate our model in different conditions that are in excellent agreement with experimental data. Finally, we evaluate nonGaussianity of the conditional states obtained from our source with the aim of discussing the effects of the different experimental parameters on the efficacy of this type of conditional state preparation.

id: 1007.0460
title: Photon position measure
authors: Margaret Hawton
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012117 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0460
abstract: The positive operator valued measure (POVM) for a photon counting array detector is derived and found to equal photon flux density integrated over pixel area and measurement time. Since photon flux density equals number density multiplied by the speed of light, this justifies theoretically the observation that a photon counting array provides a coarse grained measurement of photon position. The POVM obtained here can be written as a set of projectors onto a basis of localized states, consistent with the description of photon position in a recent quantum imaging proposal [M. Tsang, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{102}, 253601 (2009)]. The wave function that describes a photon counting experiment is the projection of the photon state vector onto this localized basis. Collapse is to the electromagnetic vacuum and not to a localized state, thus violating the text book rules of quantum mechanics but compatible with the theory of generalized observables and the nonlocalizability of an incoming photon.

id: 1007.0505
title: Programmable purification of type-I polarization-entanglement
authors: Simone Cialdi, Davide Brivio, Matteo G A Paris
comments: published version
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 97 041108 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0505
abstract: We suggest and demonstrate a scheme to compensate spatial and spectral decoherence effects in the generation of polarization entangled states by type-I parametric downconversion. In our device a programmable spatial light modulator imposes a polarization dependent phase-shift on different spatial sections of the overall downconversion output and this effect is exploited to realize an effective purification technique for polarization entanglement.

id: 1007.0536
title: Comment on "Quantum theory cannot be extended" [arXiv:1005.5173v1]: Falsification of non-covariant extensions requires the before-before experiment
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0536
abstract: The Suarez-Scarani model is a non-covariant (frame-dependent) relativistic (time-ordered causal) nonlocal extension of quantum theory, which is not refuted by the experiments proposed in Reference [arXiv:1005.5173v1]. The covariant extensions considered in this Reference are actually self-contradictory and do not require experimental falsification.

id: 1007.0560
title: A characterization of positive linear maps and criteria of entanglement for quantum states
authors: Jinchuan Hou
comments: 20 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 385201 (20pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0560
abstract: Let $H$ and $K$ be (finite or infinite dimensional) complex Hilbert spaces. A characterization of positive completely bounded normal linear maps from ${\mathcal B}(H)$ into ${\mathcal B}(K)$ is given, which particularly gives a characterization of positive elementary operators including all positive linear maps between matrix algebras. This characterization is then applied give a representation of quantum channels (operations) between infinite-dimensional systems. A necessary and sufficient criterion of separability is give which shows that a state $\rho$ on $H\otimes K$ is separable if and only if $(\Phi\otimes I)\rho\geq 0$ for all positive finite rank elementary operators $\Phi$. Examples of NCP and indecomposable positive linear maps are given and are used to recognize some entangled states that cannot be recognized by the PPT criterion and the realignment criterion.

id: 1007.0565
title: Optomechanically induced transparency
authors: S. Weis, R. Riviere, S. Deleglise, E. Gavartin, O. Arcizet, A. Schliesser, T. J. Kippenberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0565
abstract: Coherent interaction of laser radiation with multilevel atoms and molecules can lead to quantum interference in the electronic excitation pathways. A prominent example observed in atomic three-level-systems is the phenomenon of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT), in which a control laser induces a narrow spectral transparency window for a weak probe laser beam. The concomitant rapid variation of the refractive index in this spectral window can give rise to dramatic reduction of the group velocity of a propagating pulse of probe light. Dynamic control of EIT via the control laser enables even a complete stop, that is, storage, of probe light pulses in the atomic medium. Here, we demonstrate optomechanically induced transparency (OMIT)--formally equivalent to EIT--in a cavity optomechanical system operating in the resolved sideband regime. A control laser tuned to the lower motional sideband of the cavity resonance induces a dipole-like interaction of optical and mechanical degrees of freedom. Under these conditions, the destructive interference of excitation pathways for an intracavity probe field gives rise to a window of transparency when a two-photon resonance condition is met. As a salient feature of EIT, the power of the control laser determines the width and depth of the probe transparency window. OMIT could therefore provide a new approach for delaying, slowing and storing light pulses in long-lived mechanical excitations of optomechanical systems, whose optical and mechanical properties can be tailored in almost arbitrary ways in the micro- and nano-optomechanical platforms developed to date.

id: 1007.0574
title: Quantum Enhancement of the Zero-Area Sagnac Interferometer Topology for Gravitational Wave Detection
authors: Tobias Eberle, Sebastian Steinlechner, J?ran Bauchrowitz, Vitus H?ndchen, Henning Vahlbruch, Moritz Mehmet, Helge M¨¹ller-Ebhardt, Roman Schnabel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.104:251102,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0574
abstract: Only a few years ago, it was realized that the zero-area Sagnac interferometer topology is able to perform quantum nondemolition measurements of position changes of a mechanical oscillator. Here, we experimentally show that such an interferometer can also be efficiently enhanced by squeezed light. We achieved a nonclassical sensitivity improvement of up to 8.2 dB, limited by optical loss inside our interferometer. Measurements performed directly on our squeezed-light laser output revealed squeezing of 12.7 dB. We show that the sensitivity of a squeezed-light enhanced Sagnac interferometer can surpass the standard quantum limit for a broad spectrum of signal frequencies without the need for filter cavities as required for Michelson interferometers. The Sagnac topology is therefore a powerful option for future gravitational-wave detectors, such as the Einstein Telescope, whose design is currently being studied.

id: 1007.0586
title: The parity operator in quantum optical metrology
authors: Christopher C. Gerry, Jihane Mimih
comments: to be published in Contemporary Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0586
abstract: Photon number states are assigned a parity of if their photon number is even and a parity of if odd. The parity operator, which is minus one to the power of the photon number operator, is a Hermitian operator and thus a quantum mechanical observable though it has no classical analog, the concept being meaningless in the context of classical light waves. In this paper we review work on the application of the parity operator to the problem of quantum metrology for the detection of small phase shifts with quantum optical interferometry using highly entangled field states such as the so-called N00N states, and states obtained by injecting twin Fock states into a beam splitter. With such states and with the performance of parity measurements on one of the output beams of the interferometer, one can breach the standard quantum limit, or shot-noise limit, of sensitivity down to the Heisenberg limit, the greatest degree of phase sensitivity allowed by quantum mechanics for linear phase shifts. Heisenberg limit sensitivities are expected to eventually play an important role in attempts to detect gravitational waves in interferometric detection systems such as LIGO and VIRGO.

id: 1007.0591
title: Efficient bounds on quantum communication rates via their reduced variants
authors: Marcin L. Nowakowski, Pawel Horodecki
comments: 6 pages, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042342 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0591
abstract: We investigate one-way communication scenarios where Bob manipulating on his parts can transfer some sub-system to the environment. We define reduced versions of quantum communication rates and further, prove new upper bounds on one-way quantum secret key, distillable entanglement and quantum channel capacity by means of their reduced versions. It is shown that in some cases they drastically improve their estimation.

id: 1007.0623
title: Preserving qubit coherence by dynamical decoupling
authors: Wen Yang, Zhen-Yu Wang, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Frontiers of Physics
journal: Front. Phys., 2011, 6(1): 2-14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0623
abstract: In quantum information processing, it is vital to protect the coherence of qubits in noisy environments. Dynamical decoupling (DD), which applies a sequence of flips on qubits and averages the qubit-environment coupling to zero, is a promising strategy compatible with other desired functionalities such as quantum gates. Here we review the recent progresses in theories of dynamical decoupling and experimental demonstrations. We give both semiclassical and quantum descriptions of the qubit decoherence due to coupling to noisy environments. Based on the quantum picture, a geometrical interpretation of DD is presented. The periodic Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill DD and the concatenated DD are reviewed, followed by a detailed exploration of the recently developed Uhrig DD, which employs the least number of pulses in an unequally spaced sequence to suppress the qubit-environment coupling to a given order of the evolution time. Some new developments and perspectives are also discussed.

id: 1007.0669
title: Quantum correlation and classical correlation dynamics in the spin-boson model
authors: Rong-Chun Ge, Ming Gong, Chuan-Feng Li, Jin-Shi Xu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 064103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0669
abstract: We study the quantum correlation and classical correlation dynamics in a spin-boson model. For two different forms of spectral density, we obtain analytical results and show that the evolutions of both correlations depend closely on the form of the initial state. At the end of evolution, all correlations initially stored in the spin system transfer to reservoirs. It is found that for a large family of initial states, quantum correlation remains equal to the classical correlation during the course of evolution. In addition, there is no increase in the correlations during the course of evolution.

id: 1007.0694
title: Quantum jumps induced by the center-of-mass motion of a trapped atom
authors: J. M. Torres, M. Bienert, S. Zippilli, G. Morigi
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 61, 21 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0694
abstract: We theoretically study the occurrence of quantum jumps in the resonance fluorescence of a trapped atom. Here, the atom is laser cooled in a configuration of level such that the occurrence of a quantum jump is associated to a change of the vibrational center-of-mass motion by one phonon. The statistics of the occurrence of the dark fluorescence period is studied as a function of the physical parameters and the corresponding features in the spectrum of resonance fluorescence are identified. We discuss the information which can be extracted on the atomic motion from the observation of a quantum jump in the considered setup.

id: 1007.0697
title: Wigner Distribution of Elliptical Quantum Optical Vortex
authors: Abir Bandyopadhyay, Ravindra Pratap Singh
comments: Final version. 9 pages + 16 pages for 4 Figs
journal: Optics Communications 284 (2011) p256-261
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0697
abstract: We calculate the Wigner quasiprobability distribution function of quantum elliptical vortex in elliptical beam (EEV), produced by coupling squeezed coherent states of two modes. The coupling between the two modes is performed by using beam splitter (BS) or a dual channel directional coupler (DCDC). The quantum interference due to the coupling between the two modes promises the generation of controlled entanglement for quantum computation and quantum tomography.

id: 1007.0699
title: On the possibility of empirically probing the Bohmian model in terms of the testability of quantum arrival/transit time distribution
authors: Dipankar Home, Alok Kumar Pan
comments: 18 pages, 1 Figure
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 51, 374(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0699
abstract: The present article focuses on studying the extent to which the nonuniqueness that is inherent in the standard quantum mechanical calculation of arrival/transit time distribution can be exploited to enable an empirical scrutiny of any causal trajectory model such as the Bohmian scheme. For this purpose, we consider the example of spin-1/2 neutral particles corresponding to a wave packet which passes through a spin rotator(SR) that contains constant magnetic field confined within a region - in such a case, the transit time distribution can be measured in terms of the spin distribution of particles emerging from the SR. In particular, we investigate the way one can compare the Bohmian predictions obtained for this example with that using one of the quantum approaches, say, the probability current density based scheme. Here the Bohmian calculational procedure involves a couple of critical subtleties that lead to some specific directions for further studies.

id: 1007.0715
title: Representation of quantum states as points in a probability simplex associated to a SIC-POVM
authors: Jose Ignacio Rosado
comments: 12 pages. Added journal reference
journal: Foundations of Physics, 41 (2011), pp. 1200-1213
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0715
abstract: The quantum state of a $d$-dimensional system can be represented by the $d^2$ probabilities corresponding to a SIC-POVM, and then this distribution of probability can be represented by a vector of $\R^{d^2-1}$ in a simplex, we will call this set of vectors $\mathcal{Q}$. Other way of represent a $d$-dimensional system is by the corresponding Bloch vector also in $\R^{d^2-1}$, we will call this set of vectors $\mathcal{B}$. In this paper it is proved that with the adequate scaling $\mathcal{B}=\mathcal{Q}$. Also we indicate some features of the shape of $\mathcal{Q}$.

id: 1007.0725
title: Graphical calculus for Gaussian pure states
authors: Nicolas C. Menicucci, Steven T. Flammia, Peter van Loock
comments: (v3) shortened title, very minor corrections (v2) minor corrections, reference added, new figures for CZ gate and beamsplitter graph rules; (v1) 25 pages, 11 figures (made with TikZ)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042335 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0725
abstract: We provide a unified graphical calculus for all Gaussian pure states, including graph transformation rules for all local and semi-local Gaussian unitary operations, as well as local quadrature measurements. We then use this graphical calculus to analyze continuous-variable (CV) cluster states, the essential resource for one-way quantum computing with CV systems. Current graphical approaches to CV cluster states are only valid in the unphysical limit of infinite squeezing, and the associated graph transformation rules only apply when the initial and final states are of this form. Our formalism applies to all Gaussian pure states and subsumes these rules in a natural way. In addition, the term "CV graph state" currently has several inequivalent definitions in use. Using this formalism we provide a single unifying definition that encompasses all of them. We provide many examples of how the formalism may be used in the context of CV cluster states: defining the "closest" CV cluster state to a given Gaussian pure state and quantifying the error in the approximation due to finite squeezing; analyzing the optimality of certain methods of generating CV cluster states; drawing connections between this new graphical formalism and bosonic Hamiltonians with Gaussian ground states, including those useful for CV one-way quantum computing; and deriving a graphical measure of bipartite entanglement for certain classes of CV cluster states. We mention other possible applications of this formalism and conclude with a brief note on fault tolerance in CV one-way quantum computing.

id: 1007.0766
title: Non-equilibrium steady state of sparse systems
authors: Daniel Hurowitz, Doron Cohen
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, EPL accepted version
journal: Europhys.Lett.93:60002,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0766
abstract: A resistor-network picture of transitions is appropriate for the study of energy absorption by weakly chaotic or weakly interacting driven systems. Such "sparse" systems reach a novel non-equilibrium steady state (NESS) once coupled to a bath. In the stochastic case there is an analogy to the physics of percolating glassy systems, and an extension of the fluctuation-dissipation phenomenology is proposed. In the mesoscopic case the quantum NESS might differ enormously from the stochastic NESS, with saturation temperature determined by the sparsity. A toy model where the sparsity of the system is modeled using a log-normal random ensemble is analyzed.

id: 1007.0780
title: Optimal cloning of qubits given by arbitrary axisymmetric distribution on Bloch sphere
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042330 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0780
abstract: We find an optimal quantum cloning machine, which clones qubits of arbitrary symmetrical distribution around the Bloch vector with the highest fidelity. The process is referred to as phase-independent cloning in contrast to the standard phase-covariant cloning for which an input qubit state is a priori better known. We assume that the information about the input state is encoded in an arbitrary axisymmetric distribution (phase function) on the Bloch sphere of the cloned qubits. We find analytical expressions describing the optimal cloning transformation and fidelity of the clones. As an illustration, we analyze cloning of qubit state described by the von Mises-Fisher and Brosseau distributions. Moreover, we show that the optimal phase-independent cloning machine can be implemented by modifying the mirror phase-covariant cloning machine for which quantum circuits are known.

id: 1007.0793
title: Hiding Quantum Information in the Perfect Code
authors: Bilal A. Shaw, Todd A. Brun
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures and 4 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0793
abstract: We present and analyze a protocol for quantum steganography where the sender (Alice) encodes her steganographic information into the error syndromes of the perfect (five-qubit) quantum error-correcting code, and sends it to the receiver (Bob) over a depolarizing channel. Alice and Bob share a classical secret key, and hide quantum information in such a way that to an eavesdropper (Eve) without access to the secret key, the quantum message looks like an innocent codeword with a typical sequence of quantum errors. We calculate the average rate of key consumption, and show how the protocol improves in performance as information is spread over multiple codeword blocks. Alice and Bob utilize different encodings to optimize the average number of steganographic bits that they can send to each other while matching the error statistics of the depolarizing channel.

id: 1007.0827
title: Three dimensional cooling and detecting of a nanosphere with a single cavity
authors: Zhang-qi Yin, Tongcang Li, M. Feng
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, comments are welcome; accepted for PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013816 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0827
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to cool and measure the three-dimensional (3D) motion of an optically trapped nanosphere in a cavity. Driven by three lasers on TEM00, TEM01, and TEM10 modes, a single cavity can cool a trapped nanosphere to the quantum ground states in all three dimensions under the resolved-sideband condition. Our scheme can also detect an individual collision between a single molecule and a cooled nanosphere efficiently. Such ability can be used to measure the mass of molecules and the surface temperature of the nanosphere. We also discuss the heating induced by the intensity fluctuation, pointing instability, and the phase noise of lasers, and justify the feasibility of our scheme under current experimental conditions.

id: 1007.0855
title: The Multiparticle Quantum Arnol'd Cat: a test case for the decoherence approach to quantum chaos
authors: Giorgio Mantica
comments: To appear in the Journal of the Siberian Federal University
journal: Journal of the Siberian Federal University, 3 (2010) 369--380
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0855
abstract: A multi-particle extension of the Arnol'd Cat Hamiltonian system is defined and examined. We propose to compute its Alicki-Fannes quantum dynamical entropy, to validate (or disprove) the validity of the decoherence approach to quantum chaos. A first set of numerical experiments is presented and discussed.

id: 1007.0869
title: Narrowband Biphoton Generation due to Long-Lived Coherent Population Oscillations
authors: A.V. Sharypov, A.D. Wilson-Gordon
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0869
abstract: We study the generation of paired photons due to the effect of four-wave mixing in an ensemble of pumped two-level systems that decay via an intermediate metastable state. The slow population relaxation of the metastable state to the ground state is utilized to create long-lived coherent population oscillation, leading to narrowband nonlinear response of the medium. The biphotons have a narrow bandwidth, long coherence time and length, which can be controlled by the pump field. In addition, the biphotons are antibunched, with antibunching period determined by the dephasing time. During this period, damped oscillations of the biphoton wavefunction occurs if the pump detuning is non-zero.

id: 1007.0870
title: Real-world Quantum Sensors: Evaluating Resources for Precision Measurement
authors: Nicholas Thomas-Peter, Brian J Smith, Animesh Datta, Lijian Zhang, Uwe Dorner, Ian A Walmsley
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: PRL 107, 113603 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0870
abstract: Quantum physics holds the promise of enabling certain tasks with better performance than possible when only classical resources are employed. The quantum phenomena present in many experiments signify nonclassical behavior, but do not always imply superior performance. Quantifying the enhancement achieved from quantum behavior requires careful analysis of the resources involved. We analyze the specific case of parameter estimation using an optical interferometer, where increased precision can be achieved using quantum probe states. Common performance measures are examined and it is shown that some overestimate the improvement. For the simplest experimental case we compare the different measures and show this overestimate explicitly. We give the preferred analysis of real-world experiments and calculate benchmark values for experimental parameters necessary to realize a precision enhancement.

id: 1007.0884
title: Coherently enhanced Raman scattering in atomic vapor
authors: Chun-Hua Yuan, L. Q. Chen, Jietai Jing, Z. Y. Ou, Weiping Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 013817 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0884
abstract: We present a scheme to obtain the coherently enhanced Raman scattering in atomic vapor which is induced by a spin wave initially written by a weak write laser. The enhancement of Raman scattering is dependent on the number and the spatial distribution of the flipped atoms generated by the weak write laser. Such an enhanced Raman scattering may have practical applications in quantum information, nonlinear optics and laser spectroscopy because of its simplicity.

id: 1007.0951
title: Gapped Two-Body Hamiltonian for continuous-variable quantum computation
authors: Leandro Aolita, Augusto J. Roncaglia, Alessandro Ferraro, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 4 pages, one figure. New version: typos corrected, one reference added. To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 090501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0951
abstract: We introduce a family of Hamiltonian systems for measurement-based quantum computation with continuous variables. The Hamiltonians (i) are quadratic, and therefore two body, (ii) are of short range, (iii) are frustration-free, and (iv) possess a constant energy gap proportional to the squared inverse of the squeezing. Their ground states are the celebrated Gaussian graph states, which are universal resources for quantum computation in the limit of infinite squeezing. These Hamiltonians constitute the basic ingredient for the adiabatic preparation of graph states and thus open new venues for the physical realization of continuous-variable quantum computing beyond the standard optical approaches. We characterize the correlations in these systems at thermal equilibrium. In particular, we prove that the correlations across any multipartition are contained exactly in its boundary, automatically yielding a correlation area law.

id: 1007.0966
title: Numerical methods for computing Casimir interactions
authors: Steven G. Johnson
comments: 46 pages, 142 references, 5 figures. To appear in upcoming Lecture Notes in Physics book on Casimir Physics
journal: In Casimir Physics, Lecture Notes in Physics vol. 834, ch. 6, pp. 175--218 (Springer, 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0966
abstract: We review several different approaches for computing Casimir forces and related fluctuation-induced interactions between bodies of arbitrary shapes and materials. The relationships between this problem and well known computational techniques from classical electromagnetism are emphasized. We also review the basic principles of standard computational methods, categorizing them according to three criteria---choice of problem, basis, and solution technique---that can be used to classify proposals for the Casimir problem as well. In this way, mature classical methods can be exploited to model Casimir physics, with a few important modifications.

id: 1007.0968
title: On the ring of local polynomial invariants for a pair of entangled qubits
authors: Vladimir Gerdt, Arsen Khvedelidze, Yuri Palii
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Mathematical Sciences v168, N3 (2010) pp. 368-378, Zapiski Nauchnyh Seminarov POMI v. 373, 104-123, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0968
abstract: The entanglement characteristics of two qubits are encoded in the invariants of the adjoint action of SU(2) x SU(2) group on the space of density matrices defined as the space of positive semi-definite Hermitian matrices. The corresponding ring of polynomial invariants is studied. The special integrity basis for this ring is described and constraints on its elements due to the positive semi-definiteness of density matrices are given explicitly in the form of polynomial inequalities. The suggested basis is characterized by the property that only a minimal number of invariants, namely two primary invariants of degree 2, 3 and one secondary invariant of degree 4 appearing in the Hironaka decomposition of the ring are subject to the polynomial inequalities.

id: 1007.0973
title: Sub-Rayleigh Imaging via N-Photon Detection
authors: Fabrizio Guerrieri, Lorenzo Maccone, Franco N. C. Wong, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Simone Tisa, Franco Zappa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0973
abstract: The Rayleigh diffraction bound sets the minimum separation for two point objects to be distinguishable in a conventional imaging system. We demonstrate resolution enhancement beyond the Rayleigh bound using random scanning of a highly-focused beam and N-photon photodetection implemented with a single-photon avalanche detector array. Experimental results show resolution improvement by a factor ~sqrt(N) beyond the Rayleigh bound, in good agreement with theory.

id: 1007.0983
title: Nonlocality and entanglement in the XY model
authors: J. Batle, M. Casas
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0983
abstract: Nonlocality and quantum entanglement constitute two special features of quantum systems of paramount importance in quantum information theory (QIT). Essentially regarded as identical or equivalent for many years, they constitute di?erent concepts. Describing nonlocality by means of the maximal violation of two Bell inequalities, we study both entanglement and nonlocality for two and three spins in the XY model. Our results shed a new light into the description of nonlocality and the possible information-theoretic task limitations of entanglement in an in?nite quantum system.

id: 1007.0985
title: Mapping the spatial distribution of entanglement in optical lattices
authors: Emilio Alba, Geza Toth, Juan Jose Garcia-Ripoll
comments: 2 figures, 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062321 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0985
abstract: We study the entangled states that can be generated using two species of atoms trapped in independently movable, two-dimensional optical lattices. We show that using two sets of measurements it is possible to measure a set of entanglement witness operators distributed over arbitrarily large regions of the lattice, and use these witnesses to produce two-dimensional plots of the entanglement content of these states. We also discuss the influence of noise on the states and on the witnesses, as well as connections to ongoing experiments.

id: 1007.0997
title: Quantum Communication in Rindler Spacetime
authors: Kamil Bradler, Patrick Hayden, Prakash Panangaden
comments: v3: 44 pages, accepted in Communications in Mathematical Physics
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 312(2):361-398, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0997
abstract: A state that an inertial observer in Minkowski space perceives to be the vacuum will appear to an accelerating observer to be a thermal bath of radiation. We study the impact of this Davies-Fulling-Unruh noise on communication, particularly quantum communication from an inertial sender to an accelerating observer and private communication between two inertial observers in the presence of an accelerating eavesdropper. In both cases, we establish compact, tractable formulas for the associated communication capacities assuming encodings that allow a single excitation in one of a fixed number of modes per use of the communications channel. Our contributions include a rigorous presentation of the general theory of the private quantum capacity as well as a detailed analysis of the structure of these channels, including their group-theoretic properties and a proof that they are conjugate degradable. Connections between the Unruh channel and optical amplifiers are also discussed.

id: 1007.0999
title: Lorentz Symmetry Breaking in Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: D.M. Oliveira
comments: Master Degree thesis (in portuguese), Advisor: Prof. Dr. Adilson Jose da Silva, 112 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0999
abstract: In this dissertation, we study the implications generated by the Lorentz breaking symmetry in quantum electrodynamics. We analyze fermions interacting with an electromagnetic field in the contexts of quantum mechanics and make radiative corrections. In quantum mechanics, the terms of the Lorentz breaking symmetry were treated as perturbations to the Dirac equation, and their expected values were obtained in a vacuum. In the radiative corrections, the Lorentz breaking symmetry was introduced in this interaction for the Chern-Simons like term could be induced in (3 +1) dimensions. We also discussed the consequences generated by this term on the propagation speeds of classic photons.

id: 1007.1058
title: The dynamical Casimir effect in superconducting microwave circuits
authors: J.R. Johansson, G. Johansson, C.M. Wilson, Franco Nori
comments: 18 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052509 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1058
abstract: We theoretically investigate the dynamical Casimir effect in electrical circuits based on superconducting microfabricated waveguides with tunable boundary conditions. We propose to implement a rapid modulation of the boundary conditions by tuning the applied magnetic flux through superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) that are embedded in the waveguide circuits. We consider two circuits: (i) An open waveguide circuit that corresponds to a single mirror in free space, and (ii) a resonator coupled to a microfabricated waveguide, which corresponds to a single-sided cavity in free space. We analyze the properties of the dynamical Casimir effect in these two setups by calculating the generated photon-flux density, output-field correlation functions, and the quadrature squeezing spectra. We show that these properties of the output field exhibit signatures unique to the radiation due to the dynamical Casimir effect, and could therefore be used for distinguishing the dynamical Casimir effect from other types of radiation in these circuits. We also discuss the similarities and differences between the dynamical Casimir effect, in the resonator setup, and downconversion of pump photons in parametric oscillators.

id: 1007.1065
title: Casimir-Polder potential and transition rate in resonating cylindrical cavities
authors: Simen ?. Ellingsen, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82, 032516 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1065
abstract: We consider the Casimir-Polder potential of particles placed inside a metallic cylindrical cavity at finite temperatures, taking account of thermal non-equilibrium effects. In particular, we study how the resonant (thermal non-equilibrium) potential and transition rates can be enhanced by fine-tuning the radius of the cavity to match the transition wavelength of the dominant transition of the particle. Numerical calculations show that the CP potential acting atoms prepared in low-lying Rydberg states can be enhanced beyond 30 kHz, which is within the range of observability of modern experiments. Because the magnitude of the resonance peaks depend sensitively on the low frequency dissipation of the cavity metal, experiments in this set-up could be a critical test of the disputed thermal correction to the Casimir force between metal plates.

id: 1007.1089
title: Quantum memories and Landauer's principle
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 10 pages, no figures, lecture given at 46 School of Theoretical Physics, Ladek, Poland, February 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1089
abstract: Two types of arguments concerning (im)possibility of constructing a scalable, exponentially stable quantum memory equipped with Hamiltonian controls are discussed. The first type concerns ergodic properties of open Kitaev models which are considered as promising candidates for such memories. It is shown that, although the 4D Kitaev model provides stable qubit observables, the Hamiltonian control is not possible. The thermodynamical approach leads to the new proposal of the revised version of Landauer's principle and suggests that the existence of quantum memory implies the existence of the perpetuum mobile of the second kind. Finally, a discussion of the stability property of information and its implications is presented.

id: 1007.1172
title: Entanglement from density measurements: analytical density-functional for the entanglement of strongly correlated fermions
authors: Vivian V. Fran?a, Irene D'Amico
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042311 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1172
abstract: We derive an analytical density functional for the single-site entanglement of the one-dimensional homogeneous Hubbard model, by means of an approximation to the linear entropy. We show that this very simple density functional reproduces quantitatively the exact results. We then use this functional as input for a local density approximation to the single-site entanglement of inhomogeneous systems. We illustrate the power of this approach in a harmonically confined system, which could simulate recent experiments with ultracold atoms in optical lattices as well as in a superlattice and in an impurity system. The impressive quantitative agreement with numerical calculations -- which includes reproducing subtle signatures of the particle density stages -- shows that our density-functional can provide entanglement calculations for actual experiments via density measurements. Next we use our functional to calculate the entanglement in disordered systems. We find that, at contrast with the expectation that disorder destroys the entanglement, there exist regimes for which the entanglement remains almost unaffected by the presence of disordered impurities.

id: 1007.1177
title: No-signaling, entanglement-breaking, and localizability in bipartite channels
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Stefano Facchini, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 4 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 010501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1177
abstract: A bipartite quantum channel represents the interaction between systems, generally allowing for exchange of information. A special class of bipartite channels are the no-signaling ones, which do not allow communication. In Ref. [1] it has been conjectured that all no-signaling channels are mixtures of entanglement-breaking and localizable channels, which require only local operations and entanglement. Here we provide the general realization scheme, giving a counterexample to the conjecture.

id: 1007.1232
title: Bounds on the Information Rate of Quantum Secret Sharing Schemes
authors: Pradeep Sarvepalli
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042324 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1232
abstract: An important metric of the performance of a quantum secret sharing scheme is its information rate. Beyond the fact that the information rate is upper bounded by one, very little is known in terms of bounds on the information rate of quantum secret sharing schemes. Further, not every scheme can be realized with rate one. In this paper we derive new upper bounds for the information rates of quantum secret sharing schemes. We show that there exist quantum access structures on $n$ players for which the information rate cannot be better than $O((\log_2 n)/n)$. These results are the quantum analogues of the bounds for classical secret sharing schemes proved by Csirmaz.

id: 1007.1277
title: Quantum annealing with Jarzynski equality
authors: Masayuki Ohzeki
comments: 4 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 050401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1277
abstract: We show a practical application of the Jarzynski equality in quantum computation. Its implementation may open a way to solve combinatorial optimization problems, minimization of a real single-valued function, cost function, with many arguments. We consider to incorpolate the Jarzynski equality into quantum annealing, which is one of the generic algorithms to solve the combinatorial optimization problem. The ordinary quantum annealing suffers from non-adiabatic transitions whose rate is characterized by the minimum energy gap $\Delta_{\rm min.}$ of the quantum system under consideration. The quantum sweep speed is therefore restricted to be extremely slow for the achievement to obtain a solution without relevant errors. However, in our strategy shown in the present study, we find that such a difficulty would not matter.

id: 1007.1279
title: Entangled coherent states versus entangled photon pairs for practical quantum information processing
authors: Kimin Park, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, substantially revised version, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phy. Rev. A 82, 062325 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1279
abstract: We compare effects of decoherence and detection inefficiency on entangled coherent states (ECSs) and entangled photon pairs (EPPs), both of which are known to be particularly useful for quantum information processing (QIP). When decoherence effects caused by photon losses are heavy, the ECSs outperform the EPPs as quantum channels for teleportation both in fidelities and in success probabilities. On the other hand, when inefficient detectors are used, the teleportation scheme using the ECSs suffers undetected errors that result in the degradation of fidelity, while this is not the case for the teleportation scheme using the EPPs. Our study reveals the merits and demerits of the two types of entangled states in realizing practical QIP under realistic conditions.

id: 1007.1294
title: Factorization Law for Two Lower Bounds of Concurrence
authors: Sayyed Yahya Mirafzali, Iman Sargolzahi, Ali Ahanj, Kurosh Javidan, Mohsen Sarbishaei
comments: 5 pages,1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1294
abstract: We study the dynamics of two lower bounds of concurrence in bipartite quantum systems when one party goes through an arbitrary channel. We show that these lower bounds obey the factorization law similar to that of [Konrad et al., Nat. Phys. 4, 99 (2008)]. We also, discuss the application of this property, in an example.

id: 1007.1299
title: Transferring elements of a density matrix
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Karen V. Hovhannisyan
comments: 9 pages, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012312 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1299
abstract: We study restrictions imposed by quantum mechanics on the process of matrix elements transfer. This problem is at the core of quantum measurements and state transfer. Given two systems $\A$ and $\B$ with initial density matrices $\lambda$ and $r$, respectively, we consider interactions that lead to transferring certain matrix elements of unknown $\lambda$ into those of the final state ${\widetilde r}$ of $\B$. We find that this process eliminates the memory on the transferred (or certain other) matrix elements from the final state of $\A$. If one diagonal matrix element is transferred, ${\widetilde r}_{aa}=\lambda_{aa}$, the memory on each non-diagonal element $\lambda_{a\not=b}$ is completely eliminated from the final density operator of $\A$. Consider the following three quantities $\Re \la_{a\not =b}$, $\Im \la_{a\not =b}$ and $\la_{aa}-\la_{bb}$ (the real and imaginary part of a non-diagonal element and the corresponding difference between diagonal elements). Transferring one of them, e.g., $\Re\tir_{a\not = b}=\Re\la_{a\not = b}$, erases the memory on two others from the final state of $\A$. Generalization of these set-ups to a finite-accuracy transfer brings in a trade-off between the accuracy and the amount of preserved memory. This trade-off is expressed via system-independent uncertainty relations which account for local aspects of the accuracy-disturbance trade-off in quantum measurements.

id: 1007.1303
title: Zeno subspace in quantum-walk dynamics
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052108 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1303
abstract: We investigate the discrete-time quantum walk evolution under the influence of the periodic measurements in position subspace. The undisturbed survival probability of the particle at the position subspace, $P(0, t)$ is compared with the survival probability after frequent ($n$) measurements at interval $\tau = t/n$, $P(0, \tau)^n$. We show that $P(0, \tau)^n > P(0, t)$ leading to the quantum Zeno effect in the position subspace when a parameter $\theta$ in the quantum coin operations and frequency of measurements is greater than the critical value, $\theta > \theta_{c}$ and $n>n_{c}$. This Zeno effect in the subspace preserves the dynamics in coin Hilbert space of the walk dynamics and has a potential to play a significant role in quantum tasks such as, preserving the quantum state of the particle at any particular position and to understand the Zeno dynamics in a multidimensional system which is highly transient in nature.

id: 1007.1322
title: Hybrid-Entanglement in Continuous Variable Systems
authors: C. Gabriel, A. Aiello, W. Zhong, T. G. Euser, N.Y. Joly, P. Banzer, M. F?rtsch, D. Elser, U. L. Andersen, Ch. Marquardt, P. St.J. Russell, G. Leuchs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1322
abstract: Entanglement is one of the most fascinating features arising from quantum-mechanics and of great importance for quantum information science. Of particular interest are so-called hybrid-entangled states which have the intriguing property that they contain entanglement between different degrees of freedom (DOFs). However, most of the current continuous variable systems only exploit one DOF and therefore do not involve such highly complex states. We break this barrier and demonstrate that one can exploit squeezed cylindrically polarized optical modes to generate continuous variable states exhibiting entanglement between the spatial and polarization DOF. We show an experimental realization of these novel kind of states by quantum squeezing an azimuthally polarized mode with the help of a specially tailored photonic crystal fiber.

id: 1007.1332
title: Analysis of two-player quantum games in an EPR setting using geometric algebra
authors: James M. Chappell, Azhar Iqbal, Derek Abbott
comments: 20 pages, no figure, revised
journal: PLoS ONE, Volume 7(1): e29015 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1332
abstract: The framework for playing quantum games in an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) type setting is investigated using the mathematical formalism of Clifford geometric algebra (GA). In this setting, the players' strategy sets remain identical to the ones in the classical mixed-strategy version of the game, which is then obtained as proper subset of the corresponding quantum game. As examples, using GA we analyze the games of Prisoners' Dilemma and Stag Hunt when played in the EPR type setting.

id: 1007.1335
title: A new exactly solvable quantum model in N dimensions
authors: Angel Ballesteros, Alberto Enciso, Francisco J. Herranz, Orlando Ragnisco, Danilo Riglioni
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures; comments added and typos corrected
journal: Phys.Lett.A375:1431-1435,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1335
abstract: An N-dimensional position-dependent mass Hamiltonian (depending on a parameter \lambda) formed by a curved kinetic term and an intrinsic oscillator potential is considered. It is shown that such a Hamiltonian is exactly solvable for any real positive value of the parameter \lambda. Algebraically, this Hamiltonian can be thought of as a new maximally superintegrable \lambda-deformation of the N-dimensional isotropic oscillator and, from a geometric viewpoint, this system is just the intrinsic oscillator potential on an N-dimensional hyperbolic space with nonconstant curvature. The spectrum of this model is shown to be hydrogenlike, and their eigenvalues and eigenfunctions are explicitly obtained by deforming appropriately the symmetry properties of the N-dimensional harmonic oscillator. A further generalization of this construction giving rise to new exactly solvable models is envisaged.

id: 1007.1343
title: On the justification of applying quantum strategies to the Prisoners' Dilemma and mechanism design
authors: Haoyang Wu
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1343
abstract: The Prisoners' Dilemma is perhaps the most famous model in the field of game theory. Consequently, it is natural to investigate its quantum version when one considers to apply quantum strategies to game theory. There are two main results in this paper: 1) The well-known Prisoners' Dilemma can be categorized into three types and only the third type is adaptable for quantum strategies. 2) As a reverse problem of game theory, mechanism design provides a better circumstance for quantum strategies than game theory does.

id: 1007.1354
title: Casimir Effect for the Piecewise Uniform String
authors: Iver Brevik
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, Submitted to the volume "Cosmology, Quantum Vacuum, and Zeta Functions", in honour of Professor Emilio Elizalde on the occasion of his 60th birthday
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1354
abstract: The Casimir energy for the transverse oscillations of a piecewise uniform closed string is calculated. In its simplest version the string consists of two parts I and II having in general different tension and mass density, but is always obeying the condition that the velocity of sound is equal to the velocity of light. The model, first introduced by Brevik and Nielsen in 1990, possesses attractive formal properties implying that it becomes easily regularizable by several methods, the most powerful one being the contour integration method. We also consider the case where the string is divided into 2N pieces, of alternating type-I and type-II material. The free energy at finite temperature, as well as the Hagedorn temperature, are found. Finally, we make some remarks on the relationship between this kind of theory and the theory of quantum star graphs, recently considered by Fulling et al.

id: 1007.1372
title: Multimode quantum interference of photons in multiport integrated devices
authors: Alberto Peruzzo, Anthony Laing, Alberto Politi, Terry Rudolph, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 2:224 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1372
abstract: We report the first demonstration of quantum interference in multimode interference (MMI) devices and a new complete characterization technique that can be applied to any photonic device that removes the need for phase stable measurements. MMI devices provide a compact and robust realization of NxM optical circuits, which will dramatically reduce the complexity and increase the functionality of future generations of quantum photonic circuits.

id: 1007.1377
title: Coherence as ultrashort pulse train generator
authors: Gevorg Muradyan, Mariam Hovhannisyan
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. B 103, 649 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1377
abstract: Intense, well-controlled regular light pulse trains start to play a crucial role in many fields of physics. We theoretically demonstrate a very simple and robust technique for generating such periodic ultrashort pulses from a continuous probe wave which propagates in a dispersive thermal gas media.

id: 1007.1387
title: Maximal Entanglement of Two-qubit States Constructed by Linearly Independent Coherent States
authors: G. Najarbashi, Y. Maleki
comments: some examples added; Int J Theor Phys 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1387
abstract: In this paper, we find the necessary and sufficient condition for the maximal entanglement of the state, $ |\psi>=\mu|\alpha>|\beta>+\lambda|\alpha>|\delta>+ \rho|\gamma>|\beta>+\nu|\gamma>|\delta>,$ constructed by linearly independent coherent states with \emph{real parameters} when $<\alpha|\gamma>=<\beta|\delta>$. This is a further generalization of the classified nonorthogonal states discussed in Ref. Physics Letters A {\bf{291}}, 73-76 (2001).

id: 1007.1392
title: Generalized Grassmannian Coherent States For Pseudo-Hermitian $n$ Level Systems
authors: G. Najarbashi, M. A. Fasihi, H. Fakhri
comments: 17 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 325301 (10pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1392
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to generalize fermionic coherent states for two-level systems described by pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian \cite{Trifonov}, to n-level systems. Central to this task is the expression of the coherent states in terms of generalized Grassmann variables. These kind of Grassmann coherent states satisfy bi-overcompleteness condition instead of over-completeness one, as it is reasonably expected because of the biorthonormality of the system. Choosing an appropriate Grassmann weight function resolution of identity is examined. Moreover Grassmannian coherent and squeezed states of deformed group $SU_{q}(2)$ for three level pseudo-Hermitian system are presented.

id: 1007.1415
title: Sensitivity of Quantum Walks with Perturbation
authors: Chen-Fu Chiang
comments: 6 pages
journal: Proceedings of the 10th Asian Conference on Quantum Information Science, pp. 209-210, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1415
abstract: Quantum computers are susceptible to noises from the outside world. We investigate the effect of perturbation on the hitting time of a quantum walk and the stationary distribution prepared by a quantum walk based algorithm. The perturbation comes from quantizing a transition matrix Q with perturbation E (errors). We bound the perturbed quantum walk hitting time from above by applying Szegedy's work and the perturbation bounds with Weyl's perturbation theorem on classical matrix. Based on an efficient quantum sample preparation approach invented in {\em speed-up via quantum sampling} and the perturbation bounds for stationary distribution for classical matrix, we find an upper bound for the total variation distance between the prepared quantum sample and the true quantum sample.

id: 1007.1445
title: Optimal Entangling Capacity of Dynamical Processes
authors: Earl T. Campbell
comments: Changed title since previous version. 8 pages main text + 4 pages of appendices. Rewritten with some mathematical details moved to appendices. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042314 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1445
abstract: We investigate the entangling capacity of dynamical operations when provided with local ancilla. A comparison is made between the entangling capacity with and without the assistance of prior entanglement. An analytic solution is found for the log-negativity entangling capacity of two-qubit gates, which equals the entanglement of the Choi matrix isomorphic to the unitary operator. Surprisingly, the availability of prior entanglement does not affect this result; a property we call resource independence of the entangling capacity. We prove several useful upper-bounds on the entangling capacity that hold for general qudit dynamical operations, and for a whole family of entanglement monotones including log-negativity and log-robustness. The log-robustness entangling capacity is shown to be resource independent for general dynamics. We provide numerical results supporting a conjecture that the log-negativity entangling capacity is resource independence for all two-qudit unitaries.

id: 1007.1446
title: Quantum dense coding over Bloch channels
authors: Nasser Metwally
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A :Math. Theor. 44 055305 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1446
abstract: Dynamics of coded information over Bloch channels is investigated for different values of the channel's parameters. We show that, the suppressing of the travelling coded information over Bloch channel can be increased by decreasing the equilibrium absolute value of information carrier and consequently decreasing the distilled information by eavesdropper. The amount of decoded information can be improved by increasing the equilibrium values of the two qubits and decreasing the ratio between longitudinal and transverse relaxation times. The robustness of coded information in maximum and partial entangled states is discussed. It is shown that the maximum entangled states are more robust than the partial entangled state over this type of channels.

id: 1007.1479
title: Entanglement Sharing in Real-Vector-Space Quantum Theory
authors: William K. Wootters
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1479
abstract: The limitation on the sharing of entanglement is a basic feature of quantum theory. For example, if two qubits are completely entangled with each other, neither of them can be at all entangled with any other object. In this paper we show, at least for a certain standard definition of entanglement, that this feature is lost when one replaces the usual complex vector space of quantum states with a real vector space. Moreover, the difference between the two theories is extreme: in the real-vector-space theory, there exist states of arbitrarily many binary objects, "rebits," in which every rebit in the system is maximally entangled with each of the other rebits.

id: 1007.1488
title: The minimal time of dynamic evolution to an arbitrary state
authors: Di Lv, Yan-Song Li, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages and 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1488
abstract: Two bounds on the minimal time of dynamic rotating an initial state by arbitrary angle have been obtained. These bounds have been applied to study the evolutions in the Hadamard-Walsch gate, the Control-NOT quantum gate, and the Grover algorithm.

id: 1007.1492
title: Quantum discord dynamical behaviors due to initial system-cavity correlations
authors: Ying-Jie Zhang, Xu-Bo Zou, Yun-Jie Xia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1492
abstract: We analyze the roles of initial correlations between the two-qubit system and a dissipative cavity on quantum discord dynamics of two qubits. Considering two initial system-cavity states, we show that the initial system-cavity correlations not only can initially increase the two-qubit quantum discord but also would lead to a larger long-time quantum discord asymptotic value. Moreover, quantum discord due to initial correlations is more robust than the case of the initial factorized state. Finally, we show the initial correlations' importance for dynamics behaviors of mutual information and classical correlation.

id: 1007.1508
title: Iterative Entanglement Distillation: Approaching full Elimination of Decoherence
authors: Boris Hage, Aiko Samblowski, James DiGuglielmo, Jarom¨ªr Fiur¨¢?ek, Roman Schnabel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1508
abstract: The distribution and processing of quantum entanglement form the basis of quantum communication and quantum computing. The realization of the two is difficult because quantum information inherently has a high susceptibility to decoherence, i.e. to uncontrollable information loss to the environment. For entanglement distribution, a proposed solution to this problem is capable of fully eliminating decoherence; namely iterative entanglement distillation. This approach builds on a large number of distillation steps each of which extracts a number of weakly decohered entangled states from a larger number of strongly decohered states. Here, for the first time, we experimentally demonstrate iterative distillation of entanglement. Already distilled entangled states were further improved in a second distillation step and also made available for subsequent steps.Our experiment displays the realization of the building blocks required for an entanglement distillation scheme that can fully eliminate decoherence.

id: 1007.1518
title: D-concurrence bounds for pair coherent states
authors: S. Salimi, A. Mohammadzade
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1518
abstract: The pair coherent state is a state of a two-mode radiation field which is known as a state with non-Gaussian wave function. In this paper, the upper and lower bounds for D-concurrence (a new entanglement measure) have been studied over this state and calculated.

id: 1007.1519
title: Entropic formulation of the uncertainty principle for the number and annihilation operators
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 6 pages, no figures. Minor changes. Typos are corrected
journal: Physica Scripta 84, 057001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1519
abstract: An entropic approach to formulating uncertainty relations for the number-annihilation pair is considered. We construct some normal operator that traces the annihilation operator as well as commuting quadratures with a complete system of common eigenfunctions. Expanding the measured wave function with respect to them, one obtains a relevant probability distribution. Another distribution is naturally generated by measuring the number operator. Due to the Riesz-Thorin theorem, there exists a nontrivial inequality between corresponding functionals of the above distributions. We find the bound in this inequality and further derive uncertainty relations in terms of both the Renyi and Tsallis entropies. Entropic uncertainty relations for continuous distribution as well as relations for discretized one are presented.

id: 1007.1566
title: Space-time evolution of Dirac wave packets
authors: V.Ya. Demikhovskii, G.M. Maksimova, A.A. Perov, E.V. Frolova
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1566
abstract: In this work we study the dynamics of free 3D relativistic Gaussian wave packets with different spin polarization. We analyze the connection between the symmetry of initial state and the dynamical characteristics of moving particle. The corresponding solutions of Dirac equation having different types of symmetry were evaluated analytically and numerically and after that the electron probability densities, as well as, the spin densities were visualized. The average values of velocity of the packet center and the average spin were calculated analytically, and the parameters of transient Zitterbewegung in different directions were obtained. These results can be useful for the interpretation of future experiments with trapped ions.

id: 1007.1569
title: Entanglement of Dirac fields in an expanding spacetime
authors: I. Fuentes, R. B. Mann, E. Martin-Martinez, S. Moradi
comments: revtex4, 7 figures, I.F. previously published as Fuentes-Guridi and Fuentes-Schuller. Journal reference updated
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:045030,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1569
abstract: We study the entanglement generated between Dirac modes in a 2-dimensional conformally flat Robertson-Walker universe. We find radical qualitative differences between the bosonic and fermionic entanglement generated by the expansion. The particular way in which fermionic fields get entangled encodes more information about the underlying space-time than the bosonic case, thereby allowing us to reconstruct the parameters of the history of the expansion. This highlights the importance of bosonic/fermionic statistics to account for relativistic effects on the entanglement of quantum fields.

id: 1007.1596
title: Optical homodyne detection in view of joint probability distribution
authors: Toru Kawakubo, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures; REVTeX 4.1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1596
abstract: Optical homodyne detection is examined in view of joint probability distribution. It is usually discussed that the relative phase between independent laser fields are localized by photon-number measurements in interference experiments such as homodyne detection. This provides reasoning to use operationally coherent states for laser fields in the description of homodyne detection and optical quantum-state tomography. Here, we elucidate these situations by considering the joint probability distribution and the invariance of homodyne detection under the phase transformation of optical fields.

id: 1007.1605
title: On the origin of strong photon antibunching in weakly nonlinear photonic molecules
authors: Motoaki Bamba, Atac Imamoglu, Iacopo Carusotto, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 83 (2011) 021802
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1605
abstract: In a recent work [T. C. H. Liew and V. Savona, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf104}, 183601 (2010)] it was numerically shown that in a photonic 'molecule' consisting of two coupled cavities, near-resonant coherent excitation could give rise to strong photon antibunching with a surprisingly weak nonlinearity. Here, we show that a subtle quantum interference effect is responsible for the predicted efficient photon blockade effect. We analytically determine the optimal on-site nonlinearity and frequency detuning between the pump field and the cavity mode. We also highlight the limitations of the proposal and its potential applications in demonstration of strongly correlated photonic systems in arrays of weakly nonlinear cavities.

id: 1007.1610
title: Double-lambda microscopic model for entangled light generation by four-wave-mixing
authors: Q. Glorieux, R. Dubessy, S. Guibal, L. Guidoni, J.P. Likforman, T. Coudreau, E. Arimondo
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1610
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments, we study four-wave-mixing in an atomic double-{\Lambda} system driven by a far-detuned pump. Using the Heisenberg-Langevin formalism, and based on the microscopic properties of the medium, we calculate the classical and quantum properties of seed and conju- gate beams beyond the linear amplifier approximation. A continuous variable approach gives us access to relative-intensity noise spectra that can be directly compared to experiments. Restricting ourselves to the cold-atom regime, we predict the generation of quantum-correlated beams with a relative-intensity noise spectrum well below the standard quantum limit (down to -6 dB). Moreover entanglement between seed and conjugate beams measured by an inseparability down to 0.25 is expected. This work opens the way to the generation of entangled beams by four-wave mixing in a cold atomic sample.

id: 1007.1616
title: Information Reconciliation for Quantum Key Distribution
authors: David Elkouss, Jesus Martinez-Mateo, Vicente Martin
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 11, No. 3&4 (2011) 0226-0238
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1616
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) relies on quantum and classical procedures in order to achieve the growing of a secret random string -the key- known only to the two parties executing the protocol. Limited intrinsic efficiency of the protocol, imperfect devices and eavesdropping produce errors and information leakage from which the set of measured signals -the raw key- must be stripped in order to distill a final, information theoretically secure, key. The key distillation process is a classical one in which basis reconciliation, error correction and privacy amplification protocols are applied to the raw key. This cleaning process is known as information reconciliation and must be done in a fast and efficient way to avoid cramping the performance of the QKD system. Brassard and Salvail proposed a very simple and elegant protocol to reconcile keys in the secret-key agreement context, known as Cascade, that has become the de-facto standard for all QKD practical implementations. However, it is highly interactive, requiring many communications between the legitimate parties and its efficiency is not optimal, imposing an early limit to the maximum tolerable error rate. In this paper we describe a low-density parity-check reconciliation protocol that improves significantly on these problems. The protocol exhibits better efficiency and limits the number of uses of the communications channel. It is also able to adapt to different error rates while remaining efficient, thus reaching longer distances or higher secure key rate for a given QKD system.

id: 1007.1620
title: Can reactive coupling beat motional quantum limit of nano waveguides coupled to microdisk resonator
authors: Sumei Huang, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 6 pages,2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033811 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1620
abstract: Dissipation is generally thought to affect the quantum nature of the system in an adverse manner, however we show that dissipatively coupled nano systems can be prepared in states which beat the standard quantum limit of the mechanical motion. We show that the reactive coupling between the waveguide and the microdisk resonator can generate the squeezing of the waveguide by injecting a quantum field and laser into the resonator through the waveguide. The waveguide can show about 70--75% of maximal squeezing for temperature about 1--10 mK. The maximum squeezing can be achieved with incident pump power of only 12 $\mu$W for a temperature of about 1 mK. Even for temperatures of 20 mK, achievable by dilution refrigerators, the maximum squeezing is about 60%.

id: 1007.1623
title: Constraints on Airy function zeros from quantum-mechanical sum rules
authors: M. Belloni, R. W. Robinett
comments: Published as J. Phys. A: Math. Theor 42, 075203 (2009) -- requires current IOP style files
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1623
abstract: We derive new constraints on the zeros of Airy functions by using the so-called quantum bouncer system to evaluate quantum-mechanical sum rules and perform perturbation theory calculations for the Stark effect. Using commutation and completeness relations, we show how to systematically evaluate sums of the form $S_{p}(n) = \sum_{k \neq n} 1/(\zeta_k - zeta_n)^p$, for natural $p > 1$, where $\zeta_n$ is the $n$-th zero of $Ai(\zeta)$.

id: 1007.1625
title: New identities from quantum-mechanical sum rules of parity-related potentials
authors: O. A. Ayorinde, K. Chisholm, M. Belloni, R. W. Robinett
comments: Published as J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 235202 (22 pp) (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1625
abstract: We apply quantum mechanical sum rules to pairs of one-dimensional systems defined by potential energy functions related by parity. Specifically, we consider symmetric potentials, $V(x) = V(-x)$, and their parity-restricted partners, ones with $V(x)$, but defined only on the positive half-line. We extend recent discussions of sum rules for the quantum bouncer by considering the parity-extended version of this problem, defined by the symmetric linear potential, $V(z) = F|z|$ and find new classes of constraints on the zeros of the Airy function, $Ai(z)$, and its derivative $Ai'(z)$. We also consider the parity-restricted version of the harmonic oscillator and find completely new classes of mathematical relations, unrleated to those of the ordinary oscillator problem. These two soluble quantum-mechanical systems defined by power-law potentials provide examples of how the form of the potential (both parity and continuity properties) affects the convergence of quantum-mechanical sum rules. We also discuss semi-classical predictions for expectation values and the Stark effect for these systems.

id: 1007.1664
title: Entanglement of spin waves among four quantum memories
authors: K. S. Choi, A. Goban, S. B. Papp, S. J. van Enk, H. J. Kimble
comments: 4 figures
journal: Nature 468, 412-416 (18 November 2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1664
abstract: Quantum networks are composed of quantum nodes that interact coherently by way of quantum channels and open a broad frontier of scientific opportunities. For example, a quantum network can serve as a `web' for connecting quantum processors for computation and communication, as well as a `simulator' for enabling investigations of quantum critical phenomena arising from interactions among the nodes mediated by the channels. The physical realization of quantum networks generically requires dynamical systems capable of generating and storing entangled states among multiple quantum memories, and of efficiently transferring stored entanglement into quantum channels for distribution across the network. While such capabilities have been demonstrated for diverse bipartite systems (i.e., N=2 quantum systems), entangled states with N > 2 have heretofore not been achieved for quantum interconnects that coherently `clock' multipartite entanglement stored in quantum memories to quantum channels. Here, we demonstrate high-fidelity measurement-induced entanglement stored in four atomic memories; user-controlled, coherent transfer of atomic entanglement to four photonic quantum channels; and the characterization of the full quadripartite entanglement by way of quantum uncertainty relations. Our work thereby provides an important tool for the distribution of multipartite entanglement across quantum networks.

id: 1007.1685
title: An explicit Schr?dinger picture for Aharonov's Modular Variable concept
authors: A. C. Lobo, C. A. Ribeiro
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research - Volume 32, Issue 5 , pp 422-430 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1685
abstract: We propose to address in a natural manner, the modular variable concept explicitly in a Schr\"odinger picture. The idea of Modular Variables was introduced in 1969 by Aharonov, Pendleton and Petersen to explain certain non-local properties of quantum mechanics. Our approach to this subject is based on Schwinger's finite quantum kinematics and it's continuous limit.

id: 1007.1687
title: Optical wavelength conversion of quantum states with optomechanics
authors: L. Tian, Hailin Wang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Fig. 4 looks weird (possible latex style problem)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053806 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1687
abstract: An optomechanical interface that converts quantum states between optical fields with distinct wavelengths is proposed. A mechanical mode couples to two optical modes via radiation pressure and mediates the quantum state mapping between the two optical modes. A sequence of optomechanical $\pi/2$ pulses enables state-swapping between optical and mechanical states as well as the cooling of the mechanical mode. Theoretical analysis shows that high fidelity conversion can be realized for states with small photon numbers in systems with experimentally achievable parameters. The pulsed conversion process also makes it possible to maintain high conversion fidelity at elevated bath temperatures.

id: 1007.1690
title: Reduced phase error through optimized control of a superconducting qubit
authors: Erik Lucero, Julian Kelly, Radoslaw C. Bialczak, Mike Lenander, Matteo Mariantoni, Matthew Neeley, A.D. O'Connell, Daniel Sank, H. Wang, Martin Weides, James Wenner, Tsuyoshi Yamamoto, A.N. Cleland, John Martinis
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures with 2 page supplemental
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1690
abstract: Minimizing phase and other errors in experimental quantum gates allows higher fidelity quantum processing. To quantify and correct for phase errors in particular, we have developed a new experimental metrology --- amplified phase error (APE) pulses --- that amplifies and helps identify phase errors in general multi-level qubit architectures. In order to correct for both phase and amplitude errors specific to virtual transitions and leakage outside of the qubit manifold, we implement "half derivative" an experimental simplification of derivative reduction by adiabatic gate (DRAG) control theory. The phase errors are lowered by about a factor of five using this method to $\sim 1.6^{\circ}$ per gate, and can be tuned to zero. Leakage outside the qubit manifold, to the qubit $|2\rangle$ state, is also reduced to $\sim 10^{-4}$ for $20\%$ faster gates.

id: 1007.1696
title: Coherent pulse position modulation quantum cipher supported by secret key
authors: Masaki Sohma, Osamu Hirota
comments: 5pages, 1figure, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1696
abstract: A quantum cipher supported by a secret key so called keyed communication in quantum noise (KCQ) is very attractive in implementing high speed key generation and secure data transmission. However, Yuen-2000 as a basic model of KCQ has a difficulty to ensure the quantitative security evaluation because all physical parameter for the cipher system is finite. Recently, an outline of a generalized scheme so called coherent pulse position modulation(CPPM) to show the rigorous security analysis is given, where the parameters are allowed to be asymptotical. This may open a new way for the quantum key distribution with coherent states of considerable energy and high speed. In this paper, we clarify a generation method of CPPM quantum signal by using a theory of unitary operator and symplectic transformation, and show an asymptotic property of security and its numerical examples.

id: 1007.1749
title: Topology of Entanglement Evolution of Two Qubits
authors: Dong Zhou, Gia-Wei Chern, Jianjia Fei, Robert Joynt
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures, 2 table
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 26, 1250054 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1749
abstract: The dynamics of a two-qubit system is considered with the aim of a general categorization of the different ways in which entanglement can disappear in the course of the evolution, e.g., entanglement sudden death. The dynamics is described by the function ~n(t), where ~n is the 15-dimensional polarization vector. This representation is particularly useful because the components of ~n are direct physical observables, there is a meaningful notion of orthogonality, and the concurrence C can be computed for any point in the space. We analyze the topology of the space S of separable states (those having C = 0), and the often lower-dimensional linear dynamical subspace D that is characteristic of a specific physical model. This allows us to give a rigorous characterization of the four possible kinds of entanglement evolution. Which evolution is realized depends on the dimensionality of D and of D \cap S, the position of the asymptotic point of the evolution, and whether or not the evolution is "distance-Markovian", a notion we define. We give several examples to illustrate the general principles, and to give a method to compute critical points. We construct a model that shows all four behaviors.

id: 1007.1751
title: Graph states in phase space
authors: A. B. Klimov, C. Munoz, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 14 pages. 2 figures. Published in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A 45, 215303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1751
abstract: The phase space for a system of $n$ qubits is a discrete grid of $2^{n} \times 2^{n}$ points, whose axes are labeled in terms of the elements of the finite field $\Gal{2^n}$ to endow it with proper geometrical properties. We analyze the representation of graph states in that phase space, showing that these states can be identified with a class of non-singular curves. We provide an algebraic representation of the most relevant quantum operations acting on these states and discuss the advantages of this approach.

id: 1007.1780
title: A subluminous Schroedinger equation
authors: Philip Rosenau, Zeev Schuss
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1780
abstract: The standard derivation of Schroedinger's equation from a Lorentz-invariant Feynman path integral consists in taking first the limit of infinite speed of light and then the limit of short time slice. In this order of limits the light cone of the path integral disappears, giving rise to an instantaneous spread of the wave function to the entire space. We ascribe the failure of Schroedinger's equation to retain the light cone of the path integral to the very nature of the limiting process: it is a regular expansion of a singular approximation problem, because the boundary conditions of the path integral on the light cone are lost in this limit. We propose a distinguished limit, which produces an intermediate model between non-relativistic and relativistic quantum mechanics: it produces Schroedinger's equation and preserves the zero boundary conditions on and outside the original light cone of the path integral. These boundary conditions relieve the Schroedinger equation of several annoying, seemingly unrelated unphysical artifacts, including non-analytic wave functions, spontaneous appearance of discontinuities, non-existence of moments when the initial wave function has a jump discontinuity (e.g., a collapsed wave function after a measurement), the EPR paradox, and so on. The practical implications of the present formulation are yet to be seen.

id: 1007.1789
title: Time Averaged Quantum Dynamics and the Validity of the Effective Hamiltonian Model
authors: Omar Gamel, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1789
abstract: We develop a technique for finding the dynamical evolution in time of an averaged density matrix. The result is an equation of evolution that includes an Effective Hamiltonian, as well as decoherence terms in Lindblad form. Applying the general equation to harmonic Hamiltonians, we confirm a previous formula for the Effective Hamiltonian together with a new decoherence term which should in general be included, and whose vanishing provides the criteria for validity of the Effective Hamiltonian approach. Finally, we apply the theory to examples of the AC Stark Shift and Three- Level Raman Transitions, recovering a new decoherence effect in the latter.

id: 1007.1814
title: A Comparison of the Attempts of Quantum Discord and Quantum Entanglement to Capture Quantum Correlations
authors: Asma Al-Qasimi, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1814
abstract: Measurements of Quantum Systems disturb their states. To quantify this non-classical characteristic, Zurek and Ollivier introduced the quantum discord, a quantum correlation which can be nonzero even when entanglement in the system is zero. Discord has aroused great interest as a resource that is more robust against the effects of decoherence and offers exponential speed up of certain computational algorithms. Here, we study general two-level bipartite systems and give general results on the relationship between discord, entanglement, and linear entropy, and identify the states for which discord takes a maximal value for a given entropy or entanglement, thus placing strong bounds on entanglement-discord and entropy-discord relations. We find out that although discord and entanglement are identical for pure states, they differ when generalized to mixed states as a result of the difference in the method of generalization.

id: 1007.1825
title: Schrodinger's equation derived from the collision-less Boltzmann's equation
authors: Tarek Halabi
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. I don't like the way I arrived at expression 7 for the density, there are more general expressions that also meet conditions 1-4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1825
abstract: Withdrawn: Needed more work.

id: 1007.1830
title: A problem of existence of bound entangled states with non-positive partial transpose and the Hilbert's 17th problem
authors: Tohya Hiroshima
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1830
abstract: It is found that the problem of existence of bound entangled states with non-positive partial transpose (NPPT) has the intriguing relation to the Hilbert's 17th problem. More precisely, we compute the expectation value of the partially transposed Werner states by Schmidt rank-2 vectors for NPPT and 1-copy undistillable region. It is the positive polynomial but shown not to be expressed as the sum of squares of polynomials. A remedy for such pathological behavior as well as a similar but different approach to the problem is also mentioned.

id: 1007.1866
title: Quantum efficiency measurement of single photon detectors using photon pairs generated in optical fibers
authors: Xiaoying Li, Xiaoxin Ma, Limei Quan, Lei Yang, Liang Cui, Xueshi Guo
comments: 21pages, 6figures, 4tables, accepted for publication in J. Opt. Soc. Am. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1866
abstract: Using the correlated signal and idler photon pairs generated in a dispersion shifted fiber by a pulsed pump, we measure the quantum efficiency of a InGaAs/InP avalanche photodiode-based single photon detector. Since the collection efficiency of photon pairs is a key parameter to correctly deduce the quantum efficiency, we carefully characterize the collection efficiency by studying correlation dependence of photon pairs upon the spectra of pump, signal and idler photons. This study allows us to obtain quantum efficiency of the single photon detector by using photon pairs with various kinds of bandwidths.

id: 1007.1875
title: Lower Bounds for Quantum Oblivious Transfer
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Iordanis Kerenidis, Jamie Sikora
comments: v2, improved lower bound that uses a better lower bound on quantum bit commitment
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1875
abstract: Oblivious transfer is a fundamental primitive in cryptography. While perfect information theoretic security is impossible, quantum oblivious transfer protocols can limit the dishonest players' cheating. Finding the optimal security parameters in such protocols is an important open question. In this paper we show that every 1-out-of-2 oblivious transfer protocol allows a dishonest party to cheat with probability bounded below by a constant strictly larger than 1/2. Alice's cheating is defined as her probability of guessing Bob's index, and Bob's cheating is defined as his probability of guessing both input bits of Alice. In our proof, we relate these cheating probabilities to the cheating probabilities of a coin flipping protocol and conclude by using Kitaev's coin flipping lower bound. Then, we present an oblivious transfer protocol with two messages and cheating probabilities at most 3/4. Last, we extend Kitaev's semidefinite programming formulation to more general primitives, where the security is against a dishonest player trying to force the outcome of the other player, and prove optimal lower and upper bounds for them.

id: 1007.1884
title: Feedback Cooling of a Single Neutral Atom
authors: Markus Koch, Christian Sames, Alexander Kubanek, Matthias Apel, Maximilian Balbach, Alexei Ourjoumtsev, Pepijn W.H. Pinkse, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 173003 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1884
abstract: We demonstrate feedback cooling of the motion of a single rubidium atom trapped in a high-finesse optical resonator to a temperature of about 160 \mu K. Time-dependent transmission and intensity-correlation measurements prove the reduction of the atomic position uncertainty. The feedback increases the 1/e storage time into the one second regime, 30 times longer than without feedback. Feedback cooling therefore rivals state-of-the-art laser cooling, but with the advantages that it requires less optical access and exhibits less optical pumping.

id: 1007.1885
title: Quantum-assisted biomolecular modelling
authors: Sarah Harris, Vivien M. Kendon
comments: 10 + epsilon pages, 2 figures
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 13 August 2010 vol. 368 no. 1924 3581-3592
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1885
abstract: Our understanding of the physics of biological molecules, such as proteins and DNA, is limited because the approximations we usually apply to model inert materials are not in general applicable to soft, chemically inhomogeneous systems. The configurational complexity of biomolecules means the entropic contribution to the free energy is a significant factor in their behaviour, requiring detailed dynamical calculations to fully evaluate. Computer simulations capable of taking all interatomic interactions into account are therefore vital. However, even with the best current supercomputing facilities, we are unable to capture enough of the most interesting aspects of their behaviour to properly understand how they work. This limits our ability to design new molecules, to treat diseases, for example. Progress in biomolecular simulation depends crucially on increasing the computing power available. Faster classical computers are in the pipeline, but these provide only incremental improvements. Quantum computing offers the possibility of performing huge numbers of calculations in parallel, when it becomes available. We discuss the current open questions in biomolecular simulation, how these might be addressed using quantum computation and speculate on the future importance of quantum-assisted biomolecular modelling.

id: 1007.1899
title: Quantum imaging of spin states in optical lattices
authors: James Douglas, Keith Burnett
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033434 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1899
abstract: We investigate imaging of the spatial spin distribution of atoms in optical lattices using non-resonant light scattering. We demonstrate how scattering spatially correlated light from the atoms can result in spin state images with enhanced spatial resolution. Furthermore, we show how using spatially correlated light can lead to direct measurement of the spatial correlations of the atomic spin distribution.

id: 1007.1923
title: Recursive quantum gauge theory
authors: David Ritz Finkelstein
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1923
abstract: Quantum gauge theories with finite-dimensional representation spaces are constructed that can have canonical gauge field theories as singular limits. They describe nature as a recursive quantum assembly by iterating Fermi-Dirac quantification. Six iterations are necessary and sufficient for present physics. The gauge structure, the spin-statistics correlation, the space-time metric, and the Higgs field are modeled.

id: 1007.1941
title: Observation of two-photon absorption at low power levels using tapered optical fibers in rubidium vapor
authors: S.M. Hendrickson, M.M. Lai, T.B. Pittman, J.D. Franson
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 173602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1941
abstract: Nonlinear optical effects can be enhanced in tapered optical fibers with diameters less than the wavelength of the propagating light. Here we report on the observation of two-photon absorption using tapered fibers in rubidium vapor at power levels of less than 150 nW. Transit-time broadening produces two-photon absorption spectra with sharp peaks that are very different from conventional line shapes.

id: 1007.1951
title: Dynamics of Entanglement Transfer Through Multipartite Dissipative Systems
authors: C.E. L¨®pez, G. Romero, J.C. Retamal
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures, publishe in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev A. 81, 062114 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1951
abstract: We study the dynamics of entanglement transfer in a system composed of two initially correlated three-level atoms, each located in a cavity interacting with its own reservoir. Instead of tracing out reservoir modes to describe the dynamics using the master equation approach, we consider explicitly the dynamics of the reservoirs. In this situation, we show that the entanglement is completely transferred from atoms to reservoirs. Although the cavities mediate this entanglement transfer, we show that under certain conditions, no entanglement is found in cavities throughout the dynamics. Considering the entanglement dynamics of interacting and non-interacting bipartite subsystems, we found time windows where the entanglement can only flow through interacting subsystems, depending on the system parameters.

id: 1007.1958
title: Elements of naturality in dynamical simulation frameworks for Hamiltonian, thermostatic, and Lindbladian flows on classical and quantum state-spaces
authors: John A. Sidles, Joseph L. Garbini, Jonathan P. Jacky, Rico A. R. Picone, Scott A. Harsila
comments: Prepared for the 3rd nano-MRI Research Conference: Exploring the Frontiers of Magnetic Resonance Imaging, 12-16 July 2010, Domaine du Tremblay, France. (LaTeX, 23 pages, 10 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1958
abstract: The practical focus of this work is the dynamical simulation of polarization transport processes in quantum spin microscopy and spectroscopy. The simulation framework is built-up progressively, beginning with state-spaces (configuration manifolds) that are geometrically natural, introducing coordinates that are algebraically natural; and finally specifying dynamical potentials that are physically natural; in each respect explicit criteria are given for "naturality." The resulting framework encompasses Hamiltonian flow (both classical and quantum), quantum Lindbladian processes, and classical thermostatic processes. Constructive validation and verification criteria are given for metric and symplectic flows on classical, quantum, and hybrid state-spaces, with particular emphasis to tensor network state-spaces. Both classical and quantum examples are presented, including dynamic nuclear polarization (DNP). A broad span of applications and challenges is discussed, ranging from the design and simulation of quantum spin microscopes to the design and simulation of quantum oracles.

id: 1007.2094
title: Position-dependent-mass; Cylindrical coordinates, separability, exact solvability, and PT-symmetry
authors: Omar Mustafa
comments: 16 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 385310 (9pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2094
abstract: The kinetic energy operator with position-dependent-mass in cylindrical coordinates is obtained. The separability of the corresponding Schr\"odinger equation is discussed within radial cylindrical mass settings. Azimuthal symmetry is assumed and spectral signatures of various z-dependent interaction potentials (Hermitian and non-Hermitian PT-symmetric) are reported.

id: 1007.2106
title: Perfect state transfer over interacting boson networks associated with group schemes
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, R. Sufiani, M. Azimia, F. Eghbali Fama
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2106
abstract: It is shown how to perfectly transfer an arbitrary qudit state in interacting boson networks. By defining a family of Hamiltonians related to Bose-Hubbard model, we describe a possible method for state transfer through bosonic atoms trapped in these networks with different kinds of coupling strengths between them. Particularly, by taking the underlying networks of so called group schemes as interacting boson networks, we show how choose suitable coupling strengths between the nodes, in order that an arbitrary qudit state be transferred from one node to its antipode, perfectly. In fact, by employing the group theory properties of these networks, an explicit formula for suitable coupling strengths has been given in order that perfect state transfer (PST) be achieved. Finally, as examples, PST on the underlying networks associated with cyclic group C2m, dihedral group D2n, Clifford group CL(n), and the groups U6n and V8n has been considered in details. Keywords: Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, Interacting boson networks, Perfect state transfer (PST), Qudit state, Underlying networks, Group schemes PACs Index: 01.55.+b, 02.10.Yn

id: 1007.2127
title: Quantum Correlations in Quantum Cloning
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. 1 table, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2127
abstract: We utilize quantum discord to charecterize the correlation present in Buzek-Hillery quantum copying machine \cite{bh} (not necessarily universal quantum cloning machine). In other words we quantify the correlation present beetween the original and the replicated copy of the quantum state obtained at the outport port, Interestingly, we find some domain of the machine parameter, for which the quantum disord is non negative even in the mere absence of entanglement. These non zero values of the quantum discord is a strong signature for the presence of non classical correlations. This is one step forward evidence in the support of the fact that quantum discord and entanglement are not synonymous.

id: 1007.2157
title: Repeated measurements and nuclear spin polarization
authors: Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 5 pages, 1 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: J. Phys. A 44, 325302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2157
abstract: We study repeated (noncontinuous) measurements on the electron spin in a quantum dot and find that the measurement technique may lead to a different met$ or mechanism to realize nuclear spin polarization. While it may be used in any case, the method is aimed at the further polarization, providing that nuclear spins have been polarized by the existent electrical or optical methods. The feasibility of the method is analyzed. The existing techniques in electron spin measurements are applicable to this scheme. The repeated measurements \emph{deform} the structures of the nuclear wave function and can also serve as $\emph{gates}$ to manipulate nuclear spins.

id: 1007.2165
title: Noisy One-Way Quantum Computations: The Role of Correlations
authors: Rafael Chaves, Fernando de Melo
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, extension of a previous version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022324 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2165
abstract: A scheme to evaluate computation fidelities within the one-way model is developed and explored to understand the role of correlations in the quality of noisy quantum computations. The formalism is promptly applied to many computation instances, and unveils that a higher amount of entanglement in the noisy resource state does not necessarily imply a better computation.

id: 1007.2174
title: Maximally discordant mixed states of two qubits
authors: Fernando Galve, Gian Luca Giorgi, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 83, 012102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2174
abstract: We study the relative strength of classical and quantum correlations, as measured by discord, for two-qubit states. Quantum correlations appear only in the presence of classical correlations, while the reverse is not always true. We identify the family of states that maximize the discord for a given value of the classical correlations and show that the largest attainable discord for mixed states is greater than for pure states. The difference between discord and entanglement is emphasized by the remarkable fact that these states do not maximize entanglement and are, in some cases, even separable. Finally, by random generation of density matrices uniformly distributed over the whole Hilbert space, we quantify the frequency of the appearance of quantum and classical correlations for different ranks.

id: 1007.2209
title: Dissipatively driven entanglement of two macroscopic atomic ensembles
authors: Christine A. Muschik, Eugene S. Polzik, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052312 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2209
abstract: Up to date, the life time of experimentally demonstrated entangled states has been limited, due to their fragility under decoherence and dissipation. Therefore, they are created under strict isolation conditions. In contrast, new approaches harness the coupling of the system to the environment, which drives the system into the desired state. Following these ideas, we present a robust method for generating steady state entanglement between two distant atomic ensembles. The proposed scheme relies on the interaction of the two atomic systems with the common vacuum modes of the electromagnetic field which act as an engineered environment. We develop the theoretical framework for two level systems including dipole-dipole interactions and complement these results by considering the implementation in multi-level ground states.

id: 1007.2219
title: Demonstration of a Tuneable Coupler for Superconducting Qubits Using Coherent, Time Domain, Two-Qubit Operations
authors: R. C. Bialczak, M. Ansmann, M. Hofheinz, M. Lenander, E. Lucero, M. Neeley, A. D. O'Connell, D. Sank, H. Wang, M. Weides, J. Wenner, T. Yamamoto, A. N. Cleland, J. M. Martinis
comments: 9 manuscript pages, 4 manuscript figures, 3 supplementary information pages, 4 supplementary figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2219
abstract: A major challenge in the field of quantum computing is the construction of scalable qubit coupling architectures. Here, we demonstrate a novel tuneable coupling circuit that allows superconducting qubits to be coupled over long distances. We show that the inter-qubit coupling strength can be arbitrarily tuned over nanosecond timescales within a sequence that mimics actual use in an algorithm. The coupler has a measured on/off ratio of 1000. The design is self-contained and physically separate from the qubits, allowing the coupler to be used as a module to connect a variety of elements such as qubits, resonators, amplifiers, and readout circuitry over long distances. Such design flexibility is likely to be essential for a scalable quantum computer.

id: 1007.2231
title: Superradiance and Phase Multistability in Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Michael Delanty, Stojan Rebic, Jason Twamley
comments: Published Version
journal: New Journal of Physics 13 (2011) 053032
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2231
abstract: By modeling the coupling of multiple superconducting qubits to a single cavity in the circuit-quantum electrodynamics (QED) framework we find that it should be possible to observe superradiance and phase multistability using currently available technology. Due to the exceptionally large couplings present in circuit-QED we predict that superradiant microwave pulses should be observable with only a very small number of qubits (just three or four), in the presence of energy relaxation and non-uniform qubit-field coupling strengths. This paves the way for circuit-QED implementations of superradiant state readout and decoherence free subspace state encoding in subradiant states. The system considered here also exhibits phase multistability when driven with large field amplitudes, and this effect may have applications for collective qubit readout and for quantum feedback protocols.

id: 1007.2234
title: Quantum Energy Teleportation with a Linear Harmonic Chain
authors: Yasusada Nambu, Masahiro Hotta
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures, analysis for non-critical case is added, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2234
abstract: A protocol of quantum energy teleportation is proposed for a one-dimensional harmonic chain. A coherent-state POVM measurement is performed to coupled oscillators of the chain in the ground state accompanied by energy infusion to the system. This measurement consumes a part of ground state entanglement. Depending on the measurement result, a displacement operation is performed on a distant oscillator accompanied by energy extraction from the zero-point fluctuation of the oscillator. We find that the amount of consumed entanglement is bounded from below by a positive value that is proportional to the amount of teleported energy.

id: 1007.2248
title: Lower bounds on the entanglement needed to play XOR non-local games
authors: William Slofstra
comments: 20 pages, no figures. Corrected abstract, body of paper unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2248
abstract: We give an explicit family of XOR games with O(n)-bit questions requiring 2^n ebits to play near-optimally. More generally we introduce a new technique for proving lower bounds on the amount of entanglement required by an XOR game: we show that near-optimal strategies for an XOR game G correspond to approximate representations of a certain C^*-algebra associated to G. Our results extend an earlier theorem of Tsirelson characterising the set of quantum strategies which implement extremal quantum correlations.

id: 1007.2292
title: Physics within a quantum reference frame
authors: Renato M. Angelo, Nicolas Brunner, Sandu Popescu, Anthony J. Short, Paul Skrzypczyk
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures. v2: Published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 145304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2292
abstract: We investigate the physics of quantum reference frames. Specifically, we study several simple scenarios involving a small number of quantum particles, whereby we promote one of these particles to the role of a quantum observer and ask what is the description of the rest of the system, as seen by this observer? We highlight the interesting aspects of such questions by presenting a number of apparent paradoxes. By unravelling these paradoxes we get a better understanding of the physics of quantum reference frames.

id: 1007.2332
title: Compact Toroidal Ion Trap Design and Optimization
authors: M.J. Madsen, C.H. Gorman
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2332
abstract: We present the design of a new type of compact toroidal, or "halo", ion trap. Such traps may be useful for mass spectrometry, studying small Coulomb cluster rings, quantum information applications, or other quantum simulations where a ring topology is of interest. We present results from a Monte Carlo optimization of the trap design parameters using finite-element analysis simulations that minimizes higher-order anharmonic terms in the trapping pseudopotential, while maintaining complete control over ion placement at the pseudopotential node in 3D using static bias fields. These simulations are based on a practical electrode design using readily-available parts, yet can be easily scaled to any size trap with similar electrode spacings. We also derive the conditions for a crystal phase transition for two ions in the compact halo trap, the first non-trivial phase transition for Coulomb crystals in this geometry.

id: 1007.2347
title: Decoherence of adiabatically steered quantum systems
authors: P. Solinas, M. M?tt?nen, J. Salmilehto, J. P. Pekola
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 134517 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2347
abstract: We study the effect of Markovian environmental noise on the dynamics of a two-level quantum system which is steered adiabatically by an external driving field. We express the master equation taking consistently into account all the contributions to the lowest non-vanishing order in the coupling to the Markovian environment. We study the master equation numerically and analytically and we find that, in the adiabatic limit, a zero-temperature environment does not affect the ground state evolution. As a physical application, we discuss extensively how the environment affects Cooper pair pumping. The adiabatic ground state pumping appears to be robust against environmental noise. In fact, the relaxation due to the environment is required to avoid the accumulation of small errors from each pumping cycle. We show that neglecting the non-secular terms in the master equation leads to unphysical results, such as charge non-conservation. We discuss also a possible way to control the environmental noise in a realistic physical setup and its influence on the pumping process.

id: 1007.2359
title: Better Non-Local Games from Hidden Matching
authors: Harry Buhrman, Giannicola Scarpa, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 11 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2359
abstract: We construct a non-locality game that can be won with certainty by a quantum strategy using log n shared EPR-pairs, while any classical strategy has winning probability at most 1/2+O(log n/sqrt{n}). This improves upon a recent result of Junge et al. in a number of ways.

id: 1007.2369
title: Nonlocal restoration of two-mode squeezing in the presence of strong optical loss
authors: Russell Bloomer, Matthew Pysher, Olivier Pfister
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, submitted for publication
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 063014 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2369
abstract: We present the experimental realization of a theoretical effect discovered by Olivares and Paris, in which a pair of entangled optical beams undergoing independent losses can see nonlocal correlations restored by the use of a nonlocal resource correlating the losses. Twin optical beams created in an entangled Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) state by an optical parametric oscillator above threshold were subjected to 50% loss from beamsplitters in their paths. The resulting severe degradation of the signature quantum correlations observed between the two beams was then suppressed when another, independent EPR state impinged upon the other input ports of the beamsplitters, effectively entangling the losses inflicted to the initial EPR state. The additional EPR beam pair was classically coherent with the primary one but had no quantum correlations with it. This result may find applications as a quantum tap for entanglement.

id: 1007.2374
title: Hardy's argument and successive spin-s measurements
authors: Ali Ahanj
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2374
abstract: We consider a hidden-variable theoretic description of successive measurements of non commuting spin observables on a input spin-s state. In this scenario, the hidden-variable theory leads to a Hardy-type argument that quantum predictions violate it. We show that the maximum probability of success of Hardy's argument in quantum theory is $(\frac{1}{2})^{4s}$, which is more than in the spatial case.

id: 1007.2395
title: Optimal estimation of quantum processes using incomplete information: variational quantum process tomography
authors: Thiago O. Maciel, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: 3 pages, one figure. Revised version, including numerical examples
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 12, No. 5&6 (2012) 0442-0447
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2395
abstract: We develop a quantum process tomography method, which variationally reconstruct the map of a process, using noisy and incomplete information about the dynamics. The new method encompasses the most common quantum process tomography schemes. It is based on the variational quantum tomography method (VQT) proposed by Maciel et al. in arXiv:1001.1793[quant-ph].

id: 1007.2405
title: Errors in quantum optimal control and strategy for the search of easily implementable control pulses
authors: Antonio Negretti, Rosario Fazio, Tommaso Calarco
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 154012 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2405
abstract: We introduce a new approach to assess the error of control problems we aim to optimize. The method offers a strategy to define new control pulses that are not necessarily optimal but still able to yield an error not larger than some fixed a priori threshold, and therefore provide control pulses that might be more amenable for an experimental implementation. The formalism is applied to an exactly solvable model and to the Landau-Zener model, whose optimal control problem is solvable only numerically. The presented method is of importance for applications where a high degree of controllability of the dynamics of quantum systems is required.

id: 1007.2418
title: Generation of coherent states of photon-added type via pathway of eigenfunctions
authors: K. Gorska, K. A. Penson, G. H. E. Duchamp
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 375303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2418
abstract: We obtain and investigate the regular eigenfunctions of simple differential operators x^r d^{r+1}/dx^{r+1}, r=1, 2, ... with the eigenvalues equal to one. With the help of these eigenfunctions we construct a non-unitary analogue of boson displacement operator which will be acting on the vacuum. In this way we generate collective quantum states of the Fock space which are normalized and equipped with the resolution of unity with the positive weight functions that we obtain explicitly. These states are thus coherent states in the sense of Klauder. They span the truncated Fock space without first r lowest-lying basis states: |0>, |1>, ..., |r-1>. These states are squeezed, are sub-Poissonian in nature and are reminiscent of photon-added states at Agarwal et al.

id: 1007.2424
title: Trapping of quantum particles and light beams by switchable potential wells
authors: Eduard Sonkin, Boris A. Malomed, Er'el Granot, Avi Marchewka
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2424
abstract: We consider basic dynamical effects in settings based on a pair of local potential traps that may be effectively switched on and off, or suddenly displaced, by means of appropriate control mechanisms, such as the scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) or photo-switchable quantum dots. The same models, based on the linear Schrodinger equation with time-dependent trapping potentials, apply to the description of optical planar systems designed for the switching of trapped light beams. The analysis is carried out in the analytical form, using exact solutions of the Schrodinger equation. The first dynamical problem considered in this work is the retention of a particle released from a trap which was suddenly turned off, while another local trap was switched on at a distance - immediately or with a delay. In this case, we demonstrate that the maximum of the retention rate is achieved at a specific finite value of the strength of the new trap, and at a finite value of the temporal delay, depending on the distance between the two traps. Another ptoblem is retrapping of the bound particle when the addition of the second trap transforms the single-well setting into a double-well potential (DWP). In that case, we find probabilities for the retrapping into the ground or first excited state of the DWP. We also analyze effects entailed by the application of a kick to a bound particle, the most interesting one being a kick-induced transition between the DWP's ground and excited states. In the latter case, the largest transition probability is achieved at particular strength of the kick.

id: 1007.2441
title: Generating maximally entangled distant pair in invariant stratification spin networks
authors: Majid Ghojavand, Mohammad Ali Jafarizadeh, Shahin Rouhani
comments: 14 pages 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2441
abstract: In this paper we study the generation of Bell states between distant vertices in a permanently coupled quantum spin network, interacting via invariant stratification graphs. To begin with we establish a class of upper bounds over achievable entanglement between the reference site and various vertices. We observe that the maximum of these upper bounds is 1 e-bit. We conclude that the reference site can generate a Bell state with a vertex if the corresponding upper bound of the vertex is 1 e-bit. Thus for generation of a Bell state this upper bound must be saturated. Taking this into account, we obtain the characteristic constraint of the proper graphs. We introduce a special class of antipodal invariant stratification graphs, which is called reflective, whereas the antipode vertex obeys the characteristic constraint. We also show that the antipodal association scheme graphs are reflective so Bell states can be generated between the antipodal vertices. Moreover we observe that in such graphs the proper Hamiltonian that enables creation of Bell state is the Heisenberg interaction between vertex pairs.

id: 1007.2491
title: Ensemble based quantum metrology
authors: Marcus Schaffry, Erik M. Gauger, John J. L. Morton, Joseph Fitzsimons, Simon C. Benjamin, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042114 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2491
abstract: The field of quantum metrology promises measurement devices that are fundamentally superior to conventional technologies. Specifically, when quantum entanglement is harnessed the precision achieved is supposed to scale more favourably with the resources employed, such as system size and the time required. Here we consider measurement of magnetic field strength using an ensemble of spins, and we identify a third essential resource: the initial system polarisation, i.e. the low entropy of the original state. We find that performance depends crucially on the form of decoherence present; for a plausible dephasing model, we describe a quantum strategy which can indeed beat the standard quantum limit.

id: 1007.2510
title: Experimental demonstration of a heralded entanglement source
authors: Claudia Wagenknecht, Che-Ming Li, Andreas Reingruber, Xiao-Hui Bao, Alexander Goebel, Yu-Ao Chen, Qiang Zhang, Kai Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 549 - 552 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2510
abstract: The heralded generation of entangled states is a long-standing goal in quantum information processing, because it is indispensable for a number of quantum protocols. Polarization entangled photon pairs are usually generated through spontaneous parametric down-conversion, but the emission is probabilistic. Their applications are generally accompanied by post-selection and destructive photon detection. Here, we report a source of entanglement generated in an event-ready manner by conditioned detection of auxiliary photons. This scheme benefits from the stable and robust properties of spontaneous parametric down-conversion and requires only modest experimental efforts. It is flexible and allows the preparation efficiency to be significantly improved by using beamsplitters with different transmission ratios. We have achieved a fidelity better than 87% and a state preparation efficiency of 45% for the source. This could offer promise in essential photonics-based quantum information tasks, and particularly in enabling optical quantum computing by reducing dramatically the computational overhead.

id: 1007.2512
title: Experimental realization of a low-noise heralded single photon source
authors: G. Brida, I.P. Degiovanni, M. Genovese, A. Migdall, F. Piacentini, S.V. Polyakov, I. Ruo Berchera
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt. Exp. 19 (2011) 1484
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2512
abstract: We present a heralded single-photon source with a much lower level of unwanted background photons in the output channel by using the herald photon to control a shutter in the heralded channel. The shutter is implemented using a simple field programable gate array controlled optical switch.

id: 1007.2538
title: Aharonov-Bohm Effect: a Quantum Variation and Classical Analogy
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Darko Kapor, Stevica Djurovic, Milan Pantic
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2538
abstract: In this work we consider a quantum variation of the usual Aharonov-Bohm effect with two solenoids sufficiently close one to the other so that (external) electron cannot propagate between two solenoids but only around both solenoids. Here magnetic field (or classical vector potential of the electromagnetic field) acting at quantum propagating (external) electron represents the quantum mechanical average value or statistical mixture. It is obtained by wave function of single (internal, quantum propagating within some solenoid wire) electron (or homogeneous ensemble of such (internal) electrons) representing a quantum superposition with two practically non-interfering terms. All this implies that phase difference and interference shape translation of the quantum propagating (external) electron represent the quantum mechanical average value or statistical mixture. On the other hand we consider a classical analogy and variation of the usual Aharonov-Bohm effect in which Aharonov-Bohm solenoid is used for the primary coil inside secondary large coil in the remarkable classical Faraday experiment of the electromagnetic induction.

id: 1007.2558
title: Relaxation in quantum systems. Manifestation of the state-selective reactive decay
authors: A. I. Shushin
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2558
abstract: The effect of state-selective reactive decay on the relaxation kinetics of quantum multistate systems is studied in detail in the Bloch-Redfield approach (BRA). The results are applied to the analysis of this effect in radical pair recombination kinetics. The BRA is shown to be able to describe quantitatively most important specific features of the recombination kinetics including those predicted by phenomenological treatment and by recently proposed approaches based on quantum measurement theories.

id: 1007.2572
title: Local quantum control of Heisenberg spin chains
authors: Rahel Heule, C. Bruder, Daniel Burgarth, Vladimir M. Stojanovic
comments: final, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052333 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2572
abstract: Motivated by some recent results of quantum control theory, we discuss the feasibility of local operator control in arrays of interacting qubits modeled as isotropic Heisenberg spin chains. Acting on one of the end spins, we aim at finding piecewise-constant control pulses that lead to optimal fidelities for a chosen set of quantum gates. We analyze the robustness of the obtained results f or the gate fidelities to random errors in the control fields, finding that with faster switching between piecewise-constant controls the system is less susceptible to these errors. The observed behavior falls into a generic class of physical phenomena that are related to a competition between resonance- and relaxation-type behavior, exemplified by motional narrowing in NMR experiments. Finally, we discuss how the obtained optimal gate fidelities are altered when the corresponding rapidly-varying piecewise-constant control fields are smoothened through spectral filtering.

id: 1007.2578
title: A two-qubit Bell inequality for which POVM measurements are relevant
authors: T. V¨¦rtesi, E. Bene
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062115 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2578
abstract: A bipartite Bell inequality is derived which is maximally violated on the two-qubit state space if measurements describable by positive operator valued measure (POVM) elements are allowed rather than restricting the possible measurements to projective ones. In particular, the presented Bell inequality requires POVMs in order to be maximally violated by a maximally entangled two-qubit state. This answers a question raised by N. Gisin.

id: 1007.2584
title: Bisimulation for quantum processes
authors: Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Journal version
journal: ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems 2012, vol.34(4), no.17
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2584
abstract: In this paper we introduce a novel notion of probabilistic bisimulation for quantum processes and prove that it is congruent with respect to various process algebra combinators including parallel composition even when both classical and quantum communications are present. We also establish some basic algebraic laws for this bisimulation. In particular, we prove uniqueness of the solutions to recursive equations of quantum processes, which provides a powerful proof technique for verifying complex quantum protocols.

id: 1007.2588
title: Experimental quantum cryptography scheme based on orthogonal states
authors: Alessio Avella, Giorgio Brida, Ivo Pietro Degiovanni, Marco Genovese, Marco Gramegna, Paolo Traina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062309 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2588
abstract: Since, in general, non-orthogonal states cannot be cloned, any eavesdropping attempt in a Quantum Communication scheme using non-orthogonal states as carriers of information introduces some errors in the transmission, leading to the possibility of detecting the spy. Usually, orthogonal states are not used in Quantum Cryptography schemes since they can be faithfully cloned without altering the transmitted data. Nevertheless, L. Goldberg and L. Vaidman [\prl 75 (1995) 1239] proposed a protocol in which, even if the data exchange is realized using two orthogonal states, any attempt to eavesdrop is detectable by the legal users. In this scheme the orthogonal states are superpositions of two localized wave packets travelling along separate channels. Here we present an experiment realizing this scheme.

id: 1007.2599
title: Accessing the purity of a single photon by the width of the Hong-Ou-Mandel interference
authors: Katiuscia N. Cassemiro, Kaisa Laiho, Christine Silberhorn
comments: Extended version, 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 113052 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2599
abstract: We demonstrate a method to determine the spectral purity of single photons. The technique is based on the Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) interference between a single photon state and a suitably prepared coherent field. We show that the temporal width of the HOM dip is not only related to reciprocal of the spectral width but also to the underlying quantum coherence. Therefore, by measuring the width of both the HOM dip and the spectrum one can directly quantify the degree of spectral purity. The distinct advantage of our proposal is that it obviates the need for perfect mode matching, since it does not rely on the visibility of the interference. Our method is particularly useful for characterizing the purity of heralded single photon states.

id: 1007.2608
title: Dressed-atom multiphoton analysis of anomalous electromagnetically induced absorption
authors: H.-S. Chou, J. Evers
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 213602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2608
abstract: A method to interpret probe spectra of driven degenerate atomic systems is discussed. The dressed-atom multiphoton spectroscopy (DAMS) is based on a dressing of the atomic system with the strong coupling field, followed by a perturbative treatment of the probe field interaction. As example, we apply the DAMS to provide a clear interpretation for anomalous electromagnetically induced absorption (EIA), which cannot be explained by spontaneous transfer of coherence. We show that anomalous EIA arises from quantum interference between competing two-photon transitions, and explain the different dependences on the coupling field strength observed for various angular momentum setups.

id: 1007.2610
title: Generation of Hidden Optical-Polarization: Squeezing and Non-Classicality
authors: Gyaneshwar K. Gupta, Akhilesh Kumar, Ravi S. Singh
comments: 14 pages and 02 figures
journal: Opt.Commn. 284,4951 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2610
abstract: A monochromatic double-mode coherent light endowed with orthogonally polarized photons propagating collinearly is studied in Degenerate Parametric Amplification. Generation of Hidden Optical- Polarized States is shown by non-zero values of Index of Hidden Optical-Polarization. Squeezing in HOPS is demonstrated by recognizing a Squeezing function. The Non-Classical feature of HOPS is observed by 'degree of Hidden Optical-Polarization' which attains non-classical value 'greater than unity'. The dynamical nature of Generation, Squeezing and Non-Classicality are numerically presented.

id: 1007.2615
title: The quantum mechanics of time travel through post-selected teleportation
authors: Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Raul Garcia-Patron, Vittorio Giovannetti, Yutaka Shikano
comments: Few typos corrected in the text and bibliography updated
journal: Phys. Rev. D 84, 025007 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2615
abstract: This paper discusses the quantum mechanics of closed timelike curves (CTC) and of other potential methods for time travel. We analyze a specific proposal for such quantum time travel, the quantum description of CTCs based on post-selected teleportation (P-CTCs). We compare the theory of P-CTCs to previously proposed quantum theories of time travel: the theory is physically inequivalent to Deutsch's theory of CTCs, but it is consistent with path-integral approaches (which are the best suited for analyzing quantum field theory in curved spacetime). We derive the dynamical equations that a chronology-respecting system interacting with a CTC will experience. We discuss the possibility of time travel in the absence of general relativistic closed timelike curves, and investigate the implications of P-CTCs for enhancing the power of computation.

id: 1007.2629
title: Universal coding for transmission of private information
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 31 pages, no figures. Published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 122202 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2629
abstract: We consider the scenario in which Alice transmits private classical messages to Bob via a classical-quantum channel, part of whose output is intercepted by an eavesdropper, Eve. We prove the existence of a universal coding scheme under which Alice's messages can be inferred correctly by Bob, and yet Eve learns nothing about them. The code is universal in the sense that it does not depend on specific knowledge of the channel. Prior knowledge of the probability distribution on the input alphabet of the channel, and bounds on the corresponding Holevo quantities of the output ensembles at Bob's and Eve's end suffice.

id: 1007.2648
title: Simulating chemistry using quantum computers
authors: Ivan Kassal, James D. Whitfield, Alejandro Perdomo-Ortiz, Man-Hong Yung, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 27 pages. Submitted to Ann. Rev. Phys. Chem
journal: Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 2011. 62:185-207
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2648
abstract: The difficulty of simulating quantum systems, well-known to quantum chemists, prompted the idea of quantum computation. One can avoid the steep scaling associated with the exact simulation of increasingly large quantum systems on conventional computers, by mapping the quantum system to another, more controllable one. In this review, we discuss to what extent the ideas in quantum computation, now a well-established field, have been applied to chemical problems. We describe algorithms that achieve significant advantages for the electronic-structure problem, the simulation of chemical dynamics, protein folding, and other tasks. Although theory is still ahead of experiment, we outline recent advances that have led to the first chemical calculations on small quantum information processors.

id: 1007.2652
title: A Simple Quantum Model of Ultracold Polar Molecule Collisions
authors: Zbigniew Idziaszek, Goulven Qu¨¦m¨¦ner, John L. Bohn, Paul S. Julienne
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2652
abstract: We present a unified formalism for describing chemical reaction rates of trapped, ultracold molecules. This formalism reduces the scattering to its essential features, namely, a propagation of the reactant molecules through a gauntlet of long-range forces before they ultimately encounter one another, followed by a probability for the reaction to occur once they do. In this way, the electric-field dependence should be readily parametrized in terms of a pair of fitting parameters (along with a $C_6$ coefficient) for each asymptotic value of partial wave quantum numbers $|L,M \rangle$. From this, the electric field dependence of the collision rates follows automatically. We present examples for reactive species such as KRb, and non-reactive species, such as RbCs.

id: 1007.2661
title: Decoherence due to elastic Rayleigh scattering
authors: H. Uys, M.J. Biercuk, A.P. VanDevender, C. Ospelkaus, D. Meiser, R. Ozeri, J.J. Bollinger
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2661
abstract: We present theoretical and experimental studies of the decoherence of hyperfine ground-state superpositions due to elastic Rayleigh scattering of light off-resonant with higher lying excited states. We demonstrate that under appropriate conditions, elastic Rayleigh scattering can be the dominant source of decoherence, contrary to previous discussions in the literature. We show that the elastic-scattering decoherence rate of a two-level system is given by the square of the difference between the elastic-scattering \textit{amplitudes} for the two levels, and that for certain detunings of the light, the amplitudes can interfere constructively even when the elastic scattering \textit{rates} from the two levels are equal. We confirm this prediction through calculations and measurements of the total decoherence rate for a superposition of the valence electron spin levels in the ground state of $^9$Be$^+$ in a 4.5 T magnetic field.

id: 1007.2682
title: Coherent control of diffuse light dynamics in an ultracold atomic gas
authors: L.V. Gerasimov, I.M. Sokolov, D.V. Kupriyanov, R.G. Olave, M.D. Havey
comments: To appear, Journal of the Optical Society of America B (2011)
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, Vol. 28, No. 6, 1459 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2682
abstract: We show that coherent multiple light scattering, or diffuse light propagation, in a disordered atomic medium, prepared at ultra-low temperatures, can be be effectively delayed in the presence of a strong control field initiating a stimulated Raman process. On a relatively short time scale, when the atomic system can preserve its configuration and effects of atomic motion can be ignored, the scattered signal pulse, diffusely propagating via multiple coherent scattering through the medium, can be stored in the spin subsystem through its stimulated Raman-type conversion into spin coherence. We demonstrate how this mechanism, potentially interesting for developing quantum memories, would work for the example of a coherent light pulse propagating through an alkali-metal atomic vapor under typical conditions attainable in experiments with ultracold atoms.

id: 1007.2723
title: The information-carrying capacity of certain quantum channels
authors: Ciara Morgan
comments: PhD thesis, 148 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2723
abstract: In this thesis we analyse the type of states and ensembles which achieve the capacity for certain quantum channels carrying classical information. We first concentrate on the product-state capacity of a particular quantum channel, that is, the capacity which is achieved by encoding the output states from a source into codewords comprised of states taken from ensembles of non-entangled states and sending them over copies of the quantum channel. Using the "single-letter" formula proved independently by Holevo and by Schumacher and Westmoreland we obtain the product-state capacity of the qubit quantum amplitude-damping channel, which is determined by a transcendental equation in a single real variable and can be solved numerically. We demonstrate that the product-state capacity of this channel can be achieved using a minimal ensemble of non-orthogonal pure states. Next we consider the classical capacity of two quantum channels with memory, namely a periodic channel with quantum depolarising channel branches and a convex combination of quantum channels. We prove that the classical capacity for each of the classical memory channels mentioned above is, in fact, equal to the respective product-state capacities. For those channels this means that the classical capacity is achieved without the use of entangled input-states. Next we introduce the channel coding theorem for memoryless quantum channels, providing a known proof by Winter for the strong converse of the theorem. We then consider the strong converse to the channel coding theorem for a periodic quantum channel.

id: 1007.2741
title: The low temperature corrections to the Casimir force between a sphere and a plane
authors: Michael Bordag, Irina G. Pirozhenko
comments: Submitted to the proceedings of the Workshop "Cosmology, Quantum Vacuum and Zeta Functions", Universitat Aut\`onoma de Barcelona, 8-10th March, 2010; 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2741
abstract: We calculate the low temperature corrections to the free energy for a sphere in front of a plane. First, the scalar field obeying Dirichet or Neumann boundary conditions is considered. Second, the electromagnetic field is studied, the sphere being perfectly conducting and being a dielectric ball with both, constant permittivity and permittivity of the plasma model.

id: 1007.2745
title: Heralded generation of entangled photon pairs
authors: Stefanie Barz, Gunther Cronenberg, Anton Zeilinger, Philip Walther
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 553-556 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2745
abstract: Entangled photons are a crucial resource for quantum communication and linear optical quantum computation. Unfortunately, the applicability of many photon-based schemes is limited due to the stochastic character of the photon sources. Therefore, a worldwide effort has focused in overcoming the limitation of probabilistic emission by generating two-photon entangled states conditioned on the detection of auxiliary photons. Here we present the first heralded generation of photon states that are maximally entangled in polarization with linear optics and standard photon detection from spontaneous parametric down-conversion. We utilize the down-conversion state corresponding to the generation of three photon pairs, where the coincident detection of four auxiliary photons unambiguously heralds the successful preparation of the entangled state. This controlled generation of entangled photon states is a significant step towards the applicability of a linear optics quantum network, in particular for entanglement swapping, quantum teleportation, quantum cryptography and scalable approaches towards photonics-based quantum computing.

id: 1007.2754
title: Relational Hidden Variables and Non-Locality
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: 42 pages in journal style. To appear in Studia Logica
journal: Studia Logica April 2013, Volume 101, Issue 2, pp 411-452
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2754
abstract: We use a simple relational framework to develop the key notions and results on hidden variables and non-locality. The extensive literature on these topics in the foundations of quantum mechanics is couched in terms of probabilistic models, and properties such as locality and no-signalling are formulated probabilistically. We show that to a remarkable extent, the main structure of the theory, through the major No-Go theorems and beyond, survives intact under the replacement of probability distributions by mere relations.

id: 1007.2756
title: Quantum observer and Kolmogorov complexity: a model that can be tested
authors: Alexei Grinbaum
comments: 11 pages. Section 6 on experimental tests added in version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2756
abstract: Different observers do not have to agree on how they identify a quantum system. We explore a condition based on algorithmic complexity that allows a system to be described as an objective "element of reality". We also suggest an experimental test of the hypothesis that any system, even much smaller than a human being, can be a quantum mechanical observer.

id: 1007.2778
title: Secure quantum carriers for quantum state sharing
authors: Vahid Karimipour, Milad Marvian
comments: 19 pages, extensive revisions, accepted for publication in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI), Vol. 10, No. 2 (2012) 1250018
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2778
abstract: We develop the concept of quantum carrier and show that messages can be uploaded and downloaded from this carrier and while in transit, these messages are hidden from external agents. We explain in detail the working of the quantum carrier for different communication tasks, including quantum key distribution, classical secret and quantum state sharing among a set of $n$ players according to general threshold schemes. The security of the protocol is discussed and it is shown that only the legitimate subsets can retrieve the secret messages, the collaboration of all the parties is needed for the continuous running of the protocol and maintaining the carrier.

id: 1007.2786
title: Perfect Quantum Routing in Regular Spin Networks
authors: Peter J. Pemberton-Ross, Alastair Kay
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 020503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2786
abstract: Regular families of coupled quantum networks are described such the unknown state of a qubit can be perfectly routed from any node to any other node in a time linear in the distance. Unlike previous constructions, the transfer can be achieved perfectly on a network that is local on any specified number of spatial dimensions. The ability to route the state, and the regularity of the networks, vastly improve the utility of this scheme in comparison to perfect state transfer schemes. The structures can also be used for entanglement generation.

id: 1007.2807
title: Disorder in quantum vacuum: Casimir-induced localization of matter waves
authors: G. A. Moreno, R. Messina, D. A. R. Dalvit, A. Lambrecht, P. A. Maia Neto, S. Reynaud
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:210401,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2807
abstract: Disordered geometrical boundaries such as rough surfaces induce important modifications to the mode spectrum of the electromagnetic quantum vacuum. In analogy to Anderson localization of waves induced by a random potential, here we show that the Casimir-Polder interaction between a cold atomic sample and a rough surface also produces localization phenomena. These effects, that represent a macroscopic manifestation of disorder in quantum vacuum, should be observable with Bose-Einstein condensates expanding in proximity of rough surfaces.

id: 1007.2858
title: Quantum entanglement produced in the formation of a black hole
authors: E. Martin-Martinez, L.J. Garay, J. Leon
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, revtex4, Journal ref. added
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:064028,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2858
abstract: A field in the vacuum state, which is in principle separable, can evolve to an entangled state in a dynamical gravitational collapse. We will study, quantify, and discuss the origin of this entanglement, showing that it could even reach the maximal entanglement limit for low frequencies or very small black holes, with consequences in micro-black hole formation and the final stages of evaporating black holes. This entanglement provides quantum information resources between the modes in the asymptotic future (thermal Hawking radiation) and those which fall to the event horizon. We will also show that fermions are more sensitive than bosons to this quantum entanglement generation. This fact could be helpful in finding experimental evidence of the genuine quantum Hawking effect in analog models.

id: 1007.2869
title: Fault-tolerance of ancilla preparation for logical Toffoli gate of a family of Calderbank-Shor-Steane codes
authors: Daisuke Aratsu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2869
abstract: Fault-tolerant quantum computation using quantum error-correcting codes requires fault-tolerant constructions of nontransversal gates. Shor proposed a fault-tolerant construction of a nontransversal gate, i.e., the Toffoli gate for a family of the Calderbank-Shor-Steane codes which has even-weight stabilizer generators and odd-weight logical operators. In fact, as shown in this paper, error propagations in the ancilla preparation of Shor's construction lead to logical errors. This work provides a solution to this problem through the insertion of bit flip error correction. Finally, error rates of a modified construction are evaluated with use of the concatenated Steane codes, and the same accuracy threshold as transversal gates is obtained in cases where ancillary systems can be prepared just in time.

id: 1007.2899
title: Inverting a permutation is as hard as unordered search
authors: Ashwin Nayak
comments: 5 pages. Numerous changes to improve the presentation
journal: Theory of Computing 7(1):19--25, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2899
abstract: We show how an algorithm for the problem of inverting a permutation may be used to design one for the problem of unordered search (with a unique solution). Since there is a straightforward reduction in the reverse direction, the problems are essentially equivalent. The reduction we present helps us bypass the hybrid argument due to Bennett, Bernstein, Brassard, and Vazirani (1997) and the quantum adversary method due to Ambainis (2002) that were earlier used to derive lower bounds on the quantum query complexity of the problem of inverting permutations. It directly implies that the quantum query complexity of the problem is asymptotically the same as that for unordered search, namely in Theta(sqrt(n)).

id: 1007.2906
title: Larc: a State Collapse Theory of Quantum Measurement
authors: Michael Simpson
comments: 
journal: Found. Phys. 41(2011)1648-1663
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2906
abstract: This proposes a new theory of Quantum measurement; a state reduction theory in which reduction is to the elements of the number operator basis of a system, triggered by the occurrence of annihilation or creation (or lowering or raising) operators in the time evolution of a system. It is from these operator types that the acronym `LARC' is derived. Reduction does not occur immediately after the trigger event; it occurs at some later time with probability $P_t$ per unit time, where $P_t$ is very small. Localisation of macroscopic objects occurs in the natural way: photons from an illumination field are reflected off a body and later absorbed by another body. Each possible absorption of a photon by a molecule in the second body generates annihilation and raising operators, which in turn trigger a probability per unit time $P_t$ of a state reduction into the number operator basis for the photon field and the number operator basis of the electron orbitals of the molecule. Since all photons in the illumination field have come from the location of the first body, wherever that is, a single reduction leads to a reduction of the position state of the first body relative to the second, with a total probability of $m\tau_L$, where $m$ is the number of photon absorption events. Unusually for a reduction theory, the larc theory is naturally relativistic.

id: 1007.2908
title: Multipartite entanglement in fermionic systems via a geometric measure
authors: Behzad Lari, P. Durganandini, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82, 062302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2908
abstract: We study multipartite entanglement in a system consisting of indistinguishable fermions. Specifically, we have proposed a geometric entanglement measure for N spin-1/2 fermions distributed over 2L modes (single particle states). The measure is defined on the 2L qubit space isomorphic to the Fock space for 2L single particle states. This entanglement measure is defined for a given partition of 2L modes containing m >= 2 subsets. Thus this measure applies to m <= 2L partite fermionic system where L is any finite number, giving the number of sites. The Hilbert spaces associated with these subsets may have different dimensions. Further, we have defined the local quantum operations with respect to a given partition of modes. This definition is generic and unifies different ways of dividing a fermionic system into subsystems. We have shown, using a representative case, that the geometric measure is invariant under local unitaries corresponding to a given partition. We explicitly demonstrate the use of the measure to calculate multipartite entanglement in some correlated electron systems. To the best of our knowledge, there is no usable entanglement measure of m > 3 partite fermionic systems in the literature, so that this is the first measure of multipartite entanglement for fermionic systems going beyond the bipartite and tripartite cases.

id: 1007.2921
title: Quantization over boson operator spaces
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2921
abstract: The framework of third quantization - canonical quantization in the Liouville space - is developed for open many-body bosonic systems. We show how to diagonalize the quantum Liouvillean for an arbitrary quadratic n-boson Hamiltonian with arbitrary linear Lindblad couplings to the baths and, as an example, explicitly work out a general case of a single boson.

id: 1007.2952
title: Separation between Classical and Quantum Winning Strategies for the Matching Game
authors: Ivan Fial¨ªk
comments: 11 pages
journal: IJFCS, 19, 6, pp. 1449-1459, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2952
abstract: Communication complexity is an area of classical computer science which studies how much communication is necessary to solve various distributed computational problems. Quantum information processing can be used to reduce the amount of communication required to carry out some distributed problems. We speak of pseudo-telepathy when it is able to completely eliminate the need for communication. The matching game is the newest member of the family of pseudo-telepathy games. After introducing a general model for pseudo-telepathy games, we focus on the question what the smallest size of inputs is for which the matching game is a pseudo-telepathy game.

id: 1007.2975
title: Realization of Quantum State Privacy Amplification in a Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Quantum System
authors: Liang Hao, Chuan Wang, Gui Lu Long
comments: 8 pages 6 figures
journal: Liang Hao, ChuanWang and Gui Lu Long, J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 125502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2975
abstract: Quantum state privacy amplification (QSPA) is the quantum analogue of classical privacy amplification. If the state information of a series of single particle states has some leakage, QSPA reduces this leakage by condensing the state information of two particles into the state of one particle. Recursive applications of the operations will eliminate the quantum state information leakage to a required minimum level. In this paper, we report the experimental implementation of a quantum state privacy amplification protocol in a nuclear magnetic resonance system. The density matrices of the states are constructed in the experiment, and the experimental results agree with theory well.

id: 1007.2987
title: Dynamics of Entanglement and Bell-nonlocality for Two Stochastic Qubits with Dipole-Dipole Interaction
authors: Ferdi Altintas, Resul Eryigit
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 415306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2987
abstract: We have studied the analytical dynamics of Bell nonlocality as measured by CHSH inequality and entanglement as measured by concurrence for two noisy qubits that have dipole-dipole interaction. The nonlocal entanglement created by the dipole-dipole interaction is found to be protected from sudden death for certain initial states.

id: 1007.2995
title: Generation of squeezed light with monolithic optical parametric oscillator: Simultaneous achievement of phase matching and cavity resonance by temperature control
authors: Hidehiro Yonezawa, Koyo Nagashima, Akira Furusawa
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express Vol. 18, Iss. 19, pp. 20143-20150 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2995
abstract: We generate squeezed state of light at 860 nm with a monolithic optical parametric oscillator. The optical parametric oscillator consists of a periodically poled KTiOPO_4 crystal, both ends of which are spherically polished and mirror-coated. We achieve both phase matching and cavity resonance by controlling only the temperature of the crystal. We observe up to -8.0 dB of squeezing with the bandwidth of 142 MHz. Our technique makes it possible to drive many monolithic cavities simultaneously by a single laser. Hence our monolithic optical parametric oscillator is quite suitable to continuous-variable quantum information experiments where we need a large number of highly squeezed light beams.

id: 1007.3002
title: Perfect state transfer via quantum probability theory
authors: S. Salimi, S. Ghoraishipour, A. Sorouri
comments: 23 page
journal: Quantum Inf Process 12, 505-523(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3002
abstract: The transfer of quantum states has played an important role in quantum information processing. In fact, transfer of quantum states from point $A$ to $B$ with unit fidelity is very important for us and we focus on this case. In recent years, in represented works, they designed Hamiltonian in a way that a mirror symmetry creates with with respect to network center. In this paper, we stratify the spin network with respect to an arbitrary vertex of the spin network o then we design coupling coefficient in a way to create a mirror symmetry in Hamiltonian with respect to center. By using this Hamiltonian and represented approach, initial state that have been encoded on the first vertex in suitable time and with unit fidelity from it's antipodes vertex can be received. In his work, there is no need to external control.

id: 1007.3043
title: Large violation of Bell inequalities with low entanglement
authors: Marius Junge, Carlos Palazuelos
comments: Reference [16] added. Some typos corrected
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 306 (3), 695-746 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3043
abstract: In this paper we obtain violations of general bipartite Bell inequalities of order $\frac{\sqrt{n}}{\log n}$ with $n$ inputs, $n$ outputs and $n$-dimensional Hilbert spaces. Moreover, we construct explicitly, up to a random choice of signs, all the elements involved in such violations: the coefficients of the Bell inequalities, POVMs measurements and quantum states. Analyzing this construction we find that, even though entanglement is necessary to obtain violation of Bell inequalities, the Entropy of entanglement of the underlying state is essentially irrelevant in obtaining large violation. We also indicate why the maximally entangled state is a rather poor candidate in producing large violations with arbitrary coefficients. However, we also show that for Bell inequalities with positive coefficients (in particular, games) the maximally entangled state achieves the largest violation up to a logarithmic factor.

id: 1007.3054
title: Puzzles of Divergence and Renormalization in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Guang-jiong Ni, Jianjun Xu, Senyue Lou
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3054
abstract: A regularization renormalization method ($RRM$) in quantum field theory ($QFT$) is discussed with simple rules: Once a divergent integral $I$ is encountered, we first take its derivative with respect to some mass parameter enough times, rendering it just convergent. Then integrate it back into $I$ with some arbitrary constants appeared. Third, the renormalization is nothing but a process of reconfirmation to fix relevant parameters (mass, charge, \etc) by experimental data via suitable choices of these constants. Various $QFT$ problems, including the Lamb shift, the running coupling constants in $QED$ and $QCD$, the $\lambda \phi^4$ model as well as Higgs mass in the standard model of particle physics, are discussed. Hence the calculation, though still approximate and limited in accuracy, can be performed in an unambiguous way with no explicit divergence, no counter term, no bare parameter and no arbitrarily running mass scale (like the $\mu$ in $QCD$).

id: 1007.3057
title: On the von Neumann entropy of certain quantum walks subject to decoherence
authors: Chaobin Liu, Nelson Petulante
comments: 
journal: Math. Struct. in Comp. Science (2010), vol. 20, pp. 1099-1115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3057
abstract: Consider a discrete-time quantum walk on the $N$-cycle governed by the following condition: at every time step of the walk, the option persists, with probability $p$, of exercising a projective measurement on the coin degree of freedom. For a bipartite quantum system of this kind, we prove that the von Neumann entropy of the total density operator converges to its maximum value. Thus, when influenced by decoherence, the mutual information between the two subsystems, corresponding respectively to the space of the coin and the space of the walker, eventually must diminish to zero. To put it plainly, any level of decoherence greater than zero forces the system eventually to become completely "disentangled".}

id: 1007.3066
title: Security of "Counterfactual Quantum Cryptography"
authors: Zhen-Qiang Yin, Hong-Wei Li, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3066
abstract: Recently, a "counterfactual" quantum key distribution scheme was proposed by Tae-Gon Noh [1]. In this scheme, two legitimate distant peers may share secret keys even when the information carriers are not traveled in the quantum channel. We find that this protocol is equivalent to an entanglement distillation protocol (EDP). According to this equivalence, a strict security proof and the asymptotic key bit rate are both obtained when perfect single photon source is applied and Trojan-horse attack can be detected. We also find that the security of this scheme is deeply related with not only the bit error rate but also the yields of photons. And our security proof may shed light on security of other two-way protocols.

id: 1007.3076
title: Measuring measurement--disturbance relationships with weak values
authors: A. P. Lund, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 12 093011 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3076
abstract: Using formal definitions for measurement precision {\epsilon} and disturbance (measurement backaction) {\eta}, Ozawa [Phys. Rev. A 67, 042105 (2003)] has shown that Heisenberg's claimed relation between these quantities is false in general. Here we show that the quantities introduced by Ozawa can be determined experimentally, using no prior knowledge of the measurement under investigation --- both quantities correspond to the root-mean-squared difference given by a weak-valued probability distribution. We propose a simple three-qubit experiment which would illustrate the failure of Heisenberg's measurement--disturbance relation, and the validity of an alternative relation proposed by Ozawa.

id: 1007.3112
title: Maximally entangled states in the Hydrogen molecule: The role of spin and correlation
authors: M. Babamoradi, M. Heidari Saani, M. A. Vesaghi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3112
abstract: By going beyond Hubbard Hamiltonian we reflected correlation effects accurately in the wavefunctions of H2. Using ab initio e-e interaction parameters resulted maximally entangled ground and third excited states. We assigned this maximally entangled character to the nonmagnetic (S=0) property of these states and also the minimally entangled character of the first excited states to its magnetic property. By switching on a magnetic field an entangled state with Sz = 0 can be extracted from a minimally entangled degenerate magnetic state. We suggest that presence of a moderate correlated system and a non-magnetic (Sz = 0) electronic state can be two criteria for finding maximally entangled electronic states in a realistic molecular system.

id: 1007.3114
title: Asymptotic quantum degeneracy at a 2D corner
authors: S. A. R. Horsley, S. Martin-Haugh, M. Babiker, M. Al-Amri
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3114
abstract: In quantum mechanics, asymptotic degeneracy is often considered in the context of a particle in a symmetric double-well potential, and is the phenomenon whereby pairs of energy levels come together to form doubly degenerate levels in response to an increase in the separation, or depth of the two wells. Here we highlight a new kind of asymptotic degeneracy that can arise when a particle is bound to a surface formed by the intersection of two planes, when the intersection angle is greater than pi. To demonstrate this effect we consider the bound states of a charged particle subject its own 'image' potential in a highly polarizable wedge, as a function of the wedge opening angle.

id: 1007.3119
title: Three-color Sagnac source of polarization-entangled photon pairs
authors: M. Hentschel, H. H¨¹bel, A. Poppe, A. Zeilinger
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17, Issue 25, pp. 23153-23159 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3119
abstract: We demonstrate a compact and stable source of polarization-entangled pairs of photons, one at 810 nm wavelength for high detection efficiency and the other at 1550 nm for long-distance fiber communication networks. Due to a novel Sagnac-based design of the interferometer no active stabilization is needed. Using only one 30 mm ppKTP bulk crystal the source produces photons with a spectral brightness of 1.13x10^6 pairs/s/mW/THz with an entanglement fidelity of 98.2%. Both photons are single-mode fiber coupled and ready to be used in quantum key distribution (QKD) or transmission of photonic quantum states over large distances.

id: 1007.3129
title: Dispersion-managed dark solitons in erbium-doped fiber lasers
authors: Han Zhang, Dingyuan Tang, Mustapha Tlidi, Luming Zhao, Xuan Wu
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3129
abstract: We report on the observation of dispersion-managed (DM) dark soliton emission in a net-normal dispersion erbium-doped fiber laser. We found experimentally that dispersion management could not only reduce the pump threshold for the dark soliton formation in a fiber laser, but also stabilize the single dark soliton evolution in the cavity. Numerical simulations have also confirmed the DM dark soliton formation in a fiber laser.

id: 1007.3136
title: Effects of walls
authors: T. B. Smith, D. A. Dubin, M. A. Hennings
comments: added one page with proof the Hamiltonian is self adjoint, and some remarks about completeness; and two supporting references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3136
abstract: We analyze here the energy states and associated wave functions available to a particle acted upon by a delta function potential of arbitrary strength and sign and fixed anywhere within a one-dimensional infinite well. We consider how the allowed energies vary with the well's width and with the location of the delta function within it. The model subtly distinguishes between whether the delta function is located at rational or irrational fractions of the well's width: in the former case all possible energy eigenvalues are solutions to a straightforward dispersion relation, but in the latter case, to make up a complete set these `ordinary' solutions must be augmented by the addition of `nodal' states which vanish at the delta function and so do not `see' it. Thus, although the model is a simple one, due to its singular nature it needs a little careful analysis. The model, of course, can be thought of as a limit of more physical smooth potentials which, though readily succumbing to straightforward numerical computation, would give little generic information. PACS numbers: 03.65.-w, 73.21.Fg, 01.40.-d

id: 1007.3169
title: Thermal quantum and classical correlations in two qubit XX model in a nonuniform external magnetic field
authors: Ali Saif M. Hassan, Behzad Lari, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 8 pages, 13 figures. We connect our results with the monogamy relations between the EOF, CC and the QD of two qubits and the environment
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 485302 (14pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3169
abstract: We investigate how thermal quantum discord (QD) and classical correlations (CC) of a two-qubit one-dimensional XX Heisenberg chain in thermal equilibrium depend on the temperature of the bath as well as on nonuniform external magnetic fields applied to two qubits and varied separately. We show that the behavior of QD differs in many unexpected ways from the thermal entanglement (EOF). For the nonuniform case (B1 = -B2), we find that QD and CC are equal for all values of (B1 = -B2) and for different temperatures. We show that, in this case, the thermal states of the system belong to a class of mixed states and satisfy certain conditions under which QD and CC are equal. The specification of this class and the corresponding conditions are completely general and apply to any quantum system in a state in this class satisfying these conditions. We further find that the relative contributions of QD and CC can be controlled easily by changing the relative magnitudes of B1 and B2. Finally, we connect our results with the monogamy relations between the EOF, CC and the QD of two qubits and the environment.

id: 1007.3171
title: Optimal distillation of three-qubit W states
authors: Ali Yildiz
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012317 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3171
abstract: Some of the asymmetric three qubit $W$ states are used for perfect teleportation, superdense coding and quantum information splitting. We present the protocols for the optimal distillation of the asymmetric as well as the symmetric $W$ states from a single copy of any three qubit $W$ class pure state.

id: 1007.3211
title: Complete Characterization of Pure Quantum Measurements and Quantum Channels
authors: Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: 5 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 085304 (12pp) IOP Select
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3211
abstract: We give a complete characterization for pure quantum measurements, i.e., for POVMs which are extremals in the convex set of all POVMs. Such measurements are free from classical noise. The characterization is valid both in discrete and continuous cases, and also in the case of an infinite Hilbert space. We show that sharp measurements are clean, i.e. they cannot be irreversibly connected to another POVMs via quantum channels and thus they are free from any additional quantum noise. We exhibit an example which demonstrates that this result could also be approximately true for pure measurements.

id: 1007.3215
title: A Quantum Pulse Gate based on Spectrally Engineered Sum Frequency Generation
authors: Andreas Eckstein, Benjamin Brecht, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 15, pp. 13770-13778 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3215
abstract: We introduce the concept of a quantum pulse gate (QPG), a method for accessing the intrinsic broadband spectral mode structure of ultrafast quantum states of light. This mode structure can now be harnessed for applications in quantum information processing. We propose an implementation in a PPLN waveguide, based on spectrally engineered sum frequency generation (SFG). It allows us to pick well-defined spectral broadband modes from an ultrafast multi-mode state for interconversion to a broadband mode at another frequency. By pulse-shaping the bright SFG pump beam, different orthogonal broadband modes can be addressed individually and extracted with near unit efficiency.

id: 1007.3242
title: Photonic circuits for generating modal, spectral, and polarization entanglement
authors: Mohammed F. Saleh, Giovanni Di Giuseppe, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin Carl Teich
comments: 
journal: Photonics Journal, IEEE 2, 736-752, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3242
abstract: We consider the design of photonic circuits that make use of Ti:LiNbO$_{3}$ diffused channel waveguides for generating photons with various combinations of modal, spectral, and polarization entanglement. Down-converted photon pairs are generated via spontaneous optical parametric down-conversion (SPDC) in a two-mode waveguide. We study a class of photonic circuits comprising: 1) a nonlinear periodically poled two-mode waveguide structure, 2) a set of single-mode and two-mode waveguide-based couplers arranged in such a way that they suitably separate the three photons comprising the SPDC process, and, for some applications, 3) a holographic Bragg grating that acts as a dichroic reflector. The first circuit produces frequency-degenerate down-converted photons, each with even spatial parity, in two separate single-mode waveguides. Changing the parameters of the elements allows this same circuit to produce two nondegenerate down-converted photons that are entangled in frequency or simultaneously entangled in frequency and polarization. The second photonic circuit is designed to produce modal entanglement by distinguishing the photons on the basis of their frequencies. A modified version of this circuit can be used to generate photons that are doubly entangled in mode number and polarization. The third photonic circuit is designed to manage dispersion by converting modal, spectral, and polarization entanglement into path entanglement.

id: 1007.3256
title: Modal and Polarization Qubits in Ti:LiNbO$_3$ Photonic Circuits for a Universal Quantum Logic Gate
authors: Mohammed F. Saleh, Giovanni Di Giuseppe, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin Carl Teich
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 18, Issue 19, pp. 20475-20490 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3256
abstract: Lithium niobate photonic circuits have the salutary property of permitting the generation, transmission, and processing of photons to be accommodated on a single chip. Compact photonic circuits such as these, with multiple components integrated on a single chip, are crucial for efficiently implementing quantum information processing schemes. We present a set of basic transformations that are useful for manipulating modal qubits in Ti:LiNbO$_3$ photonic quantum circuits. These include the mode analyzer, a device that separates the even and odd components of a state into two separate spatial paths; the mode rotator, which rotates the state by an angle in mode space; and modal Pauli spin operators that effect related operations. We also describe the design of a deterministic, two-qubit, single-photon, CNOT gate, a key element in certain sets of universal quantum logic gates. It is implemented as a Ti:LiNbO$_3$ photonic quantum circuit in which the polarization and mode number of a single photon serve as the control and target qubits, respectively. It is shown that the effects of dispersion in the CNOT circuit can be mitigated by augmenting it with an additional path. The performance of all of these components are confirmed by numerical simulations. The implementation of these transformations relies on selective and controllable power coupling among single- and two-mode waveguides, as well as the polarization sensitivity of the Pockels coefficients in LiNbO$_3$.

id: 1007.3258
title: A counter-example to the quantum interest conjecture
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Added two new sections. 18 pages
journal: Applied Physics Research. Vol. 4, No. 2; (2012) 124-135
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3258
abstract: According to the quantum interest conjecture any negative energy pulse must be associated with a positive energy pulse of greater magnitude than that of the negative energy pulse. In this paper we will demonstrate a counter-example to this conjecture. We will show that, for a massless scalar field in 1-1D space-time, it is possible to generate an "isolated" negative energy pulse.

id: 1007.3273
title: Photon sorters and QND detectors using single photon emitters
authors: D. Witthaut, M. D. Lukin, A. S. S?rensen
comments: revised and enlarged version, 6+ pages, 5 figures
journal: EPL 97, 50007 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3273
abstract: We discuss a new method for realizing number-resolving and non-demolition photo detectors by strong coupling of light to individual single photon emitters, which act as strong optical non-linearities. As a specific application we show how these elements can be integrated into an error-proof Bell state analyzer, whose efficiency exceeds the best possible performance with linear optics even for a modest atom-field coupling. The methods are error-proof in the sense that every detection event unambiguously projects the photon state onto a Fock or Bell state.

id: 1007.3294
title: Testing quantum adiabaticity with quench echo
authors: H. T. Quan, W. H. Zurek
comments: This is a new version. Some typos in the New Journal of Physics version have been corrected
journal: New Journal of Physics, 12 (2010) 093025
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3294
abstract: Adiabaticity of quantum evolution is important in many settings. One example is the adiabatic quantum computation. Nevertheless, up to now, there is no effective method to test the adiabaticity of the evolution when the eigenenergies of the driven Hamiltonian are not known. We propose a simple method to check adiabaticity of a quantum process for an arbitrary quantum system. We further propose a operational method for finding a uniformly adiabatic quench scheme based on Kibble-Zurek mechanism for the case when the initial and the final Hamiltonians are given. This method should help in implementing adiabatic quantum computation.

id: 1007.3331
title: Entanglement redistribution in the Schwarzschild spacetime
authors: Jieci Wang, Qiyuan Pan, Jiliang Jing
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures; Submit to PLB on Aug 29, 2009
journal: Phys. Lett. B 692, (2010) 202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3331
abstract: The effect of Hawking radiation on the redistribution of the entanglement and mutual information in the Schwarzschild spacetime is investigated. Our analysis shows that the physically accessible correlations degrade while the unaccessible correlations increase as the Hawking temperature increases because the initial correlations described by inertial observers are redistributed between all the bipartite modes. It is interesting to note that, in the limit case that the temperature tends to infinity, the accessible mutual information equals to just half of its initial value, and the unaccessible mutual information between mode $A$ and $II$ also equals to the same value.

id: 1007.3335
title: Pseudorandom Selective Excitation in NMR
authors: Jamie D. Walls, Alexandra Coomes
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3335
abstract: In this work, average Hamiltonian theory is used to study selective excitation in a spin-1/2 system evolving under a series of small flip-angle $\theta-$pulses $(\theta\ll 1)$ that are applied either periodically [which corresponds to the DANTE pulse sequence] or aperiodically. First, an average Hamiltonian description of the DANTE pulse sequence is developed; such a description is determined to be valid either at or very far from the DANTE resonance frequencies, which are simply integer multiples of the inverse of the interpulse delay. For aperiodic excitation schemes where the interpulse delays are chosen pseudorandomly, a single resonance can be selectively excited if the $\theta$-pulses' phases are modulated in concert with the time delays. Such a selective pulse is termed a pseudorandom-DANTE or p-DANTE sequence, and the conditions in which an average Hamiltonian description of p-DANTE is found to be similar to that found for the DANTE sequence. It is also shown that averaging over different p-DANTE sequences that are selective for the same resonance can help reduce excitations at frequencies away from the resonance frequency, thereby improving the apparent selectivity of the p-DANTE sequences. Finally, experimental demonstrations of p-DANTE sequences and comparisons with theory are presented.

id: 1007.3380
title: Reflectance measurement of two-dimensional photonic crystal nanocavities with embedded quantum dots
authors: Wolfgang C. Stumpf, Takashi Asano, Takanori Kojima, Masayuki Fujita, Yoshinori Tanaka, Susumu Noda
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures, corrected+full version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 075119 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3380
abstract: The spectra of two-dimensional photonic crystal slab nanocavities with embedded InAs quantum dots are measured by photoluminescence and reflectance. In comparing the spectra taken by these two different methods, consistency with the nanocavities' resonant wavelengths is found. Furthermore, it is shown that the reflectance method can measure both active and passive cavities. Q-factors of nanocavities, whose resonant wavelengths range from 1280 to 1620 nm, are measured by the reflectance method in cross polarization. Experimentally, Q-factors decrease for longer wavelengths and the intensity, reflected by the nanocavities on resonance, becomes minimal around 1370 nm. The trend of the Q-factors is explained by the change of the slab thickness relative to the resonant wavelength, showing a good agreement between theory and experiment. The trend of reflected intensity by the nanocavities on resonance can be understood as effects that originate from the PC slab and the underlying air cladding thickness. In addition to three dimensional finite-difference time-domain calculations, an analytical model is introduced that is able to reproduce the wavelength dependence of the reflected intensity observed in the experiment.

id: 1007.3388
title: Multipartite quantum systems and symplectic toric manifolds
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 12 pages
journal: Quant.Inf.Proc.10:257-269,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3388
abstract: In this paper we study the geometrical structures of multi-qubit states based on symplectic toric manifolds. After a short review of symplectic toric manifolds, we discuss the space of a single quantum state in terms of these manifolds. We also investigate entangled multipartite states based on moment map and Delzant's construction of toric manifolds and algebraic toric varieties.

id: 1007.3391
title: Quantum memory for light via stimulated off-resonant Raman process: beyond the three-level Lambda-scheme approximation
authors: Alexandra S. Sheremet, Leonid V. Gerasimov, Igor M. Sokolov, Dmitriy V. Kupriyanov, Oxana S. Mishina, Elisabeth Giacobino, Julien Laurat
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033838 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3391
abstract: We consider a quantum memory scheme based on the conversion of a signal pulse into a long-lived spin coherence via stimulated off-resonant Raman process. For a storing medium consisting of alkali atoms, we have calculated the Autler-Townes resonance structure created by a strong control field. By taking into account the upper hyperfine states of the D1 optical transition, we show important deviations from the predictions of the usual three-level Lambda-scheme approximation and we demonstrate an enhancement of the process for particular detunings of the control. We estimate the memory efficiency one can obtain using this configuration.

id: 1007.3434
title: Temporal-mode continuous-variable cluster states using linear optics
authors: Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: 9 pages, 19 color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062314 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3434
abstract: I present an extensible experimental design for optical continuous-variable cluster states of arbitrary size using four offline (vacuum) squeezers and six beamsplitters. This method has all the advantages of a temporal-mode encoding [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 250503], including finite requirements for coherence and stability even as the computation length increases indefinitely, with none of the difficulty of inline squeezing. The extensibility stems from a construction based on Gaussian projected entangled pair states (GPEPS). The potential for use of this design within a fully fault tolerant model is discussed.

id: 1007.3455
title: Generalised state spaces and non-locality in fault tolerant quantum computing schemes
authors: N. Ratanje, S. Virmani
comments: V2: 18 sides, 7 figures. Corrected two erroneous claims and one erroneous argument
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032309 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3455
abstract: We develop connections between generalised notions of entanglement and quantum computational devices where the measurements available are restricted, either because they are noisy and/or because by design they are only along Pauli directions. By considering restricted measurements one can (by considering the dual positive operators) construct single particle state spaces that are different to the usual quantum state space. This leads to a modified notion of entanglement that can be very different to the quantum version (for example, Bell states can become separable). We use this approach to develop alternative methods of classical simulation that have strong connections to the study of non-local correlations: we construct noisy quantum computers that admit operations outside the Clifford set and can generate some forms of multiparty quantum entanglement, but are otherwise classical in that they can be efficiently simulated classically and cannot generate non-local statistics. Although the approach provides new regimes of noisy quantum evolution that can be efficiently simulated classically, it does not appear to lead to significant reductions of existing upper bounds to fault tolerance thresholds for common noise models.

id: 1007.3542
title: Optimum electrode configurations for fast ion separation in microfabricated surface ion traps
authors: Altaf H. Nizamani, Winfried K. Hensinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3542
abstract: For many quantum information implementations with trapped ions, effective shuttling operations are important. Here we discuss the efficient separation and recombination of ions in surface ion trap geometries. The maximum speed of separation and recombination of trapped ions for adiabatic shuttling operations depends on the secular frequencies the trapped ion experiences in the process. Higher secular frequencies during the transportation processes can be achieved by optimising trap geometries. We show how two different arrangements of segmented static potential electrodes in surface ion traps can be optimised for fast ion separation or recombination processes. We also solve the equations of motion for the ion dynamics during the separation process and illustrate important considerations that need to be taken into account to make the process adiabatic.

id: 1007.3570
title: Efficient photon number detection with silicon avalanche photodiodes
authors: O. Thomas, Z. L. Yuan, J. F. Dynes, A. W. Sharpe, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Appl.Phys.Lett.97:031102,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3570
abstract: We demonstrate an efficient photon number detector for visible wavelengths using a silicon avalanche photodiode. Under subnanosecond gating, the device is able to resolve up to four photons in an incident optical pulse. The detection efficiency at 600 nm is measured to be 73.8%, corresponding to an avalanche probability of 91.1% of the absorbed photons, with a dark count probability below 1.1x10^{-6} per gate. With this performance and operation close to room temperature, fast-gated silicon avalanche photodiodes are ideal for optical quantum information processing that requires single-shot photon number detection.

id: 1007.3582
title: Noncommutative geometrical structures of entangled quantum states
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 7 pages
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 2011, Volume 50, Number 5, Pages 1486-1492
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3582
abstract: We study the noncommutative geometrical structures of quantum entangled states. We show that the space of a pure entangled state is a noncommutative space. In particular we show that by rewritten the conifold or the Segre variety we can get a $q$-deformed relation in noncommutative geometry. We generalized our construction into a multi-qubit state. We also in detail discuss the noncommutative geometrical structure of a three-qubit state.

id: 1007.3587
title: A new exponential separation between quantum and classical one-way communication complexity
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 19 pages; v3: improved results and some bug fixes
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, vol. 11 no. 7&8, pp. 574-591, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3587
abstract: We present a new example of a partial boolean function whose one-way quantum communication complexity is exponentially lower than its one-way classical communication complexity. The problem is a natural generalisation of the previously studied Subgroup Membership problem: Alice receives a bit string x, Bob receives a permutation matrix M, and their task is to determine whether Mx=x or Mx is far from x. The proof uses Fourier analysis and an inequality of Kahn, Kalai and Linial.

id: 1007.3601
title: Strategic Insights From Playing the Quantum Tic-Tac-Toe
authors: J. N. Leaw, S. A. Cheong
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures, and 3 tables. LaTeX 2e using iopart class, and braket, color, graphicx, multirow, subfig, url packages
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, vol. 43, no. 45, 455304, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Portfolio Management (q-fin.PM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3601
abstract: In this paper, we perform a minimalistic quantization of the classical game of tic-tac-toe, by allowing superpositions of classical moves. In order for the quantum game to reduce properly to the classical game, we require legal quantum moves to be orthogonal to all previous moves. We also admit interference effects, by squaring the sum of amplitudes over all moves by a player to compute his or her occupation level of a given site. A player wins when the sums of occupations along any of the eight straight lines we can draw in the $3 \times 3$ grid is greater than three. We play the quantum tic-tac-toe first randomly, and then deterministically, to explore the impact different opening moves, end games, and different combinations of offensive and defensive strategies have on the outcome of the game. In contrast to the classical tic-tac-toe, the deterministic quantum game does not always end in a draw. In contrast also to most classical two-player games of no chance, it is possible for Player 2 to win. More interestingly, we find that Player 1 enjoys an overwhelming quantum advantage when he opens with a quantum move, but loses this advantage when he opens with a classical move. We also find the quantum blocking move, which consists of a weighted superposition of moves that the opponent could use to win the game, to be very effective in denying the opponent his or her victory. We then speculate what implications these results might have on quantum information transfer and portfolio optimization.

id: 1007.3603
title: Extension of Nelson's Stochastic Quantization to Finite Temperature Using Thermo Field Dynamics
authors: Keita Kobayashi, Yoshiya Yamanaka
comments: 9 page, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3603
abstract: We present an extension of Nelson's stochastic quantum mechanics to finite temperature. Utilizing the formulation of Thermo Field Dynamics (TFD), we can show that Ito's stochastic equations for tilde and non-tilde particle positions reproduce the TFD-type Schr\"odinger equation which is equivalent to the Liouville-von Neumann equation. In our formalism, the drift terms in the Ito's stochastic equation have the temperature dependence and the thermal fluctuation is induced through the correlation of the non-tilde and tilde particles. We show that our formalism satisfy the position-momentum uncertainty relation at finite temperature.

id: 1007.3635
title: An overview on Single Apparatus Quantum Measurements
authors: Bahar Mehmani, Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 11 pages, to be appear in journal of computational and theoretical nanoscience
journal: Journal of computational and theoretical nanoscience 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3635
abstract: Given the state of a quantum system, one can calculate the expectation value of any observable of the system. However, the inverse problem of determining the state by performing different measurements is not a trivial task. In various experimental setups it is reasonably straightforward to reconstruct the state of a quantum system employing linear tomographic technique. In this way the elements of the density matrix can be linearly related to a set of measured quantities. But since different observables of a quantum system are not commuting with each other, one often has to perform series of successive measurements of observables which cannot be done simultaneously. Simultaneous measurement of observables cost less time and energy and is more beneficial. In this paper we review the strategy of quantum state tomography with simultaneous measurement of commuting observables. This can be done by introducing an assistant system of which the state is known. We show that the interaction between the assistant and the system of interest within different frame works allows the reconstruction of the state of the system. Specifically, we consider a two-level system and reconstruct its initial state by introducing an assistant which can be either another two-level system or a single cavity mode of the electromagnetic field.

id: 1007.3650
title: Memory cost of quantum contextuality
authors: Matthias Kleinmann, Otfried G¨¹hne, Jos¨¦ R. Portillo, Jan-?ke Larsson, Ad¨¢n Cabello
comments: 18 pages, no figures, v2: revised for clarity
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 113011 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3650
abstract: The simulation of quantum effects requires certain classical resources, and quantifying them is an important step in order to characterize the difference between quantum and classical physics. For a simulation of the phenomenon of state-independent quantum contextuality, we show that the minimal amount of memory used by the simulation is the critical resource. We derive optimal simulation strategies for important cases and prove that reproducing the results of sequential measurements on a two-qubit system requires more memory than the information carrying capacity of the system.

id: 1007.3655
title: Quantum error correction with degenerate codes for correlated noise
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Michele Dall'Arno, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Chiara Macchiavello, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 5 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052305 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3655
abstract: We introduce a quantum packing bound on the minimal resources required by nondegenerate error correction codes for any kind of noise. We prove that degenerate codes can outperform nondegenerate ones in the presence of correlated noise, by exhibiting examples where the quantum packing bound is violated.

id: 1007.3683
title: Quantum simulation of the Klein paradox with trapped ions
authors: R. Gerritsma, B. Lanyon, G. Kirchmair, F. Z?hringer, C. Hempel, J. Casanova, J. J. Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, E. Solano, R. Blatt, C. F. Roos
comments: 3 figures, accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:060503,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3683
abstract: We report on quantum simulations of relativistic scattering dynamics using trapped ions. The simulated state of a scattering particle is encoded in both the electronic and vibrational state of an ion, representing the discrete and continuous components of relativistic wave functions. Multiple laser fields and an auxiliary ion simulate the dynamics generated by the Dirac equation in the presence of a scattering potential. Measurement and reconstruction of the particle wave packet enables a frame-by-frame visualization of the scattering processes. By precisely engineering a range of external potentials we are able to simulate text book relativistic scattering experiments and study Klein tunneling in an analogue quantum simulator. We describe extensions to solve problems that are beyond current classical computing capabilities.

id: 1007.3724
title: Not throwing out the baby with the bathwater: Bell's condition of local causality mathematically 'sharp and clean'
authors: M.P. Seevinck, J. Uffink
comments: 14 pages. To be published in PSE volume "Explanation, Prediction, and Confirmation", edited by Dieks, et al
journal: The Philosophy of Science in a European Perspective, 2011, Volume 2, Part 4, 425-450
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3724
abstract: The starting point of the present paper is Bell's notion of local causality and his own sharpening of it so as to provide for mathematical formalisation. Starting with Norsen's (2007, 2009) analysis of this formalisation, it is subjected to a critique that reveals two crucial aspects that have so far not been properly taken into account. These are (i) the correct understanding of the notions of sufficiency, completeness and redundancy involved; and (ii) the fact that the apparatus settings and measurement outcomes have very different theoretical roles in the candidate theories under study. Both aspects are not adequately incorporated in the standard formalisation, and we will therefore do so. The upshot of our analysis is a more detailed, sharp and clean mathematical expression of the condition of local causality. A preliminary analysis of the repercussions of our proposal shows that it is able to locate exactly where and how the notions of locality and causality are involved in formalising Bell's condition of local causality.

id: 1007.3788
title: Comment on "A special attack on the multiparty quantum secret sharing of secure direct communication using single photons"
authors: Cheng-An Yen, Shi-Jinn Horng, Hsi-Sheng Goan*, Tzong-Wann Kao
comments: 2 pages (two-column)
journal: Optics Communications 283 (2010) 3202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3788
abstract: In this comment, we show that the special attack [S.-J. Qin, F. Gao, Q.-Y. Wen, F.-C. Zhu, Opt. Commun. 281 (2008) 5472.], which claims to be able to obtain all the transmitted secret message bit values of the protocol of the multiparty quantum secret sharing of secure direct communication using single photons with random phase shift operations, fails. Furthermore, a class of similar attacks are also shown to fail to extract the secrete message.

id: 1007.3791
title: Non-Markovian finite-temperature two-time correlation functions of system operators of a pure-dephasing model
authors: Hsi-Sheng Goan, Chung-Chin Jian, Po-Wen Chen
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012111 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3791
abstract: We evaluate the non-Markovian finite-temperature two-time correlation functions (CF's) of system operators of a pure-dephasing spin-boson model in two different ways, one by the direct exact operator technique and the other by the recently derived evolution equations, valid to second order in the system-environment interaction Hamiltonian. This pure-dephasing spin-boson model that is exactly solvable has been extensively studied as a simple decoherence model. However, its exact non-Markovian finite-temperature two-time system operator CF's, to our knowledge, have not been presented in the literature. This may be mainly due to the fact, illustrated in this article, that in contrast to the Markovian case, the time evolution of the reduced density matrix of the system (or the reduced quantum master equation) alone is not sufficient to calculate the two-time system operator CF's of non-Markovian open systems. The two-time CF's obtained using the recently derived evolution equations in the weak system-environment coupling case for this non-Markovian pure-dephasing model happen to be the same as those obtained from the exact evaluation. However, these results significantly differ from the non-Markovian two-time CF's obtained by wrongly directly applying the quantum regression theorem (QRT), a useful procedure to calculate the two-time CF's for weak-coupling Markovian open systems. This demonstrates clearly that the recently derived evolution equations generalize correctly the QRT to non-Markovian finite-temperature cases. It is believed that these evolution equations will have applications in many different branches of physics.

id: 1007.3792
title: Decoherence-free subspace and disentanglement dynamics for two qubits in a common non-Markovian squeezed reservoir
authors: Md. Manirul Ali, Po-Wen Chen, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A (8 pages)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3792
abstract: We study the non-Markovian entanglement dynamics of two qubits in a common squeezed bath. We see remarkable difference between the non-Markovian entanglement dynamics with its Markovian counterpart. We show that a non-Markovian decoherence free state is also decoherence free in the Markovian regime, but all the Markovian decoherence free states are not necessarily decoherence free in the non-Markovian domain. We extend our calculation from squeezed vacuum bath to squeezed thermal bath, where we see the effect of finite bath temperatures on the entanglement dynamics.

id: 1007.3814
title: MuSR method and tomographic probability representation of spin states
authors: Yu. M. Belousov, S. N. Filippov, V. N. Gorelkin, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures, LaTeX, submitted to Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 31 (2010) 421-442
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3814
abstract: Muon spin rotation/relaxation/resonance (MuSR) technique for studying matter structures is considered by means of a recently introduced probability representation of quantum spin states. A relation between experimental MuSR histograms and muon spin tomograms is established. Time evolution of muonium, anomalous muonium, and a muonium-like system is studied in the tomographic representation. Entanglement phenomenon of a bipartite muon-electron system is investigated via tomographic analogues of Bell number and positive partial transpose (PPT) criterion. Reconstruction of the muon-electron spin state as well as the total spin tomography of composed system is discussed.

id: 1007.3822
title: Quantum entangled state, resolution of conifold singularity, and toric variety
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: ICQNM 2011 Proceedings, Editor Privman, V., 113 (1 Vol), Curran Associates, Inc. ( Apr 2012 ), p 23
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3822
abstract: We investigate the geometrical and combinatorial structures of multipartite quantum systems based on conifold and toric variety. In particular, we study the relations between resolution of conifold, toric variety, a separable state, and a quantum entangled state for bipartite and multi-qubit states. For example we show that the resolved or deformed conifold is equivalent with the space of a pure entangled two-qubit state. We also generalize this result into multi-qubit states.

id: 1007.3825
title: Stationary entanglement in N-atom subradiant degenerate cascade systems
authors: Massimo Borrelli, Nicola Piovella, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013621 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3825
abstract: We address ultracold $N$-atom degenerate cascade systems and show that stationary subradiant states, already observed in the semiclassical regime, also exist in a fully quantum regime and for a small number of atoms. We explicitly evaluate the amount of stationary entanglement for the two-atom configuration and show full inseparability for the three-atom case. We also show that a continuous variable description of the systems is not suitable to detect entanglement due to the nonGaussianity of subradiant states.

id: 1007.3838
title: Probability and complex quantum trajectories: Finding the missing links
authors: Moncy V. John
comments: To appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals Phys.325:2132-2139,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3838
abstract: It is shown that a normalisable probability density can be defined for the entire complex plane in the modified de Broglie-Bohm quantum mechanics, which gives complex quantum trajectories. This work is in continuation of a previous one that defined a conserved probability for most of the regions in the complex space in terms of a trajectory integral, indicating a dynamical origin of quantum probability. There it was also shown that the quantum trajectories obtained are the same characteristic curves that propagate information about the conserved probability density. Though the probability density we now adopt for those regions left out in the previous work is not conserved locally, the net source of probability for such regions is seen to be zero in the example considered, allowing to make the total probability conserved. The new combined probability density agrees with the Born's probability everywhere on the real line, as required. A major fall out of the present scheme is that it explains why in the classical limit the imaginary parts of trajectories are not observed even indirectly and particles are confined close to the real line.

id: 1007.3842
title: Complex Trajectories and Dynamical Origin of Quantum Probability
authors: Moncy V. John
comments: Presented in the Quantum Trajectories Workshop CCP6 QT10, Bangor University, Wales, UK, 12-14 July 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3842
abstract: Complex quantum trajectories, which were first obtained from a modified de Broglie-Bohm quantum mechanics, demonstrate that Born's probability axiom in quantum mechanics originates from dynamics itself. We show that a normalisable probability density can be defined for the entire complex plane, though there may be regions where the probability is not locally conserved. Examining this for some simple examples such as the harmonic oscillator, we also find why there is no appreciable complex extended motion in the classical regime.

id: 1007.3876
title: Semi-classical behavior of P?schl-Teller coherent states
authors: H. Bergeron, J.-P. Gazeau, P. Siegl, A. Youssef
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, 1 animation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3876
abstract: We present a construction of semi-classical states for P\"oschl-Teller potentials based on a supersymmetric quantum mechanics approach. The parameters of these "coherent" states are points in the classical phase space of these systems. They minimize a special uncertainty relation. Like standard coherent states they resolve the identity with a uniform measure. They permit to establish the correspondence (quantization) between classical and quantum quantities. Finally, their time evolution is localized on the classical phase space trajectory.

id: 1007.3911
title: Observer-based quantum state estimation by continuous weak measurement
authors: Zaki Leghtas, Mazyar Mirrahimi, Pierre Rouchon
comments: 
journal: American Control Conference (ACC), 2011, pages 4334-4339
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3911
abstract: We propose to apply the Back and Forth Nudging (BFN) method used for geophysical data assimilations to estimate the initial state of a quantum system. We consider a cloud of atoms interacting with a magnetic field while a single observable is being continuously measured over time using homodyne detection. The BFN method relies on designing an observer forward and backwards in time. The state of the BFN observer is continuously updated by the measured data and tends to converge to the systems state. The proposed estimator seems to be globally asymptotically convergent when the system is observable. A detailed convergence proof and simulations are given in the 2-level case. A discussion on the extension of the algorithm to the multilevel case is also presented.

id: 1007.3920
title: Symmetric states: local unitary equivalence via stabilizers
authors: Curt D. Cenci, David W. Lyons, Laura M. Snyder, Scott N. Walck
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, version 2 has added references, minor corrections
journal: Quantum.Inform.Compu. 10, 1029-1041 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3920
abstract: We classify local unitary equivalence classes of symmetric states via a classification of their local unitary stabilizer subgroups. For states whose local unitary stabilizer groups have a positive number of continuous degrees of freedom, the classification is exhaustive. We show that local unitary stabilizer groups with no continuous degrees of freedom are isomorphic to finite subgroups of the rotation group SO(3), and give examples of states with discrete stabilizers.

id: 1007.3957
title: Strong and weak thermalization of infinite non-integrable quantum systems
authors: Mari Carmen Ba?uls, J. Ignacio Cirac, Matthew B. Hastings
comments: 12 pages, 21 figures, including additional material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 050405 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3957
abstract: When a non-integrable system evolves out of equilibrium for a long time, local observables are expected to attain stationary expectation values, independent of the details of the initial state. However, intriguing experimental results with ultracold gases have shown no thermalization in non-integrable settings, triggering an intense theoretical effort to decide the question. Here we show that the phenomenology of thermalization in a quantum system is much richer than its classical counterpart. Using a new numerical technique, we identify two distinct thermalization regimes, strong and weak, occurring for different initial states. Strong thermalization, intrinsically quantum, happens when instantaneous local expectation values converge to the thermal ones. Weak thermalization, well-known in classical systems, happens when local expectation values converge to the thermal ones only after time averaging. Remarkably, we find a third group of states showing no thermalization, neither strong nor weak, to the time scales one can reliably simulate.

id: 1007.3977
title: Demystifying the Delayed Choice Experiments
authors: Bram Gaasbeek
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3977
abstract: The delayed choice experiments are a collection of experiments where the counterintuitive laws of quantum mechanics are manifested in a very striking way. Although the delayed choice experiments can be very accurately described with the standard framework of quantum optics, a more didactical and intuitive explanation seems not to have been given so far. In this note, we fill that gap.

id: 1007.3983
title: Diffraction limit of the sub-Planck structures
authors: Raman Sharma, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure This paper has been withdrawn as another copy of the same is available at arXiv:1008.0630
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3983
abstract: The orthogonality of cat and displaced cat states, underlying Heisenberg limited measurement in quantum metrology, is studied in the limit of large number of states. The asymptotic expression for the corresponding state overlap function, controlled by the sub-Planck structures arising from phase space interference, is obtained exactly. For large number of coherent states, uniformly located on a circle, it identically matches with the diffraction pattern for a circular ring with uniform angular source strength. This is in accordence with the van Cittert-Zernike theorem, where the overlap function, similar to the mutual coherence function matches with a diffraction pattern. Interestingly, the convergence to asymptotic limit is quite rapid, reminiscent of the convergence of superposed incoherent sources.

id: 1007.4010
title: Versatile ytterbium ion trap experiment for operation of scalable ion trap chips with motional heating and transition frequency measurements
authors: James J. McLoughlin, Altaf H. Nizamani, James D. Siverns, Robin C. Sterling, Marcus D. Hughes, Bjoern Lekitsch, Bj?rn Stein, Seb Weidt, Winfried K. Hensinger
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 83, 013406 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4010
abstract: We present the design and operation of an ytterbium ion trap experiment with a setup offering versatile optical access and 90 electrical inter-connects that can host advanced surface and multi-layer ion trap chips mounted on chip carriers. We operate a macroscopic ion trap compatible with this chip carrier design and characterise its performance, demonstrating secular frequencies >1 MHz, and trap and cool nearly all of the stable isotopes, including 171Yb+ ions, as well as ion crystals. For this particular tap we measure the motional heating rate, <n-dot>, and observe a <n-dot> proportional to 1/omega^2 behaviour for different secular frequencies, omega. We also determine a spectral noise density S_E(1 MHz) = 3.6(9)x10^-11 V^2 m^-2 Hz^-1 at an ion electrode spacing of 310(10) mu m. We describe the experimental setup for trapping and cooling Yb+ ions and provide frequency measurements of the 2S_1/2 - 2P_1/2 and 2D_3/2 - 3D[3/2]_1/2 transitions for the stable 170Yb+, 171Yb+, 172Yb+, 174Yb+ and 176Yb+ isotopes which are more precise than previously published work.

id: 1007.4035
title: Entangling moving cavities in non-inertial frames
authors: T. G. Downes, I. Fuentes, T. C. Ralph
comments: Minor changes. Journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106:210502,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4035
abstract: An open question in the field of relativistic quantum information is how parties in arbitrary motion may distribute and store quantum entanglement. We propose a scheme for storing quantum information in the field modes of cavities moving in flat space-time and analyze it in a quantum field theoretical framework. In contrast to previous work that found entanglement degradation between observers moving with uniform acceleration, we find the quantum information in such systems is protected. We further discuss a method for establishing the entanglement in the first place and show that in principle it is always possible to produce maximally entangled states between the cavities.

id: 1007.4038
title: Robust Mesoscopic Superposition of Strongly Correlated Ultracold Atoms
authors: David W. Hallwood, Thomas Ernst, Joachim Brand
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, extended version includes computational details, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063623 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4038
abstract: We propose a scheme to create coherent superpositions of annular flow of strongly-interacting bosonic atoms in a 1D ring trap. The non-rotating ground state is coupled to a vortex state with mesoscopic angular momentum by means of a narrow potential barrier and an applied phase that originates from either rotation or a synthetic magnetic field. We show that superposition states in the Tonks-Girardeau regime are robust against single-particle loss due to the effects of strong correlations. The coupling between the mesoscopically distinct states scales much more favorably with particle number than in schemes relying on weak interactions, thus making particle numbers of hundreds or thousands feasible. Coherent oscillations induced by time variation of parameters may serve as a 'smoking gun' signature for detecting superposition states.

id: 1007.4080
title: Collisional decoherence of a tracer particle moving in one dimension
authors: Ingo Kamleitner
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052104 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4080
abstract: We study decoherence of the external degree of freedom of a tracer particle moving in a one dimensional dilute Boltzmann gas. We find that phase averaging is the dominant decoherence effect, rather than information exchange between tracer and gas particles. While a coherent superposition of two wave packets with different mean positions quickly turns into a mixed state, it is demonstrated that such superpositions of different momenta are robust to phase averaging, until the two wave packets acquire a different position due to the different velocity of each wave packet.

id: 1007.4128
title: Quantum Communication Technology
authors: Nicolas Gisin, Rob Thew
comments: 
journal: Electronics Letters 46, 965-967 (2010), Invited Insight Letter
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4128
abstract: Quantum communication is built on a set of disruptive concepts and technologies. It is driven by fascinating physics and by promising applications. It requires a new mix of competencies, from telecom engineering to theoretical physics, from theoretical computer science to mechanical and electronic engineering. First applications have already found their way to niche markets and university labs are working on futuristic quantum networks, but most of the surprises are still ahead of us. Quantum communication, and more generally quantum information science and technologies, are here to stay and will have a profound impact on the XXI century.

id: 1007.4136
title: Even-Odd Effects of Heisenberg Chains on Long-range Interaction and Entanglement
authors: Sangchul Oh, Mark Friesen, Xuedong Hu
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 140403(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4136
abstract: A strongly coupled Heisenberg chain provides an important channel for quantum communication through its many-body ground state. Yet, the nature of the effective interactions and the ability to mediate long-range entanglement differs significantly for chains of opposite parity. Here, we contrast the characters of even and odd-size chains when they are coupled to external qubits. Additional parity effects emerge in both cases, depending on the positions of the attached qubits. Some striking results include (i) the emergence of maximal entanglement and (ii) Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interactions for qubits attached to an even chain, and (iii) the ability of chains of either parity to mediate qubit entanglement that is undiminished by distance.

id: 1007.4176
title: Parity Detection in Quantum Optical Metrology Without Number Resolving Detectors
authors: William N. Plick, Petr M. Anisimov, Jonathan P. Dowling, Hwang Lee, Girish S. Agarwal
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: New Journal of Physics 12, 113025 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4176
abstract: We present a method of directly obtaining the parity of a Gaussian state of light without recourse to photon-number counting. The scheme uses only a simple balanced homodyne technique, and intensity correlation. Thus interferometric schemes utilizing coherent or squeezed light, and parity detection may be practically implemented for an arbitrary photon flux. Specifically we investigate a two-mode, squeezed-light, Mach-Zehnder interferometer and show how the parity of the output state may be obtained. We also show that the detection may be described independent of the parity operator, and that this "parity-by-proxy" measurement has the same signal as traditional parity.

id: 1007.4179
title: Multipartite entanglement in quantum algorithms
authors: D. Bru?, C. Macchiavello
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052313 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4179
abstract: We investigate the entanglement features of the quantum states employed in quantum algorithms. In particular, we analyse the multipartite entanglement properties in the Deutsch-Jozsa, Grover and Simon algorithms. Our results show that for these algorithms most instances involve multipartite entanglement.

id: 1007.4184
title: An Introductory Course on Quantum Mechanics
authors: Bram Gaasbeek
comments: 204 pages, 65 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4184
abstract: This is a very gentle introductory course on quantum mechanics aimed at the first years of the undergraduate level. The basic concepts are introduced, with many applications and illustrations. Contains 12 short chapters of equal length, ideal for a one term course. The license allows reuse of figures and text under the Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike conditions.

id: 1007.4193
title: Ruling Out Multi-Order Interference in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Urbasi Sinha, Christophe Couteau, Thomas Jennewein, Raymond Laflamme, Gregor Weihs
comments: 
journal: Science Vol 329 23rd July 2010 pg 418-421
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4193
abstract: Quantum mechanics and gravitation are two pillars of modern physics. Despite their success in describing the physical world around us, they seem to be incompatible theories. There are suggestions that one of these theories must be generalized to achieve unification. For example, Born's rule, one of the axioms of quantum mechanics could be violated. Born's rule predicts that quantum interference, as shown by a double slit diffraction experiment, occurs from pairs of paths. A generalized version of quantum mechanics might allow multi-path, i.e. higher order interferences thus leading to a deviation from the theory. We performed a three slit experiment with photons and bounded the magnitude of three path interference to less than 10-2 of the expected two-path interference, thus ruling out third and higher order interference and providing a bound on the accuracy of Born's rule. Our experiment is consistent with the postulate both in semi-classical and quantum regimes.

id: 1007.4272
title: The Generalized SIC-OEP formalism and the Generalized SIC-Slater approximation (stationary and time-dependent cases)
authors: J. Messud, P.M. Dinh, P.-G. Reinhard, E.~Suraud
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4272
abstract: We present a generalized formulation of the Optimized Effective Potential (OEP) approach to the Self Interaction Correction (SIC) problem in Time Dependent (TD) Density Functional Theory (DFT). The formulation relies on the introduction of a double set of single electron orbitals. It allows the derivation of a generalized Slater approximation to the full OEP formulation, which extends the domain of validity of the standard Slater approximation. We discuss both formal aspects and practical applications of the new formalism and give illustrations in cluster and molecules. The new formalism provides a valuable ansatz to more elaborate (and computationally very demanding) full TD OEP and full TD SIC calculations especially in the linear domain.

id: 1007.4276
title: Systematic Correction for "Demonstration of the Casimir Force in the 0.6 to 6 micrometer Range"
authors: S.K. Lamoreaux
comments: 8 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4276
abstract: A new systematic correction for Casimir force measurements is proposed and applied to the results of an experiment that was performed more than a decade ago. This correction brings the experimental results into good agreement with the Drude model of the metallic plates' permittivity. The systematic is due to time-dependent fluctuations in the distance between the plates caused by mechanical vibrations or tilt, or position measurement uncertainty, and is similar to the correction for plate roughness.

id: 1007.4281
title: EPR, Bell, and Quantum Locality
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Minor revisions to previous version
journal: Am. J. Phys. 79 (2011) 954-965
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4281
abstract: Maudlin has claimed that no local theory can reproduce the predictions of standard quantum mechanics that violate Bell's inequality for Bohm's version (two spin-half particles in a singlet state) of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen problem. It is argued that, on the contrary, standard quantum mechanics itself is a counterexample to Maudlin's claim, because it is local in the appropriate sense (measurements at one place do not influence what occurs elsewhere there) when formulated using consistent principles in place of the inconsistent appeals to "measurement" found in current textbooks. This argument sheds light on the claim of Blaylock that counterfactual definiteness is an essential ingredient in derivations of Bell's inequality.

id: 1007.4296
title: Quantum thermalization of two coupled two-level systems in eigenstate and bare-state representations
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, Jin-Feng Huang, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052110 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4296
abstract: We study analytically the quantum thermalization of two coupled two-level systems (TLSs), which are connected with either two independent heat baths (IHBs) or a common heat bath (CHB). We understand the quantum thermalization in eigenstate and bare-state representations when the coupling between the two TLSs is stronger and weaker than the TLS-bath couplings, respectively. In the IHB case, we find that when the two IHBs have the same temperatures, the two coupled TLSs in eigenstate representation can be thermalized with the same temperature as those of the IHBs. However, in the case of two IHBs at different temperatures, just when the energy detuning between the two TLSs satisfies a special condition, the two coupled TLSs in eigenstate representation can be thermalized with an immediate temperature between those of the two IHBs. In bare-state representation, we find a counterintuitive phenomenon that, under some conditions, the temperature of the TLS connected with the high-temperature bath is lower than that of the other TLS, which is connected with the low-temperature bath. In the CHB case, the coupled TLSs in eigenstate representation can be thermalized with the same temperature as that of the CHB in nonresonant cases. In bare-state representation, the TLS with a larger energy separation can be thermalized to a thermal equilibrium with a lower temperature. In the resonant case, we find a phenomenon of anti-thermalization. We also study the steady-state entanglement between the two TLSs in both the IHB and CHB cases.

id: 1007.4321
title: 'Which Multiverse?': Some FAQ
authors: M. Dugic, J. Jeknic-Dugic
comments: $ pages, no fuigures. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4321
abstract: Recently, we pointed out the possible inconsistency in the very foundations of the Everett MWI (or a Multiverse) theory. Here, we place some emphasis on the very basic notions underlying our conclusion yet motivated by certain, recently raised clever observations in this regard.

id: 1007.4338
title: A proposal for factorization using Kerr nonlinearities between three harmonic oscillators
authors: H. T. Ng, Franco Nori
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures; title changed, major revisions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4338
abstract: We propose an alternative method to factorize an integer by using three harmonic oscillators. These oscillators are coupled together via specific Kerr nonlinear interactions. This method can be applied even if two harmonic oscillators are prepared in mixed states. As simple examples, we show how to factorize N=15 and 35 using this approach. The effect of dissipation of the harmonic oscillators on the performance of this method is studied. We also study the realization of nonlinear interactions between the coupled oscillators. However, the probability of finding the factors of a number is inversely proportional to its input size. The probability becomes low when this number is large. We discuss the limitations of this approach.

id: 1007.4346
title: Arbitrary quantum state transfer under three parties participation
authors: Guo Yan-Qing, Zhang Ying-Hui
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4346
abstract: Arbitrary quantum state transfer(AQST) is discussed in a system that atoms are trapped in three separate cavities which are connected via optical fibers. Through three parties cooperation, the AQST can be selectively implemented deterministically. The target state can be transferred to any of the parties with 100 percent fidelity and $\frac{1}{2}$ success probability.

id: 1007.4355
title: Geometry and material effects in Casimir physics - Scattering theory
authors: Sahand Jamal Rahi, Thorsten Emig, Robert L. Jaffe
comments: 44 pages, 11 figures, to appear in upcoming Lecture Notes in Physics volume in Casimir physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4355
abstract: We give a comprehensive presentation of methods for calculating the Casimir force to arbitrary accuracy, for any number of objects, arbitrary shapes, susceptibility functions, and separations. The technique is applicable to objects immersed in media other than vacuum, to nonzero temperatures, and to spatial arrangements in which one object is enclosed in another. Our method combines each object's classical electromagnetic scattering amplitude with universal translation matrices, which convert between the bases used to calculate scattering for each object, but are otherwise independent of the details of the individual objects. This approach, which combines methods of statistical physics and scattering theory, is well suited to analyze many diverse phenomena. We illustrate its power and versatility by a number of examples, which show how the interplay of geometry and material properties helps to understand and control Casimir forces. We also examine whether electrodynamic Casimir forces can lead to stable levitation. Neglecting permeabilities, we prove that any equilibrium position of objects subject to such forces is unstable if the permittivities of all objects are higher or lower than that of the enveloping medium; the former being the generic case for ordinary materials in vacuum.

id: 1007.4358
title: Polarization entangled photon-pair source based on a type-II PPLN waveguide emitting at a telecom wavelength
authors: A. Martin, A. Issautier, H. Herrmann, W. Sohler, D. B. Ostrowsky, O. Alibart, S. Tanzilli
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 12 103005 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4358
abstract: We report the realization of a fiber coupled polarization entangled photon-pair source at 1310 nm based on a birefringent titanium in-diffused waveguide integrated on periodically poled lithium niobate. By taking advantage of a dedicated and high-performance setup, we characterized the quantum properties of the pairs by measuring two-photon interference in both Hong-Ou-Mandel and standard Bell inequality configurations. We obtained, for the two sets of measurements, interference net visibilities reaching nearly 100%, which represent important and competitive results compared to similar waveguide-based configurations already reported. These results prove the relevance of our approach as an enabling technology for long-distance quantum communication.

id: 1007.4388
title: The Probabilistic Model of Keys Generation of QKD Systems
authors: Dmitry Golubchikov, Konstantin Rumiantsev
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4388
abstract: The probabilistic model of keys generation of QKD systems is proposed. The model includes all phases of keys generation starting from photons generation to states detection taking characteristics of fiber-optics components into account. The paper describes the tree of events of QKD systems. Equations are found for estimation of the effectiveness of the process of sifted keys generation as well as for bit-error probability and for the rate of private keys generation.

id: 1007.4397
title: Casimir effect of massive vector fields
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:105002,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4397
abstract: We study the Casimir effect due to a massive vector field in a system of two parallel plates made of real materials, in an arbitrary magnetodielectric background. The plane waves satisfying the Proca equations are classified into transverse modes and longitudinal modes which have different dispersion relations. Transverse modes are further divided into type I and type II corresponding to TE and TM modes in the massless case. For general magnetodielectric media, we argue that the correct boundary conditions are the continuities of $\mathbf{H}_{\parallel}, \phi, \mathbf{A}$ and $\pa_xA_x$, where $x$ is the direction normal to the plates. Whereas there are type I transverse modes that satisfy all the boundary conditions, it is impossible to find type II transverse modes or longitudinal modes that satisfy all the boundary conditions. To circumvent this problem, type II transverse modes and longitudinal modes have to be considered together. We call the contribution to the Casimir energy from type I transverse modes as TE contribution, and the contribution from the superposition of type II transverse modes and longitudinal modes as TM contribution. Their massless limits give respectively the TE and TM contributions to the Casimir energy of a massless vector field. The limit where the plates become perfectly conducting is discussed in detail. For the special case where the background has unity refractive index, it is shown that the TM contribution to the Casimir energy can be written as a sum of contributions from two different types of modes, corresponding to type 2 discrete modes and type 3 continuum modes discussed by Barton and Dombey \cite{1}. For general background, this splitting does not work. The limit where both plates become infinitely permeable and the limit where one plate becomes perfectly conducting and one plate becomes infinitely permeable are also investigated.

id: 1007.4421
title: Scattering cross section resonance originating from a spectral singularity
authors: Boris F. Samsonov
comments: Minor modifications are made following recommendations of Referee
journal: J.Phys.A44:392001,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4421
abstract: Using techniques of supersymmetric quantum mechanics, scattering properties of Hermitian Hamiltonians, which are related to non-Hermitian ones by similarity transformations, are studied. We have found that the scattering matrix of the Hermitian Hamiltonian coincides with the phase factor of the non-unitary scattering matrix of the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. The possible presence of a spectral singularity in a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian translates into a pronounced resonance in the scattering cross section of its Hermitian counterpart. This opens a way for detecting spectral singularities in scattering experiments; although a singular point is inaccessible for the Hermitian Hamiltonian, the Hamiltonian "feels" the presence of the singularity if it is "close enough". We also show that cross sections of the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian do not exhibit any resonance behavior and explain the resonance behavior of the Hermitian Hamiltonian cross section by the fact that corresponding scattering matrix, up to a background scattering matrix, is a square root of the Breit-Wigner scattering matrix.

id: 1007.4444
title: Quantum memory in an optical lattice
authors: J. Nunn, U. Dorner, P. Michelberger, K. Reim, K. C. Lee, N. K.~Langford, I. A. Walmsley, D. Jaksch
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4444
abstract: Arrays of atoms trapped in optical lattices are appealing as storage media for photons, since motional dephasing of the atoms is eliminated. The regular lattice is also associated with band structure in the dispersion experienced by incident photons. Here we study the influence of this band structure on the efficiency of quantum memories based on electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) and on Raman absorption. We observe a number of interesting effects, such as both reduced and superluminal group velocities, enhanced atom-photon coupling and anomalous transmission. These effects are ultimately deleterious to the memory efficiency, but they are easily avoided by tuning the optical fields away from the band edges.

id: 1007.4493
title: Detection of genuinely entangled and non-separable $n$-partite quantum states
authors: Ting Gao, Yan Hong
comments: 8 pages, one figure
journal: Physical Review A 82, 062113 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4493
abstract: We investigate the detection of entanglement in $n$-partite quantum states. We obtain practical separability criteria to identify genuinely entangled and non-separable mixed quantum states. No numerical optimization or eigenvalue evaluation is needed, and our criteria can be evaluated by simple computations involving components of the density matrix. We provide examples in which our criteria perform better than all known separability criteria. Specifically, we are able to detect genuine $n$-partite entanglement which has previously not been identified. In addition, our criteria can be used in today's experiment.

id: 1007.4495
title: Quantum entanglement distribution with 810 nm photons through telecom fibers
authors: Evan Meyer-Scott, Hannes H¨¹bel, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Christopher Erven, Gregor Weihs, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. Vol 97, 031117 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4495
abstract: We demonstrate the distribution of polarization entangled photons of wavelength 810 nm through standard telecom fibers. This technique allows quantum communication protocols to be performed over established fiber infrastructure, and makes use of the smaller and better performing setups available around 800 nm, as compared to those which use telecom wavelengths around 1550 nm. We examine the excitation and subsequent quenching of higher-order spatial modes in telecom fibers up to 6 km in length, and perform a distribution of high quality entanglement (visibility 95.6%). Finally, we demonstrate quantum key distribution using entangled 810 nm photons over a 4.4 km long installed telecom fiber link.

id: 1007.4498
title: Kraus representation of quantum evolution and fidelity as manifestations of Markovian and non-Markovian avataras
authors: A K Rajagopal, A R Usha Devi, R W Rendell
comments: 7 pages, 5 eps figures; Discussion on recent characterizations of non-Markovianity included in this version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042107 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4498
abstract: It is shown that the fidelity of the dynamically evolved system with its earlier time density matrix provides a signature of non-Markovian dynamics. Also, the fidelity associated with the initial state and the dynamically evolved state is shown to be larger in the non-Markovian evolution compared to that in the corresponding Markovian case. Starting from the Kraus representation of quantum evolution, the Markovian and non-Markovian features are discerned in its short time structure. These two features are in concordance with each other and they are illustrated with the help of four models of interaction of the system with its environment.

id: 1007.4511
title: Fiber transport of spatially entangled photons
authors: W. L?ffler, T. G. Euser, E. R. Eliel, M. Scharrer, P. St.J. Russell, J. P. Woerdman
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 240505 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4511
abstract: Entanglement in the spatial degrees of freedom of photons is an interesting resource for quantum information. For practical distribution of such entangled photons it is desireable to use an optical fiber, which in this case has to support multiple transverse modes. Here we report the use of a hollow-core photonic crystal fiber to transport spatially entangled qubits.

id: 1007.4514
title: Quantum correlations and fluctuations in the pulsed light produced by a synchronously pumped optical parametric oscillator below its oscillation threshold
authors: V.A. Averchenko, Yu.M. Golubev, C. Fabre, N. Treps
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4514
abstract: We present a simple quantum theory for the pulsed light generated by a synchronously pumped optical parametric oscillator (SPOPO) in the degenerate case where the signal and idler trains of pulses coincide, below threshold and neglecting all dispersion effects. Our main goal is to precise in the obtained quantum effects, which ones are identical to the c.w. case and which ones are specific to the SPOPO. We demonstrate in particular that the temporal correlations have interesting peculiarities: the quantum fluctuations at different times within the same pulse turn out to be totally not correlated, whereas they are correlated between nearby pulses at times that are placed in the same position relative to the centre of the pulses. The number of significantly correlated pulses is of the order of cavity finesse. We show also that there is perfect squeezing at noise frequencies multiple of the pulse repetition frequency when one approaches the threshold from below on the signal field quadrature measured by a balanced homodyne detection with a local oscillator of very short duration compared to the SPOPO pulse length.

id: 1007.4516
title: Entanglement Routers Using Macroscopic Singlets
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Sougato Bose, Pasquale Sodano
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. Slightly longer than the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 187204 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4516
abstract: We propose a mechanism where high entanglement between very distant boundary spins is generated by suddenly connecting two long Kondo spin chains. We show that this procedure provides an efficient way to route entanglement between multiple distant sites. We observe that the key features of the entanglement dynamics of the composite spin chain are remarkably well described using a simple model of two singlets, each formed by two spins. The proposed entanglement routing mechanism is a footprint of the emergence of a Kondo cloud in a Kondo system and can be engineered and observed in varied physical settings.

id: 1007.4537
title: Reconstruction of time-dependent coefficients: a check of approximation schemes for non-Markovian convolutionless dissipative generators
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Antonella De Pasquale, Giulia Gualdi, Ugo Marzolino
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, revised version published on PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062104 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4537
abstract: We propose a procedure to fully reconstruct the time-dependent coefficients of convolutionless non-Markovian dissipative generators via a finite number of experimental measurements. By combining a tomography based approach with a proper data sampling, our proposal allows to relate the time-dependent coefficients governing the dissipative evolution of a quantum system to experimentally accessible quantities. The proposed scheme not only provides a way to retrieve full information about potentially unknown dissipative coefficients but also, most valuably, can be employed as a reliable consistency test for the approximations involved in the theoretical derivation of a given non-Markovian convolutionless master equation.

id: 1007.4544
title: Closed formula for the relative entropy of entanglement in all dimensions
authors: Shmuel Friedland, Gilad Gour
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, significantly revised; theorem 1 is now providing necessary and sufficient conditions to determine if a state is CSS
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 052201 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4544
abstract: The relative entropy of entanglement is defined in terms of the relative entropy between an entangled state and its closest separable state (CSS). Given a multipartite-state on the boundary of the set of separable states, we find a closed formula for all the entangled state for which this state is a CSS. Quite amazing, our formula holds for multipartite states in all dimensions. In addition we show that if an entangled state is full rank, then its CSS is unique. For the bipartite case of two qubits our formula reduce to the one given in Phys. Rev. A 78, 032310 (2008).

id: 1007.4566
title: Hamilton-Jacobi Many-Worlds Theory and the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle
authors: Frank J. Tipler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4566
abstract: I show that the classical Hamilton-Jacobi (H-J) equation can be used as a technique to study quantum mechanical problems. I first show that the the Schr\"odinger equation is just the classical H-J equation, constrained by a condition that forces the solutions of the H-J equation to be everywhere $C^2$. That is, quantum mechanics is just classical mechanics constrained to ensure that ``God does not play dice with the universe.'' I show that this condition, which imposes global determinism, strongly suggests that $\psi^*\psi$ measures the density of universes in a multiverse. I show that this interpretation implies the Born Interpretation, and that the function space for $\psi$ is larger than a Hilbert space, with plane waves automatically included. Finally, I use H-J theory to derive the momentum-position uncertainty relation, thus proving that in quantum mechanics, uncertainty arises from the interference of the other universes of the multiverse, not from some intrinsic indeterminism in nature.

id: 1007.4601
title: Classification of quantum phases and topology of logical operators in an exactly solved model of quantum codes
authors: Beni Yoshida
comments: 81 pages, 30 figures, reference added
journal: Annals of Physics 326, (2011) 15-95
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4601
abstract: Searches for possible new quantum phases and classifications of quantum phases have been central problems in physics. Yet, they are indeed challenging problems due to the computational difficulties in analyzing quantum many-body systems and the lack of a general framework for classifications. While frustration-free Hamiltonians, which appear as fixed point Hamiltonians of renormalization group transformations, may serve as representatives of quantum phases, it is still difficult to analyze and classify quantum phases of arbitrary frustration-free Hamiltonians exhaustively. Here, we address these problems by sharpening our considerations to a certain subclass of frustration-free Hamiltonians, called stabilizer Hamiltonians, which have been actively studied in quantum information science. We propose a model of frustration-free Hamiltonians which covers a large class of physically realistic stabilizer Hamiltonians, constrained to only three physical conditions; the locality of interaction terms, translation symmetries and scale symmetries, meaning that the number of ground states does not grow with the system size. We show that quantum phases arising in two-dimensional models can be classified exactly through certain quantum coding theoretical operators, called logical operators, by proving that two models with topologically distinct shapes of logical operators are always separated by quantum phase transitions.

id: 1007.4608
title: Causality, Measurement, and Elementary Interactions
authors: Edward J. Gillis
comments: 34 pages, Final version, To be published in Foundations of Physics. The final publication is available at www.springerlink.com. this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4608
abstract: Signal causality, the prohibition of superluminal information transmission, is the fundamental property shared by quantum measurement theory and relativity, and it is the key to understanding the connection between nonlocal measurement effects and elementary interactions. To prevent those effects from transmitting information between the generating and observing process, they must be induced by the kinds of entangling interactions that constitute measurements, as implied in the Projection Postulate. They must also be nondeterministic as reflected in the Born Probability Rule. The nondeterminism of entanglement-generating processes explains why the relevant types of information cannot be instantiated in elementary systems, and why the sequencing of nonlocal effects is, in principle, unobservable. This perspective suggests a simple hypothesis about nonlocal transfers of amplitude during entangling interactions, which yields straightforward experimental consequences.

id: 1007.4611
title: Graph state basis for Pauli Channels
authors: Xiao-yu Chen, Li-zhen Jiang
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physical Review A 83, 052316 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4611
abstract: We introduce graph state basis diagonalization to calculate the coherent information of a quantum code passing through a Pauli channel. The scheme is 5000 times faster than the best known one for some concatenated repetition codes, providing us a practical constructive way of approaching the quantum capacity of a Pauli channel. The calculation of the coherent information of non-additive quantum code can also be greatly simplified in graph state basis.

id: 1007.4618
title: Decoherence of Fock States Leads to a Maximally Quantum State
authors: Andrew C. McClung, Tyler E. Keating, Adam T. C. Steege, Arjendu K. Pattanayak
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4618
abstract: We consider the Wigner function evolution of Fock states $|n\rangle$ linearly coupled to a Markovian bath of oscillators. In the absence of environmental coupling, apparent ``quantumness'' increases with $n$, but the presence of any environmental interaction causes high-$n$ states to lose their quantum features more rapidly than low-$n$ states. Using the negative volume of the Wigner function as a metric \cite{kenfack04}, we observe a time-dependent quantumness peak across the eigenstates.

id: 1007.4634
title: Decoherence-Based Quantum Zeno Effect in a Cavity-QED System
authors: D. Z. Xu, Q. Ai, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022107 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4634
abstract: We present a decoherence-based interpretation for the quantum Zeno effect (QZE) where measurements are dynamically treated as dispersive couplings of the measured system to the apparatus, rather than the von Neumann's projections. It is found that the explicit dependence of the survival probability on the decoherence time quantitatively distinguishes this dynamic QZE from the usual one based on projection measurements. By revisiting the cavity-QED experiment of the QZE [J. Bernu, et al., Phys. Rev. Lett, 101, 180402 (2008)], we suggest an alternative scheme to verify our theoretical consideration that frequent measurements slow down the increase of photon number inside a microcavity due to the nondemolition couplings with the atoms in large detuning.

id: 1007.4645
title: Feasibility of 300 km Quantum Key Distribution with Entangled States
authors: Thomas Scheidl, Rupert Ursin, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Sven Ramelow, Xiao-Song Ma, Thomas Herbst, Robert Prevedel, Lothar Ratschbacher, Johannes Kofler, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 085002 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4645
abstract: A significant limitation of practical quantum key distribution (QKD) setups is currently their limited operational range. It has recently been emphasized (X. Ma, C.-H. F. Fung, and H.-K. Lo., Phys. Rev. A, 76:012307, 2007) that entanglement-based QKD systems can tolerate higher channel losses than systems based on weak coherent laser pulses (WCP), in particular when the source is located symmetrically between the two communicating parties, Alice and Bob. In the work presented here, we experimentally study this important advantage by implementing different entanglement-based QKD setups on a 144~km free-space link between the two Canary Islands of La Palma and Tenerife. We established three different configurations where the entangled photon source was placed at Alice's location, asymmetrically between Alice and Bob and symmetrically in the middle between Alice and Bob, respectively. The resulting quantum channel attenuations of 35~dB, 58~dB and 71~dB, respectively, significantly exceed the limit for WCP systems. This confirms that QKD over distances of 300~km and even more is feasible with entangled state sources placed in the middle between Alice and Bob.

id: 1007.4649
title: Chain of Hardy-type local reality constraints for $n$ qubits
authors: Sibasish Ghosh, Shasanka Mohan Roy
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4649
abstract: Non-locality without inequality is an elegant argument introduced by L. Hardy for two qubit systems, and later generalised to $n$ qubits, to establish contradiction of quantum theory with local realism. Interestingly, for $n=2$ this argument is actually a corollary of Bell-type inequalities, viz. the CH-Hardy inequality involving Bell correlations, but for $n$ greater than 2 it involves $n$-particle probabilities more general than Bell-correlations. In this paper, we first derive a chain of completely new local realistic inequalities involving joint probabilities for $n$ qubits, and then, associated to each such inequality, we provide a new Hardy-type local reality constraint without inequalities. Quantum mechanical maximal violations of the chain of inequalities and of the associated constraints are also studied by deriving appropriate Cirel'son type theorems. These results involving joint probabilities more general than Bell correlations are expected to provide a new systematic tool to investigate entanglement.

id: 1007.4670
title: The Unruh effect in quantum information beyond the single-mode approximation
authors: D. E. Bruschi, J. Louko, E. Martin-Martinez, A. Dragan, I. Fuentes
comments: revtex4, 3 figures, I.F. previously published as Fuentes-Guridi and Fuentes-Schuller. Minor changes and Journal reference added
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:042332,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4670
abstract: We address the validity of the single-mode approximation that is commonly invoked in the analysis of entanglement in non-inertial frames and in other relativistic quantum information scenarios. We show that the single-mode approximation is not valid for arbitrary states, finding corrections to previous studies beyond such approximation in the bosonic and fermionic cases. We also exhibit a class of wave packets for which the single-mode approximation is justified subject to the peaking constraints set by an appropriate Fourier transform.

id: 1007.4677
title: Towards violation of Born's rule: description of a simple experiment
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: The paper was completed with the description of an experiment with Gaussian states with very small dispersion. This experiment should induce violation of Born's rule, the fundamental law of QM
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.1327:387-393,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4677
abstract: Recently a new model with hidden variables of the wave type was elaborated, so called prequantum classical statistical field theory (PCSFT). Roughly speaking PCSFT is a classical signal theory applied to a special class of signals -- "quantum systems". PCSFT reproduces successfully all probabilistic predictions of QM, including correlations for entangled systems. This model peacefully coexists with all known no-go theorems, including Bell's theorem. In our approach QM is an approximate model. All probabilistic predictions of QM are only (quite good) approximations of "real physical averages". The latter are averages with respect to fluctuations of prequantum fields. In particular, Born's rule is only an approximate rule. More precise experiments should demonstrate its violation. We present a simple experiment which has to produce statistical data violating Born's rule. Since the PCSFT-presentation of this experiment may be difficult for experimenters, we reformulate consequences of PCSFT in terms of the conventional wave function. In general, deviation from Born's rule is rather small. We found an experiment amplifying this deviation. We start with a toy example in section 2. Then we present a more realistic example based on Gaussian states with very small dispersion, see section 3.

id: 1007.4681
title: Generating distributed entanglement from electron currents
authors: Yuting Ping, Avinash Kolli, John H. Jefferson, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 103004 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4681
abstract: Several recent experiments have demonstrated the viability of a passive device that can generate spin-entangled currents in two separate leads. However, manipulation and measurement of individual flying qubits in a solid state system has yet to be achieved. This is particularly difficult when a macroscopic number of these indistinguishable qubits are present. In order to access such an entangled current resource, we therefore show how to use it to generate distributed, static entanglement. The spatial separation between the entangled static pair can be much higher than that achieved by only exploiting the tunnelling effects between quantum dots. Our device is completely passive, and requires only weak Coulomb interactions between static and flying spins. We show that the entanglement generated is robust to decoherence for large enough currents.

id: 1007.4742
title: Casimir force between integrable and chaotic pistons
authors: Ezequiel Alvarez, Francisco Diego Mazzitelli, Alejandro G. Monastra, Diego A. Wisniacki
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4742
abstract: We have computed numerically the Casimir force between two identical pistons inside a very long cylinder, considering different shapes for the pistons. The pistons can be considered as quantum billiards, whose spectrum determines the vacuum force. The smooth part of the spectrum fixes the force at short distances, and depends only on geometric quantities like the area or perimeter of the piston. However, correcting terms to the force, coming from the oscillating part of the spectrum which is related to the classical dynamics of the billiard, are qualitatively different for classically integrable or chaotic systems. We have performed a detailed numerical analysis of the corresponding Casimir force for pistons with regular and chaotic classical dynamics. For a family of stadium billiards, we have found that the correcting part of the Casimir force presents a sudden change in the transition from regular to chaotic geometries.

id: 1007.4746
title: Effect of perturbations on information transfer in spin chains
authors: R. Ronke, T.P. Spiller, I. D'Amico
comments: Journal version fixes last typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012325 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4746
abstract: Spin chains have been proposed as a reliable and convenient way of transferring information and entanglement in a quantum computational context. Nonetheless, it has to be expected that any physical implementation of these systems will be subject to several perturbative factors which could potentially diminish the transfer quality. In this paper, we investigate a number of possible fabrication defects in the spin chains themselves as well as the effect of non-synchronous or imperfect input operations, with a focus on the case of multiple excitation/qubit transfer. We consider both entangled and unentangled states, and in particular the transfer of an entangled pair of adjacent spins at one end of a chain under the mirroring rule and also the creation of entanglement resulting from injection at both end spins.

id: 1007.4755
title: Generalized uncertainty relations and entanglement dynamics in quantum Brownian motion models
authors: C. Anastopoulos, S. Kechribaris, D. Mylonas
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures. Revised version to appear in Phys. Rev. A, description of the tripartite case added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042119 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4755
abstract: We study entanglement dynamics in quantum Brownian motion (QBM) models. Our main tool is the Wigner function propagator. Time evolution in the Wigner picture is physically intuitive and it leads to a simple derivation of a master equation for any number of system harmonic oscillators and spectral density of the environment. It also provides generalized uncertainty relations, valid for any initial state that allow a characterization of the environment in terms of the modifications it causes to the system's dynamics. In particular, the uncertainty relations are very informative about the entanglement dynamics of Gaussian states, and to a lesser extent for other families of states. For concreteness, we apply these techniques to a bipartite QBM model, describing the processes of entanglement creation, disentanglement and decoherence at all temperatures and timescales.

id: 1007.4775
title: Violation of Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality for states resulting from entanglement swapping
authors: Antoni Wojcik, Joanna Modlawska, Andrzej Grudka, Mikolaj Czechlewski
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 4831 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4775
abstract: We consider violation of CHSH inequality for states before and after entanglement swapping. We present a pair of initial states which do not violate CHSH inequality however the final state violates CHSH inequality for some results of Bell measurements performed in order to swap entanglement.

id: 1007.4797
title: Experimental implementation of the optimal linear-optical controlled phase gate
authors: Karel Lemr, Antonin Cernoch, Jan Soubusta, Konrad Kieling, Jens Eisert, Miloslav Dusek
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 013602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4797
abstract: We report on the first experimental realization of optimal linear-optical controlled phase gates for arbitrary phases. The realized scheme is entirely flexible in that the phase shift can be tuned to any given value. All such controlled phase gates are optimal in the sense that they operate at the maximum possible success probabilities that are achievable within the framework of any postselected linear-optical implementation. The quantum gate is implemented using bulk optical elements and polarization encoding of qubit states. We have experimentally explored the remarkable observation that the optimum success probability is not monotone in the phase.

id: 1007.4798
title: Experimental generation of single photons via active multiplexing
authors: Xiao-song Ma, Stefan Zotter, Johannes Kofler, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043814 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4798
abstract: An on-demand single-photon source is a fundamental building block in quantum science and technology. We experimentally demonstrate the proof of concept for a scheme to generate on-demand single photons via actively multiplexing several heralded photons probabilistically produced from pulsed spontaneous parametric down-conversions (SPDCs). By utilizing a four-photon-pair source, an active feed-forward technique, and an ultrafast single-photon router, we show a fourfold enhancement of the output photon rate. Simultaneously, we maintain the quality of the output single-photon states, confirmed by correlation measurements. We also experimentally verify, via Hong-Ou-Mandel interference, that the router does not affect the indistinguishability of the single photons. Furthermore, we give numerical simulations, which indicate that photons based on multiplexing of four SPDC sources can outperform the heralding based on highly advanced photon-number-resolving detectors. Our results show a route for on-demand single-photon generation and the practical realization of scalable linear optical quantum information processing.

id: 1007.4805
title: Hilbert-Schmidt Orthogonality of det(rho) and det(rho^{PT}) over the Two-Rebit Systems rho and Further Determinantal Moment Analyses
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 29 pages, 8 figures, corrections made at top of p. 5 to Hilbert-Schmidt moments for two-qubit systems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4805
abstract: A complete description of the multitudinous ways in which quantum particles can be entangled requires the use of high-dimensional abstract mathematical spaces. We report here a particularly interesting feature of the nine-dimensional convex set-endowed with Hilbert-Schmidt (Euclidean/flat) measure-composed of two-rebit (4 x 4) density matrices (rho). To each rho is assigned the product of its (nonnegative) determinant |rho| and the determinant of its partial transpose |rho^{PT}| -negative values of which, by the results of Peres and Horodecki, signify the entanglement of rho. Integrating this product, |rho| |rho^{PT}| =|rho rho^{PT}|, over the nine-dimensional space, using the indicated (HS) measure, we obtain the result zero. The two determinants, thus, form a pair of multivariate orthogonal polynomials with respect to HS measure. It is hypothesized that the analogous two determinants for the standard fifteen-dimensional convex set of two-qubit density matrices are similarly orthogonal. However, orthogonality does not hold, we find, if the symmetry of the nine-dimensional two-rebit scenario is broken slightly, nor with the use of non-flat measures, such as the prominent Bures (minimal monotone) measure-nor in the full HS extension to the 15-dimensional convex set of two-qubit density matrices. We discuss relations-involving the HS moments of |\rho^{PT}|-to the long-standing problem of determining the probability that a generic pair of rebits/qubits is separable.

id: 1007.4859
title: Quantum anti-Zeno effect without wave function reduction
authors: Qing Ai, Dazhi Xu, Su Yi, A. G. Kofman, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1752 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4859
abstract: We study the measurement-induced enhancement of the spontaneous decay (called quantum anti-Zeno effect) for a two-level subsystem, where measurements are treated as couplings between the excited state and an auxiliary state rather than the von Neumann's wave function reduction. The photon radiated in a fast decay of the atom, from the auxiliary state to the excited state, triggers a quasi-measurement, as opposed to a projection measurement. Our use of the term "quasi-measurement" refers to a "coupling-based measurement". Such frequent quasi-measurements result in an exponential decay of the survival probability of atomic initial state with a photon emission following each quasi-measurement. Our calculations show that the effective decay rate is of the same form as the one based on projection measurements. What is more important, the survival probability of the atomic initial state which is obtained by tracing over all the photon states is equivalent to the survival probability of the atomic initial state with a photon emission following each quasi-measurement to the order under consideration. That is because the contributions from those states with photon number less than the number of quasi-measurements originate from higher-order processes.

id: 1007.4867
title: Quantum Coherence and Correlations of optical radiation by atomic ensembles interacting with a two-level atom in microwave cavity
authors: ?. E. M¨¹stecapl\io?lu
comments: 15 pages, 17 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4867
abstract: We examine quantum statistics of optical photons emitted from atomic ensembles which are classically driven and simultaneously coupled to a two-level atom via microwave photon exchange. Quantum statistics and correlations are analyzed by calculating second order coherence degree, von Neumann entropy, spin squeezing for multi-particle entanglement, as well as genuine two and three-mode entanglement parameters for steady state and non-equilibrium situations. Coherent transfer of population between the radiation modes and quantum state mapping between the two-level atom and the optical modes are discussed. A potential experimental realization of the theoretical results in a superconducting coplanar waveguide resonator containing diamond crystals with Nitrogen-Vacancy color centers and a superconducting artificial two-level atom is discussed.

id: 1007.4884
title: Decoherence dynamics of open qubit systems
authors: Qing-Jun Tong
comments: Master thesis in Lanzhou University (2010). 59 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4884
abstract: The thesis is contributed to the study of the decoherence dynamics of dissipative qubit systems. We reveal the profound impact of the formation of a bound state between the qubit and its local environment on the decoherence dynamics of qubit system in non-Markovian regime. We find that the decoherence can be suppressed greatly under the non-Markovian dynamics when the bound state is formed. Consequently, the entanglement can be partially preserved in the steady state. A criterion on this decoherence/disentanglement suppression is given explicitly. It can give a useful guideline on the decoherence control in experiment. We also find that the entanglement can be stably distributed among all components and particularly it always satisfies an identity. Our unified treatment includes the previous results in the literatures as special cases. The result reveals the profound nature of the entanglement and should have significant implications for quantum information processing.

id: 1007.4942
title: Phase space tweezers for tailoring cavity fields by quantum Zeno dynamics
authors: Jean-Michel Raimond, Cl¨¦ment Sayrin, S. Gleyzes, Igor Dotsenko, Michel Brune, Serge Haroche, Saverio Pascazio, Paolo Facchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4942
abstract: We discuss an implementation of Quantum Zeno Dynamics in a Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics experiment. By performing repeated unitary operations on atoms coupled to the field, we restrict the field evolution in chosen subspaces of the total Hilbert space. This procedure leads to promising methods for tailoring non-classical states. We propose to realize `tweezers' picking a coherent field at a point in phase space and moving it towards an arbitrary final position without affecting other non-overlapping coherent components. These effects could be observed with a state-of-the-art apparatus.

id: 1007.4967
title: Direct generation of photon triplets using cascaded photon-pair sources
authors: H. H¨¹bel, D.R. Hamel, A. Fedrizzi, S. Ramelow, K.J. Resch, T. Jennewein
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, 1 table; accepted by Nature
journal: Nature 466, 601-603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4967
abstract: Non-classical states of light, such as entangled photon pairs and number states, are essential for fundamental tests of quantum mechanics and optical quantum technologies. The most widespread technique for creating these quantum resources is the spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) of laser light into photon pairs. Conservation of energy and momentum in this process, known as phase-matching, gives rise to strong correlations which are used to produce two-photon entanglement in various degrees of freedom. It has been a longstanding goal of the quantum optics community to realise a source that can produce analogous correlations in photon triplets, but of the many approaches considered, none have been technically feasible. In this paper we report the observation of photon triplets generated by cascaded down-conversion. Here each triplet originates from a single pump photon, and therefore quantum correlations will extend over all three photons in a way not achievable with independently created photon pairs. We expect our photon-triplet source to open up new avenues of quantum optics and become an important tool in quantum technologies. Our source will allow experimental interrogation of novel quantum correlations, the post-selection free generation of tripartite entanglement without post- selection and the generation of heralded entangled-photon pairs suitable for linear optical quantum computing. Two of the triplet photons have a wavelength matched for optimal transmission in optical fibres, ideally suited for three-party quantum communication. Furthermore, our results open interesting regimes of non-linear optics, as we observe spontaneous down-conversion pumped by single photons, an interaction also highly relevant to optical quantum computing.

id: 1007.4992
title: Local randomness in Hardy's correlations: Implications from information causality principle
authors: MD. Rajjak Gazi, Ashutosh Rai, Samir Kunkri, Ramij Rahaman
comments: 6 pages, 2 tables, new references added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 452001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4992
abstract: Study of nonlocal correlations in term of Hardy's argument has been quite popular in quantum mechanics. Recently Hardy's argument of non-locality has been studied in the context of generalized non-signaling theory as well as theory respecting information causality. Information causality condition significantly reduces the success probability for Hardy's argument when compared to the result based on non-signaling condition. Here motivated by the fact that maximally entangled state in quantum mechanics does not exhibit Hardy's non-local correlation, we do a qualitative study of the property of local randomness of measured observable on each side reproducing Hardy's non-locality correlation,in the context of information causality condition. On applying the necessary condition for respecting the principle of information causality, we find that there are severe restrictions on the local randomness of measured observable in contrast to results obtained from no-signaling condition.Still, there are some restrictions imposed by quantum mechanics that are not obtained from information causality condition.

id: 1007.4996
title: Hyperentangled mixed phased Dicke states: optical design and detection
authors: A. Chiuri, G. Vallone, N. Bruno, C. Macchiavello, D. Bru?, P. Mataloni
comments: 6 pages, 3 figure, supplementary information included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 250501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4996
abstract: We present an experimental method to produce 4-qubit phased Dicke states, based on a source of 2-photon hyperentangled states. By introducing quantum noise in the multipartite system in a controlled way, we have tested the robustness of these states. To this purpose the entanglement of the resulting multipartite entangled mixed states has been verified by using a new kind of structural witness.

id: 1007.5018
title: How to upload a physical state to the correlation space
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042337 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5018
abstract: In the framework of the computational tensor network [D. Gross and J. Eisert, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf98}, 220503 (2007)], the quantum computation is performed in a virtual linear space which is called the correlation space. It was recently shown [J. M. Cai, W, D\"ur, M. Van den Nest, A. Miyake, and H. J. Briegel, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf103}, 050503 (2009)] that a state in the correlation space can be downloaded to the real physical space. In this letter, conversely, we study how to upload a state from a real physical space to the correlation space being motivated by the virtual-real hybrid quantum information processing. After showing the impossibility of the cloning of a state between the real physical space and the correlation space, we propose a simple teleportation-like method of the upload. Applications of this method also enable the Gottesman-Chuang gate teleportation trick and the entanglement swapping in the virtual-real hybrid setting. Furthermore, compared with the inverse of the downloading method by Cai, et. al., which also works as the upload, our uploading method has several advantages.

id: 1007.5028
title: Temporally multiplexed quantum repeaters with atomic gases
authors: Christoph Simon, Hugues de Riedmatten, Mikael Afzelius
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 010304(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5028
abstract: We propose a temporally multiplexed version of the Duan-Lukin-Cirac-Zoller (DLCZ) quantum repeater protocol using controlled inhomogeneous spin broadening in atomic gases. A first analysis suggests that the advantage of multiplexing is negated by noise due to spin wave excitations corresponding to unobserved directions of Stokes photon emission. However, this problem can be overcome with the help of a moderate-finesse cavity which is in resonance with Stokes photons, but invisible to the anti-Stokes photons. Our proposal promises greatly enhanced quantum repeater performance with atomic gases.

id: 1007.5052
title: Quantum accelerometer: distinguishing inertial Bob from his accelerated twin Rob by a local measurement
authors: Andrzej Dragan, Ivette Fuentes, Jorma Louko
comments: I.F. previously published as Fuentes-Guridi and Fuentes-Schuller
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:085020,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5052
abstract: Single quantum system, such as Unruh-DeWitt detector, can be used to determine absolute acceleration by local measurements on a quantum field. To show this, we consider two kinematically indistinguishable scenarios: an inertial observer, Bob, measuring the field of an uniformly accelerated cavity, and his non-inertial twin Rob accelerating and making measurements in a stationary cavity. We find that these scenarios can be distinguished in the non-relativistic regime only by measurements on highly excited massive fields, allowing one to detect non-inertialness of the reference frame.

id: 1007.5112
title: Complete solution for unambiguous discrimination of three pure states with real inner products
authors: H. Sugimoto, T. Hashimoto, M. Horibe, A. Hayashi
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, presentation improved, reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A.82, 032338(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5112
abstract: Complete solutions are given in a closed analytic form for unambiguous discrimination of three general pure states with real mutual inner products. For this purpose, we first establish some general results on unambiguous discrimination of n linearly independent pure states. The uniqueness of solution is proved. The condition under which the problem is reduced to an (n-1)-state problem is clarified. After giving the solution for three pure states with real mutual inner products, we examine some difficulties in extending our method to the case of complex inner products. There is a class of set of three pure states with complex inner products for which we obtain an analytical solution.

id: 1007.5116
title: Second-order Supersymmetric Operators and Excited States
authors: Micheal S. Berger, Nail S. Ussembayev
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: J.Phys.A43:385309,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5116
abstract: Factorization of quantum mechanical Hamiltonians has been a useful technique for some time. This procedure has been given an elegant description by supersymmetric quantum mechanics, and the subject has become well-developed. We demonstrate that the existence of raising and lowering operators for the harmonic oscillator (and many other potentials) can be extended to their supersymmetric partners. The use of double supersymmetry (or a factorization chain) is used to obtain non-singular isospectral potentials, and the explicit expressions for the ladder operators, wave functions and probability densities are provided. This application avoids the technical complexities of the most general approaches, and requires relatively modest methods from supersymmetric quantum mechanics.

id: 1007.5179
title: Larmor precession reexamined: Testable correction and its ramifications
authors: Dipankar Home, Alok Kumar Pan, Arka Banerjee
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D, 67, 72(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5179
abstract: For a spin-polarized plane wave passing through a spin-rotator containing uniform magnetic field, we provide a detailed analysis for solving the appropriate Schr\"{o}dinger equation. A modified expression for spin precession is obtained which reduces to the standard Larmor precession relation when kinetic energy is very large compared to the spin-magnetic field interaction. We show that there are experimentally verifiable regimes of departure from the standard Larmor precession formula. The treatment is then extended to the case of a spin-polarized wave packet passing through a uniform magnetic field. The results based on the standard expression for Larmor precession and that obtained from the modified formula are compared in various regimes of the experimental parameters.

id: 1007.5187
title: Intercepts of the momentum correlation functions in ¦Ì-Bose gas model and their asymptotics
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, A.P. Rebesh
comments: 9 pages (two column), 3 figures; v.3: abstract, introduction rewritten, the paper rewritten and shortened (one subsection, appendix and table omitted), two references added; v.4: three new formulas (27),(29),(32) with exact results are added, figures redone into two 2-panel ones
journal: Eur.Phys.J.A47:55,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5187
abstract: The so-called \mu-deformed oscillator (or \mu-oscillator) introduced by A.Jannussis, though possesses rather exotic properties with respect to other better known deformed oscillator models, also has good potential for diverse physical applications. In this paper, the corresponding \mu-Bose gas model based on \mu-oscillators is explored. Within this model, the intercepts \lambda^(2)(K) and \lambda^(3)(K) of two- and three-particle momentum correlation functions are calculated with the goal of possible application for modeling the non-Bose type behavior of the intercepts of two- and three-pion correlations, observed in the experiments on relativistic heavy ion collisions. In derivation of intercepts, different orders of approximation in the deformation parameter \mu are considered. Our analysis also yields asymptotical behavior of the intercepts \lambda^(2)(K) and \lambda^(3)(K). The results for \lambda^(2)(K) are compared with experimental data, and with earlier known results drawn using other deformed Bose gas models.

id: 1007.5194
title: Effect of a high-frequency magnetic field on the resonant behavior displayed by a spin-$1/2$ particle under the influence of a rotating magnetic field
authors: Jes¨²s Casado-Pascual
comments: 7 figures, 14 pages. In press in Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5194
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the role of a high-frequency magnetic field in the resonant behavior displayed by a spin-$1/2$ particle under the influence of a rotating magnetic field. We propose two alternative methods for analyzing the system dynamics, namely, the averaging method and the multiple scale method. The analytical results achieved by applying these two methods are compared with those obtained from the numerical solution of the Schr\"odinger equation. This comparison leads to the conclusion that the multiple scale method provides a better understanding of the system dynamics than the averaging method. In particular, the averaging method predicts the complete destruction of the resonant behavior by an appropriate choice of the parameter values of the high-frequency magnetic field. This conclusion is disproved both by the numerical results, and also by the results obtained from the multiple scale method.

id: 1007.5221
title: A criterion for population inversion by arbitrary pulses
authors: Werner Jakubetz, Christoph Uiberacker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5221
abstract: We investigate theoretically population dynamics in an N-level system for pulses of arbitrary shape. In order to use Floquet theory the pulse only has to have finite support in time, which is well fulfilled in experiments. Furthermore the dynamics must be approximately time-local, which restricts to negligible memory effects. Despite the few requirements we are able to derive criteria for resonances, which means that all population rests in a preselected state after the pulse has been applied. We show that the necessary criterion on the Floquet quasienergies is a generalization of the pi-pulse criterion, derived within the Rotating Wave Approximation and adiabatic aproximation for the envelope by Holthaus et. al., to pulses of arbitrary shape. Furthermore we find that only the eigenvectors contain enough information to give a sufficient criterion for a resonance. We constuct the resonant N-level propagator and show that it is block diagonal, leading to a description by an effective 2-level-system composed of the initial and final state.

id: 1007.5246
title: Quantum Sign Permutation Polytopes
authors: Colin Wilmott, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bruss
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 505306 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5246
abstract: Convex polytopes are convex hulls of point sets in the $n$-dimensional space $\E^n$ that generalize 2-dimensional convex polygons and 3-dimensional convex polyhedra. We concentrate on the class of $n$-dimensional polytopes in $\E^n$ called sign permutation polytopes. We characterize sign permutation polytopes before relating their construction to constructions over the space of quantum density matrices. Finally, we consider the problem of state identification and show how sign permutation polytopes may be useful in addressing issues of robustness.

id: 1007.5281
title: Modular values and weak values of quantum observables
authors: Yaron Kedem, Lev Vaidman
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 230401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5281
abstract: The concept of a modular value of an observable of a pre- and post-selected quantum system is introduced. It is similar in form and in some cases has a close connection to the weak value of an observable, but instead of describing an effective interaction when the coupling is weak, it describes a coupling of any strength but only to qubit meters. The generalization of the concept for a coupling of a composite system to a multi-qubit meter provides an explanation of some current experiments.

id: 1007.5370
title: Estimation of Spin-Spin Interaction by Weak Measurement Scheme
authors: Yutaka Shikano, Shu Tanaka
comments: 4 pages, 1 table, 2 figures, to appear in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys. Lett. 96, 40002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5370
abstract: Precisely knowing an interaction Hamiltonian is crucial to realize quantum information tasks, especially to experimentally demonstrate a quantum computer and a quantum memory. We propose a scheme to experimentally evaluate the spin-spin interaction for a two-qubit system by the weak measurement technique initiated by Yakir Aharonov and his colleagues. Furthermore, we numerically confirm our proposed scheme in a specific system of a nitrogen vacancy center in diamond. This means that the weak measurement can also be taken as a concrete example of the quantum process tomography.

id: 1007.5375
title: Frequency down-conversion for a quantum network
authors: Yu Ding, Z. Y. Ou
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 35, 2591 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5375
abstract: By using parametric down-conversion process with a strong signal field injection, we demonstrate coherent frequency down-conversion from a pump photon to an idler photon. Contrary to a common misunderstanding, we show that the process can be free of quantum noise. With an interference experiment, we demonstrate that the coherence is preserved in the conversion process. This may lead to a high fidelity quantum state transfer from high frequency photon to low frequency photon and connects a missing link in a quantum network. With this scheme of coherent frequency down-conversion of photons, we propose a method of single-photon wavelength division multiplexing.

id: 1007.5390
title: A classification of spin 1/2 matrix product states with two dimensional auxiliary matrices
authors: Marzieh Asoudeh
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physica A; 389, 8, (2010),1555-1564
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5390
abstract: e classify the matrix product states having only spin-flip and parity symmetries, which can be constructed from two dimensional auxiliary matrices. We show that there are three distinct classes of such states and in each case, we determine the parent Hamiltonian and the points of possible quantum phase transitions. For two of the models, the interactions are three-body and for one the interaction is two-body

id: 1007.5422
title: Decoherence of many-body systems due to many-body interactions
authors: T. Carle, H. J. Briegel, B. Kraus
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012105 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5422
abstract: We study a spin-gas model, where N_S system qubits are interacting with N_B bath qubits via many-body interactions. We consider multipartite Ising interactions and show how the effect of decoherence depends on the specific coupling between the system and its environment. For instance, we analyze the influence of decohenerce induced by k-body interactions for different values of k. Moreover, we study how the effect of decoherence depends on the correlation between baths that are coupled to different individual system qubit and compare Markovian with non-Markovian interactions. As examples we consider specific quantum many-body states and investigate their evolution under several different decoherence models. As a complementary investigation we study how the coupling to the environment can be employed to generate a desired multipartite state.

id: 1007.5437
title: Qubit-oscillator system: An analytical treatment of the ultra-strong coupling regime
authors: Johannes Hausinger, Milena Grifoni
comments: 16 pages, 20 figures. Final, published version. Small changes in the title
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062320 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5437
abstract: We examine a two-level system coupled to a quantum oscillator, typically representing experiments in cavity and circuit quantum electrodynamics. We show how such a system can be treated analytically in the ultrastrong coupling limit, where the ratio $g/\Omega$ between coupling strength and oscillator frequency approaches unity and goes beyond. In this regime the Jaynes-Cummings model is known to fail, because counter-rotating terms have to be taken into account. By using Van Vleck perturbation theory to higher orders in the qubit tunneling matrix element $\Delta$ we are able to enlarge the regime of applicability of existing analytical treatments, including in particular also the finite bias case. We present a detailed discussion on the energy spectrum of the system and on the dynamics of the qubit for an oscillator at low temperature. We consider the coupling strength $g$ to all orders, and the validity of our approach is even enhanced in the ultrastrong coupling regime. Looking at the Fourier spectrum of the population difference, we find that many frequencies are contributing to the dynamics. They are gathered into groups whose spacing depends on the qubit-oscillator detuning. Furthermore, the dynamics is not governed anymore by a vacuum Rabi splitting which scales linearly with $g$, but by a non-trivial dressing of the tunneling matrix element, which can be used to suppress specific frequencies through a variation of the coupling.

id: 1007.5456
title: One-Shot Classical-Quantum Capacity and Hypothesis Testing
authors: Ligong Wang, Renato Renner
comments: Additional references and slightly different version of Theorem 1
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 200501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5456
abstract: The one-shot classical capacity of a quantum channel quantifies the amount of classical information that can be transmitted through a single use of the channel such that the error probability is below a certain threshold. In this work, we show that this capacity is well approximated by a relative-entropy-type measure defined via hypothesis testing. Combined with a quantum version of Stein's lemma, our results give a conceptually simple proof of the well-known Holevo-Schumacher-Westmoreland theorem for the capacity of memoryless channels. More generally, we obtain tight capacity formulas for arbitrary (not necessarily memoryless) channels.

id: 1007.5497
title: Multi-copy programmable discrimination of general qubit states
authors: G. Sent¨ªs, E. Bagan, J. Calsamiglia, R. Munoz-Tapia
comments: Based on version published in Physical Review A, some errors in appendix A corrected. 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042312 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5497
abstract: Quantum state discrimination is a fundamental primitive in quantum statistics where one has to correctly identify the state of a system that is in one of two possible known states. A programmable discrimination machine performs this task when the pair of possible states is not a priori known, but instead the two possible states are provided through two respective program ports. We study optimal programmable discrimination machines for general qubit states when several copies of states are available in the data or program ports. Two scenarios are considered: one in which the purity of the possible states is a priori known, and the fully universal one where the machine operates over generic mixed states of unknown purity. We find analytical results for both, the unambiguous and minimum error, discrimination strategies. This allows us to calculate the asymptotic performance of programmable discrimination machines when a large number of copies is provided, and to recover the standard state discrimination and state comparison values as different limiting cases.

id: 1007.5518
title: Local deterministic model of singlet state correlations based on relaxing measurement independence
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: Title updated to match published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:250404,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5518
abstract: The derivation of Bell inequalities requires an assumption of measurement independence, related to the amount of free will experimenters have in choosing measurement settings. Violation of these inequalities by singlet state correlations, as has been experimentally observed, brings this assumption into question. A simple measure of the degree of measurement independence is defined for correlation models, and it is shown that all spin correlations of a singlet state can be modeled via giving up a fraction of just 14% of measurement independence. The underlying model is deterministic and no-signalling. It may thus be favourably compared with other underlying models of the singlet state, which require maximum indeterminism or maximum signalling. A local deterministic model is also given that achieves the maximum possible violation of the well known Bell-CHSH inequality, at a cost of only 1/3 of measurement independence.

id: 1007.0049
title: Classical phase-space approach for coherent matter waves
authors: Fran?ois Impens, David Gu¨¦ry-Odelin
comments: 5 pages, no figures. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 065602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0049
abstract: We investigate a classical phase-space approach of matter-wave propagation based on the Truncated Wigner Equation (TWE). We show that such description is suitable for ideal matter waves in quadratic time-dependent confinement as well as for harmonically trapped Bose Einstein condensates in the Thomas-Fermi regime. In arbitrary interacting regimes, the TWE combined with the moment method yields the low-energy spectrum of a condensate as predicted by independent variational methods. TWE also gives the right breathing mode frequency for long-ranged interactions decaying as $1/r^2$ in 3D and for a contact potential in 2D. Quantum signatures, beyond the TWE, may only be found in the condensate dynamics beyond the regimes of classical phase-space propagation identified here.

id: 1007.0100
title: Decoherence effects in Bose-Einstein condensate interferometry. I General Theory
authors: B. J. Dalton
comments: To be published in Annals of Physics. Full version of paper, including all Appendices. Journal version only includes Appendix A. Appendices are in online supplementary material. Cross references to material in Appendices improved in Version 2 (5 July 2010). Minor amendments made in Version 3 (23 Nov 2010), including reference to Takagi factorisation of complex symmetric matrices
journal: Annals of Physics 326, 668-720 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0100
abstract: The present paper outlines a basic theoretical treatment of decoherence and dephasing effects in interferometry based on single component BEC in double potential wells, where two condensate modes may be involved. Results for both two mode condensates and the simpler single mode condensate case are presented. A hybrid phase space distribution functional method is used where the condensate modes are described via a truncated Wigner representation, and the basically unoccupied non-condensate modes are described via a positive P representation. The Hamiltonian for the system is described in terms of quantum field operators for the condensate and non-condensate modes. The functional Fokker-Planck equation for the double phase space distribution functional is derived. Equivalent Ito stochastic equations for the condensate and non-condensate fields that replace the field operators are obtained, and stochastic averages of products of these fields give the quantum correlation functions used to interpret interferometry experiments. The stochastic field equations are the sum of a deterministic term obtained from the drift vector in the functional Fokker-Planck equation, and a noise field whose stochastic properties are determined from the diffusion matrix in the functional Fokker-Planck equation. The noise field stochastic properties are similar to those for Gaussian-Markov processes in that the stochastic averages of odd numbers of noise fields are zero and those for even numbers of noise field terms are sums of products of stochastic averages associated with pairs of noise fields. However each pair is represented by an element of the diffusion matrix rather than products of the noise fields themselves. The treatment starts from a generalised mean field theory for two condensate mode. The generalized mean field theory solutions are needed for calculations using the Ito stochastic field equations.

id: 1007.0110
title: Calculation of permittivity tensors for invisibility devices by effective medium approach in general relativity
authors: Doyeol Ahn
comments: 
journal: J.Mod.Opt.58:700-710,2011
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0110
abstract: Permittivity tensors of arbitrary shaped invisibility devices are obtained using effective medium approach in general relativity. As special cases, analytical expressions for the permittivity tensors of invisibility cloaks for the elliptic cylinder, prolate spheroid, and the confocal paraboloid geometry are derived. In the case of elliptic cylinder, we found that the point of infinite light speed in the electromagnetic space becomes two points in the physical space in the zz component of the permittivity tensor. This result is different from the case of perfect cylinder in which there is a line of cloak at which the speed of light becomes infinite. In the cases of prolate spheroid and confocal paraboloid, the point of infinite light speed in the electromagnetic space becomes line in the physical space for the first two tensor components and the third component of the permittivity tensor becomes singular at the line of cloak.

id: 1007.0166
title: QND measurement of a superconducting qubit in the weakly projective regime
authors: T. Picot, R. Schouten, C.J.P.M. Harmans, J.E. Mooij
comments: submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0166
abstract: Quantum state detectors based on switching of hysteretic Josephson junctions biased close to their critical current are simple to use but have strong back-action. We show that the back-action of a DC-switching detector can be considerably reduced by limiting the switching voltage and using a fast cryogenic amplifier, such that a single readout can be completed within 25 ns at a repetition rate of 1 MHz without loss of contrast. Based on a sequence of two successive readouts we show that the measurement has a clear quantum non-demolition character, with a QND fidelity of 75 %.

id: 1007.0168
title: Can Environmental Decoherence be Reversed for an Open Quantum System in a Magnetic field ?
authors: A. N. Mitra
comments: 8 pages on pdf
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0168
abstract: A simple model is considered for an open system consisting of an aggregation of magnetic particles (like greigite) in the presence of a magnetic field (H), and interacting linearly with a bath of 3D harmonic oscillators. Using the Feynman-Vernon formalism, as given in Weiss (termed FVW), the time-evolved reduced density matrix (after eliminating the bath d.o.f.'s), is examined for environmental decoherence as defined in the FVW formalism. While decoherence is usually positive for most two-way couplings with the enviroment, it is found that a $three-way$ interaction involving the system plus bath plus H-field all together, can facilitate a $reversal$ of sign of this quantity! This may have implications for quantum coherence based phenomena on the origins of life.

id: 1007.0202
title: Single photon emitters based on Ni/Si related defects in single crystalline diamond
authors: David Steinmetz, Elke Neu, Jan Meijer, Wolfgang Bolse, Christoph Becher
comments: 7 pages, submitted to Applied Physics B, revised version
journal: Appl. Phys. B 102, 451 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0202
abstract: We present investigations on single Ni/Si related color centers produced via ion implantation into single crystalline type IIa CVD diamond. Testing different ion dose combinations we show that there is an upper limit for both the Ni and the Si dose 10^12/cm^2 and 10^10/cm^2 resp.) due to creation of excess fluorescent background. We demonstrate creation of Ni/Si related centers showing emission in the spectral range between 767nm and 775nm and narrow line-widths of 2nm FWHM at room temperature. Measurements of the intensity auto-correlation functions prove single-photon emission. The investigated color centers can be coarsely divided into two groups: Drawing from photon statistics and the degree of polarization in excitation and emission we find that some color centers behave as two-level, single-dipole systems whereas other centers exhibit three levels and contributions from two orthogonal dipoles. In addition, some color centers feature stable and bright emission with saturation count rates up to 78kcounts/s whereas others show fluctuating count rates and three-level blinking.

id: 1007.0240
title: Chip-scale nanofabrication of single spins and spin arrays in diamond
authors: David M. Toyli, Christoph D. Weis, Gregory D. Fuchs, Thomas Schenkel, David D. Awschalom
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. 14 pages, 3 figures; Posting has been removed due to editorial request from ACS Nano Letters; This version has been removed by arXiv admin because it contains an inappropriate withdrawal notice
journal: Nano Lett., Article ASAP (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0240
abstract: We demonstrate a technique to nanofabricate nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers in diamond based on broad-beam nitrogen implantation through apertures in electron beam lithography resist. This method enables high-throughput nanofabrication of single NV centers on sub-100 nm length scales. Secondary ion mass spectroscopy (SIMS) measurements facilitate depth profiling of the implanted nitrogen to provide three-dimensional characterization of the NV center spatial distribution. Measurements of NV center coherence with on-chip coplanar waveguides suggest a pathway for incorporating this scalable nanofabrication technique in future quantum applications.

id: 1007.0281
title: Phase fluctuations in anisotropic Bose condensates: from cigars to rings
authors: L. Mathey, A. Ramanathan, K. C. Wright, S. R. Muniz, W. D. Phillips, Charles W. Clark
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, minor edits
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033607 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0281
abstract: We study the phase-fluctuating condensate regime of ultra-cold atoms trapped in a ring-shaped trap geometry, which has been realized in recent experiments. We first consider a simplified box geometry, in which we identify the conditions to create a state that is dominated by thermal phase-fluctuations, and then explore the experimental ring geometry. In both cases we demonstrate that the requirement for strong phase fluctuations can be expressed in terms of the total number of atoms and the geometric length scales of the trap only. For the ring-shaped trap we discuss the zero temperature limit in which a condensate is realized where the phase is fluctuating due to interactions and quantum fluctuations. We also address possible ways of detecting the phase fluctuating regime in ring condensates.

id: 1007.0305
title: Pseudorandom generators and the BQP vs. PH problem
authors: Bill Fefferman, Christopher Umans
comments: Updated in light of counterexample to the GLN conjecture
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0305
abstract: It is a longstanding open problem to devise an oracle relative to which BQP does not lie in the Polynomial-Time Hierarchy (PH). We advance a natural conjecture about the capacity of the Nisan-Wigderson pseudorandom generator [NW94] to fool AC_0, with MAJORITY as its hard function. Our conjecture is essentially that the loss due to the hybrid argument (which is a component of the standard proof from [NW94]) can be avoided in this setting. This is a question that has been asked previously in the pseudorandomness literature [BSW03]. We then make three main contributions: (1) We show that our conjecture implies the existence of an oracle relative to which BQP is not in the PH. This entails giving an explicit construction of unitary matrices, realizable by small quantum circuits, whose row-supports are "nearly-disjoint." (2) We give a simple framework (generalizing the setting of Aaronson [A10]) in which any efficiently quantumly computable unitary gives rise to a distribution that can be distinguished from the uniform distribution by an efficient quantum algorithm. When applied to the unitaries we construct, this framework yields a problem that can be solved quantumly, and which forms the basis for the desired oracle. (3) We prove that Aaronson's "GLN conjecture" [A10] implies our conjecture; our conjecture is thus formally easier to prove. The GLN conjecture was recently proved false for depth greater than 2 [A10a], but it remains open for depth 2. If true, the depth-2 version of either conjecture would imply an oracle relative to which BQP is not in AM, which is itself an outstanding open problem. Taken together, our results have the following interesting interpretation: they give an instantiation of the Nisan-Wigderson generator that can be broken by quantum computers, but not by the relevant modes of classical computation, if our conjecture is true.

id: 1007.0340
title: Bohr - Planck quantum theory, (Tesla) magnetic monopoles and fine structure constant
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Darko V. Kapor, Stevica Djurovic, Miodrag Krmar
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0340
abstract: In this work we apply Bohr-Planck (Old quantum atomic and radiation) theory, i.e. and quasi-classical methods for analysis of the magnetic monopoles and other problems. We reproduce exactly some basic elements of the Dirac magnetic monopoles theory, especially Dirac electric/magnetic charge quantization condition. Also, we suggest a new, effective, simply called Tesla model (for analogy with positions of the solenoids by Tesla inductive motor) of the magnetic monopole instead of usual effective Dirac model (half-infinite, very tinny solenoid) of the magnetic monopole. In our, i.e. Tesla model we use three equivalent tiny solenoids connected in series with a voltage source. One end of any solenoid is placed at the circumference of a circle and solenoids are directed radial toward circle center. Length of any solenoid is a bit smaller than finite circle radius so that other end of any solenoid is very close to the circle center. Angles between neighboring solenoids equal $120^{\circ}$. All this implies that, practically, there is no magnetic field, or, magnetic pole, e.g. $S$, in the circle center, and that whole system holds only other, $N$ magnetic pole, at the ends of the solenoids at circle circumference. Finally, we reproduce relatively satisfactory value of the fine structure constant using Planck, i.e. Bose-Einstein statistics and Wien displacement law.

id: 1007.0458
title: External field control of collective spin excitations in an optical lattice of $^2¦²$ molecules
authors: Jes¨²s P¨¦rez-R¨ªos, Felipe Herrera, Roman V. Krems
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 103007 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0458
abstract: We show that an ensemble of $^2\Sigma$ molecules in the rotationally ground state trapped on an optical lattice exhibits collective spin excitations that can be controlled by applying superimposed electric and magnetic fields. In particular, we show that the lowest energy excitation of the molecular ensemble at certain combinations of electric and magnetic fields leads to the formation of a magnetic Frenkel exciton. The exciton bandwidth can be tuned by varying the electric or magnetic fields. We show that the exciton states can be localized by creating vacancies in the optical lattice. The localization patterns of the magnetic exciton states are sensitive to the number and distribution of vacancies, which can be exploited for engineering many-body entangled spin states. We consider the dynamics of magnetic exciton wavepackets and show that the spin excitation transfer between molecules in an optical lattice can be accelerated or slowed down by tuning an external magnetic or electric field.

id: 1007.0462
title: Blackbody radiation shift in 87Rb frequency standard
authors: M. S. Safronova, Dansha Jiang, U. I. Safronova
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0462
abstract: The operation of atomic clocks is generally carried out at room temperature, whereas the definition of the second refers to the clock transition in an atom at absolute zero. This implies that the clock transition frequency should be corrected in practice for the effect of finite temperature of which the leading contributor is the blackbody radiation (BBR) shift. Experimental measurements of the BBR shifts are difficult. In this work, we have calculated the blackbody radiation shift of the ground-state hyperfine microwave transition in 87Rb using the relativistic all-order method and carried out detailed evaluation of the accuracy of our final value. Particular care is taken to accurately account for the contributions from highly-excited states. Our predicted value for the Stark coefficient, k_S=-1.240(4)\times 10^{-10}\text{Hz/(V/m)}^{2} is three times more accurate than the previous calculation [1].

id: 1007.0480
title: Diffusive Decay of the Vortex Tangle and Kolmogorov turbulence in quantum fluids
authors: Sergey K. Nemirovskii, L.P. Kondaurova
comments: The work was presented at SUR 2010, submitted in JLTP
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0480
abstract: The idea that chaotic set of quantum vortices can mimic classical turbulence, or at least reproduce many main features, is currently actively being developed. Appreciating significance of the challenging problem of the classical turbulence it can be expressed that the idea to study it in terms of quantized line is indeed very important and may be regarded as a breakthrough. For this reason, this theory should be carefully scrutinized. One of the basic arguments supporting this point of view is the fact that vortex tangle decays at zero temperature, when the apparent mechanism of dissipation (mutual friction) is absent. Since the all possible mechanisms of dissipation of the vortex energy, discussed in the literature, are related to the small scales, it is natural to suggest that the Kolmogorov cascade takes the place with the flow of the energy, just as in the classical turbulence. In a series of recent experiment attenuation of vortex line density was observed and authors attribute this decay to the properties of the Kolmogorov turbulence. In the present work we discuss alternative possibility of decay of the vortex tangle, which is not related to dissipation at small scales. This mechanism is just the diffusive like spreading of the vortex tangle. We discuss a number of the key experiments, considering them both from the point of view of alternative explanation and of the theory of Kolmogorov turbulence in quantum fluids.

id: 1007.0517
title: Internal Space-time Symmetries according to Einstein, Wigner, Dirac, and Feynman
authors: Y. S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: Latex 15 pages, 2 figures, to be presented at the Petrov Centennial Conference to be held in Kazan, Russia (November 2010)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0517
abstract: When Einstein formulated his special relativity in 1905, he established the law of Lorentz transformations for point particles. It is now known that particles have internal space-time structures. Particles, such as photons and electrons, have spin variables. Protons and other hadrons are regarded as bound states of more fundamental particles called quarks which have their internal variables. It is still one of the most outstanding problems whether these internal space-time variables are transformed according to Einstein's law of Lorentz transformations. It is noted that Wigner, Dirac, and Feynman made important contributions to this problem. By integrating their efforts, it is then shown possible to construct a picture of the internal space-time symmetry consistent with Einstein's Lorentz covariance.

id: 1007.0555
title: Rabi Waves in Carbon Nanotubes
authors: Alla Dovlatova, Dmitry Yearchuck
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0555
abstract: QED-model for the multichain qubit system with interactions of qubits and chains between themselves on the example of the system of $\sigma$-polarons in carbon zigzag nanotubes, interacting with quantized EM-field, is considered analytically. The possibility of experimental detection of Rabi waves in conventional stationary optical experiments for any quasi-1D system with strong electron-photon interaction is predicted.

id: 1007.0654
title: Rabi Waves in Carbon Nanotubes - Experiment
authors: Dmitry Yearchuck, Alla Dovlatova
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Author list is corrected
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0654
abstract: Rabi waves have been experimentally registered for the first time by Raman scattering studies of zigzag nanotubes, produced by high energy ion beam modification of natural diamond single crystals. Antiferroelectric spin wave resonance has been detected for the first time in Raman spectroscopy practice in given samples. Substantial qualitative and quantitative changes in Raman spectra in dependence on propagation direction of laser excitation wave have been found.

id: 1007.0664
title: Is Quantum Field Theory ontologically interpretable? On localization, particles and fields in relativistic Quantum Theory
authors: David Philip Schroeren
comments: 33 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0664
abstract: In this paper, I provide a formal set of assumptions and give a natural criterion for a quantum field theory to admit particles. I construct a na\"ive approach to localization for a free bosonic quantum field theory and show how this localization scheme, as a consequence of the Reeh-Schlieder theorem, fails to satisfy this criterion. I then examine the Newton-Wigner concept of localization and show that it fails to obey strong microcausality and thus is subject to a more general version of the Reeh-Schlieder theorem. I review approaches to quantum field theoretic explanations of particle detection events and explain how particles can be regarded as emergent phenomena of a relativistic field theory. In particular, I show that effective localization of Hilbert space vectors is equivalent to an approximate locality of observable algebras.

id: 1007.0703
title: Phase Estimation With Interfering Bose-Condensed Atomic Clouds
authors: Jan Chwedenczuk, Francesco Piazza, Augusto Smerzi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0703
abstract: We investigate how to estimate from atom-position measurements the relative phase of two Bose-Einstein condensates released from a double-well potential. We demonstrate that the phase estimation sensitivity via the fit of the average density to the interference pattern is fundamentally bounded by shot noise. This bound can be overcome by estimating the phase from the measurement of $\sqrt N$ (or higher) correlation function. The optimal estimation strategy requires the measurement of the $N$-th order correlation function. We also demonstrate that a second estimation method -- based on the detection of the center of mass of the interference pattern -- provides sub shot-noise sensitivity. Yet, the implementation of both protocols might be experimentally challenging.

id: 1007.0737
title: The quantum $H_3$ integrable system
authors: Marcos A. G. Garc¨ªa, Alexander V. Turbiner
comments: 32 pages, 3 figures
journal: Intern.Journ.Mod.Phys. A 25 (2010) 5567-5594
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0737
abstract: The quantum $H_3$ integrable system is a 3D system with rational potential related to the non-crystallographic root system $H_3$. It is shown that the gauge-rotated $H_3$ Hamiltonian as well as one of the integrals, when written in terms of the invariants of the Coxeter group $H_3$, is in algebraic form: it has polynomial coefficients in front of derivatives. The Hamiltonian has infinitely-many finite-dimensional invariant subspaces in polynomials, they form the infinite flag with the characteristic vector $\vec \al\ =\ (1,2,3)$. One among possible integrals is found (of the second order) as well as its algebraic form. A hidden algebra of the $H_3$ Hamiltonian is determined. It is an infinite-dimensional, finitely-generated algebra of differential operators possessing finite-dimensional representations characterized by a generalized Gauss decomposition property. A quasi-exactly-solvable integrable generalization of the model is obtained. A discrete integrable model on the uniform lattice in a space of $H_3$-invariants "polynomially"-isospectral to the quantum $H_3$ model is defined.

id: 1007.0769
title: A Chorus of Bells
authors: Jeremy Bernstein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0769
abstract: An account of some of the life and work of John Bell

id: 1007.0794
title: Atomic spatial coherence with spontaneous emission in a strong coupling cavity
authors: Zhen Fang, Rui Guo, Xiaoji Zhou, Xuzong Chen
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, accepted by PRA
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0794
abstract: The role of spontaneous emission in the interaction between a two-level atom and a pumped micro-cavity in the strong coupling regime is discussed in this paper. Especially, using a quantum Monte-Carlo simulation, we investigate atomic spatial coherence. It is found that atomic spontaneous emission destroys the coherence between neighboring lattice sites, while the cavity decay does not. Furthermore, our computation of the spatial coherence function shows that the in-site locality is little affected by the cavity decay, but greatly depends on the cavity pump amplitude.

id: 1007.0806
title: Quantum tunneling-enhanced charging of nanoparticles in plasmas
authors: Yuriy Tyshetskiy, Sergey Vladimirov
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 046406 (2011)
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0806
abstract: The role of quantum tunneling effect in the electron accretion current onto a negatively charged grain immersed in isotropic plasma is analyzed, within the quasiclassic approximation, for different plasma electron distribution functions, plasma parameters, and grain sizes. It is shown that this contribution can be small (negligible) for relatively large (micron-sized) dust grains in plasmas with electron temperatures of the order of a few eV, but becomes important for nano-sized dust grains (tens to hundreds nm in diameter) in cold and ultracold plasmas (electron temperatures ~ tens to hundreds of Kelvin), especially in plasmas with depleted high-energy "tails" in the electron energy distribution.

id: 1007.0840
title: Entanglement spectrum: Identification of the transition from vortex-liquid to vortex-lattice state in a weakly interacting rotating Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Zhao Liu, Hong-Li Guo, Vlatko Vedral, Heng Fan
comments: published version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0840
abstract: We use entanglement to investigate the transition from vortex liquid phase to vortex lattice phase in weakly interacting rotating Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). Ground state entanglement spectrum is analyzed to distinguish these two different phases. For the torus geometry, the low-lying part of ground state entanglement spectrum, as well as the behavior of its lowest level change clearly when the transition occurs. For the sphere geometry, the disappearance of entanglement gap in the conformal limit (CL) can indicate this transition. We also show that the decrease of entanglement between particles can be regarded as a signal of the transition.

id: 1007.0911
title: On Fock-Bargmann space, Dirac delta function, Feynman propagator, angular momentum and SU(3) multiplicity free
authors: Mehdi Hage-Hassan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0911
abstract: The Dirac delta function and the Feynman propagator of the harmonic oscillator are found by a simple calculation using Fock Bargmann space and the generating function of the harmonic oscillator. With help of the Schwinger generating function of Wigner's D-matrix elements we derive the generating function of spherical harmonics, the quadratic transformations and the generating functions of: the characters of SU (2), Legendre and Gegenbauer polynomials. We also deduce the van der Wearden invariant of 3-j symbols of SU (2). Using the Fock Bargmann space and its complex conjugate we find the integral representations of 3j symbols, function of the series, and from the properties of we deduce a set of generalized hypergeometric functions of SU (2) and from Euler's identity we find Regge symmetry. We find also the integral representation of the 6j symbols. We find the generating function and a new expression of the 3j symbols for SU (3) multiplicity free. Our formula of SU (3) is a product of a constant, 3j symbols of SU (2) by . The calculations in this work require only the Gauss integral, well known to undergraduates.

id: 1007.0913
title: Quantum phase transitions in an interacting atom-molecule boson model
authors: Gilberto Santos, Angela Foerster, Jon Links, Eduardo Mattei, Silvio R. Dahmen
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 81, 063621 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0913
abstract: We study the quantum phase transitions of a model that describes the interconversion of interacting bosonic atoms and molecules. Using a classical analysis, we identify a threshold coupling line separating a molecular phase and a mixed phase. Through studies of the energy gap, von Neumann entanglement entropy, and fidelity, we give evidence that this line is associated to a boundary line in the ground-state phase diagram of the quantum system.

id: 1007.0922
title: Atom-light crystallization of BECs in multimode cavities: Nonequilibrium classical and quantum phase transitions, emergent lattices, supersolidity, and frustration
authors: Sarang Gopalakrishnan, Benjamin L. Lev, Paul M. Goldbart
comments: 34 pages, 13 figures; follow up to Nat. Phys. 5, 845 (2009)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043612 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0922
abstract: The self-organization of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a transversely pumped optical cavity is a process akin to crystallization: when pumped by a laser of sufficient intensity, the coupled matter and light fields evolve, spontaneously, into a spatially modulated pattern, or crystal, whose lattice structure is dictated by the geometry of the cavity. In cavities having multiple degenerate modes, the quasi-continuum of possible lattice arrangements, and the continuous symmetry breaking associated with the adoption of a particular lattice arrangement, give rise to phenomena such as phonons, defects, and frustration, which have hitherto been unexplored in ultracold atomic settings involving neutral atoms. The present work develops a nonequilibrium field-theoretic approach to explore the self-organization of a BEC in a pumped, lossy optical cavity. We find that the transition is well described, in the regime of primary interest, by an effective equilibrium theory. At nonzero temperatures, the self-organization occurs via a fluctuation-driven first-order phase transition of the Brazovskii class; this transition persists to zero temperature, and crosses over into a quantum phase transition of a new universality class. We make further use of our field-theoretic description to investigate the role of nonequilibrium fluctuations on the self-organization transition, as well as to explore the nucleation of ordered-phase droplets, the nature and energetics of topological defects, supersolidity in the ordered phase, and the possibility of frustration controlled by the cavity geometry. In addition, we discuss the range of experimental parameters for which we expect the phenomena described here to be observable, along with possible schemes for detecting ordering and fluctuations via either atomic correlations or the correlations of the light emitted from the cavity.

id: 1007.0974
title: Tuning Energy Relaxation along Quantum Hall Channels
authors: C. Altimiras, H. le Sueur, U. Gennser, A. Cavanna, D. Mailly, F. Pierre
comments: 8 pages including supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 226804 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0974
abstract: The chiral edge channels in the quantum Hall regime are considered ideal ballistic quantum channels, and have quantum information processing potentialities. Here, we demonstrate experimentally, at filling factor 2, the efficient tuning of the energy relaxation that limits quantum coherence and permits the return toward equilibrium. Energy relaxation along an edge channel is controllably enhanced by increasing its transmission toward a floating ohmic contact, in quantitative agreement with predictions. Moreover, by forming a closed inner edge channel loop, we freeze energy exchanges in the outer channel. This result also elucidates the inelastic mechanisms at work at filling factor 2, informing us in particular that those within the outer edge channel are negligible.

id: 1007.0993
title: Some Calculable Contributions to Entanglement Entropy
authors: Mark P. Hertzberg, Frank Wilczek
comments: 4+ pages, 1 figure. v2: Some clarifications and more references; updated to resemble version published in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:050404,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0993
abstract: Entanglement entropy appears as a central property of quantum systems in broad areas of physics. However, its precise value is often sensitive to unknown microphysics, rendering it incalculable. By considering parametric dependence on correlation length, we extract finite, calculable contributions to the entanglement entropy for a scalar field between the interior and exterior of a spatial domain of arbitrary shape. The leading term is proportional to the area of the dividing boundary; we also extract finite subleading contributions for a field defined in the bulk interior of a waveguide in 3+1 dimensions, including terms proportional to the waveguide's cross-sectional geometry; its area, perimeter length, and integrated curvature. We also consider related quantities at criticality and suggest a class of systems for which these contributions might be measurable.

id: 1007.1000
title: Hyperfine interactions in silicon quantum dots
authors: Lucy V. C. Assali, Helena M. Petrilli, Rodrigo B. Capaz, Belita Koiller, Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 165301 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1000
abstract: We present an all-electron calculation of the hyperfine parameters for conduction electrons in Si, showing that: (i) all parameters scale linearly with the spin density at a $^{29}$Si site; (ii) the isotropic term is over 30 times larger than the anisotropic part; (iii) conduction electron charge density at a Si nucleus is consistent with experimental estimates; (iv) Overhauser fields in natural Si quantum dots (QDs) are two orders of magnitude smaller than in GaAs QDs. This reinforces the outstanding performance of Si in keeping spin coherence and opens access to reliable quantitative information aiming at spintronic applications.

id: 1007.1010
title: Electromagnetically Induced Transparency with an Ensemble of Donor-Bound Electron Spins in a Semiconductor
authors: Maksym Sladkov, A. U. Chaubal, M. P. Bakker, A. R. Onur, D. Reuter, A. D. Wieck, C. H. van der Wal
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; Improved analysis of data in Fig. 3, corrected factors of 2 and pi
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 121308(R) (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1010
abstract: We present measurements of electromagnetically induced transparency with an ensemble of donor- bound electrons in low-doped n-GaAs. We used optical transitions from the Zeeman-split electron spin states to a bound trion state in samples with optical densities of 0.3 and 1.0. The electron spin dephasing time T* \approx 2 ns was limited by hyperfine coupling to fluctuating nuclear spins. We also observe signatures of dynamical nuclear polarization, but find these effects to be much weaker than in experiments that use electron spin resonance and related experiments with quantum dots.

id: 1007.1028
title: Correlated flux noise and decoherence in two inductively coupled flux qubits
authors: Fumiki Yoshihara, Yasunobu Nakamura, Jaw-Shen Tsai
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 132502 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1028
abstract: We have studied decoherence in a system where two Josephson-junction flux qubits share a part of their superconducting loops and are inductively coupled. By tuning the flux bias condition, we control the sensitivities of the energy levels to flux noises in each qubit. The dephasing rate of the first excited state is enhanced or suppressed depending on the amplitudes and the signs of the sensitivities. We have quantified the $1/f$ flux noises and their correlations and found that the dominant contribution is by local fluctuations.

id: 1007.1154
title: Nonclassical lattice solitons in optical lattice via Electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: Yongyao Li, Zhonghui Yuan, Wei Pang, Yikun Liu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1154
abstract: An optical four-level atomic discrete system through optical induction is proposed. A theoretical scheme to produce nonclassical lattice solitons (NLS) in the system is presented with the use of the effects of enhanced self-phase modulation and the giant kerr effect in the electromagnetically induced transparency. The power density and the photon flux can be tuned to a very low level by the controlling field and the soliton can propagate with very slow group velocity. By changing the sign of the detuning $\Delta_{1}$, both in-phase and $\pi$ out-of-phase NLSs can be produced in this system.

id: 1007.1367
title: Embedded Ribbons of Graphene Allotropes: An Extended Defect Perspective
authors: David J. Appelhans, Lincoln D. Carr, Mark T. Lusk
comments: 24 pages, 21 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1367
abstract: Four fundamental dimer manipulations can be used to produce a variety of localized and extended defect structures in graphene. Two-dimensional templates result in graphene allotropes, here viewed as extended defects, which can exhibit either metallic or semiconducting electrical character. \emph{Embedded allotropic ribbons}--i.e. thin swaths of the new allotropes--can also be created within graphene. We examine these ribbons and find that they maintain the electrical character of their parent allotrope even when only a few atoms in width. Such extended defects may facilitate the construction of monolithic electronic circuitry.

id: 1007.1416
title: Two-center resonant photo ionization
authors: B.Najjari, A.B.Voitkiv, C.M¨¹ller
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1416
abstract: Photoionization of an atom $A$, in the presence of a neighboring atom $B$, can proceed via resonant excitation of $B$ with subsequent energy transfer to $A$ through two-center electron-electron correlation. We demonstrate that this two-center mechanism can strongly outperform direct photoionization at nanometer internuclear distances and possesses characteristic features in its time development and the spectrum of emitted electrons.

id: 1007.1471
title: Incoherent Mollow triplet
authors: E. del Valle, F. P. Laussy
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 233601 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1471
abstract: A counterpart of the Mollow triplet (luminescence lineshape of a two-level system under coherent excitation) is obtained for the case of incoherent excitation in a cavity. Its analytical expression, in excellent agreement with numerical results, pinpoints analogies and differences between the conventional resonance fluorescence spectrum and its cavity QED analogue under incoherent excitation.

id: 1007.1480
title: Dysprosium magneto-optical traps
authors: Seo Ho Youn, Mingwu Lu, Ushnish Ray, Benjamin L. Lev
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures, follow up material to Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 063001 (2010)
journal: PRA 82, 043425 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1480
abstract: Magneto-optical traps (MOTs) of highly magnetic lanthanides open the door to explorations of novel phases of strongly correlated matter such as lattice supersolids and quantum liquid crystals. We recently reported the first MOTs of the five high abundance isotopes of the most magnetic atom, dysprosium. Described here are details of the experimental technique employed for repumper-free Dy MOTs containing up to half a billion atoms. Extensive characterization of the MOTs' properties---population, temperature, loading, metastable decay dynamics, trap dynamics---is provided.

id: 1007.1528
title: Quantum search by partial adiabatic evolution
authors: Ying-Yu Zhang, Song-Feng Lu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1528
abstract: A quantum search algorithm based on the partial adiabatic evolution\cite{Tulsi2009} is provided. We calculate its time complexity by studying the Hamiltonian in a two-dimensional Hilbert space. It is found that the algorithm improves the time complexity, which is $O(\sqrt{N/M})$, of the local adiabatic search algorithm\cite{Roland2002}, to $O(\sqrt{N}/M)$.

id: 1007.1550
title: Ground-state phase diagram for a system of interacting, $D(D_3)$ non-Abelian anyons
authors: P.E. Finch, H. Frahm, J. Links
comments: 21 pages, accepted to be published in Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nucl. Phys. B, Vol. 844, no. 1, (2011), 129-145
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1550
abstract: We study an exactly solvable model of $D(D_3)$ non-Abelian anyons on a one-dimensional lattice with a free coupling parameter in the Hamiltonian. For certain values of the coupling parameter level crossings occur, which divide the ground-state phase diagram into four regions. We obtain explicit expressions for the ground-state energy in each phase, for both closed and open chain boundary conditions. For the closed chain case we show that chiral phases occur which are characterised by non-zero ground-state momentum.

id: 1007.1657
title: Driving quantized vortices with quantum vacuum fluctuations
authors: Fran?ois Impens, Ana M. Contreras-Reyes, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Diego A. R. Dalvit, Romain Gu¨¦rout, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Comparison with the results given by the pairwise summation approach added in the second figure. Accepted for publication in the Euro Physics Letters
journal: EPL 92, 40010 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1657
abstract: We propose to use a rotating corrugated material plate in order to stir, through the Casimir-Polder interaction, quantized vortices in an harmonically trapped Bose-Einstein condensate. The emergence of such vortices within the condensate cannot be explained with a computation of the Casimir-Polder potential based on the pairwise summation approach or on the proximity force approximation. It thus appears as a genuine signature of non-trivial geometry effects on the electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations, which fully exploits the superfluid nature of the sample. In order to discuss quantitatively the generation of Casimir-driven vortices, we derive an exact non-perturbative theory of the Casimir-Polder potential felt by the atoms in front of the grating. Our numerical results for a Rb condensate close to a Si grating show that the resulting quantum vacuum torque is strong enough to provide a contactless transfer of angular momentum to the condensate and generate quantized vortices under realistic experimental conditions at separation distances around $3$ microns.

id: 1007.1747
title: Theory of Spectrum in Qubit-Oscillator Systems in the Ultrastrong Coupling Regime
authors: Qing-Hu Chen, Lei Li, Tao Liu, Ke-Lin Wang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 29, 014208(2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1747
abstract: Recent measurement on an LC resonator magnetically coupled to a superconducting qubit[arXiv:1005.1559] shows that the system operates in the ultra-strong coupling regime and crosses the limit of validity for the rotating-wave approximation of the Jaynes-Cummings model. By using extended bosonic coherent states, we solve the Jaynes-Cummings model exactly without the rotating-wave approximation. Our numerically exact results for the spectrum of the flux qubit coupled to the LC resonator are fully consistent with the experimental observations. The smallest Bloch-Siegert shift obtained is consistent with that observed in this experiment. In addition, the Bloch-Siegert shifts in arbitrary level transitions and for arbitrary coupling constants are predicted.

id: 1007.1758
title: Exact limiting relation between the structure factors in neutron and x-ray scattering
authors: V.B. Bobrov, S.A. Trigger, S.N. Skovorod'ko
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1758
abstract: The ratio of the static matter structure factor measured in experiments on coherent X-ray scattering to the static structure factor measured in experiments on neutron scattering is considered. It is shown theoretically that this ratio in the long-wavelength limit is equal to the nucleus charge at arbitrary thermodynamic parameters of a pure substance (the system of nuclei and electrons, where interaction between particles is pure Coulomb) in a disordered equilibrium state. This result is the exact relation of the quantum statistical mechanics. The experimental verification of this relation can be done in the long wavelength X-ray and neutron experiments.

id: 1007.1778
title: Quantum Error Correction beyond the Bounded Distance Decoding Limit
authors: Kenta Kasai, Manabu Hagiwara, Hideki Imai, Kohichi Sakaniwa
comments: To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1778
abstract: In this paper, we consider quantum error correction over depolarizing channels with non-binary low-density parity-check codes defined over Galois field of size $2^p$ . The proposed quantum error correcting codes are based on the binary quasi-cyclic CSS (Calderbank, Shor and Steane) codes. The resulting quantum codes outperform the best known quantum codes and surpass the performance limit of the bounded distance decoder. By increasing the size of the underlying Galois field, i.e., $2^p$, the error floors are considerably improved.

id: 1007.1784
title: On the coupling of two quantum dots through a cavity mode
authors: Elena del Valle
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1399, 403 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1784
abstract: The effective coupling of two distant quantum dots through virtual photon exchange in a semiconductor microcavity is studied. The experimental conditions for strong coupling and its manifestation in the spectra of emission are analyzed.

id: 1007.1796
title: Localization of Multi-Dimensional Wigner Distributions
authors: Elliott H. Lieb, Yaron Ostrover
comments: Minor corrections, to appear in the Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1796
abstract: A well known result of P. Flandrin states that a Gaussian uniquely maximizes the integral of the Wigner distribution over every centered disc in the phase plane. While there is no difficulty in generalizing this result to higher-dimensional poly-discs, the generalization to balls is less obvious. In this note we provide such a generalization.

id: 1007.1843
title: Decoherence of intermolecular entanglement in exchange-coupled nanomagnets
authors: A. Szallas, F. Troiani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1843
abstract: We theoretically investigate the hyperfine-induced decoherence in a pair of spin-cluster qubits, consisting of two exchange-coupled heterometallic wheels. We identify two distinct regimes in the decoherence of intermolecular entanglement and show that this can be substantially recovered through dynamical decoupling. Different chemical elements and physical processes are responsible for the decoherence of the singlet-triplet superposition, resulting in a wider tunability of its decoherence time.

id: 1007.1844
title: Symplectic geometry of entanglement
authors: Adam Sawicki, Alan Huckleberry, Marek Ku?
comments: LaTex, 31 pages, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1844
abstract: We present a description of entanglement in composite quantum systems in terms of symplectic geometry. We provide a symplectic characterization of sets of equally entangled states as orbits of group actions in the space of states. In particular, using Kostant-Sternberg theorem, we show that separable states form a unique Kaehler orbit, whereas orbits of entanglement states are characterized by different degrees of degeneracy of the canonical symplectic form on the complex projective space. The degree of degeneracy may be thus used as a new geometric measure of entanglement and we show how to calculate it for various multiparticle systems providing also simple criteria of separability. The presented method is general and can be applied also under different additional symmetry conditions stemming, eg. from the indistinguishability of particles.

id: 1007.1892
title: The ground state of the polar alkali-Strontium molecules: potential energy curve and permanent dipole moment
authors: Romain Gu¨¦rout, Mireille Aymar, Olivier Dulieu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1892
abstract: In this study, we investigate the structure of the polar alkali-Strontium diatomic molecules as possible candidates for the realization of samples of new species of ultracold polar molecules. Using a quantum chemistry approach based on Effective Core Potentials and Core Polarization Potentials, we model these systems as effective three valence electron systems, allowing for calculation of electronic properties with Full Configuration Interaction. The potential curve and the permanent dipole moment of the $^2\Sigma^+$ ground state are determined as functions of the internuclear distances for LiSr, NaSr, KSr, RbSr, and CsSr molecules. These molecules are found to exhibit a significant permanent dipole moment, though smaller than those of the alkali-Rb molecules.

id: 1007.1962
title: Self-isospectrality, mirror symmetry, and exotic nonlinear supersymmetry
authors: Mikhail S. Plyushchay, Luis-Miguel Nieto
comments: 20 pages, comment added. Published version
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:065022,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.1962
abstract: We study supersymmetry of a self-isospectral one-gap Poschl-Teller system in the light of a mirror symmetry that is based on spatial and shift reflections. The revealed exotic, partially broken nonlinear supersymmetry admits seven alternatives for a grading operator. One of its local, first order supercharges may be identified as a Hamiltonian of an associated one-gap, non-periodic Bogoliubov-de Gennes system. The latter possesses a nonlinear supersymmetric structure, in which any of the three non-local generators of a Clifford algebra may be chosen as the grading operator. We find that the supersymmetry generators for the both systems are the Darboux-dressed integrals of a free spin-1/2 particle in the Schrodinger picture, or of a free massive Dirac particle. Nonlocal Foldy- Wouthuysen transformations are shown to be involved in the supersymmetric structure.

id: 1007.2014
title: Exact results on the quench dynamics of the entanglement entropy in the toric code
authors: Armin Rahmani, Claudio Chamon
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 134303 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2014
abstract: We study quantum quenches in the two-dimensional Kitaev toric code model and compute exactly the time-dependent entanglement entropy of the non-equilibrium wave-function evolving from a paramagnetic initial state with the toric code Hamiltonian. We find that the area law survives at all times. Adding disorder to the toric code couplings makes the entanglement entropy per unit boundary length saturate to disorder-independent values at long times and in the thermodynamic limit. There are order-one corrections to the area law from the corners in the subsystem boundary but the topological entropy remains zero at all times. We argue that breaking the integrability with a small magnetic field could change the area law to a volume scaling as expected of thermalized states but is not sufficient for forming topological entanglement due to the presence of an excess energy and a finite density of defects.

id: 1007.2026
title: Quantum Spring from the Casimir Effect
authors: Chao-Jun Feng, Xin-Zhou Li
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, published in PLB
journal: Phys.Lett.B691:167-172,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2026
abstract: The Casimir effect arises not only in the presence of material boundaries but also in space with nontrivial topology. In this paper, we choose a topology of the flat $(D+1)$-dimensional spacetime, which causes the helix boundary condition for a Hermitian massless scalar field. Especially, Casimir effect for a massless scalar field on the helix boundary condition is investigated in two and three dimensions by using the zeta function techniques. The Casimir force parallel to the axis of the helix behaves very much like the force on a spring that obeys the Hooke's law when the ratio $r$ of the pitch to the circumference of the helix is small, but in this case, the force comes from a quantum effect, so we would like to call it \textit{quantum spring}. When $r$ is large, this force behaves like the Newton's law of universal gravitation in the leading order. On the other hand, the force perpendicular to the axis decreases monotonously with the increasing of the ratio $r$. Both forces are attractive and their behaviors are the same in two and three dimensions.

id: 1007.2085
title: Entanglement and Thouless times from coincidence measurements across disordered media
authors: Nicolas Cherroret, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033827 (2011)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2085
abstract: We show that the entanglement of an initially frequency-entangled photon pair propagating through a disordered scattering medium can be read off in transmission from the coincidence counting rate. The very same quantity also encodes the Thouless time of the medium.

id: 1007.2166
title: Ratchet propagation of a magnetic domain wall in a single magnetic wire with quantum interference
authors: Akinobu Yamaguchi, Tomoaki Kishimoto, Hideki Miyajima
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Express 3, 093004 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2166
abstract: Quantum interference incorporating spatially asymmetric potential profiles is realized experimentally to manipulate a magnetic domain wall (DW) into a single multilayered wire whose spacer has a thickness gradient for generating asymmetrical interlayer exchange coupling from side to side. We demonstrate experimentally how to guide a DW in a micron-scale ferromagnetic wire without reflection symmetry of the interlayer exchange coupling. This is the ratcheting of a DW in a form of ratchet potential using quantum interference. The experimental results can be described well by numerical simulations considering spatially asymmetric potential profiles due to quantum interference.

id: 1007.2182
title: Finite Size Scaling of Mutual Information: A Scalable Simulation
authors: Roger G. Melko, Ann B. Kallin, Matthew B. Hastings
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 100409(R) (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2182
abstract: We develop a quantum Monte Carlo procedure to compute the Renyi mutual information of an interacting quantum many-body system at non-zero temperature. Performing simulations on a spin-1/2 XXZ model, we observe that for a subregion of fixed size embedded in a system of size L, the mutual information converges at large L to a limiting function which displays non-monotonic temperature behavior corresponding to the onset of correlations. For a region of size L/2 embedded in a system of size L, the mutual information divided by L converges to a limiting function of temperature, with apparently nontrivial corrections near critical points.

id: 1007.2189
title: Two-Stage Melting in Systems of Strongly Interacting Rydberg Atoms
authors: Hendrik Weimer, Hans Peter B¨¹chler
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 230403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2189
abstract: We analyze the ground state properties of a one-dimensional cold atomic system in a lattice, where Rydberg excitations are created by an external laser drive. In the classical limit, the ground state is characterized by a complete devil's staircase for the commensurate solid structures of Rydberg excitations. Using perturbation theory and a mapping onto an effective low energy Hamiltonian, we find a transition of these commensurate solids into a floating solid with algebraic correlations. For stronger quantum fluctuations the floating solid eventually melts within a second quantum phase transition and the ground state becomes paramagnetic.

id: 1007.2258
title: Sub-Cycle Strong-Field Interferometry
authors: Christian Ott, Philipp Raith, Thomas Pfeifer
comments: first submitted on April 19, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2258
abstract: A nonlinear interferometry scheme is described theoretically to induce and resolve electron wave- function beating on time scales shorter than the optical cycle of the time-delayed pump and probe pulses. By employing two moderately intense few-cycle laser fields with a stable carrier-envelope phase, a large range of the entire electronic level structure of a quantum system can be retrieved. In contrast to single-photon excitation schemes, the retrieved electronic states include levels that are both dipole- and non-dipole-accessible from the ground electronic state. The results show that strong-field interferometry can reveal both high-resolution and broad-band spectral information at the same time with important consequences for quantum-beat spectroscopy on attosecond or even shorter time scales.

id: 1007.2342
title: Spontaneous breaking of spatial and spin symmetry in spinor condensates
authors: M. Scherer, B. L¨¹cke, G. Gebreyesus, O. Topic, F. Deuretzbacher, W. Ertmer, L. Santos, J.J. Arlt, C. Klempt
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 135302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2342
abstract: Parametric amplification of quantum fluctuations constitutes a fundamental mechanism for spontaneous symmetry breaking. In our experiments, a spinor condensate acts as a parametric amplifier of spin modes, resulting in a twofold spontaneous breaking of spatial and spin symmetry in the amplified clouds. Our experiments permit a precise analysis of the amplification in specific spatial Bessel-like modes, allowing for the detailed understanding of the double symmetry breaking. On resonances that create vortex-antivortex superpositions, we show that the cylindrical spatial symmetry is spontaneously broken, but phase squeezing prevents spin-symmetry breaking. If, however, nondegenerate spin modes contribute to the amplification, quantum interferences lead to spin-dependent density profiles and hence spontaneously-formed patterns in the longitudinal magnetization.

id: 1007.2344
title: Emerging Bosons with Three-Body Interactions from Spin-1 Atoms in Optical Lattices
authors: Leonardo Mazza, Matteo Rizzi, Maciej Lewenstein, J.Ignacio Cirac
comments: 17 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043629 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2344
abstract: We study two many-body systems of bosons interacting via an infinite three-body contact repulsion in a lattice: a pairs quasi-condensate induced by correlated hopping and the discrete version of the Pfaffian wavefunction. We propose to experimentally realise systems characterized by such interaction by means of a proper spin-1 lattice Hamiltonian: spin degrees of freedom are locally mapped into occupation numbers of emerging bosons, in a fashion similar to spin-1/2 and hardcore bosons. Such a system can be realized with ultracold spin-1 atoms in a Mott Insulator with filling-factor one. The high versatility of these setups allows us to engineer spin-hopping operators breaking the SU(2) symmetry, as needed to approximate interesting bosonic Hamiltonians with three-body hardcore constraint. For this purpose we combine bichromatic spin-independent superlattices and Raman transitions to induce a different hopping rate for each spin orientation. Finally, we illustrate how our setup could be used to experimentally realize the first setup, i.e. the transition to a pairs quasi-condensed phase of the emerging bosons. We also report on a route towards the realization of a discrete bosonic Pfaffian wavefunction and list some open problems to reach this goal.

id: 1007.2404
title: Electrostatically defined Quantum Dots in a Si/SiGe Heterostructure
authors: A. Wild, J. Sailer, J. N¨¹tzel, G. Abstreiter, S. Ludwig, D. Bougeard
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2404
abstract: We present an electrostatically defined few-electron double quantum dot (QD) realized in a molecular beam epitaxy grown Si/SiGe heterostructure. Transport and charge spectroscopy with an additional QD as well as pulsed-gate measurements are demonstrated. We discuss technological challenges specific for silicon-based heterostructures and the effect of a comparably large effective electron mass on transport properties and tunability of the double QD. Charge noise, which might be intrinsically induced due to strain-engineering is proven not to affect the stable operation of our device as a spin qubit. Our results promise the suitability of electrostatically defined QDs in Si/SiGe heterostructures for quantum information processing.

id: 1007.2416
title: Quantum localization and bound state formation in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Roberto Franzosi, Salvatore M. Giampaolo, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063620 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2416
abstract: We discuss the possibility of exponential quantum localization in systems of ultracold bosonic atoms with repulsive interactions in open optical lattices without disorder. We show that exponential localization occurs in the maximally excited state of the lowest energy band. We establish the conditions under which the presence of the upper energy bands can be neglected, determine the successive stages and the quantum phase boundaries at which localization occurs, and discuss schemes to detect it experimentally by visibility measurements. The discussed mechanism is a particular type of quantum localization that is intuitively understood in terms of the interplay between nonlinearity and a bounded energy spectrum.

id: 1007.2544
title: The three-site Bose-Hubbard model subject to atom losses: the boson-pair dissipation channel and failure of the mean-field approach
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich, D. S. Mogilevtsev
comments: 9 pages; 3 figures in color; submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2544
abstract: We employ the perturbation series expansion for derivation of the reduced master equations for the three-site Bose-Hubbard model subject to strong atom losses from the central site. The model describes a condensate trapped in a triple-well potential subject to externally controlled removal of atoms. We find that the $\pi$-phase state of the coherent superposition between the side wells decays via two dissipation channels, the single-boson channel (similar to the externally applied dissipation) and the boson-pair channel. The quantum derivation is compared to the classical adiabatic elimination within the mean-field approximation. We find that the boson-pair dissipation channel is not captured by the mean-field model, whereas the single-boson channel is described by it. Moreover, there is a matching condition between the zero-point energy bias of the side wells and the nonlinear interaction parameter which separates the regions where either the single-boson or the boson-pair dissipation channel dominate. Our results indicate that the $M$-site Bose-Hubbard models, for $M>2$, subject to atom losses may require an analysis which goes beyond the usual mean-field approximation for correct description of their dissipative features. This is an important result in view of the recent experimental works on the single site addressability of condensates trapped in optical lattices.

id: 1007.2568
title: Atomic number fluctuations in a mixture of two spinor condensates
authors: Jie Zhang, Z. F. Xu, L. You, Yunbo Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, in press PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2568
abstract: We study particle number fluctuations in the quantum ground states of a mixture of two spin-1 atomic condensates when the interspecies spin-exchange coupling interaction $c_{12}\beta$ is adjusted. The two spin-1 condensates forming the mixture are respectively ferromagnetic and polar in the absence of an external magnetic (B-) field. We categorize all possible ground states using the angular momentum algebra and compute their characteristic atom number fluctuations, focusing especially on the the AA phase (when $ c_{12}\beta >0$), where the ground state becomes fragmented and atomic number fluctuations exhibit drastically different features from a single stand alone spin-1 polar condensate. Our results are further supported by numerical simulations of the full quantum many-body system.

id: 1007.2577
title: Lifetime and Coherence of Two-Level Defects in a Josephson Junction
authors: Yoni Shalibo, Ya'ara Rofe, David Shwa, Felix Zeides, Matthew Neeley, John Martinis, Nadav Katz
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures and supplementary material (3 pages, 2 figures, 1 table)
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2577
abstract: We measure the lifetime ($T_{1}$) and coherence ($T_{2}$) of two-level defect states (TLSs) in the insulating barrier of a Josephson phase qubit and compare to the interaction strength between the two systems. We find for the average decay times a power law dependence on the corresponding interaction strengths, whereas for the average coherence times we find an optimum at intermediate coupling strengths. We explain both the lifetime and the coherence results using the standard TLS model, including dipole radiation by phonons and anti-correlated dependence of the energy parameters on environmental fluctuations.

id: 1007.2591
title: Probing magnetic order in ultracold lattice gases
authors: G. De Chiara, O. Romero-Isart, A. Sanpera
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 021604(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2591
abstract: A forthcoming challenge in ultracold lattice gases is the simulation of quantum magnetism. That involves both the preparation of the lattice atomic gas in the desired spin state and the probing of the state. Here we demonstrate how a probing scheme based on atom-light interfaces gives access to the order parameters of nontrivial quantum magnetic phases, allowing us to characterize univocally strongly correlated magnetic systems produced in ultracold gases. This method, which is also nondemolishing, yields spatially resolved spin correlations and can be applied to bosons or fermions. As a proof of principle, we apply this method to detect the complete phase diagram displayed by a chain of (rotationally invariant) spin-1 bosons.

id: 1007.2617
title: Quasiclassical Asymptotics and Coherent States for Bounded Discrete Spectra
authors: K. Gorska, K. A. Penson, A. Horzela, G. H. E. Duchamp, P. Blasiak, A. I. Solomon
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Math. Phys. 51, 122102 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2617
abstract: We consider discrete spectra of bound states for non-relativistic motion in attractive potentials V_{\sigma}(x) = -|V_{0}| |x|^{-\sigma}, 0 < \sigma \leq 2. For these potentials the quasiclassical approximation for n -> \infty predicts quantized energy levels e_{\sigma}(n) of a bounded spectrum varying as e_{\sigma}(n) ~ -n^{-2\sigma/(2-\sigma)}. We construct collective quantum states using the set of wavefunctions of the discrete spectrum taking into account this asymptotic behaviour. We give examples of states that are normalizable and satisfy the resolution of unity, using explicit positive functions. These are coherent states in the sense of Klauder and their completeness is achieved via exact solutions of Hausdorff moment problems, obtained by combining Laplace and Mellin transform methods. For \sigma in the range 0<\sigma\leq 2/3 we present exact implementations of such states for the parametrization \sigma = 2(k-l)/(3k-l), with k and l positive integers satisfying k>l.

id: 1007.2677
title: Rotating Few-body Atomic Systems in the Fractional Quantum Hall Regime
authors: Nathan Gemelke, Edina Sarajlic, Steven Chu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2677
abstract: Topologically-ordered matter is a novel quantum state of matter observed only in a small number of physical systems, notably two-dimensional electron systems exhibiting fractional quantum Hall effects. It was recently proposed that a simple form of topological matter may be created in interacting systems of rotating ultra-cold atoms. We describe ensemble measurements on small, rotating clusters of interacting bosonic atoms, demonstrating that they can be induced into quantum ground states closely analogous to topological states of electronic systems. We report measurements of inter-particle correlations and momentum distributions of Bose gases in the fractional quantum Hall limit, making comparison to a full numerical simulation. The novel experimental apparatus necessary to produce and measure properties of these deeply entangled quantum states is described.

id: 1007.2725
title: On extending the Quantum Measure
authors: Fay Dowker, Steven Johnston, Sumati Surya
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures
journal: J.Phys.A43:505305,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2725
abstract: We point out that a quantum system with a strongly positive quantum measure or decoherence functional gives rise to a vector valued measure whose domain is the algebra of events or physical questions. This gives an immediate handle on the question of the extension of the decoherence functional to the sigma algebra generated by this algebra of events. It is on the latter that the physical transition amplitudes directly give the decoherence functional. Since the full sigma algebra contains physically interesting questions, like the return question, extending the decoherence functional to these more general questions is important. We show that the decoherence functional, and hence the quantum measure, extends if and only if the associated vector measure does. We give two examples of quantum systems whose decoherence functionals do not extend: one is a unitary system with finitely many states, and the other is a quantum sequential growth model for causal sets. These examples fail to extend in the formal mathematical sense and we speculate on whether the conditions for extension are unphysically strong.

id: 1007.2771
title: Dynamical Universal Behavior in Quantum Chaotic Systems
authors: Hongwei Xiong, Biao Wu
comments: 4 figures
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 8 (2011) 398
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2771
abstract: We discover numerically that a moving wave packet in a quantum chaotic billiard will always evolve into a quantum state, whose density probability distribution is exponential. This exponential distribution is found to be universal for quantum chaotic systems with rigorous proof. In contrast, for the corresponding classical system, the distribution is Gaussian. We find that the quantum exponential distribution can smoothly change to the classical Gaussian distribution with coarse graining.

id: 1007.2808
title: Robust quantum dot state preparation via adiabatic passage with frequency-swept optical pulses
authors: C.-M. Simon, T. Belhadj, B. Chatel, T. Amand, P. Renucci, A. Lemaitre, O. Krebs, P. A. Dalgarno, R. J. Warburton, X. Marie, B. Urbaszek
comments: Poster at conference QD2010 Nottingham, UK (26.-30. April 2010)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 166801 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2808
abstract: The energy states in semiconductor quantum dots are discrete as in atoms, and quantum states can be coherently controlled with resonant laser pulses. Long coherence times allow the observation of Rabi-flopping of a single dipole transition in a solid state device, for which occupancy of the upper state depends sensitively on the dipole moment and the excitation laser power. We report on the robust preparation of a quantum state using an optical technique that exploits rapid adiabatic passage from the ground to an excited state through excitation with laser pulses whose frequency is swept through the resonance. This observation in photoluminescence experiments is made possible by introducing a novel optical detection scheme for the resonant electron hole pair (exciton) generation.

id: 1007.2819
title: Weyl law for fat fractals
authors: Maria E. Spina, Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Marcos Saraceno
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, IOP format
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 392003
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2819
abstract: It has been conjectured that for a class of piecewise linear maps the closure of the set of images of the discontinuity has the structure of a fat fractal, that is, a fractal with positive measure. An example of such maps is the sawtooth map in the elliptic regime. In this work we analyze this problem quantum mechanically in the semiclassical regime. We find that the fraction of states localized on the unstable set satisfies a modified fractal Weyl law, where the exponent is given by the exterior dimension of the fat fractal.

id: 1007.2855
title: Quantum Channel Capacities
authors: Graeme Smith
comments: This review of quantum channel capacities is the basis for my upcoming talk at ITW 2010 in Dublin
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2855
abstract: A quantum communication channel can be put to many uses: it can transmit classical information, private classical information, or quantum information. It can be used alone, with shared entanglement, or together with other channels. For each of these settings there is a capacity that quantifies a channel's potential for communication. In this short review, I summarize what is known about the various capacities of a quantum channel, including a discussion of the relevant additivity questions. I also give some indication of potentially interesting directions for future research.

id: 1007.2857
title: Dynamics, Synchronization and Quantum Phase Transitions of Two Dissipative Spins
authors: Peter P. Orth, David Roosen, Walter Hofstetter, Karyn Le Hur
comments: 21 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 144423 (2010) (Editors' Suggestion)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2857
abstract: We analyze the static and dynamical properties of two Ising-coupled quantum spins embedded in a common bosonic bath as an archetype of dissipative quantum mechanics. First, we elucidate the ground state phase diagram for an ohmic and a subohmic bath using a combination of bosonic numerical renormalization group (NRG), analytical techniques and intuitive arguments. Second, employing the time-dependent NRG we investigate the system's rich dynamical behavior arising from the complex interplay between spin-spin and spin-bath interactions. Interestingly, spin oscillations can synchronize due to the proximity of the common non-Markovian bath and the system displays highly entangled steady states for certain nonequilibrium initial preparations. We complement our non-perturbative numerical results by exact analytical solutions when available and provide quantitative limits on the applicability of the perturbative Bloch-Redfield approach at weak coupling.

id: 1007.2909
title: Reply to "Comment on `Dark pulse emission of a fiber laser'"
authors: Han Zhang, Dingyuan Tang, Luming Zhao, Xuan Wu
comments: Reply to T. Sylvestre's comment on our paper [Phys. Rev. A 80, 045803 (2009)]
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 2010
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2909
abstract: We reply to S. Coen and T. Sylvestre's comment on our paper [Phys. Rev. A 80, 045803 (2009)] and make some additional remarks on our experimental results.

id: 1007.2922
title: Explicit solution of the Lindblad equation for nearly isotropic boundary driven XY spin 1/2 chain
authors: Bojan Zunkovic, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 20 Pages, 5 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.1008:P08016,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.2922
abstract: Explicit solution for the 2-point correlation function in a non-equilibrium steady state of a nearly isotropic boundary-driven open XY spin 1/2 chain in the Lindblad formulation is provided. A non-equilibrium quantum phase transition from exponentially decaying correlations to long-range order is discussed analytically. In the regime of long-range order a new phenomenon of correlation resonances is reported, where the correlation response of the system is unusually high for certain discrete values of the external bulk parameter, e.g. the magnetic field.

id: 1007.3051
title: Essence of Special Relativity, Reduced Dirac Equation and Antigravity
authors: Guang-jiong Ni, Suqing Chen, Senyue Lou, Jianjun Xu
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3051
abstract: The essence of special relativity is hiding in the equal existence of particle and antiparticle, which can be expressed by two discrete symmetries within one inertial frame --- the invariance under the (newly defined) space-time inversion (${\bf x}\to -{\bf x},t\to -t$), or equivalently, the invariance under a mass inversion ($m\to -m$). The problems discussed are: the evolution of the $CPT$ invariance into a basic postulate, an unique solution to the original puzzle in Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox, the reduced Dirac equation for hydrogenlike atoms, and the negative mass paradox leading to the prediction of antigravity between matter and antimatter. {\bf Keywords}: Special relativity, Reduced Dirac Equation, Antiparticle, Antigravity

id: 1007.3180
title: Variational methods with coupled Gaussian functions for Bose-Einstein condensates with long-range interactions. I. General concept
authors: Stefan Rau, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 10 pages, submitted to Phys. Rev. A, minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 023610 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3180
abstract: The variational method of coupled Gaussian functions is applied to Bose-Einstein condensates with long-range interactions. The time-dependence of the condensate is described by dynamical equations for the variational parameters. We present the method and analytically derive the dynamical equations from the time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii equation. The stability of the solutions is investigated using methods of nonlinear dynamics. The concept presented in this paper will be applied to Bose-Einstein condensates with monopolar 1/r and dipolar 1/r^3 interaction in the subsequent paper [S. Rau et al., Phys. Rev. A, submitted], where we will present a wealth of new phenomena obtained by using the ansatz with coupled Gaussian functions.

id: 1007.3182
title: Variational methods with coupled Gaussian functions for Bose-Einstein condensates with long-range interactions. II. Applications
authors: Stefan Rau, J?rg Main, Holger Cartarius, Patrick K?berle, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A, some equations corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 023611 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3182
abstract: Bose-Einstein condensates with an attractive 1/r interaction and with dipole-dipole interaction are investigated in the framework of the Gaussian variational ansatz introduced by S. Rau, J. Main, and G. Wunner [Phys. Rev. A, submitted]. We demonstrate that the method of coupled Gaussian wave packets is a full-fledged alternative to direct numerical solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation, or even superior in that coupled Gaussians are capable of producing both, stable and unstable states of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation, and thus of giving access to yet unexplored regions of the space of solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. As an alternative to numerical solutions of the Bogoliubov-de Gennes equations, the stability of the stationary condensate wave functions is investigated by analyzing the stability properties of the dynamical equations of motion for the Gaussian variational parameters in the local vicinity of the stationary fixed points. For blood-cell-shaped dipolar condensates it is shown that on the route to collapse the condensate passes through a pitchfork bifurcation, where the ground state itself turns unstable, before it finally vanishes in a tangent bifurcation.

id: 1007.3245
title: Anisotropic sub-Doppler laser cooling in dysprosium magneto-optical traps
authors: Seo Ho Youn, Mingwu Lu, Benjamin L. Lev
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: PRA 82, 043403 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3245
abstract: Magneto-optical traps (MOTs) of Er and Dy have recently been shown to exhibit population-wide sub-Doppler cooling due to their near degeneracy of excited and ground state Lande g factors. We discuss here an additional, unusual intra-MOT sub-Doppler cooling mechanism that appears when the total Dy MOT cooling laser intensity and magnetic quadrupole gradient increase beyond critical values. Specifically, anisotropically sub-Doppler-cooled cores appear, and their orientation with respect to the quadrupole axis flips at a critical ratio of the MOT laser intensity along the quadrupole axis versus that in the plane of symmetry. This phenomenon can be traced to a loss of the velocity-selective resonance at zero velocity in the cooling force along directions in which the atomic polarization is oriented by the quadrupole field. We present data characterizing this anisotropic laser cooling phenomenon and discuss a qualitative model for its origin based on the extraordinarily large Dy magnetic moment and Dy's near degenerate g factors.

id: 1007.3352
title: Progress toward a first observation of parity violation in chiral molecules by high-resolution laser spectroscopy
authors: Beno?t Darqui¨¦, Clara Stoeffler, Alexander Shelkovnikov, Christophe Daussy, Anne Amy-Klein, Christian Chardonnet, Samia Zrig, Laure Guy, Jeanne Crassous, Pascale Soulard, Pierre Asselin, Therese R. Huet, Peter Schwerdtfeger, Radovan Bast, Trond Saue
comments: 30 pages, 11 figures
journal: Chirality 22:870-884,2010
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3352
abstract: Parity violation (PV) effects in chiral molecules have so far never been experimentally observed. To take this challenge up, a consortium of physicists, chemists, theoreticians and spectroscopists has been established and aims at measuring PV energy differences between two enantiomers by using high-resolution laser spectroscopy. In this article, we present our common strategy to reach this goal, the progress accomplished in the diverse areas, and point out directions for future PV observations. The work of Andr\'e Collet on bromochlorofluoromethane enantiomers, their synthesis and their chiral recognition by cryptophanes made feasible the first generation of experiments presented in this paper.

id: 1007.3398
title: Thermodynamics of enhanced heat transfer: a model study
authors: Karen Hovhannisyan, Armen E. Allahverdyan
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2010) P06010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3398
abstract: Situations where a spontaneous process of energy or matter transfer is enhanced by an external device are widespread in nature (human sweating system, enzyme catalysis, facilitated diffusion across bio-membranes, industrial heat exchangers). The thermodynamics of such processes remains however open. Here we study enhanced heat transfer by a model junction immersed between two thermal baths at different temperatures $T_h$ and $T_c$ ($T_h>T_c$). The transferred heat power is enhanced via controlling the junction by means of external time-dependent fields. Provided that the spontaneous heat flow process is optimized over the junction Hamiltonian, any enhancement of this spontaneous process does demand consumption and subsequent dissipation of work. The efficiency of enhancement is defined via the increment in the heat power divided over the amount of consumed work. We show that this efficiency is bounded from above by $T_c/(T_h-T_c)$. Formally this is identical to the Carnot bound for the efficiency of ordinary refrigerators which transfer heat from cold to hot. It also shares some (but not all) physical features of the Carnot bound.

id: 1007.3462
title: Multiple Scattering: Dispersion, Temperature Dependence, and Annular Pistons
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Jef Wagner, Prachi Parashar, Ines Cavero-Pelaez, Iver Brevik, Simen A. Ellingsen
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures, contributed to the Festschrift for Emilio Elizalde
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3462
abstract: We review various applications of the multiple scattering approach to the calculation of Casimir forces between separate bodies, including dispersion, wedge geometries, annular pistons, and temperature dependence. Exact results are obtained in many cases.

id: 1007.3487
title: Dual-wavelength domain wall solitons in a fiber ring laser
authors: Han Zhang, Dingyuan Tang, Luming Zhao, Xuan Wu
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3487
abstract: We report on the experimental observation of a new type of dark soliton in a fiber laser made of all normal group velocity dispersion fibers. It was shown that the soliton is formed due to the cross coupling between two different wavelength laser beams and has the characteristic of separating the two different wavelength laser emissions. Moreover, we show experimentally that the dual-wavelength dark solitons have a much lower pump threshold than that of the nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation dark solitons formed in the same laser.

id: 1007.3513
title: Status of the Radial Schrodinger Equation
authors: Anzor A.Khelashvili, Teimuraz P. Nadareishvili
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3513
abstract: We show that equation for radial wave function in its traditional form is compatible with the full Schrodinger equation if and only if a definite additional constraint required. This constraint has a boundary condition form at the origin. Some of consequences are also discussed.

id: 1007.3520
title: Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Lev S. Bishop
comments: Yale University PhD Thesis (May 2010). 168 pages. To obtain hardcopies see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3520
abstract: Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics (cQED), the study of the interaction between superconducting circuits behaving as artificial atoms and 1-dimensional transmission-line resonators, has shown much promise for quantum information processing tasks. For the purposes of quantum computing it is usual to approximate the artificial atoms as 2-level qubits, and much effort has been expended on attempts to isolate these qubits from the environment and to invent ever more sophisticated control and measurement schemes. Rather than focussing on these technological aspects of the field, this thesis investigates the opportunities for using these carefully engineered systems for answering questions of fundamental physics.

id: 1007.3548
title: Kelvin-Tkachenko waves of few-vortex arrays in trapped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: T.P. Simula, K. Machida
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 16 movies this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063627 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3548
abstract: We have calculated the low-lying elementary excitations of three-dimensional few-vortex arrays in trapped Bose-Einstein condensates. The number of different Kelvin-Tkachenko vortex wave branches matches the number of vortices in the condensate. The lowest odd-parity modes exhibit superfluid gyroscopic vortex motion. Experimentally, these modes could be excited and observed individually or in connection with the formation and decay of quantum turbulence.

id: 1007.3551
title: Rotating Dipolar Spin-1 Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: T. P. Simula, J. A. M. Huhtam?ki, M. Takahashi, T. Mizushima, K. Machida
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 80, 013001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3551
abstract: We have computed phase diagrams for rotating spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensates with long-range magnetic dipole-dipole interactions. Spin textures including vortex sheets, staggered half-quantum- and skyrmion vortex lattices and higher order topological defects have been found. These systems exhibit both superfluidity and magnetic crystalline ordering and they could be realized experimentally by imparting angular momentum in the condensate.

id: 1007.3590
title: Dynamics of Morphology-Dependent Resonances by Openness in Dielectric Disk for TE polarization
authors: Jinhang Cho, Sunghwan Rim, Chil-Min Kim
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3590
abstract: We have studied the dynamics of morphology-dependent resonances by openness in a dielectric microdisk for TE polarization. For the first time, we report that the dynamics exhibits avoided resonance crossings between inner and outer resonances even though the corresponding billiard is integrable. Due to the avoidance, inner and outer resonances can be exchanged and $Q$-factor of inner resonances is strongly affected. We analyze the diverse phenomena aroused from the dynamics including the avoided crossings.

id: 1007.3624
title: Unbounded-error quantum computation with small space bounds
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz, A. C. Cem Say
comments: A preliminary version of this paper appeared in the Proceedings of the Fourth International Computer Science Symposium in Russia, pages 356--367, 2009
journal: Information and Computation, Volume 209, Issue 6, June 2011, Pages 873-892
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3624
abstract: We prove the following facts about the language recognition power of quantum Turing machines (QTMs) in the unbounded error setting: QTMs are strictly more powerful than probabilistic Turing machines for any common space bound $ s $ satisfying $ s(n)=o(\log \log n) $. For "one-way" Turing machines, where the input tape head is not allowed to move left, the above result holds for $s(n)=o(\log n) $. We also give a characterization for the class of languages recognized with unbounded error by real-time quantum finite automata (QFAs) with restricted measurements. It turns out that these automata are equal in power to their probabilistic counterparts, and this fact does not change when the QFA model is augmented to allow general measurements and mixed states. Unlike the case with classical finite automata, when the QFA tape head is allowed to remain stationary in some steps, more languages become recognizable. We define and use a QTM model that generalizes the other variants introduced earlier in the study of quantum space complexity.

id: 1007.3698
title: Critical Casimir forces involving a chemically structured substrate
authors: F. Parisen Toldin, S. Dietrich
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, ws-procs9x6 class. Contribution to the proceedings of QFEXT09, Norman (OK), USA, 21-25 September 2009
journal: Proceedings of the Ninth Conference on Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT09), p. 355
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3698
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments with confined binary liquid mixtures near their continous demixing phase transition we study the critical behavior of a system, which belongs to the Ising universality class, for the film geometry with one planar wall chemically structured such that there is a laterally alternating adsorption preference for the species of the binary liquid mixture. By means of Monte Carlo simulations and finite-size scaling analysis we determine the critical Casimir force and the corresponding universal scaling function.

id: 1007.3733
title: Ultrafast optical control of entanglement between two quantum dot spins
authors: Danny Kim, Samuel G. Carter, Alex Greilich, Allan Bracker, Daniel Gammon
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Physics 7, 223-229 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3733
abstract: The interaction between two quantum bits enables entanglement, the two-particle correlations that are at the heart of quantum information science. In semiconductor quantum dots much work has focused on demonstrating single spin qubit control using optical techniques. However, optical control of entanglement of two spin qubits remains a major challenge for scaling from a single qubit to a full-fledged quantum information platform. Here, we combine advances in vertically-stacked quantum dots with ultrafast laser techniques to achieve optical control of the entangled state of two electron spins. Each electron is in a separate InAs quantum dot, and the spins interact through tunneling, where the tunneling rate determines how rapidly entangling operations can be performed. The two-qubit gate speeds achieved here are over an order of magnitude faster than in other systems. These results demonstrate the viability and advantages of optically controlled quantum dot spins for multi-qubit systems.

id: 1007.3751
title: Pairing symmetry and vortex zero-mode for superconducting Dirac fermions
authors: Chi-Ken Lu, Igor F. Herbut
comments: Accepted version with new references and few more comments on symmetry classes
journal: Physical Review B 82 144505 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3751
abstract: We study the vortex zero-energy bound states in presence of pairing among the low-energy Dirac fermions on the surface of a topological insulator. The pairing symmetries considered include the $s$-wave, $p$-wave, and, in particular, the mixed-parity symmetry, which arises in absence of the inversion symmetry on the surface. The zero-mode is analyzed within the generalized Jackiw-Rossi-Dirac Hamiltonian that contains a momentum-dependent mass-term, and includes the effects of the electromagnetic gauge field and the Zeeman coupling as well. At a finite chemical potential, as long as the spectrum without the vortex is fully gapped, the presence of a single Fermi surface with a definite helicity always leads to one Majorana zero-mode, in which both electron's spin projections participate. In particular, the critical effects of the Zeeman coupling on the zero-mode are discussed.

id: 1007.3752
title: On-chip SQUID measurements in the presence of high magnetic fields
authors: L. Chen, W. Wernsdorfer, C. Lampropoulos, G. Christou, I. Chiorescu
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nanotechnology 21 405504 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3752
abstract: We report a low temperature measurement technique and magnetization data of a quantum molecular spin, by implementing an on-chip SQUID technique. This technique enables the SQUID magnetometery in high magnetic fields, up to 7 Tesla. The main challenges and the calibration process are detailed. The measurement protocol is used to observe quantum tunneling jumps of the S=10 molecular magnet, Mn12-tBuAc. The effect of transverse field on the tunneling splitting for this molecular system is addressed as well.

id: 1007.3800
title: A new family of shape invariantly deformed Darboux-P?schl-Teller potentials with continuous \ell
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 19 pages. Sec.5(Summary and Comments): one sentence added in the first paragraph, several sentences modified in the last paragraph. References: one reference ([25]) added
journal: J.Phys.A44:195203,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3800
abstract: We present a new family of shape invariant potentials which could be called a ``continuous \ell version" of the potentials corresponding to the exceptional (X_{\ell}) J1 Jacobi polynomials constructed recently by the present authors. In a certain limit, it reduces to a continuous \ell family of shape invariant potentials related to the exceptional (X_{\ell}) L1 Laguerre polynomials. The latter was known as one example of the `conditionally exactly solvable potentials' on a half line.

id: 1007.3828
title: Phonon resonances in atomic currents through Bose-Fermi mixtures in optical lattices
authors: M. Bruderer, T. H. Johnson, S. R. Clark, D. Jaksch, A. Posazhennikova, W. Belzig
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043617 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3828
abstract: We present an analysis of Bose-Fermi mixtures in optical lattices for the case where the lattice potential of the fermions is tilted and the bosons (in the superfluid phase) are described by Bogoliubov phonons. It is shown that the Bogoliubov phonons enable hopping transitions between fermionic Wannier-Stark states; these transitions are accompanied by energy dissipation into the superfluid and result in a net atomic current along the lattice. We derive a general expression for the drift velocity of the fermions and find that the dependence of the atomic current on the lattice tilt exhibits negative differential conductance and phonon resonances. Numerical simulations of the full dynamics of the system based on the time-evolving block decimation algorithm reveal that the phonon resonances should be observable under the conditions of a realistic measuring procedure.

id: 1007.3870
title: Comment on `Supersymmetry, PT-symmetry and spectral bifurcation'
authors: B. Bagchi, C. Quesne
comments: 6 pages, no figure, published version
journal: Annals Phys.326:534-537,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3870
abstract: We demonstrate that the recent paper by Abhinav and Panigrahi entitled `Supersymmetry, PT-symmetry and spectral bifurcation' [Ann.\ Phys.\ 325 (2010) 1198], which considers two different types of superpotentials for the PT-symmetric complexified Scarf II potential, fails to take into account the invariance under the exchange of its coupling parameters. As a result, they miss the important point that for unbroken PT-symmetry this potential indeed has two series of real energy eigenvalues, to which one can associate two different superpotentials. This fact was first pointed out by the present authors during the study of complex potentials having a complex $sl(2)$ potential algebra.

id: 1007.3877
title: Equivalence condition for the canonical and microcanonical ensembles in coupled spin systems
authors: Wenxian Zhang, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, 4 tables, in RevTex 4.1 format
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 041127 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3877
abstract: It is typically assumed, without justification, that a weak coupling between a system and a bath is a necessary condition for the equivalence of a canonical ensemble and a microcanonical ensemble. For instance, in a canonical ensemble, temperature emerges if the system and the bath are uncoupled or weakly coupled. We investigate the validity region of this weak coupling approximation, using a coupled composite-spin system. Our results show that the spin coupling strength can be as large as the level spacing of the system, indicating that the weak coupling approximation has a much wider region of validity than usually expected.

id: 1007.3895
title: Atom-dimer scattering length for fermions with different masses: analytical study of limiting cases
authors: F. Alzetto, R. Combescot, X. Leyronas
comments: Very simple form for the solution added; conclusion added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062706 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3895
abstract: We consider the problem of obtaining the scattering length for a fermion colliding with a dimer, formed from a fermion identical to the incident one and another different fermion. This is done in the universal regime where the range of interactions is short enough so that the scattering length $a$ for non identical fermions is the only relevant quantity. This is the generalization to fermions with different masses of the problem solved long ago by Skorniakov and Ter-Martirosian for particles with equal masses. We solve this problem analytically in the two limiting cases where the mass of the solitary fermion is very large or very small compared to the mass of the two other identical fermions. This is done both for the value of the scattering length and for the function entering the Skorniakov-Ter-Martirosian integral equation, for which simple explicit expressions are obtained.

id: 1007.3922
title: Superstatistics approach to path integral for a relativistic particle
authors: Petr Jizba, Hagen Kleinert
comments: 25 pages, revtex 4, minor changes
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:085016,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3922
abstract: Superstatistics permits the calculation of the Feynman propagator of a relativistic particle in a novel way from a superstatistical average over non-relativistic single-particle paths. We illustrate this for the Klein-Gordon particle in the Feshbach-Villars representation, and for the Dirac particle in the Schroedinger-Dirac representation. As a byproduct we recover the worldline representation of Klein-Gordon and Dirac propagators, and discuss the role of the smearing distributions in fixing the reparametrization freedom. The emergent relativity picture that follows from our approach together with a novel representation of the Lorentz group for the Feshbach-Villars particle are also discussed.

id: 1007.3930
title: Modeling electronic structure and transport properties of graphene with resonant scattering centers
authors: Shengjun Yuan, Hans De Raedt, Mikhail I. Katsnelson
comments: 17 pages, 17 figures, expanded version to appear in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 115448 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3930
abstract: We present a detailed numerical study of the electronic properties of single-layer graphene with resonant ("hydrogen") impurities and vacancies within a framework of noninteracting tight-binding model on a honeycomb lattice. The algorithms are based on the numerical solution of the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation and applied to calculate the density of states, \textit{quasieigenstates}, AC and DC conductivities of large samples containing millions of atoms. Our results give a consistent picture of evolution of electronic structure and transport properties of functionalized graphene in a broad range of concentration of impurities (from graphene to graphane), and show that the formation of impurity band is the main factor determining electrical and optical properties at intermediate impurity concentrations, together with a gap opening when approaching the graphane limit.

id: 1007.3969
title: Affine Constellations Without Mutually Unbiased Counterparts
authors: Stefan Weigert, Thomas Durt
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 43 (2010) 402002
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3969
abstract: It has been conjectured that a complete set of mutually unbiased bases in a space of dimension d exists if and only if there is an affine plane of order d. We introduce affine constellations and compare their existence properties with those of mutually unbiased constellations, mostly in dimension six. The observed discrepancies make a deeper relation between the two existence problems unlikely.

id: 1007.4050
title: Exotic phase diagram of a topological quantum system
authors: Xiao-Feng Shi, Yan Chen, J. Q. You
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 174412 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4050
abstract: We study the quantum phase transitions (QPTs) in the Kitaev spin model on a triangle-honeycomb lattice. In addition to the ordinary topological QPTs between Abelian and non-Abelian phases, we find new QPTs which can occur between two phases belonging to the same topological class, namely, either two non-Abelian phases with the same Chern number or two Abelian phases with the same Chern number. Such QPTs result from the singular behaviors of the nonlocal spin-spin correlation functions at the critical points.

id: 1007.4094
title: Modular Theory, Non-Commutative Geometry and Quantum Gravity
authors: Paolo Bertozzini, Roberto Conti, Wicharn Lewkeeratiyutkul
comments: Special Issue "Noncommutative Spaces and Fields"
journal: SIGMA 6:067,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4094
abstract: This paper contains the first written exposition of some ideas (announced in a previous survey) on an approach to quantum gravity based on Tomita-Takesaki modular theory and A. Connes non-commutative geometry aiming at the reconstruction of spectral geometries from an operational formalism of states and categories of observables in a covariant theory. Care has been taken to provide a coverage of the relevant background on modular theory, its applications in non-commutative geometry and physics and to the detailed discussion of the main foundational issues raised by the proposal.

id: 1007.4121
title: Quasiclassical and Quantum Systems of Angular Momentum. Part I. Group Algebras as a Framework for Quantum-Mechanical Models with Symmetries
authors: J. J. S?awianowski, V. Kovalchuk, A. Martens, B. Go?ubowska, E. E. Ro?ko
comments: 
journal: Journal of Geometry and Symmetry in Physics, vol. 21, 2011, pp. 61-94
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4121
abstract: We use the mathematical structure of group algebras and $H^{+}$-algebras for describing certain problems concerning the quantum dynamics of systems of angular momenta, including also the spin systems. The underlying groups are ${\rm SU}(2)$ and its quotient ${\rm SO}(3,\mathbb{R})$. The scheme developed is applied in two different contexts. Firstly, the purely group-algebraic framework is applied to the system of angular momenta of arbitrary origin, e.g., orbital angular momenta of electrons and nucleons, systems of quantized angular momenta of rotating extended objects like molecules. The other promising area of applications is Schr\"odinger quantum mechanics of rigid body with its often rather unexpected and very interesting features. Even within this Schr\"odinger framework the algebras of operators related to group algebras are a very useful tool. We investigate some problems of composed systems and the quasiclassical limit obtained as the asymptotics of "large" quantum numbers, i.e., "quickly oscillating" functions on groups. They are related in an interesting way to geometry of the coadjoint orbits of ${\rm SU}(2)$.

id: 1007.4130
title: Fractional-Power-Law Level-Statistics due to Dynamical Tunneling
authors: Arnd B?cker, Roland Ketzmerick, Steffen L?ck, Normann Mertig
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 024101 (2011)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4130
abstract: For systems with a mixed phase space we demonstrate that dynamical tunneling universally leads to a fractional power law of the level-spacing distribution P(s) over a wide range of small spacings s. Going beyond Berry-Robnik statistics, we take into account that dynamical tunneling rates between the regular and the chaotic region vary over many orders of magnitude. This results in a prediction of P(s) which excellently describes the spectral data of the standard map. Moreover, we show that the power-law exponent is proportional to the effective Planck constant h.

id: 1007.4145
title: Entanglement renormalization and gauge symmetry
authors: Luca Tagliacozzo, Guifre Vidal
comments: reviewed version as published in PRB; this version includes a new section about the accuracy of the results several corrections and added citations
journal: Phys.Rev.B83:115127,2011
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4145
abstract: A lattice gauge theory is described by a redundantly large vector space that is subject to local constraints, and can be regarded as the low energy limit of an extended lattice model with a local symmetry. We propose a numerical coarse-graining scheme to produce low energy, effective descriptions of lattice models with a local symmetry, such that the local symmetry is exactly preserved during coarse-graining. Our approach results in a variational ansatz for the ground state(s) and low energy excitations of such models and, by extension, of lattice gauge theories. This ansatz incorporates the local symmetry in its structure, and exploits it to obtain a significant reduction of computational costs. We test the approach in the context of the toric code with a magnetic field, equivalent to Z2 lattice gauge theory, for lattices with up to 16 x 16 sites (16^2 x 2 = 512 spins) on a torus. We reproduce the well-known ground state phase diagram of the model, consisting of a deconfined and spin polarized phases separated by a continuous quantum phase transition, and obtain accurate estimates of energy gaps, ground state fidelities, Wilson loops, and several other quantities.

id: 1007.4204
title: Universal quantum computation on a semiconductor quantum wire network
authors: Jay D. Sau, Sumanta Tewari, S. Das Sarma
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052322 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4204
abstract: Universal quantum computation (UQC) using Majorana fermions on a 2D topological superconducting (TS) medium remains an outstanding open problem. This is because the quantum gate set that can be generated by braiding of the Majorana fermions does not include \emph{any} two-qubit gate and also the single-qubit $\pi/8$ phase gate. In principle, it is possible to create these crucial extra gates using quantum interference of Majorana fermion currents. However, it is not clear if the motion of the various order parameter defects (vortices, domain walls, \emph{etc.}), to which the Majorana fermions are bound in a TS medium, can be quantum coherent. We show that these obstacles can be overcome using a semiconductor quantum wire network in the vicinity of an $s$-wave superconductor, by constructing topologically protected two-qubit gates and any arbitrary single-qubit phase gate in a topologically unprotected manner, which can be error corrected using magic state distillation. Thus our strategy, using a judicious combination of topologically protected and unprotected gate operations, realizes UQC on a quantum wire network with a remarkably high error threshold of $0.14$ as compared to $10^{-3}$ to $10^{-4}$ in ordinary unprotected quantum computation.

id: 1007.4243
title: Quantum mechanics of a free particle from properties of the Dirac delta function
authors: Denys I. Bondar, Robert R. Lompay, Wing-Ki Liu
comments: 3 pages
journal: American Journal of Physics 79: 392 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4243
abstract: Based on the assumption that the probability density of finding a free particle is independent of position, we infer the form of the eigenfunction for the free particle, $\bra{x} p > = \exp(ipx/\hbar)/\sqrt{2\pi\hbar}$. The canonical commutation relation between the momentum and position operators and the Ehrenfest theorem in the free particle case are derived solely from differentiation of the delta function and the form of $\bra{x} p >$.

id: 1007.4252
title: On the non-Abelian monopoles on the background of spaces with constant curvature
authors: V. Red'kov
comments: 82 pages. Invited talk to BGL-7: International Conference on Non-Euclidean Geometry and its applications. 5 -- 9 July 2010, Kluj-Napoca, Romania
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4252
abstract: Procedure of constructing the BPS solutions in SO(3) model on the background of 4D-space-time with the spatial part as a model of constant curvature: Euclid, Riemann, Lobachevsky, is reexamined. It is shown that among possible solutions$W^{k}_{\alpha}(x)$ there exist just three ones which in a one-to-one correspondence can be associated with respective geometries, the known non-singular BPS-solution in the flat Minkowski space can be understood as a result of somewhat artificial combining the Minkowski space model with a possibility naturally linked up with the Loba\-chevsky geometry. A special solution $W^{k}_{(triv)\alpha} (x)$ in three spaces is described, which can be understood as result of embedding the Abelian monopole potential into the non-Abelian model. The problem of Dirac fermion doublet in the~external BPS-monopole potential in these curved spaces is examined on the base of generally covariant tetrad formalism by Tetrode-Weyl-Fock-Ivanenko. In the frame of spherical coordinates, and (Schr\"{o}dinger's) tetrad basis, and special unitary basis in isotopic space, an analog of Schwin\-ger's one in Abelian case, there arises a Schr\"{o}dinger's structure for extended operator ${\bf J} = {\bf l} + {\bf S} + {\bf T}$. Correspondingly, instead of monopole harmonics, the language of conventional Wigner $D$-functions is used, radial equations are founds in all three models, and solved in the case of trivial W^{k}_{(triv)\alpha} (x)$ in Lobachevsky and Riemann models. In the particular case $W^{k}_{(triv)\alpha} (x)$, the~doublet-monopole Hamiltonian is invariant under additional one-para\-metric group. This symmetry results in a freedom in choosing a~discrete operator $\hat{N}_{A}$ entering the complete set of quantum variables.

id: 1007.4253
title: On a Dirac particle in an uniform magnetic field in 3-dimensional spaces of constant curvature
authors: E.M. Ovsiyuk, V.V. Kisel, V.M. Red'kov
comments: 34 pages, Submitted to SIGMA
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4253
abstract: There are constructed exact solutions of the quantum-mechanical Dirac equation for a spin S=1/2 particle in Riemannian space of constant negative curvature, hyperbolic Lobachevsky space, in presence of an external magnetic field, analogue of the homogeneous magnetic field in the Minkowski space. A generalized formula for energy levels, describing quantization of the transversal motion of the particle in magnetic field has been obtained. The same problem is solved for spin 1/2 particle in the space of constant positive curvature, spherical Riemann space. A generalized formula for energy levels, describing quantization of the transversal and along the magnetic field motions of the particle on the background of the Riemann space geometry, is obtained.

id: 1007.4255
title: Interlaced Dynamical Decoupling and Coherent Operation of a Singlet-Triplet Qubit
authors: C. Barthel, J. Medford, C. M. Marcus, M. P. Hanson, A. C. Gossard
comments: related papers at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 266808 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4255
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate coherence recovery of singlet-triplet superpositions by interlacing qubit rotations between Carr-Purcell (CP) echo sequences. We then compare performance of Hahn, CP, concatenated dynamical decoupling (CDD) and Uhrig dynamical decoupling (UDD) for singlet recovery. In the present case, where gate noise and drift combined with spatially varying hyperfine coupling contribute significantly to dephasing, and pulses have limited bandwidth, CP and CDD yield comparable results, with T2 ~ 80 microseconds.

id: 1007.4307
title: Optimal refrigerator
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Karen Hovhannisyan, Guenter Mahler
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 81, 051129 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4307
abstract: We study a refrigerator model which consists of two $n$-level systems interacting via a pulsed external field. Each system couples to its own thermal bath at temperatures $T_h$ and $T_c$, respectively ($\theta\equiv T_c/T_h<1$). The refrigerator functions in two steps: thermally isolated interaction between the systems driven by the external field and isothermal relaxation back to equilibrium. There is a complementarity between the power of heat transfer from the cold bath and the efficiency: the latter nullifies when the former is maximized and {\it vice versa}. A reasonable compromise is achieved by optimizing the product of the heat-power and efficiency over the Hamiltonian of the two system. The efficiency is then found to be bounded from below by $\zeta_{\rm CA}=\frac{1}{\sqrt{1-\theta}}-1$ (an analogue of the Curzon-Ahlborn efficiency), besides being bound from above by the Carnot efficiency $\zeta_{\rm C} = \frac{1}{1-\theta}-1$. The lower bound is reached in the equilibrium limit $\theta\to 1$. The Carnot bound is reached (for a finite power and a finite amount of heat transferred per cycle) for $\ln n\gg 1$. If the above maximization is constrained by assuming homogeneous energy spectra for both systems, the efficiency is bounded from above by $\zeta_{\rm CA}$ and converges to it for $n\gg 1$.

id: 1007.4326
title: Exact spectrum for quantum oscillator in spaces of constant curvature from WKB-quantization
authors: E.M. Ovsiyuk, V.M. Red'kov
comments: 12 pages, Contrivution to BGL-7: International Conference on Non-Euclidean Geometry and its applications. 5 -- 9 July 2010, Kluj-Napoca, ROMANIA
journal: Doklady Natsionalnoi Akademii Nauk Belarusi. 2010. 54, no 6. 38-45
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4326
abstract: Quantum-mechanical WKB-method is elaborated for the known quantum oscillator problem in curved 3-spaces models Euclid, Riemann, and Lobachevsky E_{3}, H_{3}, S_{3} in the framework of the complex variable function theory. Generalized generally covariant Schr\"{o}dinger equation is considered. In all three space models, exact energy levels are found with the help of constructing special formal WKB-sieries.

id: 1007.4349
title: Examples of Pseudo-bosons in quantum mechanics
authors: Fabio Bagarello
comments: in press in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4349
abstract: We discuss two physical examples of the so-called {\em pseudo-bosons}, recently introduced in connection with pseudo-hermitian quantum mechanics. In particular, we show that the so-called {\em extended harmonic oscillator} and the {\em Swanson model} satisfy all the assumptions of the pseudo-bosonic framework introduced by the author. We also prove that the biorthogonal bases they produce are not Riesz bases.

id: 1007.4425
title: Influence of diffusion of atoms on the dark resonance lineshape in spatially bounded laser fields
authors: V. I. Romanenko, A. V. Romanenko, L. P. Yatsenko
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, 2010, Vol. 55 no.4, pp. 393-402 (www.ujp.bitp.kiev.ua)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4425
abstract: We propose a diffusion model for the recently discovered diffusion-induced Ramsey narrowing arising when atoms diffuse in a buffer-gas cell in the laser radiation field. The diffusion equation for the coherence of metastable states coupled with an excited state by laser radiation of different frequencies in a three-level scheme of the atom-field interaction is obtained in the strong-collision approximation. The dependence of the shape of an absorption line near the transmission maximum of one of the frequencies on the two-photon resonance detuning for various geometries of the cell is investigated.

id: 1007.4626
title: Strongly subadditive functions
authors: Koenraad Audenaer, Fumio Hiai, Denes Petz
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4626
abstract: Let f be a function defined on positive numbers. The subject is the trace inequality $Tr f(A) + Tr f(P_2AP_2) \le Tr f(P_{12}AP_{12}) + \Tr f(P_{23}AP_{23})$, where $A$ is a positive operator, $P_1,P_2,P_3$ are orthogonal projections such that $P_1+P_2+P_3=I$, $P_{12}=P_1+P_2$ and $P_{23}=P_2+P_3$. There are several examples of functions f satisfying the inequality (called (SSA)) and the case of equality is described.

id: 1007.4714
title: Detecting phonon blockade with photons
authors: Nicolas Didier, Stefano Pugnetti, Yaroslav M. Blanter, Rosario Fazio
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 054503 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4714
abstract: Measuring the quantum dynamics of a mechanical system, when few phonons are involved, remains a challenge. We show that a superconducting microwave resonator linearly coupled to the mechanical mode constitutes a very powerful probe for this scope. This new coupling can be much stronger than the usual radiation pressure interaction by adjusting a gate voltage. We focus on the detection of phonon blockade, showing that it can be observed by measuring the statistics of the light in the cavity. The underlying reason is the formation of an entangled state between the two resonators. Our scheme realizes a phonotonic Josephson junction, giving rise to coherent oscillations between phonons and photons as well as a self-trapping regime for a coupling smaller than a critical value. The transition from the self-trapping to the oscillating regime is also induced dynamically by dissipation.

id: 1007.4786
title: Effective models for conductance in magnetic fields: derivation of Harper and Hofstadter models
authors: Giuseppe De Nittis, Gianluca Panati
comments: 54 pages, 2 figures. Key words: Hofstadter model, Harper model, magnetic Bloch electron
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4786
abstract: Some relevant transport properties of solids do not depend only on the spectrum of the electronic Hamiltonian, but on finer properties preserved only by unitary equivalence, the most striking example being the conductance. When interested in such properties, and aiming to a simpler model, it is mandatory to check that the simpler effective Hamiltonian is approximately unitarily equivalent to the original one, in the appropriate asymptotic regime. In this paper, we consider the Hamiltonian of an electron in a 2-dimensional periodic potential (e.g. generated by the ionic cores of a crystalline solid) under the influence of a uniform transverse magnetic field. We prove that such Hamiltonian is approximately unitarily equivalent to a Hofstadter-like (resp. Harper-like) Hamiltonian, in the limit of weak (resp. strong) magnetic field. The result concerning the case of weak magnetic field holds true in any dimension. Finally, in the limit of strong uniform magnetic field, we show that an additional periodic magnetic potential induces a non-trivial coupling of the Landau bands.

id: 1007.4825
title: Renyi entropy, mutual information, and fluctuation properties of Fermi liquids
authors: Brian Swingle
comments: 9 pages, 3 big figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 045109 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4825
abstract: I compute the leading contribution to the ground state Renyi entropy $S_{\alpha}$ for a region of linear size $L$ in a Fermi liquid. The result contains a universal boundary law violating term simply related the more familiar entanglement entropy. I also obtain a universal crossover function that smoothly interpolates between the zero temperature result and the ordinary thermal Renyi entropy of a Fermi liquid. Formulas for the entanglement entropy of more complicated regions, including non-convex and disconnected regions, are obtained from the conformal field theory formulation of Fermi surface dynamics. These results permit an evaluation of the quantum mutual information between different regions in a Fermi liquid. I also study the number fluctuations in a Fermi liquid. Taken together, these results give a reasonably complete characterization of the low energy quantum information content of Fermi liquids.

id: 1007.4877
title: Observation of universal behaviour of ultracold quantum critical gases
authors: Hongwei Xiong, Xinzhou Tan, Bing Wang, Lijuan Cao, Baolong L¨¹
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4877
abstract: Quantum critical matter has already been studied in many systems, including cold atomic gases. We report the observation of a universal behaviour of ultracold quantum critical Bose gases in a one-dimensional optical lattice. In the quantum critical region above the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless transition, the relative phase fluctuations between neighboring subcondensates and spatial phase fluctuations of quasi-2D subcondensates coexist. We study the density probability distribution function when both these two phase fluctuations are considered. A universal exponential density probability distribution is demonstrated experimentally, which agrees well with a simple theoretical model by considering these two phase fluctuations.

id: 1007.4939
title: Isotropic contact forces in arbitrary representation: heterogeneous few-body problems and low dimensions
authors: Ludovic Pricoupenko
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 83 (2011) 062711
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4939
abstract: The Bethe-Peierls asymptotic approach which models pairwise short-range forces by contact conditions is introduced in arbitrary representation for spatial dimensions less than or equal to 3. The formalism is applied in various situations and emphasis is put on the momentum representation. In the presence of a transverse harmonic confinement, dimensional reduction toward two-dimensional (2D) or one-dimensional (1D) physics is derived within this formalism. The energy theorem relating the mean energy of an interacting system to the asymptotic behavior of the one-particle density matrix illustrates the method in its second quantized form. Integral equations that encapsulate the Bethe-Peierls contact condition for few-body systems are derived. In three dimensions, for three-body systems supporting Efimov states, a nodal condition is introduced in order to obtain universal results from the Skorniakov Ter-Martirosian equation and the Thomas collapse is avoided. Four-body bound state eigenequations are derived and the 2D '3+1' bosonic ground state is computed as a function of the mass ratio.

id: 1007.4946
title: Lorentz-invariant Bohmian description of inelastic scattering in QFT
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4946
abstract: The Lorentz-invariant S-matrix elements in interacting quantum field theory (QFT) are used to represent the QFT state by a Lorentz-invariant many-time wave function. Such a wave function can be used to describe inelastic scattering processes (involving particle creation and destruction) by Bohmian particle trajectories satisfying relativistic-covariant equations of motion.

id: 1007.4948
title: Minimization of phonon-tunneling dissipation in mechanical resonators
authors: Garrett D. Cole, Ignacio Wilson-Rae, Katharina Werbach, Michael R. Vanner, Markus Aspelmeyer
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nat. Comm. 2:231 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4948
abstract: Micro- and nanoscale mechanical resonators have recently emerged as ubiquitous devices for use in advanced technological applications, for example in mobile communications and inertial sensors, and as novel tools for fundamental scientific endeavors. Their performance is in many cases limited by the deleterious effects of mechanical damping. Here, we report a significant advancement towards understanding and controlling support-induced losses in generic mechanical resonators. We begin by introducing an efficient numerical solver, based on the "phonon-tunneling" approach, capable of predicting the design-limited damping of high-quality mechanical resonators. Further, through careful device engineering, we isolate support-induced losses and perform the first rigorous experimental test of the strong geometric dependence of this loss mechanism. Our results are in excellent agreement with theory, demonstrating the predictive power of our approach. In combination with recent progress on complementary dissipation mechanisms, our phonon-tunneling solver represents a major step towards accurate prediction of the mechanical quality factor.

id: 1007.5006
title: SU(m) non-Abelian anyons in the Jain hierarchy of quantum Hall states
authors: M. C. Diamantini, C.A. Trugenberger
comments: 5 pages, no figures, a few typos corrected, a reference added
journal: J.Phys.A44:115001,2011
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5006
abstract: We show that different classes of topological order can be distinguished by the dynamical symmetry algebra of edge excitations. Fundamental topological order is realized when this algebra is the largest possible, the algebra of quantum area-preserving diffeomorphisms, called $W_{1+\infty}$. We argue that this order is realized in the Jain hierarchy of fractional quantum Hall states and show that it is more robust than the standard Abelian Chern-Simons order since it has a lower entanglement entropy due to the non-Abelian character of the quasi-particle anyon excitations. These behave as SU($m$) quarks, where $m$ is the number of components in the hierarchy. We propose the topological entanglement entropy as the experimental measure to detect the existence of these quantum Hall quarks. Non-Abelian anyons in the $\nu = 2/5$ fractional quantum Hall states could be the primary candidates to realize qbits for topological quantum computation.

id: 1007.5055
title: Titanium Silicide Islands on Atomically Clean Si(100): Identifying Single Electron Tunneling Effects
authors: Joseph L. Tedesco, J.E. Rowe, Robert J. Nemanich
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 107, 123715 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5055
abstract: Titanium silicide islands have been formed by the ultrahigh vacuum deposition of thin films of titanium (< 2 nm) on atomically clean Si(100) substrates followed by annealing to ~800 degrees C. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and scanning tunneling spectroscopy have been performed on these islands to record current-voltage (I-V) curves. Because each island forms a double barrier tunnel junction (DBTJ) structure with the STM tip and the substrate, they would be expected to exhibit single electron tunneling (SET) according to the orthodox model of SET. Some of the islands formed are small enough (diameter < 10 nm) to exhibit SET at room temperature and evidence of SET has been identified in some of the I-V curves recorded from these small islands. Those curves are analyzed within the framework of the orthodox model and are found to be consistent with that model, except for slight discrepancies of the shape of the I-V curves at current steps. However, most islands that were expected to exhibit SET did not do so, and the reasons for the absence of observable SET are evaluated. The most likely reasons for the absence of SET are determined to be a wide depletion region in the substrate and Schottky barrier lowering due to Fermi level pinning by surface states of the clean silicon near the islands. The results establish that although the Schottky barrier can act as an effective tunnel junction in a DBTJ structure, the islands may be unreliable in future nanoelectronic devices. Therefore, methods are discussed to improve the reliability of future devices.

id: 1007.5083
title: Heavy fermions in an optical lattice
authors: Michael Foss-Feig, Michael Hermele, Victor Gurarie, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053624 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5083
abstract: We employ a mean-field theory to study ground-state properties and transport of a two-dimensional gas of ultracold alklaline-earth metal atoms governed by the Kondo Lattice Hamiltonian plus a parabolic confining potential. In a homogenous system this mean-field theory is believed to give a qualitatively correct description of heavy fermion metals and Kondo insulators: it reproduces the Kondo-like scaling of the quasiparticle mass in the former, and the same scaling of the excitation gap in the latter. In order to understand ground-state properties in a trap we extend this mean-field theory via local-density approximation. We find that the Kondo insulator gap manifests as a shell structure in the trapped density profile. In addition, a strong signature of the large Fermi surface expected for heavy fermion systems survives the confinement, and could be probed in time-of-flight experiments. From a full self-consistent diagonalization of the mean-field theory we are able to study dynamics in the trap. We find that the mass enhancement of quasiparticle excitations in the heavy Fermi liquid phase manifests as slowing of the dipole oscillations that result from a sudden displacement of the trap center.

id: 1007.5111
title: Discovery of several large families of Topological Insulator classes with backscattering-suppressed spin-polarized single-Dirac-cone on the surface
authors: Su-Yang Xu, L. A. Wray, Y. Xia, R. Shankar, A. Petersen, A. Fedorov, H. Lin, A. Bansil, Y. S. Hor, D. Grauer, R. J. Cava, M. Z. Hasan
comments: 11 pages, 4 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5111
abstract: Three dimensional (3D) topological insulators are novel states of quantum matter that feature spin-momentum locked helical Dirac fermions on their surfaces and hold promise to open new vistas in spintronics, quantum computing and fundamental physics. Experimental realization of many of the predicted topological phenomena requires finding multi-variant topological band insulators which can be multiply connected to magnetic semiconductors and superconductors. Here we present our theoretical prediction and experimental discovery of several new topological insulator classes in AB2X4(124), A2B2X5(225), MN4X7(147), A2X2X'(221) [A,B=Pb,Ge,Sb,Bi and M,N=Pb,Bi and X,X'=Chalcogen family]. We observe that these materials feature gaps up to about 0.35eV. Multi-variant nature allows for diverse surface dispersion tunability, Fermi surface spin-vortex or textured configurations and spin-dependent electronic interference signaling novel quantum transport processes on the surfaces of these materials. Our discovery also provides several new platforms to search for topological-superconductivity (arXiv:0912.3341v1 (2009)) in these exotic materials.

id: 1007.5177
title: Disordered spinor Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Mateusz Lacki, Simone Paganelli, Veronica Ahufinger, Anna Sanpera, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013605 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5177
abstract: We study the zero temperature phase diagram of the disordered spin-1 Bose-Hubbard model in a 2-dimensional square lattice. To this aim, we use a mean field Gutzwiller ansatz and a probabilistic mean field perturbation theory. The spin interaction induces two different regimes corresponding to a ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic order. In the ferromagnetic case, the introduction of disorder reproduces analogous features of the disordered scalar Bose-Hubbard model, consisting in the formation of a Bose glass phase between Mott insulator lobes. In the antiferromagnetic regime the phase diagram differs more from the scalar case. Disorder in the chemical potential can lead to the disappearance of Mott insulator lobes with odd integer filling factor and, for sufficiently strong spin coupling, to Bose glass of singlets between even filling Mott insulator lobes. Disorder in the spinor coupling parameter results in the appearance of a Bose glass phase only between the n and n+1 lobes for n odd. Disorder in the scalar Hubbard interaction inhibits Mott insulator regions for occupation larger than a critical value.

id: 1007.5225
title: Metastability in a nano-bridge based hysteretic DC-SQUID embedded in superconducting microwave resonator
authors: Eran Segev, Oren Suchoi, Oleg Shtempluck, Fei Xue, Eyal Buks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5225
abstract: We study the metastable response of a highly hysteretic DC-SQUID made of a Niobium loop interrupted by two nano-bridges. We excite the SQUID with an alternating current and with direct magnetic flux, and find different stability zones forming diamond-like structures in the measured voltage across the SQUID. When such a SQUID is embedded in a transmission line resonator similar diamond structures are observed in the reflection pattern of the resonator. We have calculated the DC-SQUID stability diagram in the plane of the exciting control parameters, both analytically and numerically. In addition, we have obtained numerical simulations of the SQUID equations of motion, taking into account temperature variations and non-sinusoidal current-phase relation of the nano-bridges. Good agreement is found between experimental and theoretical results.

id: 1007.5283
title: A hierarchy of topological tensor network states
authors: Oliver Buerschaper, Juan Mart¨ªn Mombelli, Matthias Christandl, Miguel Aguado
comments: 61 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 012201 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5283
abstract: We present a hierarchy of quantum many-body states among which many examples of topological order can be identified by construction. We define these states in terms of a general, basis-independent framework of tensor networks based on the algebraic setting of finite-dimensional Hopf C*-algebras. At the top of the hierarchy we identify ground states of new topological lattice models extending Kitaev's quantum double models [26]. For these states we exhibit the mechanism responsible for their non-zero topological entanglement entropy by constructing a renormalization group flow. Furthermore it is shown that those states of the hierarchy associated with Kitaev's original quantum double models are related to each other by the condensation of topological charges. We conjecture that charge condensation is the physical mechanism underlying the hierarchy in general.

id: 1007.5289
title: Quasienergy description of the driven Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: V. Peano, M. Thorwart
comments: 13 pages, 8 fig
journal: PRB 82, 155129 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5289
abstract: We analyze the driven resonantly coupled Jaynes-Cummings model in terms of a quasienergy approach by switching to a frame rotating with the external modulation frequency and by using the dressed atom picture. A quasienergy surface in phase space emerges whose level spacing is governed by a rescaled effective Planck constant. Moreover, the well-known multiphoton transitions can be reinterpreted as resonant tunneling transitions from the local maximum of the quasienergy surface. Most importantly, the driving defines a quasienergy well which is nonperturbative in nature. The quantum mechanical quasienergy state localized at its bottom is squeezed. In the Purcell limited regime, the potential well is metastable and the effective local temperature close to its minimum is uniquely determined by the squeezing factor. The activation occurs in this case via dressed spin flip transitions rather than via quantum activation as in other driven nonlinear quantum systems such as the quantum Duffing oscillator. The local maximum is in general stable. However, in presence of resonant coherent or dissipative tunneling transitions the system can escape from it and a stationary state arises as a statistical mixture of quasienergy states being localized in the two basins of attraction. This gives rise to a resonant or an antiresonant nonlinear response of the cavity at multiphoton transitions. The model finds direct application in recent experiments with a driven superconducting circuit QED setup.

id: 1007.5306
title: Thermalization of Interacting Fermions and Delocalization in Fock space
authors: Clemens Neuenhahn, Florian Marquardt
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5306
abstract: By means of exact diagonalization, we investigate the onset of 'eigenstate thermalization' and the crossover to ergodicity in a system of 1D fermions with increasing interaction. We show that the fluctuations in the expectation values of the momentum distribution from eigenstate to eigenstate decrease with increasing coupling strength and system size. It turns out that these fluctuations are proportional to the inverse participation ratio of eigenstates represented in the Fock basis. We demonstrate that eigenstate thermalization should set in even for vanishingly small perturbations in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1007.5323
title: On new phenomena of photon from modified double slit experiment
authors: Haisheng Liu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5323
abstract: A modified double slit experiment of light was implemented. In the experiment, a spatial shape filter is used to manipulate the shape of cross section of laser beam. When this modified laser beam was shined on the double slit, the intensity distribution of laser beam on double slit is asymmetrical. In this way, the laser light was directed to pass through only one or two slits of double slit in different sections. So the which-way information is predetermined before the photons pass through the slits. At the same time, the visible interference pattern can be observed on a monitor screen after the double slit. A couple of new phenomena had been observed from this experiment. The results of this experiment raise questions about Wave-Particle Duality model of quantum theory, which is the foundation for the Copenhagen explanation that is generally regarded as the principal interpretation of quantum theory. As the observed properties from this experiment cannot be fully explained using the quantum theory, especially the Copenhagen explanation, a new model of photon is proposed. The new model for photon should be also applicable to all other micro entity like electron, atoms, molecules etc., according to L. de Broglie assumption.

id: 1007.5381
title: Quantum frustration in organic Mott insulators: from spin liquids to unconventional superconductors
authors: B. J. Powell, Ross H. McKenzie
comments: Major rewrite. New material added and many typos corrected. 67 pages, 41 figures. Thanks to those who commented on the previous version
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 74, 056501 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5381
abstract: We review the interplay of frustration and strong electronic correlations in quasi-two-dimensional organic charge transfer salts, such as k-(BEDT-TTF)_2X and Et_nMe_{4-n}Pn[Pd(dmit)2]2. These two forces drive a range of exotic phases including spin liquids, valence bond crystals, pseudogapped metals, and unconventional superconductivity. Of particular interest is that in several materials there is a direct transition as a function of pressure from a spin liquid Mott insulating state to a superconducting state. Experiments on these materials raise a number of profound questions about the quantum behaviour of frustrated systems, particularly the intimate connection between spin liquids and superconductivity. Insights into these questions have come from a wide range of theoretical techniques including first principles electronic structure, quantum many-body theory and quantum field theory. In this review we introduce the basic ideas of the field by discussing a simple frustrated Heisenberg model with four spins. We then describe the key experimental results, emphasizing that for two materials, k-(BEDT-TTF)_2Cu_2(CN)_3 and EtMe_3Sb[Pd(dmit)_2]_2, there is strong evidence for a spin liquid ground state, and for EtMe_3P[Pd(dmit)_2]_2, a valence bond solid ground state. We review theoretical attempts to explain these phenomena, arguing that this can be captured by a Hubbard model on the anisotropic triangular lattice at half filling, and that resonating valence bond wavefunctions can capture most of the essential physics. We review evidence that this model can have a spin liquid ground state for a range of parameters that are realistic for the relevant materials. We conclude by summarising the progress made thus far and identifying some of the key questions still to be answered.

id: 1007.5468
title: Thermal Activation and Quantum Field Emission in a Sketch-Based Oxide Nano Transistor
authors: Cheng Cen, Daniela Bogorin, Jeremy Levy
comments: An updated version was mistakenly placed on the arXiv as a new submission. Please navigate to arXiv:1009.1893v1 for the latest version
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5468
abstract: We report direct measurements of the potential barriers and electronic coupling between nanowire segments within a sketch-based oxide nanotransistor (SketchFET) device. Near room temperature, switching is governed by thermally activation across a potential barrier controlled by the nanowire gate. Below T=150 K, a crossover to quantum field emission is observed that is sensitive to structural phase transitions in the SrTiO3 layer. This direct measurement of the source-drain and gate-drain energy barriers is crucial for the development of room-temperature logic and memory elements and low-temperature quantum devices.

id: 1007.5493
title: Monitoring Entanglement Evolution and Collective Quantum Dynamics
authors: Georg M. Reuther, David Zueco, Peter H?nggi, Sigmund Kohler
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 014303 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5493
abstract: We generalize a recently developed scheme for monitoring coherent quantum dynamics with good time-resolution and low backaction [Reuther et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 033602 (2009)] to the case of more complex quantum dynamics of one or several qubits. The underlying idea is to measure with lock-in techniques the response of the quantum system to a high-frequency ac field. We demonstrate that this scheme also allows one to observe quantum dynamics with many frequency scales, such as that of a qubit undergoing Landau-Zener transitions. Moreover, we propose how to measure the entanglement between two qubits as well as the collective dynamics of qubit arrays.

id: 1007.5331
title: Nonequilibrium dynamics of closed interacting quantum systems
authors: Anatoli Polkovnikov, Krishnendu Sengupta, Alessandro Silva, Mukund Vengalattore
comments: 23 pages, 2 Figures, Close to published
journal: Rev.Mod.Phys.83:863,2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5331
abstract: This colloquium gives an overview of recent theoretical and experimental progress in the area of nonequilibrium dynamics of isolated quantum systems. We particularly focus on quantum quenches: the temporal evolution following a sudden or slow change of the coupling constants of the system Hamiltonian. We discuss several aspects of the slow dynamics in driven systems and emphasize the universality of such dynamics in gapless systems with specific focus on dynamics near continuous quantum phase transitions. We also review recent progress on understanding thermalization in closed systems through the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis and discuss relaxation in integrable systems. Finally we overview key experiments probing quantum dynamics in cold atom systems and put them in the context of our current theoretical understanding.

id: 1007.4403
title: Electromagnetic Momentum Conservation in media
authors: Iver Brevik, Simen ?. Ellingsen
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: Annals of Physics vol. 326 p. 754 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4403
abstract: That static electric and magnetic fields can store momentum may be perplexing, but is necessary to ensure total conservation of momentum. Simple situations in which such field momentum is transferred to nearby bodies and point charges have often been considered for pedagogical purposes, normally assuming vacuum surroundings. If dielectric media are involved, however, the analysis becomes more delicate, not least since one encounters the electromagnetic energy-momentum problem in matter, the `Abraham-Minkowski enigma', of what the momentum is of a photon in matter. We analyze the momentum balance in three nontrivial examples obeying azimuthal symmetry, showing how the momentum conservation is satisfied as the magnetic field decays and momentum is transferred to bodies present. In the last of the examples, that of point charge outside a dielectric sphere in an infinite magnetic field, we find that not all of the field momentum is transferred to the nearby bodies; a part of the momentum appears to vanish as momentum flux towards infinity. We discuss this and other surprising observations which can be attributed to the assumption of magnetic fields of infinite extent. We emphasize how formal arguments of conserved quantities cannot determine which energy-momentum tensor is more "correct", and each of our conservation checks may be performed equally well in the Minkowski or Abraham framework.

id: 1007.5441
title: Feasibility of approximating spatial and local entanglement in long-range interacting systems using the extended Hubbard model
authors: J. P. Coe, V. V. Fran?a, I. D'Amico
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures and 1 table; added results with correlated hopping term; accepted by EPL
journal: EPL 93, 10001 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.5441
abstract: We investigate the extended Hubbard model as an approximation to the local and spatial entanglement of a one-dimensional chain of nanostructures where the particles interact via a long range interaction represented by a `soft' Coulomb potential. In the process we design a protocol to calculate the particle-particle spatial entanglement for the Hubbard model and show that, in striking contrast with the loss of spatial degrees of freedom, the predictions are reasonably accurate. We also compare results for the local entanglement with previous results found using a contact interaction (PRA, 81 (2010) 052321) and show that while the extended Hubbard model recovers a better agreement with the entanglement of a long-range interacting system, there remain realistic parameter regions where it fails to predict the quantitative and qualitative behaviour of the entanglement in the nanostructure system.

id: 1007.4348
title: The symmetry breaking phenomenon in anharmonic oscillator model
authors: Antonio Carlos Mastine, Paulo Laerte Natti, Erica Regina Takano Natti
comments: In Portuguese
journal: Revista Ci\^encias Exatas e Naturais, v.4, n.2, p. 19-31,2002
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4348
abstract: In this article a non-perturbative time-dependent technique is used to treat the initial value problem, in Quantum Mechanics context, for a non-equilibrium self-interacting fermionic system in the presence of an external magnetic field. Particularly, in mean-field regime, we study the dynamical symmetry breaking phenomenon, identifying the physical processes associated.

id: 1007.4376
title: Universal Properties of Nonlinear Response Functions of Nonequilibrium Steady States
authors: Akira Shimizu
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure; added a few sentences and references to explain details
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn., Vol.79, No.11, p.113001 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4376
abstract: We derive universal properties of nonlinear response functions of nonequilibrium steady states. In particular, sum rules and asymptotic behaviors are derived. Their consequences are illustrated for nonlinear optical materials and nonlinear electrical conductors.

id: 1007.4306
title: On the Schwinger limit attainability with extreme power lasers
authors: Stepan S. Bulanov, Timur Zh. Esirkepov, Alexander G. R. Thomas, James K. Koga, Sergei V. Bulanov
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:220407,2010
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4306
abstract: Circularly polarized colliding laser pulses can create abundant electron-positron pair plasma [A. R. Bell and J. G. Kirk, Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 200403 (2008)], which scattering the incoming electromagnetic waves can prevent them from reaching the critical field of Quantum Electrodynamics causing vacuum breakdown and polarization. It is shown that the effects of radiation friction and the electron-positron avalanche development depend on the electromagnetic wave polarization. For circularly polarized colliding pulses, which force the electrons to move in circles, these effects dominate not only the particle motion but also the evolution of the pulses. While for linearly polarized pulses, where the electrons (positrons) oscillate along the electric field, these effects are not as strong. There is an apparent analogy of these cases with circular and linear electron accelerators with the corresponding constraining and reduced roles of synchrotron radiation losses.

id: 1007.4827
title: Topological superfluids on a lattice with non-Abelian gauge fields
authors: A. Kubasiak, P. Massignan, M. Lewenstein
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures to be published in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys.Lett.92:46004,2010
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.4827
abstract: Two-component fermionic superfluids on a lattice with an external non-Abelian gauge field give access to a variety of topological phases in presence of a sufficiently large spin imbalance. We address here the important issue of superfluidity breakdown induced by spin imbalance by a self-consistent calculation of the pairing gap, showing which of the predicted phases will be experimentally accessible. We present the full topological phase diagram, and we analyze the connection between Chern numbers and the existence of topologically protected and non-protected edge modes. The Chern numbers are calculated via a very efficient and simple method.

id: 1007.3381
title: Efficient wavefunction propagation by minimizing accumulated action
authors: Zachary B. Walters
comments: 
journal: Computer Physics Communications Volume 182, Issue 4, April 2011, Pages 935-939
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.3381
abstract: This paper presents a new technique to calculate the evolution of a quantum wavefunction in a chosen spatial basis by minimizing the accumulated action. Introduction of a finite temporal basis reduces the problem to a set of linear equations, while an appropriate choice of temporal basis set offers improved convergence relative to methods based on matrix exponentiation for a class of physically relevant problems.

id: 1007.0222
title: Scattering from isospectral quantum graphs
authors: Ram Band, Adam Sawicki, Uzy Smilansky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1007.0222
abstract: Quantum graphs can be extended to scattering systems when they are connected by leads to infinity. It is shown that for certain extensions, the scattering matrices of isospectral graphs are conjugate to each other and their poles distributions are therefore identical. The scattering matrices are studied using a recently developed isospectral theory. At the same time, the scattering approach offers a new insight on the mentioned isospectral construction.

